26579427: !Alzheimer Design, synthesis and evaluation of genistein-polyamine conjugates as multi-functional anti-Alzheimer agents. A series of genistein-polyamine conjugates (4a-4h) were designed, synthesized and evaluated as multi-functional anti-Alzheimer agents. The results showed that these compounds had significant cholinesterases (ChEs) inhibitory activity. Compound 4b exhibited the strongest inhibition to acetylcholinesterase (AChE) with an IC50 value of 2.75 mumol/L, which was better than that of rivastigmine (5.60 mumol/L). Lineweaver-Burk plot and molecular modeling study showed that compound 4b targeted both the catalytic active site (CAS) and the peripheral anionic site (PAS) of AChE. Besides, compound 4b showed potent metal-chelating ability. In addition, it was found that 4a-4h did not affect HepG-2 cell viability at the concentration of 10 mumol/L.
26567748: !Alzheimer Metabolic Control of Glia-Mediated Neuroinflammation. to a variety of insults, which have crucial implications for reactive gliosis. These glial cells are CNS cell types serving not only as the source, but also as  targets of proinflammatory mediators. Undoubtedly, these cell types efficiently work towards the disposal of tissue debris and promotion of wound healing and tissue repair. However, they also synthesize and release numerous inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and chemokines, which can be detrimental to neurons, axons, myelin, and the glia themselves. While an acute insult is typically transient and unlikely to be detrimental to neuronal survival, chronic neuroinflammation is a long-standing and often self-perpetuating response, which  persists long after the initial injury or insult. It can serve as a point of origin for diverse neurological disorders including neurodegeneration. Accumulating evidence demonstrates the contribution of metabolic dysfunction and  mitochondrial failure to the pathogenesis of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative conditions are also characterized as metabolic syndromes, defined by impaired glucose utilization and energy metabolism, increased oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stresses, and autophagy defects. Furthermore, neuroinflammatory conditions are assumed to be accompanied  by an alteration in glial energy metabolism. Here, we comprehensively review the  metabolic hallmarks of glia-mediated neuroinflammation and how this metabolism orchestrates the neuroinflammatory response and pathophysiology of diverse neurological disorders. The central nervous system (CNS) shows dynamic immune and inflammatory responses  to a variety of insults, which have crucial implications for reactive gliosis. These glial cells are CNS cell types serving not only as the source, but also as  targets of proinflammatory mediators. Undoubtedly, these cell types efficiently work towards the disposal of tissue debris and promotion of wound healing and tissue repair. However, they also synthesize and release numerous inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and chemokines, which can be detrimental to neurons, axons, myelin, and the glia themselves. While an acute insult is typically transient and unlikely to be detrimental to neuronal survival, chronic neuroinflammation is a long-standing and often self-perpetuating response, which  persists long after the initial injury or insult. It can serve as a point of origin for diverse neurological disorders including neurodegeneration. Accumulating evidence demonstrates the contribution of metabolic dysfunction and  mitochondrial failure to the pathogenesis of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative conditions are also characterized as metabolic syndromes, defined by impaired glucose utilization and energy metabolism, increased oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stresses, and autophagy defects. Furthermore, neuroinflammatory conditions are assumed to be accompanied  by an alteration in glial energy metabolism. Here, we comprehensively review the  metabolic hallmarks of glia-mediated neuroinflammation and how this metabolism orchestrates the neuroinflammatory response and pathophysiology of diverse neurological disorders.
26560688: !Alzheimer A new role for an old drug: Ambroxol triggers lysosomal exocytosis via pH-dependent Ca release from acidic Ca stores. Ambroxol (Ax) is a frequently prescribed drug used to facilitate mucociliary clearance, but its mode of action is yet poorly understood. Here we show by X-ray spectroscopy that Ax accumulates in lamellar bodies (LBs), the surfactant storing, secretory lysosomes of type II pneumocytes. Using lyso- and acidotropic  substances in combination with fluorescence imaging we confirm that these vesicles belong to the class of acidic Ca2+ stores. Ax lead to a significant neutralization of LB pH, followed by intracellular Ca2+ release, and to a dose-dependent surfactant exocytosis. Ax-induced Ca2+ release was significantly reduced and slowed down by pretreatment of the cells with bafilomycin A1 (Baf A1), an inhibitor of the vesicular H+ ATPase. These results could be nearly reproduced with NH3/NH4+. The findings suggest that Ax accumulates within LBs and severely affects their H+ and Ca2+ homeostasis. This is further supported by an Ax-induced change of nanostructural assembly of surfactant layers. We conclude that Ax profoundly affects LBs presumably by disordering lipid bilayers and by acting as a weak base. The pH change triggers - at least in part - Ca2+ release from stores and secretion of surfactant from type II cells. This novel mechanism  of Ax as a lysosomal secretagogue may also play a role for its recently discussed use for lysosomal storage and other degenerative diseases.
26560048: !Alzheimer Discovery of a marine-derived bis-indole alkaloid fascaplysin, as a new class of  potent P-glycoprotein inducer and establishment of its structure-activity relationship. The screening of IIIM natural products repository for P-gp modulatory activity in P-gp over-expressing human adenocarcinoma LS-180 cells led to the identification  of 7 natural products viz. withaferin, podophyllotoxin, 3-demethylcolchicine, agnuside, reserpine, seseberecine and fascaplysin as P-gp inducers. Fascaplysin (6a), a marine-derived bis-indole alkaloid, was the most potent among all of them, showing induction of P-gp with EC50 value of 25 nM. P-gp induction is one of the recently targeted strategy to increase amyloid-beta clearance from Alzheimer brains. Thus, we pursued a medicinal chemistry of fascaplysin to establish its structure-activity relationship for P-gp induction activity. Four series of analogs viz. substituted quaternary fascaplysin analogs, D-ring opened  quaternary analogs, D-ring opened non-quaternary analogs, and beta-carbolinium analogs were synthesized and screened for P-gp induction activity. Among the total of 48 analogs screened, only quaternary nitrogen containing analogs 6a-g and 10a, 10h-l displayed promising P-gp induction activity; whereas non-planar non-quaternary analogs 9a-m, 13a-n, 15a-h were devoid of this activity. The P-gp  induction activity of best compounds was then confirmed by western-blot analysis, which indicated that fascaplysin (6a) along with 4,5-difluoro analog of fascaplysin 6f and D-ring opened analog 10j displayed 4-8 fold increase in P-gp expression in LS-180 cells at 1 muM. Additionally, compounds 6a and 6f also showed inhibition of acetylcholinestease (AChE), an enzyme responsible for neuronal loss in Alzheimer's disease. Thus, fascaplysin and its analogs showing promising P-gp induction along with AChE inhibition at 1 muM, with good safety window (LS-180: IC50 > 10 muM, hGF: 4 muM), clearly indicates their promise for development as an anti-Alzheimer agent.
26559414: !Alzheimer Is it always Alzheimer's? Let's talk to our patients about "cardiocerebrovascular" prevention. approach foresees treatment for high blood pressure, atrial fibrillation, diabetes, high cholesterol, low HDL cholesterol, sedentary lifestyle, smoking, alcohol abuse, obesity, and sleep apnea. Moreover, also a well-balanced diet and  physical activity are cornerstones of prevention, with beneficial effects on the  brain and cognition. Unlike Alzheimer's, vascular dementia can, in part, be prevented. The preventive  approach foresees treatment for high blood pressure, atrial fibrillation, diabetes, high cholesterol, low HDL cholesterol, sedentary lifestyle, smoking, alcohol abuse, obesity, and sleep apnea. Moreover, also a well-balanced diet and  physical activity are cornerstones of prevention, with beneficial effects on the  brain and cognition.
26548612: !Alzheimer Bioorthogonal Labeling of Ghrelin Receptor to Facilitate Studies of Ligand-Dependent Conformational Dynamics. Ghrelin receptor (GhrR) is a promising drug target because of its central role in energy homeostasis. GhrR, known for high constitutive activity, is thought to display multi-state conformations during activation and signaling. We used genetically encoded unnatural amino acids and bioorthogonal labeling reactions to engineer multiple fluorescent donor-acceptor pairs to probe ligand-directed structural changes in GhrR. We demonstrate how conformational dynamics of a G-protein-coupled receptor can be measured in reconstituted systems.
26531265: !Alzheimer High-pressure physiological saline isotonic solution administration enhances brain NGF and NGF-receptors expression. OBJECTIVE: Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a neurotrophin which promotes and regulates the survival of neurons in the peripheral nervous system. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of high-pressure administration of sterile physiological saline isotonic solution (HpPSIS) into nasal cavity of laboratory animals on NGF levels and NGF-receptor expression in the olfactory bulbs and brain. MATERIALS AND METHODS: For this study we used three weeks old female Sprague Dawley SD rats (n=48). Rats were divided into two groups, the first one treated delivering physiological saline solution with a normal syringe  modified at the extremity to fit the rats' nostril (5 ml) (n=24) and the second one treated spray with HpPSIS (n=24 rats). Rats were treated three times a day either for 5 consecutive days (shorth term treatment) or 10 consecutive days (longer treatment) in both nostrils of HpPSIS delivered at high pressure (pression emission level: PEL: 7 g/sec for emission time ET: 0.5 sec) with a specific forced spray erogator. Untreated rats received a similar manipulation three times a day through a syringe in the nostrils, but no HpPSIS administration. RESULTS: The results of these studies highlight the possibility that endogenous enhancement of NGF by stimulation of NGF-producing cells within the nasal cavities and also in the CNS represent a novel experimental approach to enhance the brain NGF levels with a new therapy. HpPSIS treatment further enhances the presence of NGF in the four brains examined. Indeed, a significant increase of NGF was first observed after 5 days of HpPSIS treatment, compared to  HpPSIS untreated rats. The increase was over 25% in the OB, ST, HI and in CX, while 10 days after HpPSIS treatments the levels of NGF were even higher. These differences were statistically significant, p < 0.05. CONCLUSIONS: It was found that forced administration of HpPSIS enhances the presence of these neurotrophic  signals, not only in the olfactory bulbs, but also in forebrain cholinergic neurons, which are known to degenerate as result of memory loss and brain aging,  including Alzheimer Disease. These findings for the first time in the literature  demonstrate the possibility of enhancing the endogenous NGF to protect NGF-damaged neurons. Since the enhanced expression of NGF was first observed after 5 days of treatment and higher after 10 days of treatment, a reasonable hypothesis is that longer HpPSIS treatment might further enhance the level of NGF in brain and olfactory bulbs.
26527417: !Alzheimer The ileal bile acid transporter inhibitor A4250 decreases serum bile acids by interrupting the enterohepatic circulation. BACKGROUND: Reabsorption of bile acids from the intestine by ileal bile acid transporter is pivotal for the enterohepatic circulation of BAs and sterol homoeostasis. AIM: To assess tolerability and study, bile acid metabolism in a phase 1 trial with the selective ileal bile acid transporter inhibitor A4250. METHODS: A randomised double-blind, single-ascending dose (SAD) and multiple-ascending-dose study consisting of five cohorts comprising 40 individuals with a single administration of A4250 (0.1, 0.3, 1, 3, or 10 mg) or placebo and three cohorts comprising 24 individuals with a 1-week administration  of A4250 (1 or 3 mg once daily or 1.5 mg twice daily) or placebo. For the multiple-ascending-dose study, bile acids were measured by HPLC-MS in plasma and  faeces, and fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF19) and 7alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one (C4) were measured in plasma. RESULTS: No serious adverse events occurred and all participants finished the trial per protocol. At the end of the multiple-ascending-dose study, plasma total bile acids and FGF19 decreased by 47% and 76%, respectively, at 3 mg/day (P < 0.01), and by 15% and 16%, respectively, at 1.5 mg twice daily (P < 0.05). Plasma C4 and faecal bile acids increased at all dose regimens, by 555%, 664%, 292% and 338%, 421%, 420%, respectively (P < 0.01-0.05). The primary bile acids cholic and chenodeoxycholic acids constituted the majority of faecal bile acids in the A4250-treated groups. CONCLUSIONS: A4250 is well tolerated. By blocking ileal bile acid transporter in the terminal ileum, it highly efficiently interrupts the enterohepatic circulation of BAs, and should be of benefit to patients with cholestatic liver diseases. Clinical Trial registration EudraCT 2013-001175-21.
26510982: !Alzheimer Neuroprotection of (+)-2-(1-Hydroxyl-4-Oxocyclohexyl) Ethyl Caffeate Against Hydrogen Peroxide and Lipopolysaccharide Induced Injury via Modulating Arachidonic Acid Network and p38-MAPK Signaling. Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are highly relevant to the pathological processes of various neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD). (+)-2-(1-hydroxyl-4-oxocyclohexyl) ethyl caffeate (HOEC), a novel 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, was isolated from the whole plant of Incarvillea mairei var granditlora (Wehrhahn) Grierson. In this study, we investigated the protective effect of HOEC on hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) -induced cytotoxicity and neuroinflammation in vitro and in vivo. MTT assay, LDH release assay, morphological observation and Hoechst 33342/PI dual staining followed by EIA, immunofluorescence staining and Western Blotting analysis were performed to elucidate the neuroprotective effect of HOEC. Treatment with HOEC at various concentrations prior to H2O2 exposure significantly enhanced cell viability, decreased LDH release, prevented cell morphologic changes and apoptosis. Instead of PGE2 reduction, HOEC markedly inhibited the production of LTB4 and suppressed the macrophage-mediated neurotoxicity. Western blotting and immunofluorescence staining showed that HOEC  inhibited H2O2-induced p38 phosphorylation and NF-kappaB activation. Neuroprotective effect of HOEC was abolished by a p38 inhibitor. Further in vivo  studies of LPS-induced neuroinflammation confirmed the anti-inflammatory effects  of HOEC. These findings that HOEC protects SH-SY5Y cells from H2O2 and LPS-induced injury via arachidonic acid network modulation followed by p38 MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling, might make HOEC be considered as a therapeutic candidate for prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases involving oxidative stress or/and inflammation.
26497928: !Alzheimer Review of endocrine disorders associated with environmental toxicants and possible involved mechanisms. Endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDC) are released into environment from different sources. They are mainly used in packaging industries, pesticides and food constituents. Clinical evidence, experimental models, and epidemiological studies suggest that EDC have major risks for human by targeting different organs and systems in the body. Multiple mechanisms are involved in targeting the normal system, through estrogen receptors, nuclear receptors and steroidal receptors activation. In this review, different methods by which xenobiotics stimulate signaling pathways and genetic mutation or DNA methylation have been discussed. These methods help to understand the results of xenobiotic action on the endocrine system. Endocrine disturbances in the human body result in breast cancer, ovarian problems, thyroid eruptions, testicular carcinoma, Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia, nerve damage and obesity. EDC characterize a wide class of compounds such as organochlorinated pesticides, industrial wastes, plastics and plasticizers, fuels and numerous other elements that exist in the environment or are in high use during daily life. The interactions and mechanism of toxicity  in relation to human general health problems, especially endocrine disturbances with particular reference to reproductive problems, diabetes, and breast, testicular and ovarian cancers should be deeply investigated. There should also be a focus on public awareness of these EDC risks and their use in routine life.  Therefore, the aim of this review is to summarize all evidence regarding different physiological disruptions in the body and possible involved mechanisms, to prove the association between endocrine disruptions and human diseases.
26490886: !Alzheimer Indoor second-hand smoking could mediate the associations of foods and adult happiness: Scottish Health Survey, 2012. of second-hand smoking is less understood. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine if second-hand smoking might mediate the associations of food consumption and subjective happiness in a country-wide and population-based  setting. Data was retrieved from the Scottish Health Survey, 2012. Information on demographics, frequency of consuming certain foods and subjective happiness was obtained by household interview. Chi-square test and survey-weighted logistic regression modelling were performed. Of the included Scottish adults aged 16-99 (n = 4815), 15.4 % (n = 677) reported that they were unhappy. It was observed that eating lots of potatoes, some meat, some oily fish and some pastries were inversely associated with unhappiness. People who consumed vegetables and fruits  on the day before the health interview were also found to be less unhappy, compared to their counterparts. However, the protective effect from fruits disappeared after additionally adjusting for indoor second-hand smoking while the protective effects from other foods mentioned above have also been lessened. In addition, cumulatively people who consumed more "happy foods" (mentioned above) were more likely to report subjective happiness, compared to those who did not consume any of those. For future research, longitudinally monitoring on the associations among food, household environment and psychological well-being and both the short-term and long-term effects would be suggested. For policy implications, Removal of indoor second-hand smoking to retain the protective effects from happy foods on well-being should be encouraged. There has been literature on the relationship of food and happiness, but the role of second-hand smoking is less understood. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine if second-hand smoking might mediate the associations of food consumption and subjective happiness in a country-wide and population-based  setting. Data was retrieved from the Scottish Health Survey, 2012. Information on demographics, frequency of consuming certain foods and subjective happiness was obtained by household interview. Chi-square test and survey-weighted logistic regression modelling were performed. Of the included Scottish adults aged 16-99 (n = 4815), 15.4 % (n = 677) reported that they were unhappy. It was observed that eating lots of potatoes, some meat, some oily fish and some pastries were inversely associated with unhappiness. People who consumed vegetables and fruits  on the day before the health interview were also found to be less unhappy, compared to their counterparts. However, the protective effect from fruits disappeared after additionally adjusting for indoor second-hand smoking while the protective effects from other foods mentioned above have also been lessened. In addition, cumulatively people who consumed more "happy foods" (mentioned above) were more likely to report subjective happiness, compared to those who did not consume any of those. For future research, longitudinally monitoring on the associations among food, household environment and psychological well-being and both the short-term and long-term effects would be suggested. For policy implications, Removal of indoor second-hand smoking to retain the protective effects from happy foods on well-being should be encouraged.
26489065: !Alzheimer A reversed-phase compatible thin-layer chromatography autography for the detection of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. A dual readout autographic assay to detect acetylcholinesterase inhibitors present in complex matrices adsorbed on reversed-phase or normal-phase thin-layer chromatography plates is described. Enzyme gel entrapment with an amphiphilic copolymer was used for assay development. The effects of substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, incubation time, and incubation temperature on the sensitivity and the detection limit of the assay were evaluated. Experimental design and response surface methodology were used to optimize conditions with a minimum number of experiments. The assay allowed the detection of 0.01% w/w of physostigmine in both a spiked Sonchus oleraceus L. extract chromatographed on normal phase and a spiked Pimenta racemosa (Mill.) J.W. Moore leaf essential oil  chromatographed on reversed phase. Finally, the reversed-phase thin-layer chromatography assay was applied to reveal the presence of an inhibitor in the Cymbopogon citratus (DC.) Stapf essential oil. The developed assay is able to detect acetylcholinesterase inhibitors present in complex matrixes that were chromatographed in normal phase or reversed-phase thin-layer chromatography. The  detection limit for physostigmine on both normal and reversed phase was of 1x10(-4) mug. The results can be read by a change in color and/or a change in fluorescence.
26487858: !Alzheimer Protective effects of components of the Chinese herb grassleaf sweetflag rhizome  on PC12 cells incubated with amyloid-beta42. The major ingredients of grassleaf sweetflag rhizome are beta-asarone and eugenol, which can cross the blood-brain barrier and protect neurons. This study  aimed to observe the neuroprotective effects and mechanisms of beta-asarone and eugenol, components of the Chinese herb grassleaf sweetflag rhizome, on PC12 cells. First, PC12 cells were cultured with different concentrations (between 1 x 10(-10) M and 1 x 10(-5) M) of beta-asarone and eugenol. Survival rates of PC12 cells were not significantly affected. Second, PC12 cells incubated with amyloid-beta42, which reduced cell survival, were cultured under the same conditions (1 x 10(-6) M beta-asarone and eugenol). The survival rates of PC12 cells significantly increased, while expression levels of the mRNAs for the pro-apoptotic protein Bax decreased, and those for the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl mRNA increased. In addition, the combination of beta-asarone with eugenol achieved better results than either component alone. Our experimental findings indicate that both beta-asarone and eugenol protect PC12 cells through inhibiting apoptosis, and that the combination of the two is better than either alone.
26478868: !Alzheimer The TREM2-DAP12 signaling pathway in Nasu-Hakola disease: a molecular genetics perspective. Nasu-Hakola disease or polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy (PLOSL) is a rare recessively inherited disease that is associated with early dementia and bone cysts with fractures. Here, we review the genetic causes of PLOSL with loss-of-function mutations or deletions in one of two genes, TYROBP and TREM2, encoding for two proteins DNAX-activating protein 12 (DAP12) and triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-2 (TREM2). TREM2 and DAP12 form an immunoreceptor signaling complex that mediates myeloid cell, including microglia and osteoclasts, development, activation, and function. Functionally, TREM2-DAP12 mediates osteoclast multi-nucleation, migration, and resorption. In microglia, TREM2-DAP12 participates in recognition and apoptosis of neuronal debris and amyloid deposits. Review of the complex immunoregulatory roles of TREM2-DAP12 in the innate immune system, where it can both promote and inhibit pro-inflammatory responses, is given. Little is known about the function  of TREM2-DAP12 in normal brain homeostasis or in pathological central nervous system diseases. Based on the state of the field, genetic testing now aids in diagnosis of PLOSL, but therapeutics and interventions are still under development.
26477928: !Alzheimer Exercise as a Polypill for Chronic Diseases. Exercise may be described as a polypill to prevent and/or treat almost every chronic disease, with obvious benefits such as its low cost and practical lack of adverse effects. Implementing physical activity interventions in public health is therefore a goal at the medical, social, and economic levels. This chapter describes the importance of health promotion through physical activity and discusses the impacts of exercise on the most prevalent chronic diseases, namely  metabolic syndrome-related disorders, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and Alzheimer's disease. For each of these chronic conditions, we discuss the epidemiological evidence supporting a beneficial role of exercise, provide guidelines for exercise prescription, and describe the biological mechanisms whereby exercise exerts its modulatory effects.
26468457: !Alzheimer The effects of Crocus sativus (saffron) and its constituents on nervous system: A review. Saffron or Crocus sativus L. (C. sativus) has been widely used as a medicinal plant to promote human health, especially in Asia. The main components of saffron are crocin, picrocrocin and safranal. The median lethal doses (LD50) of C. sativus are 200 mg/ml and 20.7 g/kg in vitro and in animal studies, respectively. Saffron has been suggested to be effective in the treatment of a wide range of disorders including coronary artery diseases, hypertension, stomach disorders, dysmenorrhea and learning and memory impairments. In addition, different studies  have indicated that saffron has anti-inflammatory, anti-atherosclerotic, antigenotoxic and cytotoxic activities. Antitussive effects of stigmas and petals of C. sativus and its components, safranal and crocin have also been demonstrated. The anticonvulsant and anti-Alzheimer properties of saffron extract were shown in human and animal studies. The ef fi cacy of C. sativus in the treatment of mild to moderate depression was also reported in clinical trial. Administration of C. sativus and its constituents increased glutamate and dopamine levels in the brain in a dose-dependent manner. It also interacts with the opioid system to reduce withdrawal syndrome. Therefore, in the present article, the effects of C. sativus and its constituents on the nervous system and the possible underlying mechanisms are reviewed. Our literature review showed that C. sativus and its components can be considered as promising agents in the treatment of nervous system disorders.
26442698: !Alzheimer Myeloid Cells in Alzheimer's Disease: Culprits, Victims or Innocent Bystanders? Several recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in patients with neurodegenerative disorders have shed new light on the brain immune system, suggesting that it plays a pivotal role in disease pathogenesis. Mononuclear phagocytes are blatantly involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD) of the central nervous system (CNS), but the specific functions of resident microglia, perivascular or meningeal macrophages, and circulating myeloid cells have not yet been fully resolved. Next-generation sequencing, high-throughput immune profiling technologies, and novel genetic tools have recently revolutionized the characterization of innate immune responses during AD. These studies advocate selective and non-redundant roles for myeloid subsets, which could be a target for novel disease-modifying therapies in AD.
26438097: !Alzheimer Butylidenephthalide antagonizes cromakalim-induced systolic pressure reduction in conscious normotensive rats. BACKGROUND: Butylidenephthalide (Bdph), a main constituent of Ligusticum chuanxiong Hort., was reported to have selective antianginal effect without changing blood pressure in conscious rat. Recently, we have observed that Bdph antagonized cromakalim, an ATP-dependent K(+) channel opener, in guinea-pig trachea. Thus, we were interested in investigating whether Bdph at the dose without changing blood pressure antagonized cromakalim-induced systolic pressure  reduction in conscious rats. METHODS: Systolic arterial pressures of conscious rats were determined by using the indirect tail-cuff method. RESULTS: Bdph (30 mg/kg, i.p.) did not affect baseline systolic pressure in conscious normotensive  and spontaneous hypertensive rats. Bdph (30 mg/kg, i.p.) also did not affect log  dose-response curves of prazosin, clonidine and Bay K 8644, a Ca(2+) channel activator, in normotensive rats. However, Bdph (30 mg/kg, i.p.) similar to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 0.4 mg/kg, i.p.), a K(+) channel blocker, non-parallelly but surmountably, and partially similar to glibenclamide (GBC, 10 mg/kg, i.v.), an ATP-sensitive K(+) channel blocker, surmountably but not parallelly rightward  shifted the log dose-systolic pressure reduction curve of cromakalim, an ATP-sensitive K(+) channel opener, in normotensive rats, respectively. DISCUSSION: The antagonistic effect of Bdph against cromakalim was similar to that of 4-AP, a K+ channel blocker of Kv1 family, and partially similar to that of GBC, an ATP-sensitive K+ channel blocker. Thus, Bdph may be a kind of K+ channel blockers, which have been reviewed to have a potential clinical use for Alzheimer disease. Indeed, Bdph has also been reported to reverse the deficits of inhibitory avoidance performance and improve memory in rats. Recently, 4-AP was reported to treat Episodic ataxia type 2 (EA2) which is a form of hereditary neurological disorder. Consistently, Bdph was recently reported to have antihyperglycemic activity in mice, since GBC is a powerful oral hypoglycemic drug. CONCLUSIONS: Bdph similar to 4-AP and partially similar to GBC may block Kv1 family and ATP-sensitive K(+) channels in conscious normotensive rats.
26432480: !Alzheimer Bone marrow-derived macrophages and the CNS: An update on the use of experimental chimeric mouse models and bone marrow transplantation in neurological disorders. The central nervous system (CNS) is a very unique system with multiple features that differentiate it from systemic tissues. One of the most captivating aspects  of its distinctive nature is the presence of the blood brain barrier (BBB), which seals it from the periphery. Therefore, to preserve tissue homeostasis, the CNS has to rely heavily on resident cells such as microglia. These pivotal cells of the mononuclear lineage have important and dichotomous roles according to various neurological disorders. However, certain insults can overwhelm microglia as well  as compromising the integrity of the BBB, thus allowing the infiltration of bone  marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). The use of myeloablation and bone marrow transplantation allowed the generation of chimeric mice to study resident microglia and infiltrated BMDM separately. This breakthrough completely revolutionized the way we captured these 2 types of mononuclear phagocytic cells. We now realize that microglia and BMDM exhibit distinct features and appear to perform different tasks. Since these cells are central in several pathologies, it is crucial to use chimeric mice to analyze their functions and mechanisms to possibly harness them for therapeutic purpose. This review will shed light on the advent of this methodology and how it allowed deciphering the ontology of microglia and its maintenance during adulthood. We will also compare the different strategies used to perform myeloablation. Finally, we will discuss the  landmark studies that used chimeric mice to characterize the roles of microglia and BMDM in several neurological disorders.
26427704: !Alzheimer Efficient passage of human pluripotent stem cells on spider silk matrices under xeno-free conditions. regenerative medicine and pharmaceutical development. Such applications require cell culture methods and reagents that are chemically defined, xeno-free, scalable, and low-cost. Herein, we describe non-mechanical passaging of hPSCs on  spider silk films under chemically defined and xeno-free conditions. The cells were dissociated into single cells or small aggregates using Accutase or enzyme-free dissociation buffer and then passaged to spider silk films, where they expanded in monolayers until they covered the surface. Cells cultured over 10 passages on spider silk film remained karyotypically normal and pluripotent. In conclusion, a novel method for passaging dissociated hPSCs under conditions that are compatible with clinical applications is presented. The method is cost-efficient and may be useful for both research and clinical applications. Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) hold great promise for applications in regenerative medicine and pharmaceutical development. Such applications require cell culture methods and reagents that are chemically defined, xeno-free, scalable, and low-cost. Herein, we describe non-mechanical passaging of hPSCs on  spider silk films under chemically defined and xeno-free conditions. The cells were dissociated into single cells or small aggregates using Accutase or enzyme-free dissociation buffer and then passaged to spider silk films, where they expanded in monolayers until they covered the surface. Cells cultured over 10 passages on spider silk film remained karyotypically normal and pluripotent. In conclusion, a novel method for passaging dissociated hPSCs under conditions that are compatible with clinical applications is presented. The method is cost-efficient and may be useful for both research and clinical applications.
26426026: !Alzheimer Redox Status and Neuro Inflammation Indexes in Cerebellum and Motor Cortex of Wistar Rats Supplemented with Natural Sources of Omega-3 Fatty Acids and Astaxanthin: Fish Oil, Krill Oil, and Algal Biomass. Health authorities worldwide have consistently recommended the regular consumption of marine fishes and seafood to preserve memory, sustain cognitive functions, and prevent neurodegenerative processes in humans. Shrimp, crabs, lobster, and salmon are of particular interest in the human diet due to their substantial provision of omega-3 fatty acids (n-3/PUFAs) and the antioxidant carotenoid astaxanthin (ASTA). However, the optimal ratio between these nutraceuticals in natural sources is apparently the key factor for maximum protection against most neuro-motor disorders. Therefore, we aimed here to investigate the effects of a long-term supplementation with (n-3)/PUFAs-rich fish oil, ASTA-rich algal biomass, the combination of them, or krill oil (a natural combination of both nutrients) on baseline redox balance and neuro-inflammation indexes in cerebellum and motor cortex of Wistar rats. Significant changes in redox metabolism were only observed upon ASTA supplementation, which reinforce its antioxidant properties with a putative mitochondrial-centered action in rat brain. Krill oil imposed mild astrocyte activation in motor cortex of Wistar rats, although no redox or inflammatory index was concomitantly altered. In summary, there is no experimental evidence that krill oil, fish oil, oralgal biomass (minor variation), drastically change the baseline oxidative conditions or the neuro-inflammatory scenario in neuromotor-associated rat brain regions.
26420648: !Alzheimer Comparative genomic analysis of human Chlamydia pneumoniae isolates from respiratory, brain and cardiac tissues. Chlamydia pneumoniae is an obligate intracellular bacterium implicated in a wide  range of human diseases including atherosclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. Efforts to understand the relationships between C. pneumoniae detected in these diseases have been hindered by the availability of sequence data for non-respiratory strains. In this study, we sequenced the whole genomes for C. pneumoniae isolates from atherosclerosis and Alzheimer's disease, and compared these to previously published C. pneumoniae genomes. Phylogenetic analyses of these new C. pneumoniae strains indicate two sub-groups within human C. pneumoniae, and suggest that both recombination and mutation events have driven the evolution of human C. pneumoniae. Further fine-detailed analyses of these new C. pneumoniae sequences show several genetically variable loci. This suggests that similar strains of C. pneumoniae are found in the brain, lungs and cardiovascular system and that only minor genetic differences may contribute to the adaptation of particular strains in human disease.
26418600: !Alzheimer [Effetti perfusionali cerebrali dopo trattamento di 1 anno con rivastigmina nella malattia di Alzheimer: un caso clinico]. RIASSUNTO. Viene descritto il caso di una donna di 74 anni con probabile malattia di Alzheimer che presenta una buona risposta clinica alla rivastigmina associata  a rilevante miglioramento di perfusione cerebrale dopo 1 anno di trattamento. La  tomografia a emissione di fotone singolo (SPECT) mostra un significativo miglioramento nella captazione corticale del tracciante delle regioni temporo-parietali e frontali rispetto all'esame eseguito prima del trattamento.
26413119: !Alzheimer Ginkgolide C Suppresses Adipogenesis in 3T3-L1 Adipocytes via the AMPK Signaling  Pathway. Ginkgolide C, isolated from Ginkgo biloba leaves, is a flavone reported to have multiple biological functions, from decreased platelet aggregation to ameliorating Alzheimer disease. The study aim was to evaluate the antiadipogenic  effect of ginkgolide C in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Ginkgolide C was used to treat differentiated 3T3-L1 cells. Cell supernatant was collected to assay glycerol release, and cells were lysed to measure protein and gene expression related to adipogenesis and lipolysis by western blot and real-time PCR, respectively. Ginkgolide C significantly suppressed lipid accumulation in differentiated adipocytes. It also decreased adipogenesis-related transcription factor expression, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein. Furthermore, ginkgolide C enhanced adipose triglyceride lipase and hormone-sensitive lipase production for lipolysis and increased phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), resulting in decreased activity of acetyl-CoA carboxylase for fatty acid synthesis. In coculture with an AMPK inhibitor (compound C), ginkgolide C also improved activation of sirtuin 1 and phosphorylation of AMPK in differentiated 3T3-L1 cells. The results suggest that ginkgolide C is an effective flavone for increasing lipolysis and inhibiting adipogenesis in adipocytes through the activated AMPK pathway.
26400108: !Alzheimer Methylene Blue Inhibits Caspases by Oxidation of the Catalytic Cysteine. Methylene blue, currently in phase 3 clinical trials against Alzheimer Disease, disaggregates the Tau protein of neurofibrillary tangles by oxidizing specific cysteine residues. Here, we investigated if methylene blue can inhibit caspases via the oxidation of their active site cysteine. Methylene blue, and derivatives, azure A and azure B competitively inhibited recombinant Caspase-6 (Casp6), and inhibited Casp6 activity in transfected human colon carcinoma cells and in serum-deprived primary human neuron cultures. Methylene blue also inhibited recombinant Casp1 and Casp3. Furthermore, methylene blue inhibited Casp3 activity in an acute mouse model of liver toxicity. Mass spectrometry confirmed methylene  blue and azure B oxidation of the catalytic Cys163 cysteine of Casp6. Together, these results show a novel inhibitory mechanism of caspases via sulfenation of the active site cysteine. These results indicate that methylene blue or its derivatives could (1) have an additional effect against Alzheimer Disease by inhibiting brain caspase activity, (2) be used as a drug to prevent caspase activation in other conditions, and (3) predispose chronically treated individuals to cancer via the inhibition of caspases.
26398384: !Alzheimer Effects of simvastatin on malondialdehyde level and esterase activity in plasma and tissue of normolipidemic rats. BACKGROUND: We investigated the possible non-lipid effects of simvastatin (SIMV)  on paraoxonase 1 (PON1) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) activity, as well as on malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in normolipidemic rats. METHODS: Two experimental groups of Wistar rats (10mg/kg/day of SIMV) and two control groups (saline) underwent a 21-day treatment period (TP). On the 22nd day one experimental and one control group of rats were sacrificed. Remaining groups of animals were sacrificied on the 32nd day of the study (10-day after-treatment period (AT)). Blood samples and slices of liver, heart, kidney, and brain tissue were obtained  for the measurement of PON1 and BuChE activity and levels of MDA. Data were analyzed by means of t-test for independent samples. p values</=0.05 were considered as statistically significant. RESULTS: SIMV caused a significant decrease of serum and liver PON1 activity (18-24%, p</=0.05) and MDA concentrations in the plasma, heart, liver, kidney, and brain (9-40%, p</=0.05),  while plasma and liver BuChE activity increased by 29% (p</=0.05) and 18%, respectively. All effects of SIMV were largely diminished following AT. The exception was MDA, which remained significantly decreased in plasma and all tissues analyzed. CONCLUSION: SIMV significantly decreased PON1 activity and MDA  levels and increased BuChE activity. We suggest that the decrease of MDA levels is a beneficial therapeutic effect of SIMV, for example in cardiovascular disorders, while the increase of BuChE activity, especially in brain, may be a potential adverse effect in patients with Alzheimer disease.
26397759: !Alzheimer Withania somnifera (L.) Dunal root extract alleviates formalin-induced nociception in mice: involvement of the opioidergic system. perspectives in the treatment of inflammation and pain. We aimed to evaluate the  antinociceptive property of a WSE in the formalin test and to investigate the involvement of several neurotransmitter systems in this effect. The time spent licking the formalin-injected paw was recorded in CD1 mice after pretreatment with increasing doses of WSE. Also, c-Fos spinal cord expression and the effects  of different compounds were investigated under these experimental conditions. Finally, the efficacy of WSE was analyzed following an injection of glutamate. WSE reduced the antinociceptive response during the tonic but not the acute phase of the formalin test and decreased formalin-induced c-Fos expression in spinal neurons. These effects were antagonized by the opioid antagonist naltrexone, whereas GABA, cannabinoid, delta-opioid, and nitric oxide compounds were ineffective. The administration of WSE also reduced nociception and c-Fos expression induced by glutamate injection. These results showed that WSE is effective in assays of chemical-induced nociception, indicating that this plant has potential valuable properties for the treatment of specific painful conditions. The antinocicetive effects of WSE in the formalin test appeared to be specifically mediated by the opioidergic system, although the involvement of the  glutamatergic system cannot be excluded. Withania somnifera (L.) Dunal extracts (WSEs) may possess therapeutic perspectives in the treatment of inflammation and pain. We aimed to evaluate the  antinociceptive property of a WSE in the formalin test and to investigate the involvement of several neurotransmitter systems in this effect. The time spent licking the formalin-injected paw was recorded in CD1 mice after pretreatment with increasing doses of WSE. Also, c-Fos spinal cord expression and the effects  of different compounds were investigated under these experimental conditions. Finally, the efficacy of WSE was analyzed following an injection of glutamate. WSE reduced the antinociceptive response during the tonic but not the acute phase of the formalin test and decreased formalin-induced c-Fos expression in spinal neurons. These effects were antagonized by the opioid antagonist naltrexone, whereas GABA, cannabinoid, delta-opioid, and nitric oxide compounds were ineffective. The administration of WSE also reduced nociception and c-Fos expression induced by glutamate injection. These results showed that WSE is effective in assays of chemical-induced nociception, indicating that this plant has potential valuable properties for the treatment of specific painful conditions. The antinocicetive effects of WSE in the formalin test appeared to be specifically mediated by the opioidergic system, although the involvement of the  glutamatergic system cannot be excluded.
26390057: !Alzheimer Trans-ancestry genome-wide association study identifies 12 genetic loci influencing blood pressure and implicates a role for DNA methylation. We carried out a trans-ancestry genome-wide association and replication study of  blood pressure phenotypes among up to 320,251 individuals of East Asian, European and South Asian ancestry. We find genetic variants at 12 new loci to be associated with blood pressure (P = 3.9 x 10(-11) to 5.0 x 10(-21)). The sentinel blood pressure SNPs are enriched for association with DNA methylation at multiple nearby CpG sites, suggesting that, at some of the loci identified, DNA methylation may lie on the regulatory pathway linking sequence variation to blood pressure. The sentinel SNPs at the 12 new loci point to genes involved in vascular smooth muscle (IGFBP3, KCNK3, PDE3A and PRDM6) and renal (ARHGAP24, OSR1, SLC22A7 and TBX2) function. The new and known genetic variants predict increased left ventricular mass, circulating levels of NT-proBNP, and cardiovascular and all-cause mortality (P = 0.04 to 8.6 x 10(-6)). Our results provide new evidence for the role of DNA methylation in blood pressure regulation.
26388873: !Alzheimer The Cellular Prion Protein: A Player in Immunological Quiescence. Despite intensive studies since the 1990s, the physiological role of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) remains elusive. Here, we present a novel concept suggesting that PrP(C) contributes to immunological quiescence in addition to cell protection. PrP(C) is highly expressed in diverse organs that by multiple means are particularly protected from inflammation, such as the brain, eye, placenta, pregnant uterus, and testes, while at the same time it is expressed in  most cells of the lymphoreticular system. In this paradigm, PrP(C) serves two principal roles: to modulate the inflammatory potential of immune cells and to protect vulnerable parenchymal cells against noxious insults generated through inflammation. Here, we review studies of PrP(C) physiology in view of this concept.
26383128: !Alzheimer Converting maslinic acid into an effective inhibitor of acylcholinesterases. During the last decade, maslinic acid has been evaluated for many biological properties, e.g. as an anti-tumor or an anti-viral agent but also as a nutraceutical. The potential of maslinic acid and related derivatives to act as inhibitors of acetyl- or butyryl-cholinesterase was examined in this communication in more detail. Cholinesterases do still represent an interesting group of target enzymes with respect to the investigation and treatment of the Alzheimer's disease and other dementia illnesses as well. Although other triterpenoic acids have successfully been tested for their ability to act as inhibitors of cholinesterases, up to now maslinic acid has not been part of such  studies. For this reason, three series of maslinic acid derivatives possessing modifications at different centers were synthesized and subjected to Ellman's assay to determine their inhibitory strength and type of inhibitory action. While parent compound maslinic acid was no inhibitor in these assays, some of the compounds exhibited an inhibition of acetylcholinesterase in the single-digit micro-molar range. Two compounds were identified as inhibitors of butyrylcholinesterase showing inhibition constants comparable to those of galantamine, a drug often used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, additional selectivity as well as cytotoxicity studies were performed underlining the potential of several derivatives and qualifying them for further investigations. Docking studies revealed that the different kinetic behavior within the same compound series may be explained by the ability of the compounds to enter the active site gorge of AChE.
26377309: !Alzheimer Fermentation and Alternative Respiration Compensate for NADH Dehydrogenase Deficiency in a Prokaryotic Model of DJ-1 Associated Parkinsonism. YajL is the closest prokaryotic homolog of Parkinsonism-associated DJ-1, a protein of undefined function involved in the oxidative stress response. We reported recently that YajL and DJ-1 protect cells against oxidative stress-induced protein aggregation by acting as covalent chaperones for the thiol proteome, including the NuoG subunit of NADH dehydrogenase 1, and that NADH dehydrogenase 1 activity is negligible in the yajL mutant. We report here that this mutant compensates for low NADH dehydrogenase activity by utilizing NADH-independent alternative dehydrogenases, including pyruvate oxidase PoxB and  D-aminoacid dehydrogenase DadA, and mixed acid aerobic fermentations characterized by acetate, lactate, succinate and ethanol excretion. The yajL mutant has a low adenylate energy charge favouring glycolytic flux, and a high NADH/NAD ratio favouring fermentations over pyruvate dehydrogenase and the Krebs  cycle. DNA array analysis showed upregulation of genes involved in glycolytic and pentose phosphate pathways and alternative respiratory pathways. Moreover, the yajL mutant preferentially catabolized pyruvate-forming amino acids over Krebs cycle-related ones, and thus the yajL mutant utilizes pyruvate-centred respiro-fermentative metabolism to compensate for the NADH dehydrogenase 1 defect, and constitutes an interesting model for studying eukaryotic respiratory  complex 1 deficiencies, especially those associated with Alzheimer and Parkinson's diseases.
26372824: !Alzheimer Extragastric Diseases and Helicobacter pylori. The extragastric manifestations of Helicobacter pylori infection still remain a very strong topic throughout the H. pylori world. Indeed, H. pylori may interfere with many biological processes, both inside and outside of the stomach, possibly  influencing or determining the occurrence of many diseases outside of the stomach. While its role in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura and sideropenic anemia has already been recognized, emerging evidence suggests that H. pylori may increase the risk of acute coronary syndrome, contribute to insulin resistance and be associated with neurodegenerative, respiratory, and other miscellaneous disorders previously associated with other conditions. Different pathogenic mechanisms have been hypothesized, including the induction of a low-grade inflammatory state and the occurrence of molecular mimicry mechanisms. This review summarizes the results of the most relevant studies published on this topic in the last year.
26369811: !Alzheimer Carbazole Scaffold in Medicinal Chemistry and Natural Products: A Review from 2010-2015. benzene rings fused onto a 5-membered pyrrole ring. Obtained from natural sources or by synthetic routes, this scaffold has gained much interest due to its wide range of biological activity upon modifications, including antibacterial, antimalarial, anticancer, and anti-Alzheimer properties. This review reports a survey of the literature on carbazole-containing molecules and their medicinal activities from 2010 through 2015. In particular, we focus on their in vitro and  in vivo activities and summarize structure-activity relationships (SAR), mechanisms of action, and/or cytotoxicity/selectivity findings when available to  provide future guidance for the development of clinically useful agents from this template. 9H-carbazole is an aromatic molecule that is tricyclic in nature, with two benzene rings fused onto a 5-membered pyrrole ring. Obtained from natural sources or by synthetic routes, this scaffold has gained much interest due to its wide range of biological activity upon modifications, including antibacterial, antimalarial, anticancer, and anti-Alzheimer properties. This review reports a survey of the literature on carbazole-containing molecules and their medicinal activities from 2010 through 2015. In particular, we focus on their in vitro and  in vivo activities and summarize structure-activity relationships (SAR), mechanisms of action, and/or cytotoxicity/selectivity findings when available to  provide future guidance for the development of clinically useful agents from this template.
26363131: !Alzheimer Determination of LC50 and sub-chronic neurotoxicity of diesel exhaust nanoparticles. Air pollution is a major problem faced globally and is seen associated with central nervous system (CNS) disorders like neuropathology and neuro-inflammation. Here, we investigated the CNS disorders as a result of sub-chronic exposure (90 days) to diesel exhaust nanoparticles (DENPs) and explored the minimal levels of DENPs needed to exhibit the early mediators of neuro-inflammation and neuropathology. Male and female wistar rats (6 rats per group) were exposed to DENPs (1/5th, 1/10th and 1/15th LC50) by inhalation for 4h per day, 5 days per week over 90 days and neurotoxicity end-points were analyzed. DENP exposure caused elevation in levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, amyloid beta 42 (Abeta 42), reactive oxygen species (ROS), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), nitrate (NO3(-)), nitrite (NO2(-)) and apurinic/apyrimidinic sites (AP) at varying degrees at different sections of rat brain. Hence, exposure to DENPs resulted in dose-dependent toxicity and was closely correlated to increased inflammation, DNA damage and oxidative stress.
26362768: !Alzheimer Synthesis of New Harmine Isoxazoles and Evaluation of their Potential Anti-Alzheimer, Anti-Inflammatory, and Anticancer Activities. molecule, a new series of isoxazole derivatives has been prepared, conducted with complete regiospecificity, by 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction using various arylnitrile oxides. Harmine and its derivatives were characterized by 1H NMR, 13C NMR and HRMS. The evaluation of the anti-acetylcholinesterase (AChE), anti-5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), anti-xanthine oxidase (XOD) and anticancer activities of harmine 1 and all its structural analogues was studied in vitro against the AChE, 5-LOX and XOD enzymes, HTC-116, MCF7 and OVCAR-3 cancer cell lines, respectively. The prepared derivatives were shown to be inactive against XOD enzyme (0-38.3+/-1.9% at 100 microM). It has been found that compound 2 had the best anti-AChE, activity (IC50=1.9+/-1.5 microM). Derivatives 3a, 3b and 3d showed moderate cytotoxic activity (IC50=5.0+/-0.3 microM (3a) and IC50=6.3+/-0.4 microM (3b) against HCT 116 cell line, IC50=5.0+/-1.0 microM (3d) against MCF7 cell line). Harmine 1 was extracted from the seeds of Peganum harmala. From this natural molecule, a new series of isoxazole derivatives has been prepared, conducted with complete regiospecificity, by 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction using various arylnitrile oxides. Harmine and its derivatives were characterized by 1H NMR, 13C NMR and HRMS. The evaluation of the anti-acetylcholinesterase (AChE), anti-5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), anti-xanthine oxidase (XOD) and anticancer activities of harmine 1 and all its structural analogues was studied in vitro against the AChE, 5-LOX and XOD enzymes, HTC-116, MCF7 and OVCAR-3 cancer cell lines, respectively. The prepared derivatives were shown to be inactive against XOD enzyme (0-38.3+/-1.9% at 100 microM). It has been found that compound 2 had the best anti-AChE, activity (IC50=1.9+/-1.5 microM). Derivatives 3a, 3b and 3d showed moderate cytotoxic activity (IC50=5.0+/-0.3 microM (3a) and IC50=6.3+/-0.4 microM (3b) against HCT 116 cell line, IC50=5.0+/-1.0 microM (3d) against MCF7 cell line).
26346361: !Alzheimer Exogenous alpha-synuclein induces toll-like receptor 4 dependent inflammatory responses in astrocytes. BACKGROUND: The pathological hallmarks of Parkinson's disease are intracellular inclusions composed mainly of misfolded alpha-synuclein (alphaSYN). Under physiological conditions alphaSYN is mostly localized in synapses. In addition, a portion of alphaSYN is secreted to the extracellular space, where it may be sequestered by neighboring cells and could induce inflammatory responses. The mechanisms of alphaSYN internalization and signal transduction are not unequivocally clarified. In this work we investigated in primary mouse astrocytes the involvement of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in the induction of inflammatory responses upon exposure to purified human alphaSYN produced in bacteria. RESULTS: The mRNA induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines, inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2 was significantly reduced in TLR4 knockout astrocytes. The alphaSYN-mediated activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinases and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase tended to be diminished, and nuclear translocation of the p65 subunit of nuclear factor kappaB was abolished in TLR4 knockout astrocytes. In contrast, the uptake of exogenous alphaSYN was unaffected by TLR4 knockout. CONCLUSIONS: Extracellular alphaSYN can activate pro-inflammatory TLR4 pathways in astrocytes, whereas alphaSYN uptake is independent of TLR4.
26344557: !Alzheimer Postmortem memantine concentration in a non-intoxication case, and the possibility of postmortem redistribution: A case report. In this case study, we measured the concentration of memantine in the heart blood, peripheral blood, urine, liver, thigh muscle, and subcutaneous fat of a 64-year-old woman who was prescribed memantine for early-onset Alzheimer's disease. She died in hospital after an altercation with her husband. Cause of death was clearly not drug intoxication or overdose, so we investigated the postmortem redistribution (PMR) of memantine in the various tissues and blood ratios of the postmortem samples. Memantine concentrations detected were 1.31mug/mL in the peripheral blood, 3.95mug/mL in central blood, 2.09mug/mL in the urine, 25.54mug/g in the liver, 1.16mug/g in the thigh muscle and 2.13mug/g in the subcutaneous fat. In all samples, the concentrations were higher than the  accepted therapeutic range (which is approximately 0.09-0.15mug/mL). The central  blood to peripheral blood (C/P) memantine ratio was 3.01 while the liver to peripheral blood (L/P) ratio was 19.5. It is documented that a C/P ratio exceeding 2 and L/P ratio exceeding 20 highlight a propensity for significant PMR. Although this is a single case study, our data suggest that memantine exhibits PMR. Additionally, a lowered pH was found in peripheral blood (pH 6.2) and central blood (pH 6.1). This postmortem reduction in blood pH may also promote the PMR of memantine. Because there is very little available postmortem toxicological data on memantine, our case study will serve as a foundation to assist in future forensic investigations.
26330682: !Alzheimer The Jeremiah Metzger Lecture: Inflammation, Immune Modulators, and Chronic Disease. Chronic inflammation is a risk factor for many different diseases. It is clear that inflammation is associated with degenerative brain diseases, obesity, metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer. Throughout the  past 100 years, changes in the causes of death in the US have been dramatic. The  most recent data indicate that cardiovascular disease and cancer are now responsible for 63% of mortality in the US population. Although progression of these diseases is related to diet, lifestyle, and genetic factors, a common but often unrecognized link is the presence of underlying chronic inflammation. As of 2014, 83.6 million people were living with some form of cardiovascular disease, 29.1 million people have been diagnosed with diabetes, 14 million people carried  the diagnosis of cancer, and 5.2 million people were living with Alzheimer disease. These diseases are a huge burden on our health care system and all have  been associated with chronic inflammation.
26322610: !Alzheimer The solid-state emmissive chalcone (2E)-1-(5-chlorothiophen-2-yl)-3-[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl]prop-2-en-1-one. Orange rectangular blocks suitable for X-ray diffraction analysis were obtained for the previously reported [Ahmad & Bano (2011). Int. J. ChemTech Res. 3, 1470-1478] title chalcone, C15H14ClNOS. This solid-emissive chalcone exhibits a planar structure and the bond parameters are compared with related compounds already described in the literature. The determination of the structure of this chalcone is quite relevant because it will play an important role in theoretical  calculations to investigate potential two-photon absorption processes and could also be useful for studying the interaction of such compounds with a biological target.
26321143: !Alzheimer Pattern of Functional TTX-Resistant Sodium Channels Reveals a Developmental Stage of Human iPSC- and ESC-Derived Nociceptors. Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) offer the opportunity to generate neuronal cells, including nociceptors. Using a chemical-based approach, we generated nociceptive sensory neurons from HUES6 embryonic stem cells and retrovirally reprogrammed induced hPSCs derived from fibroblasts. The nociceptive neurons expressed respective markers and showed tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTXs) and -resistant (TTXr) voltage-gated sodium currents in patch-clamp experiments. In contrast to their counterparts from rodent dorsal root ganglia, TTXr currents of  hPSC-derived nociceptors unexpectedly displayed a significantly more hyperpolarized voltage dependence of activation and fast inactivation. This apparent discrepancy is most likely due to a substantial expression of the developmentally important sodium channel NAV1.5. In view of the obstacles to recapitulate neuropathic pain in animal models, our data advance hPSC-derived nociceptors as a better model to study developmental and pathogenetic processes in human nociceptive neurons and to develop more specific small molecules to attenuate pain.
26318401: !Alzheimer Synthesis, molecular docking, acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase inhibitory potential of thiazole analogs as new inhibitors for Alzheimer disease. A series of thirty (30) thiazole analogs were prepared, characterized by (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR and EI-MS and evaluated for Acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase inhibitory potential. All analogs exhibited varied butyrylcholinesterase inhibitory activity with IC50 value ranging between 1.59+/-0.01 and 389.25+/-1.75muM when compared with the standard eserine (IC50, 0.85+/-0.0001muM). Analogs 15, 7, 12, 9, 14, 1, 30 with IC50 values 1.59+/-0.01,  1.77+/-0.01, 6.21+/-0.01, 7.56+/-0.01, 8.46+/-0.01, 14.81+/-0.32 and 16.54+/-0.21muM respectively showed excellent inhibitory potential. Seven analogs 15, 20, 19, 24, 28, 30 and 25 exhibited good acetylcholinesterase inhibitory potential with IC50 values 21.3+/-0.50, 35.3+/-0.64, 36.6+/-0.70, 44.81+/-0.81, 46.36+/-0.84, 48.2+/-0.06 and 48.72+/-0.91muM respectively. All other analogs also exhibited well to moderate enzyme inhibition. The binding mode of these compounds was confirmed through molecular docking.
26315944: !Alzheimer Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors mediate donepezil-induced oligodendrocyte differentiation. Oligodendrocytes are the myelin-forming cells of the central nervous system (CNS). Failure of myelin development and oligodendrocyte loss results in serious  human disorders, including multiple sclerosis. Here, we show that donepezil, an acetlycholinesterase inhibitor developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, can stimulate oligodendrocyte differentiation and maturation of neural stem cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitor cells without affecting proliferation or cell viability. Transcripts for essential myelin-associated genes, such as PLP, MAG, MBP, CNPase, and MOG, in addition to transcription factors that regulate oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination, were rapidly increased after treatment with donepezil. Furthermore, luciferase assays  confirmed that both MAG and MBP promoters display increased activity upon donepezil-induced oligodendrocytes differentiation, suggesting that donepezil increases myelin gene expression mainly through enhanced transcription. We also found that the increase in the number of oligodendrocytes observed following donepezil treatment was significantly inhibited by the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) antagonist mecamylamine, but not by the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist scopolamine. Moreover, donepezil-induced myelin-related gene  expression was suppressed by mecamylamine at both the mRNA and protein level. These results suggest that donepezil stimulates oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelin-related gene expression via nAChRs in neural stem cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. We show that donepezil, a drug for the treatment of Alzheimer disease, can stimulate oligodendrocyte differentiation and maturation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Transcripts for essential myelin-associated genes, such as PLP, MAG, MBP, CNPase and MOG in addition to transcripton factors that regulate oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination were rapidly increased after treatment with donepezil. These effects  were partly dependent on nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR).
26303081: !Alzheimer Noncoding RNAs and the control of signalling via nuclear receptor regulation in health and disease. Nuclear receptors belong to a superfamily of proteins that play central roles in  human biology, orchestrating a large variety of biological functions in both health and disease. Understanding the interactions and regulatory pathways of NRs will allow development of potential therapeutic interventions for a multitude of  disease processes. Non-coding RNAs have recently been discovered to have significant interactions with NR signalling pathways via a variety of biological  connections. This review summarises the known interactions between ncRNAs and the NR superfamily in health, embryogenesis and a plethora of human diseases.
26289578: !Alzheimer An overview of peptide and peptoid foldamers in medicinal chemistry. INTRODUCTION: Foldamers are artificial self-organizing systems with various critical properties: i) a stable and designable secondary structure; ii) a larger molecular surface as compared with ordinary organic drug molecules; iii) appropriate control of the orientation of the side-chain functional groups; iv) resistance against proteolytic degradation, which leads to potentially increased  oral bioavailability and a longer serum half-life relative to ordinary alpha-peptides; and v) the lower conformational freedom may result in increased receptor binding in comparison with the natural analogs. AREAS COVERED: This article covers the general properties and types of foldamers. This includes highlighted examples of medicinal chemical applications, including antibacterial  and cargo molecules, anti-Alzheimer compounds and protein-protein interaction modifiers. EXPERT OPINION: Various new foldamers have been created with a range of structures and biological applications. Membrane-acting antibacterial foldamers have been introduced. A general property of these structures is their amphiphilic nature. The amphiphilicity can be stationary or induced by the membrane binding. Cell-penetrating foldamers have been described which serve as cargo molecules, and foldamers have been used as autophagy inducers. Anti-Alzheimer compounds too have been created and the greatest breakthrough was  attained via the modification of protein-protein interactions. This can serve as  the chemical and pharmaceutical basis for the relevance of foldamers in the future.
26277326: !Alzheimer The dynamic blood-brain barrier. With the endothelium as its central unit, the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a complex multicellular structure separating the central nervous system (CNS) from  the systemic circulation. Disruption of the BBB has now been implicated in a multitude of acute and chronic CNS disorders indicating the potentially devastating effects of BBB breakdown on brain function. However, the healthy BBB  is not an impermeable wall, but rather a communication 'centre', responding to and passing signals between the CNS and blood. New studies are identifying BBB-specific transport pathways that tightly regulate the entry and exit of molecules to and from the brain. They are revealing a highly plastic barrier in which dynamic changes in BBB components like paracellular tight junction complexes can contribute to BBB maintenance. Here, we provide a succinct overview of the current state-of-play in BBB research and summarize novel findings into BBB regulation in homeostatic regulation of the brain.
26264026: !Alzheimer The Role of nAChR and Calcium Signaling in Pancreatic Cancer Initiation and Progression. Pancreatic cancer shows a strong correlation with smoking and the current therapeutic strategies have been relatively ineffective in improving the survival of patients. Efforts have been made over the past many years to understand the molecular events that drive the initiation and progression of pancreatic cancer,  especially in the context of smoking. It has become clear that components of tobacco smoke not only initiate these cancers, especially pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (PDACs) through their mutagenic properties, but can also promote  the growth and metastasis of these tumors by stimulating cell proliferation, angiogenesis, invasion and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Studies in cell culture systems, animal models and human samples have shown that nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) activation enhances these tumor-promoting events by channeling signaling through multiple pathways. In this context, signaling through calcium channels appear to facilitate pancreatic cancer growth by itself  or downstream of nAChRs. This review article highlights the role of nAChR downstream signaling events and calcium signaling in the growth, metastasis as well as drug resistance of pancreatic cancer.
26262991: !Alzheimer Antidiabetic Effect of Galantamine: Novel Effect for a Known Centrally Acting Drug. The cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway is one of the putative biochemical pathways that link diabetes with Alzheimer disease. Hence, we aimed to verify the potential antidiabetic effect of galantamine, unveil the possible mechanisms and  evaluate its interaction with vildagliptin. The n5-STZ rat model was adopted and  the diabetic animals were treated with galantamine and/or vildagliptin for 4 weeks. Galantamine lowered the n5-STZ-induced elevation in body weight, food/water intake, serum levels of glucose, fructosamine, and ALT/AST, as well as AChE in the tested organs. Moreover, it modulated successfully the lipid profile  assessed in serum, liver, and muscle, and increased serum insulin level, as well  as % beta-cell function, in a pattern similar to that of vildagliptin. Additionally, galantamine confirmed its antioxidant (Nrf2, TAC, MDA), anti-inflammatory (NF-kappaB, TNF-alpha, visfatin, adiponectin) and anti-apoptotic (caspase-3, cytochrome c) capabilities by altering the n5-STZ effect on all the aforementioned parameters. On the molecular level, galantamine/vildagliptin have improved the insulin (p-insulin receptor, p-Akt, GLUT4/GLUT2) and Wnt/beta-catenin (p-GSK-3beta, beta-catenin) signaling pathways. On almost all parameters, the galantamine effects surpassed that of vildagliptin, while the combination regimen showed the best effects. The present results clearly proved that galantamine modulated glucose/lipid profile possibly through  its anti-oxidant, -apoptotic, -inflammatory and -cholinesterase properties. These effects could be attributed partly to the enhancement of insulin and Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathways. Galantamine can be strongly considered as a  potential antidiabetic agent and as an add-on therapy with other oral antidiabetics.
26257034: !Alzheimer An overview of peptide and peptoid foldamers in medicinal chemistry. INTRODUCTION: Foldamers are artificial self-organizing systems with various critical properties: i) a stable and designable secondary structure; ii) a larger molecular surface as compared with ordinary organic drug molecules; iii) appropriate control of the orientation of the side-chain functional groups; iv) resistance against proteolytic degradation, which leads to potentially increased  oral bioavailability and a longer serum half-life relative to ordinary alpha-peptides; and v) the lower conformational freedom may result in increased receptor binding in comparison with the natural analogs. Areas covered: This article covers the general properties and types of foldamers. This includes highlighted examples of medicinal chemical applications, including antibacterial  and cargo molecules, anti-Alzheimer compounds and protein-protein interaction modifiers. Expert opinion: Various new foldamers have been created with a range of structures and biological applications. Membrane-acting antibacterial foldamers have been introduced. A general property of these structures is their amphiphilic nature. The amphiphilicity can be stationary or induced by the membrane binding. Cell-penetrating foldamers have been described which serve as cargo molecules, and foldamers have been used as autophagy inducers. Anti-Alzheimer compounds too have been created and the greatest breakthrough was  attained via the modification of protein-protein interactions. This can serve as  the chemical and pharmaceutical basis for the relevance of foldamers in the future.
26249687: !Alzheimer The soluble Y115E-Y117E variant of human glutaminyl cyclase is a valid target for X-ray and NMR screening of inhibitors against Alzheimer disease. Recent developments in molecular pathology and genetics have allowed the identification of human glutaminyl cyclase (hQC) among the abnormal proteins involved in many neurodegenerative disorders. Difficulties in obtaining large quantities of pure protein may limit the use of crystallographic screening for drug development on this target. Site-directed mutagenesis experiments have led to the identification of some solvent-exposed residues that are absolutely critical to achieve increased solubility and to avoid precipitation of the enzyme in inclusion bodies when expressed in Escherichia coli. The designed variant Y115E-Y117E has been found to be able to provide large amounts of monodisperse, pure hQC from an E. coli expression system. To validate the use of the artificial construct as a target for large-scale X-ray and NMR screening campaigns in the search for new inhibitors of hQC, the X-ray crystal structures of the hQC Y115E-Y117E variant and of its adduct with the inhibitor PBD-150 were determined.
26221675: !Alzheimer A Riemannian Framework for Intrinsic Comparison of Closed Genus-Zero Shapes. We present a framework for intrinsic comparison of surface metric structures and  curvatures. This work parallels the work of Kurtek et al. on parameterization-invariant comparison of genus zero shapes. Here, instead of comparing the embedding of spherically parameterized surfaces in space, we focus  on the first fundamental form. To ensure that the distance on spherical metric tensor fields is invariant to parameterization, we apply the conjugation-invariant metric arising from the L2 norm on symmetric positive definite matrices. As a reparameterization changes the metric tensor by a congruent Jacobian transform, this metric perfectly suits our purpose. The result is an intrinsic comparison of shape metric structure that does not depend on the  specifics of a spherical mapping. Further, when restricted to tensors of fixed volume form, the manifold of metric tensor fields and its quotient of the group of unitary diffeomorphisms becomes a proper metric manifold that is geodesically  complete. Exploiting this fact, and augmenting the metric with analogous metrics  on curvatures, we derive a complete Riemannian framework for shape comparison and reconstruction. A by-product of our framework is a near-isometric and curvature-preserving mapping between surfaces. The correspondence is optimized using the fast spherical fluid algorithm. We validate our framework using several subcortical boundary surface models from the ADNI dataset.
26216268: !Alzheimer Organophosphorus Inhibition and Characterization of Recombinant Guinea Pig Acetylcholinesterase. Organophosphorus (OP) pesticides and nerve agents have been designed to inhibit the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine by covalently binding to the active site serine of acetylcholinesterase while Alzheimer drugs and prophylactics, such as tacrine, are characterized by reversible binding. Historically, the guinea pig has been believed to be the best non-primate model for OP toxicology and medical countermeasure development because, similarly to humans, guinea pigs have low amounts of circulating OP metabolizing carboxylesterase. To explore the hypothesis that guinea pigs are the appropriate  responder species for OP toxicology and medical countermeasure development, guinea pig acetylcholinesterase (gpAChE) was cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO, recombined into pT-Rex-DEST30 and expressed in Human Embryonic Kidney 293 cells. Recombinant gpAChE was purified to a specific activity of 800 U/mg using size exclusion and immobilized nickel affinity chromatography, with purity confirmed by gel electrophoresis. Ellman's assay was used to enzymatically characterize gpAChE, identifying a K(M) of 154+/-18.7 micromol L(-1) and a k(cat) of 4.79x10(4)+/-5.26x10(2) /sec. Apparent gpAChE IC50's for diisopropylfluorophosphate, dicrotophos, paraoxon, and an Alzheimer's drug, tacrine, were found to be 10.1+/-1.98, 337+/-108, 1.02+/-0.29 and 0.30+/-0.01 micromol L(-1), respectively. Apparent gpAChE inhibition constants for diisopropylfluorophosphate, dicrotophos, paraoxon, and tacrine were found to be 8.40+/-0.60, 4.50+/-0.30, 0.29+/-0.01 and 0.42+/-0.07 micromol L(-1), respectively. Lineweaver-Burk plots confirmed tacrine as a mixed inhibitor and paraoxon, dicrotophos and diisopropylfluorophosphate as irreversible non-competitive inhibitors. gpAChE bimolecular rate constants for diisopropylfluorophosphate, dicrotophos and paraoxon were found to be 1.44+/-0.33x10(4), 1.56+/-0.12x10(3) and 4.57+/- 0.23x10(5) L micromol(-1) min(-1), respectively. Although the blood levels of OP metabolizing carboxylesterases in the guinea pig are similar to the low levels in human blood, the gpAChE is different in its enzymology. Therefore, medical countermeasures against OP intoxication should be tested for efficacy with the recombinant form of gpAChE prior to initiating animal studies.
26215835: !Alzheimer Kdm6b and Pmepa1 as Targets of Bioelectrically and Behaviorally Induced Activin A Signaling. multiple neurotrophic and protective effects in the brain. Activin also modulates cognitive functions and affective behavior and is a presumed target of antidepressant therapy. Despite its important role in the injured and intact brain, the mechanisms underlying activin effects in the CNS are still largely unknown. Our goal was to identify the first target genes of activin signaling in  the hippocampus in vivo. Electroconvulsive seizures, a rodent model of electroconvulsive therapy in humans, were applied to C57BL/6J mice to elicit a strong increase in activin A signaling. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments with hippocampal lysates subsequently revealed that binding of SMAD2/3, the intracellular effectors of activin signaling, was significantly enriched at the Pmepa1 gene, which encodes a negative feedback regulator of TGF-beta signaling in cancer cells, and at the Kdm6b gene, which encodes an epigenetic regulator promoting transcriptional plasticity. Underlining the significance of these findings, activin treatment also induced PMEPA1 and KDM6B expression in human forebrain neurons generated from embryonic stem cells suggesting interspecies conservation of activin effects in mammalian neurons. Importantly, physiological  stimuli such as provided by environmental enrichment proved already sufficient to engender a rapid and significant induction of activin signaling concomitant with  an upregulation of Pmepa1 and Kdm6b expression. Taken together, our study identified the first target genes of activin signaling in the brain. With the induction of Kdm6b expression, activin is likely to gain impact on a presumed epigenetic regulator of activity-dependent neuronal plasticity. The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family member activin A exerts multiple neurotrophic and protective effects in the brain. Activin also modulates cognitive functions and affective behavior and is a presumed target of antidepressant therapy. Despite its important role in the injured and intact brain, the mechanisms underlying activin effects in the CNS are still largely unknown. Our goal was to identify the first target genes of activin signaling in  the hippocampus in vivo. Electroconvulsive seizures, a rodent model of electroconvulsive therapy in humans, were applied to C57BL/6J mice to elicit a strong increase in activin A signaling. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments with hippocampal lysates subsequently revealed that binding of SMAD2/3, the intracellular effectors of activin signaling, was significantly enriched at the Pmepa1 gene, which encodes a negative feedback regulator of TGF-beta signaling in cancer cells, and at the Kdm6b gene, which encodes an epigenetic regulator promoting transcriptional plasticity. Underlining the significance of these findings, activin treatment also induced PMEPA1 and KDM6B expression in human forebrain neurons generated from embryonic stem cells suggesting interspecies conservation of activin effects in mammalian neurons. Importantly, physiological  stimuli such as provided by environmental enrichment proved already sufficient to engender a rapid and significant induction of activin signaling concomitant with  an upregulation of Pmepa1 and Kdm6b expression. Taken together, our study identified the first target genes of activin signaling in the brain. With the induction of Kdm6b expression, activin is likely to gain impact on a presumed epigenetic regulator of activity-dependent neuronal plasticity.
26214710: !Alzheimer Role of the cell cycle re-initiation in DNA damage response of postmitotic cells  and its implication in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. aging. Resuming of the cell cycle by neurons induced by DNA damage may lead to their apoptosis, which contributes to the degeneration of neuronal tissue. Cell cycle and DNA replication proteins are frequently found in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. Oxidative stress, which is considered to play an important role in aging and pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases, can  induce DNA damage and stimulate cell cycle re-entry by neuronal cells. DNA damage activated ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM), ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related (ATR), breast cancer 1 (BRCA1), E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) and other proteins, which regulate cell cycle, DNA damage repair and apoptosis. Since the E2F complexes associate with histone modifying enzymes, histone modifications, including its acetylation and methylation, are required for cell cycle re-entry and may a regulatory role in DNA repair or apoptosis. Aberrant cell cycle regulation was shown to play a role in age-related macular degeneration (AMD), in which retinal cells are affected and inclusion body myositis which is characterized by the muscle cells dysfunction. There is evidence to suggest that cytostatic chemotherapy could decrease dementia in Alzheimer disease and multiple myeloma, supporting the use of cell cycle inhibitors in the therapy of degenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative diseases are often associated with both normal and premature aging. Resuming of the cell cycle by neurons induced by DNA damage may lead to their apoptosis, which contributes to the degeneration of neuronal tissue. Cell cycle and DNA replication proteins are frequently found in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. Oxidative stress, which is considered to play an important role in aging and pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases, can  induce DNA damage and stimulate cell cycle re-entry by neuronal cells. DNA damage activated ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM), ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related (ATR), breast cancer 1 (BRCA1), E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) and other proteins, which regulate cell cycle, DNA damage repair and apoptosis. Since the E2F complexes associate with histone modifying enzymes, histone modifications, including its acetylation and methylation, are required for cell cycle re-entry and may a regulatory role in DNA repair or apoptosis. Aberrant cell cycle regulation was shown to play a role in age-related macular degeneration (AMD), in which retinal cells are affected and inclusion body myositis which is characterized by the muscle cells dysfunction. There is evidence to suggest that cytostatic chemotherapy could decrease dementia in Alzheimer disease and multiple myeloma, supporting the use of cell cycle inhibitors in the therapy of degenerative diseases.
26195563: !Alzheimer Pregnancy outcome for fetuses with increased nuchal translucency but normal karyotype. OBJECTIVE: To investigate pregnancy outcome for fetuses with nuchal translucency  (NT) >/=3.5 mm but normal karyotype in the Stockholm (Sweden) area. METHODS: A retrospective population-based cohort study. From 2006 to 2012, fetal NT was measured in 55123 singleton pregnancies. There were 341 pregnancies with NT thickness >/=3.5 mm; 139 had a normal karyotype, 164 had an abnormal karyotype and 38 were removed from the study. Pregnancy outcome was defined as adverse (termination of pregnancy [TOP], miscarriage [MC], intrauterine fetal death [IUFD], or delivery of a child with structural defects or genetic disorders), or  favourable (delivery of a child without any structural defects or genetic disorders diagnosed before discharge). RESULTS: Of the 139 high NT pregnancies with normal karyotype, 110 (79.2%) resulted in live births, one (0.7%) IUFD, 23 (16.5%) TOP and five (3.6%) MC. The risk of an adverse pregnancy outcome increased with increasing NT. Structural fetal defects were found in 28 (19.5%) of pregnancies undergoing second trimester ultrasound screening, of which seven resulted in live births and 21 were terminated. The most common structural defect was cardiac defects. CONCLUSIONS: Adverse pregnancy outcome increased with increasing NT, even with normal karyotype, however, the prognosis is good if the  second trimester ultrasound screening is normal.
26192069: !Alzheimer Synthesis and Evaluation of Chroman-4-One Linked to N-Benzyl Pyridinium Derivatives as New Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors. A novel series of chroman-4-one derivatives containing the N-benzyl pyridinium moiety were designed, synthesized, and evaluated for their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activities. Among the various synthesized compounds, (E)-1-(2,3-dibromobenzyl)-4-((7-ethoxy-4-oxochroman-3-ylidene)methyl)pyridinium bromide (8l) depicted the most potent anti-AChE activity (IC50 = 0.048 muM). In addition, the molecular modeling study allowed us to detect possible binding modes that are in full compliance with the observed results through in vitro experiments.
26186269: !Alzheimer Design, synthesis and preliminary structure-activity relationship investigation of nitrogen-containing chalcone derivatives as acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors: a further study based on Flavokawain B Mannich  base derivatives. In order to study the structure-activity relationship of Flavokawain B Mannich-based derivatives as acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors in our recent investigation, 20 new nitrogen-containing chalcone derivatives (4 a-8d) were designed, synthesized, and evaluated for AChE inhibitory activity in vitro. The results suggested that amino alkyl side chain of chalcone dramatically influenced the inhibitory activity against AChE. Among them, compound 6c revealed the strongest AChE inhibitory activity (IC50 value: 0.85 mumol/L) and the highest selectivity against AChE over BuChE (ratio: 35.79). Enzyme kinetic study showed that the inhibition mechanism of compound 6c against AChE was a mixed-type inhibition. The molecular docking assay showed that this compound can both bind with the catalytic site and the peripheral site of AChE.
26170801: !Alzheimer Novel applications of trophic factors, Wnt and WISP for neuronal repair and regeneration in metabolic disease. Diabetes mellitus affects almost 350 million individuals throughout the globe resulting in significant morbidity and mortality. Of further concern is the growing population of individuals that remain undiagnosed but are susceptible to  the detrimental outcomes of this disorder. Diabetes mellitus leads to multiple complications in the central and peripheral nervous systems that include cognitive impairment, retinal disease, neuropsychiatric disease, cerebral ischemia, and peripheral nerve degeneration. Although multiple strategies are being considered, novel targeting of trophic factors, Wnt signaling, Wnt1 inducible signaling pathway protein 1, and stem cell tissue regeneration are considered to be exciting prospects to overcome the cellular mechanisms that lead to neuronal injury in diabetes mellitus involving oxidative stress, apoptosis, and autophagy. Pathways that involve insulin-like growth factor-1, fibroblast growth factor, epidermal growth factor, and erythropoietin can govern glucose homeostasis and are intimately tied to Wnt signaling that involves Wnt1 and Wnt1  inducible signaling pathway protein 1 (CCN4) to foster control over stem cell proliferation, wound repair, cognitive decline, beta-cell proliferation, vascular regeneration, and programmed cell death. Ultimately, cellular metabolism through  Wnt signaling is driven by primary metabolic pathways of the mechanistic target of rapamycin and AMP activated protein kinase. These pathways offer precise biological control of cellular metabolism, but are exquisitely sensitive to the different components of Wnt signaling. As a result, unexpected clinical outcomes  can ensue and therefore demand careful translation of the mechanisms that govern  neural repair and regeneration in diabetes mellitus.
26166611: !Alzheimer The Innate Immunity in Alzheimer Disease- Relevance to Pathogenesis and Therapy. The genetic, cellular, and molecular changes associated with Alzheimer disease provide evidence of immune and inflammatory processes involvement in its pathogenesis. These are supported by epidemiological studies, which show some benefit of long-term use of NSAID. The hypothesis that AD is in fact an immunologically mediated and even inflammatory pathological process may be in fact scientifically intriguing. There are several obstacles that suggest the need for more complex view, in the process of targeting inflammation and immunity in AD. In our previous studies we proposed a reliable methodology to assess innate immunity in Alzheimer patients and controls. The methodology is based on the phenomenon of human leukocytes being resistant to viral infection. The unspecific character of the resistance, dependent on interferons and tumor necrosis factor,  and occurrence in cells ex vivo indicate that an in vivo mechanism of innate immunity may be involved. The above mentioned resistance could be estimated in a  test based on peripheral blood leukocytes infection by vesicular stomachs virus.
26164000: !Alzheimer Green tea polyphenols and their potential role in health and disease. There is a growing body of evidence that plant polyphenols such as resveratrol, anthocyanins, catechins, and terpenes like taxol are effectively used in the treatment of chronic conditions including cancer, Alzheimer, Parkinsonism, diabetes, aging, etc. The link between oxidative stress and inflammation is well  accepted. Thus, the mechanism of action of these natural products is partly believed to be through their significant antioxidant properties. The main constituent of green tea, with clinical significance, is epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG). It has been associated with antitumor, anti-Alzheimer, and anti-aging properties, improve redox status at the tissue level possibly preventing system level structural damage. This review focuses on EGCG and its potential therapeutic role in health and disease.
26159707: !Alzheimer From the periphery to the brain: Lipocalin-2, a friend or foe? Lipocalin-2 (LCN2) is an acute-phase protein that, by binding to iron-loaded siderophores, acts as a potent bacteriostatic agent in the iron-depletion strategy of the immune system to control pathogens. The recent identification of  a mammalian siderophore also suggests a physiological role for LCN2 in iron homeostasis, specifically in iron delivery to cells via a transferrin-independent mechanism. LCN2 participates, as well, in a variety of cellular processes, including cell proliferation, cell differentiation and apoptosis, and has been mostly found up-regulated in various tissues and under inflammatory states, being its expression regulated by several inducers. In the central nervous system less  is known about the processes involving LCN2, namely by which cells it is produced/secreted, and its impact on cell proliferation and death, or in neuronal plasticity and behaviour. Importantly, LCN2 recently emerged as a potential clinical biomarker in multiple sclerosis and in ageing-related cognitive decline. Still, there are conflicting views on the role of LCN2 in pathophysiological processes, with some studies pointing to its neurodeleterious effects, while others indicate neuroprotection. Herein, these various perspectives are reviewed  and a comprehensive and cohesive view of the general function of LCN2, particularly in the brain, is provided.
26158758: !Alzheimer Synthesis of stable isotope-labeled epothilone D using a degradation-reconstruction approach. The stabilization of microtubules using epothilones represents a novel mechanism  of action to treat Alzheimer's disease. Epothilone D is one such microtubule-stabilizing drug that has been investigated by Bristol-Myers Squibb.  An important step in the development process was the synthesis of a stable isotope-labeled analog for use in bioanalytical assays to accurately quantify the concentration of the drug in biological samples. A novel synthetic route to stable isotope-labeled epothilone D is described. The synthetic route was based on a strategy to degrade epothilone B and then use that key intermediate to reconstruct stable isotope-labeled epothilone D. Epothilone B was treated with potassium osmate and sodium periodate. The thiazole moiety in epothilone B was efficiently cleaved to give (1S,3S,7S,10R,11S,12S,16R)-3-acetyl-7,11-dihydroxy-8,8,10,12,16-pentamethyl-4,17- dioxabicyclo[14.1.0]heptadecane-5,9-dione. The epoxide in the macrocyclic ring of that intermediate was cleanly removed by treatment with tungsten hexachloride and n-butyllithium to give the corresponding olefin (4S,7R,8S,9S,16S,Z)-16-acetyl-4,8-dihydroxy-5,5,7,9,13-pentamethyloxacyclohexadec -13-ene-2,6-dione. Bis(triethylsilyl) protection produced (4S,7R,8S,9S,16S,Z)-16-acetyl-5,5,7,9,13-pentamethyl-4,8-bis(triethylsilyloxy)-ox acyclohexadec-13-ene-2,6-dione. This intermediate was coupled to a stable isotope-labeled thiazole using a Wittig reaction as the key step to provide (13)C5, (15)N-labeled epothilone D. In summary, the synthesis was completed in nine total steps, only six of which involved isotopically labeled reagents. A total of 168 mg of (13)C5, (15)N-labeled epothilone D was prepared in an 8% overall yield from (13)C2, (15)N-labeled thioacetamide and (13)C3-labeled ethyl bromopyruvate.
26151013: !Alzheimer Cinnamon from the selection of traditional applications to its novel effects on the inhibition of angiogenesis in cancer cells and prevention of Alzheimer's disease, and a series of functions such as antioxidant, anticholesterol, antidiabetes, antibacterial, antifungal, nematicidal, acaracidal, and repellent activities. The purpose of this article is to use search engines such as PubMed and Scifinder to locate scholarly articles and reports pertaining to Cinnamon ( rou gui), its novel effects, preparation, analysis, and use in the prevention and treatment of  serious illnesses, such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer. Cinnamon has been used traditionally in food preparations and as an herbal medicine to treat a variety of ailments and their symptoms. Cinnamon is known to have antioxidant, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and other therapeutic properties. New studies reaffirm the importance of cinnamon as  a spice but also suggest that it may be a natural remedy to treat serious diseases such as type 2 diabetes, chronic digestion problems, cardiovascular diseases, and even cancer and Alzheimer's disease. This article presents a comprehensive analysis of the botanical, chemical, and pharmacological aspects of cinnamon.
26138814: !Alzheimer The aromatic stacking interactions between proteins and their macromolecular ligands. Aromatic stacking interactions arise from the attractive force between the pi-electron clouds in the neighboring aromatic groups. The aromatic stacking is common between proteins and small molecules. The stacking interactions at the interfaces of proteins and other macromolecules are relatively rare. However it contributes to a significant portion of the stabilizing forces. In the proteinprotein complexes, aromatic interactions are involved in the protein oligomerization, such as dimer, trimer and tetramer formation. Also, aromatic residues can bind to nanoparticles through stacking interactions which offer them stronger affinity than other residues. These interactions play crucial roles in proteinnanoparticle conjugation. In the protein-nucleotide complexes, the specific recognitions are realized through stacking interactions between aromatic residues and the bases in the nucleotides. Many nucleoproteins use aromatic stacking to recognize binding site on DNA or RNA. Stacking interactions are involved in the process of mismatch repair, strand separation, deadenylation, degradation and RNA cap binding. They are proved to be important for the stability of complexes. The aromatic stacking is also the underlying reasons of many fatal diseases such as Alzheimer, cancer and cardiovascular diseases. The chemicals that can block the stacking interactions could have potential pharmaceutical values. In this review, we summarize recent finding regarding the  functions of aromatic stacking interactions in the protein-macromolecule complexes. Our aim is to understand the mechanisms underlying the stacking-mediated complex formation and facilitate the development of drugs and other bio-products.
26125436: !Alzheimer Gene-based vaccines and immunotherapeutic strategies against neurodegenerative diseases: Potential utility and limitations. There has been a recent expansion of vaccination and immunotherapeutic strategies from controlling infectious diseases to the targeting of non-infectious conditions including neurodegenerative disorders. In addition to conventional vaccine and immunotherapeutic modalities, gene-based methods that express antigens for presentation to the immune system by either live viral vectors or non-viral naked DNA plasmids have been developed and evaluated. This mini-review/commentary summarizes the advantages and disadvantages, as well as the research findings to date, of both of these gene-based vaccination approaches in terms of how they can be targeted against appropriate antigens within the Alzheimer and Parkinson disease pathogenesis processes as well as potentially against targets in other neurodegenerative diseases. Most recently, the novel utilization of these viral vector and naked DNA gene-based technologies includes  the delivery of immunoglobulin genes from established biologically active monoclonal antibodies. This modified passive immunotherapeutic strategy has recently been applied to deliver passive antibody immunotherapy against the pathologically relevant amyloid beta protein in Alzheimer disease. The advantages and disadvantages of this technological application of gene-based immune interventions, as well as research findings to date are also summarized. In sum,  it is suggested that further evaluation of gene based vaccines and immunotherapies against neurodegenerative diseases are warranted to determine their potential clinical utility.
26119316: !Alzheimer [Bone and Nutrition. A prospect of calcium sensing receptor]. Following the discovery of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) in 1993, its pivotal role in disorders of calcium homeostasis was demonstrated. Compelling evidence suggests that the CaSR plays multiple roles extending well beyond not only regulating the level of extracellular Ca(2+), but also controlling diverse and crucial roles in human physiology and pathophysiology. This review covers current knowledge of the role of the CaSR in disorders of calcium homeostasis (familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia, neonatal severe hyperparathyroidism, autosomal dominant hypocalcemia, primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism, hypercalcemia of malignancy) as well as unrelated diseases such as breast and colorectal cancer, Alzheimer's disease and pancreatitis. In addition, it examines the use or potential use of CaSR agonists or antagonists in the management of disorders as diverse as hyperparathyroidism and Alzheimer's disease.
26084734: !Alzheimer Recent data on Mediterranean diet, cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes and life expectancy. Benefits of dietary moderation when on a Mediterranean diet type (MD) have been known for well over half a century. In the past, there has been a vigorous renewal of interest in preventive potential of MD. This review is unique, by focusing on the very recent confirmatory data on the MD, all published within the first half of 2014. Benefits of MD in preventing and reducing cardiovascular disorders (CVD), known before, have been strongly confirmed. While there is little doubt regarding potential benefit of MD for obesity, diabetes type II, metabolic syndrome and fatty liver, critical evaluation has to be aimed at reported benefits of MD in such widely metabolic diverse disorders as cancer, pulmonary disease and cognition defects, including Alzheimer disease (Ref. 20). Text in PDF www.elis.sk.
26077890: !Alzheimer Design, Synthesis, Biological Evaluation, and Docking Study of Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors: New Acridone-1,2,4-oxadiazole-1,2,3-triazole Hybrids. In this study, novel acridone-1,2,4-oxadiazole-1,2,3-triazole hybrids were designed, synthesized, and evaluated for their acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase inhibitory activity. Among various synthesized compounds, 10-((1-((3-(4-methoxyphenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)m ethyl)acridin-9(10H)-one 10b showed the most potent anti-acetylcholinesterase activity (IC50 = 11.55 mum) being as potent as rivastigmine. Also docking outcomes were in good agreement with in vitro results confirming the dual binding inhibitory activity of compound 10b.
26068914: !Alzheimer MRJF4, a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor, induces p21 mediated autophagy in PC3 prostate cancer cells. Autophagy is a cellular defense mechanism which occurs through degradation and recycling of cytoplasmic constituents and represents a caspase&mdash;independent  alternative to cell death by apoptosis. It is generally accepted that the suppression of autophagy in many cancer cells is directly correlated to malignancy; hence, the control of autophagy genes could represent a target for cancer therapy. The inhibition of cell proliferation through autophagy activation could be an important mechanism for many anti&mdash;tumor drugs. Here we report the effects of a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor MRJF4 (racemic mixture) and  of its two enantiomers [(+)&mdash;MRJF4 and (&mdash;)&mdash;MRJF4] on the morphological and molecular mechanisms causing death and migration of PC3 prostatic cancer cells. In particular, we investigated the occurrence of the autophagic process, both at morphological and molecular levels (LC3 expression),  and its relationship with p21, a key molecule which regulates cell cycle and autophagy cell death. Moreover, pERK/Nf&mdash;kB driven intracellular signaling,  the expression of MMP9 protein &mdash; a key component of cell migration &mdash;  invasion, and metastasis were assayed. Our results showed that the anti&mdash;proliferative effects of MRJF4 due to autophagy occurrence, documented by LC3 increase and ultrastructural modifications, and the reduction of invasiveness seem to be mediated by the down&mdash;regulation of pERK/NF&mdash;kB signaling pathway, along with p21 up&mdash;regulation.
26044321: !Alzheimer Partial conversion of thioamide into nitrile in a copper(II) complex of 2,6-diacetylpyridine bis(thiosemicarbazone), a drug prototype for Alzheimer's disease. This work reports the crystal structure of [(Z)-2-((E)-1-{6-[1-({[amino(sulfanidyl-kappaS)methylidene]amino}imino-kappaN)eth yl]pyridin-2-yl-kappaN}ethylidene)-1-cyanohydrazinido-kappaN(1)]copper(II), [Cu(C11H11N7S)], the first description of a copper(II) complex of 2,6-diacetylpyridine bis(thiosemicarbazone) showing partial conversion of a thioamide group to a nitrile group. The asymmetric ligand coordinates to the metal centre in an N,N',N'',S-tetradentate manner via the pyridine N atom, an imine N atom, the hydrazinide N atom and the sulfanidyl S atom, displaying a square-planar geometry. Ligand coordination results in two five-membered chelate  rings and one six-membered chelate ring, and in crystal packing based on N-H...N  hydrogen bonds of the cyanohydrazinide and hydrazinecarbothioamidate arms of the  ligand. The correlation between the partial conversion upon metal complexation, H2S release and possible effects on the activity of bis(thiosemicarbazone)s as drug prototypes for Alzheimer's disease is also discussed.
26042530: !Alzheimer Discovery of isoalloxazine derivatives as a new class of potential anti-Alzheimer agents and their synthesis. This article describes discovery of a novel and new class of cholinesterase inhibitors as potential therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease. A series of novel isoalloxazine derivatives were synthesized and biologically evaluated for their potential inhibitory outcome for both acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE). These compounds exhibited high activity against both the enzymes AChE as well as BuChE. Of the synthesized compounds, the most potent isoalloxazine derivatives (7m and 7q) showed IC50 values of 4.72 muM and 5.22 muM respectively against AChE; and, 6.98 muM and 5.29 muM respectively against BuChE. These two compounds were further evaluated for their anti-aggregatory activity for beta-amyloid (Abeta) in presence and absence of AChE by performing Thioflavin-T (ThT) assay and Congo red (CR) binding assay. In  order to evaluate cytotoxic profile of these two potential compounds, cell viability assay of SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells was performed. Further, to understand the binding behavior of these two compounds with AChE and BuChE enzymes, docking studies have been reported.
26040959: !Alzheimer Next generation transcriptomics and genomics elucidate biological complexity of microglia in health and disease. Genome-wide expression profiling technology has resulted in detailed transcriptome data for a wide range of tissues, conditions and diseases. In neuroscience, expression datasets were mostly generated using whole brain tissue  samples, resulting in data from a mixture of cell types, including glial cells and neurons. Over the past few years, a rapidly increasing number of expression profiling studies using isolated microglial cell populations have been reported.  In these studies, the microglia transcriptome was compared to other cell types, such as other brain cells and peripheral tissue macrophages, and related to aging and neurodegenerative conditions. A commonality found in many of these studies was that microglia possess distinct gene expression signatures. This repertoire of selectively-expressed microglial genes highlight functions beyond immune responses, such as synaptic modulation and neurotrophic support, and open up avenues to explore as-yet-unexpected roles. These data provide improved understanding of disease pathology, and complement not only the aforementioned whole brain tissue transcriptome studies, but also genome- and epigenome-wide association studies. In this review, insights obtained from isolated microglia transcriptome studies are presented, and compared to studies using other genome-wide approaches. The relation of microglia to other tissue macrophages and glial cell populations, as well as the role of microglia in the aging brain and in neurodegenerative conditions, will be discussed. Many more of these types of studies are expected in the near future, hopefully leading to the identification  of novel genes and targets for neurodegenerative conditions. GLIA 2015.
26040724: !Alzheimer Microparticles Containing Curcumin Solid Dispersion: Stability, Bioavailability and Anti-Inflammatory Activity. spray-dried ternary solid dispersions containing Gelucire(R)50/13-Aerosil(R) and  quantifying the resulting in vivo oral bioavailability and anti-inflammatory activity. The solid dispersion containing 40% of curcumin was characterised by calorimetry, infrared spectroscopy and X-ray powder diffraction. The solubility and dissolution rate of curcumin in aqueous HCl or phosphate buffer improved up to 3600- and 7.3-fold, respectively. Accelerated stability test demonstrated that the solid dispersion was stable for 9 months. The pharmacokinetic study showed a  5.5-fold increase in curcumin in rat blood plasma when compared to unprocessed curcumin. The solid dispersion also provided enhanced anti-inflammatory activity  in rat paw oedema. Finally, the solid dispersion proposed here is a promising way to enhance curcumin bioavailability at an industrial pharmaceutical perspective,  since its preparation applies the spray drying, which is an easy to scale up technique. The findings herein stimulate further in vivo evaluations and clinical tests as a cancer and Alzheimer chemoprevention agent. This work aimed at improving the solubility of curcumin by the preparation of spray-dried ternary solid dispersions containing Gelucire(R)50/13-Aerosil(R) and  quantifying the resulting in vivo oral bioavailability and anti-inflammatory activity. The solid dispersion containing 40% of curcumin was characterised by calorimetry, infrared spectroscopy and X-ray powder diffraction. The solubility and dissolution rate of curcumin in aqueous HCl or phosphate buffer improved up to 3600- and 7.3-fold, respectively. Accelerated stability test demonstrated that the solid dispersion was stable for 9 months. The pharmacokinetic study showed a  5.5-fold increase in curcumin in rat blood plasma when compared to unprocessed curcumin. The solid dispersion also provided enhanced anti-inflammatory activity  in rat paw oedema. Finally, the solid dispersion proposed here is a promising way to enhance curcumin bioavailability at an industrial pharmaceutical perspective,  since its preparation applies the spray drying, which is an easy to scale up technique. The findings herein stimulate further in vivo evaluations and clinical tests as a cancer and Alzheimer chemoprevention agent.
26037109: !Alzheimer Mexico City normal weight children exposed to high concentrations of ambient PM2.5 show high blood leptin and endothelin-1, vitamin D deficiency, and food reward hormone dysregulation versus low pollution controls. Relevance for obesity and Alzheimer disease. Millions of Mexico, US and across the world children are overweight and obese. Exposure to fossil-fuel combustion sources increases the risk for obesity and diabetes, while long-term exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) and ozone (O3) above US EPA standards is associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Mexico City Metropolitan Area children are chronically exposed to PM2.5 and O3 concentrations above the standards and exhibit systemic, brain and intrathecal inflammation, cognitive deficits, and Alzheimer disease neuropathology. We investigated adipokines, food reward hormones, endothelial dysfunction, vitamin D and apolipoprotein E (APOE) relationships in 80 healthy, normal weight 11.1+/-3.2 year olds matched by age, gender, BMI and SES, low (n: 26) versus high (n:54) PM2.5 exposures. Mexico City children had higher leptin and endothelin-1 (p<0.01 and p<0.000), and decreases in glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP 1), ghrelin, and glucagon (<0.02) versus controls. BMI and leptin relationships were significantly different in low versus high PM2.5 exposed children. Mexico City APOE 4 versus 3 children had higher glucose (p=0.009). Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D<30 ng/mL was documented in 87% of Mexico City children. Leptin is strongly positively associated to PM 2.5 cumulative exposures. Residing in a high PM2.5 and O3 environment is associated with 12h fasting hyperleptinemia, altered appetite-regulating peptides, vitamin D deficiency, and  increases in ET-1 in clinically healthy children. These changes could signal the  future trajectory of urban children towards the development of insulin resistance, obesity, type II diabetes, premature cardiovascular disease, addiction-like behavior, cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. Increased  efforts should be made to decrease pediatric PM2.5 exposures, to deliver health interventions prior to the development of obesity and to identify and mitigate environmental factors influencing obesity and Alzheimer disease.
26033527: !Alzheimer Diversified Structural Basis of a Conserved Molecular Mechanism for pH-Dependent  Dimerization in Spider Silk N-Terminal Domains. Conversion of spider silk proteins from soluble dope to insoluble fibers involves pH-dependent dimerization of the N-terminal domain (NT). This conversion is tightly regulated to prevent premature precipitation and enable rapid silk formation at the end of the duct. Three glutamic acid residues that mediate this  process in the NT from Euprosthenops australis major ampullate spidroin 1 are well conserved among spidroins. However, NTs of minor ampullate spidroins from several species, including Araneus ventricosus ((Av)MiSp NT), lack one of the glutamic acids. Here we investigate the pH-dependent structural changes of (Av)MiSp NT, revealing that it uses the same mechanism but involves a non-conserved glutamic acid residue instead. Homology modeling of the structures  of other MiSp NTs suggests that these harbor different compensatory residues. This indicates that, despite sequence variations, the molecular mechanism underlying pH-dependent dimerization of NT is conserved among different silk types.
26027681: !Alzheimer An update on human stem cell-based therapy in Parkinson`s disease. after Alzheimer`s disease and it is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Current pharmacological treatments for PD are only symptomatic and unfortunately there is still no cure for this disorder. Stem cell technology has become an attractive option to investigate and treat PD. Indeed, transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic cells into PD brains have provided proof of concept that cell replacement therapy can be beneficial for some patients, greatly improving their  motor symptoms. However, ethical and practical aspects of tissue availability limit its widespread clinical use. Hence, the need of alternative cell sources based on the use of different types of stem cells. Stem cell-based therapies can  be beneficial by acting through several mechanisms such as cell replacement, trophic actions and modulation of inflammation. Here we review recent and current remarkable clinical studies involving stem cell-based therapy for PD and provide  an overview of the different types of stem cells available nowadays, their main properties and how they are developing as a possible therapy for PD treatment. Parkinson `s disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer`s disease and it is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Current pharmacological treatments for PD are only symptomatic and unfortunately there is still no cure for this disorder. Stem cell technology has become an attractive option to investigate and treat PD. Indeed, transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic cells into PD brains have provided proof of concept that cell replacement therapy can be beneficial for some patients, greatly improving their  motor symptoms. However, ethical and practical aspects of tissue availability limit its widespread clinical use. Hence, the need of alternative cell sources based on the use of different types of stem cells. Stem cell-based therapies can  be beneficial by acting through several mechanisms such as cell replacement, trophic actions and modulation of inflammation. Here we review recent and current remarkable clinical studies involving stem cell-based therapy for PD and provide  an overview of the different types of stem cells available nowadays, their main properties and how they are developing as a possible therapy for PD treatment.
26018232: !Alzheimer An update on human stem cell-based therapy in Parkinson`s disease. after Alzheimer`s disease and it is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Current pharmacological treatments for PD are only symptomatic and unfortunately there is still no cure for this disorder. Stem cell technology has become an attractive option to investigate and treat PD. Indeed, transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic cells into PD brains have provided proof of concept that cell replacement therapy can be beneficial for some patients, greatly improving their  motor symptoms. However, ethical and practical aspects of tissue availability limit its widespread clinical use. Hence, the need of alternative cell sources based on the use of different types of stem cells. Stem cell-based therapies can  be beneficial by acting through several mechanisms such as cell replacement, trophic actions and modulation of inflammation. Here we review recent and current remarkable clinical studies involving stem cell-based therapy for PD and provide  an overview of the different types of stem cells available nowadays, their main properties and how they are developing as a possible therapy for PD treatment. Parkinson `s disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer`s disease and it is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Current pharmacological treatments for PD are only symptomatic and unfortunately there is still no cure for this disorder. Stem cell technology has become an attractive option to investigate and treat PD. Indeed, transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic cells into PD brains have provided proof of concept that cell replacement therapy can be beneficial for some patients, greatly improving their  motor symptoms. However, ethical and practical aspects of tissue availability limit its widespread clinical use. Hence, the need of alternative cell sources based on the use of different types of stem cells. Stem cell-based therapies can  be beneficial by acting through several mechanisms such as cell replacement, trophic actions and modulation of inflammation. Here we review recent and current remarkable clinical studies involving stem cell-based therapy for PD and provide  an overview of the different types of stem cells available nowadays, their main properties and how they are developing as a possible therapy for PD treatment.
26015450: !Alzheimer Long-Term Reduction of High Blood Pressure by Angiotensin II DNA Vaccine in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats. Recent research on vaccination has extended its scope from infectious diseases to chronic diseases, including Alzheimer disease, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. The aim of this study was to design DNA vaccines for high blood pressure and eventually develop human vaccine therapy to treat hypertension. Plasmid vector encoding hepatitis B core-angiotensin II (Ang II) fusion protein was injected into spontaneously hypertensive rats using needleless injection system. Anti-Ang  II antibody was successfully produced in hepatitis B core-Ang II group, and antibody response against Ang II was sustained for at least 6 months. Systolic blood pressure was consistently lower in hepatitis B core-Ang II group after immunization, whereas blood pressure reduction was continued for at least 6 months. Perivascular fibrosis in heart tissue was also significantly decreased in hepatitis B core-Ang II group. Survival rate was significantly improved in hepatitis B core-Ang II group. This study demonstrated that Ang II DNA vaccine to spontaneously hypertensive rats significantly lowered high blood pressure for at  least 6 months. In addition, Ang II DNA vaccines induced an adequate humoral immune response while avoiding the activation of self-reactive T cells, assessed  by ELISPOT assay. Future development of DNA vaccine to treat hypertension may provide a new therapeutic option to treat hypertension.
26013033: !Alzheimer A base-independent repair mechanism for DNA glycosylase--no discrimination within the active site. The ubiquitous occurrence of DNA damages renders its repair machinery a crucial requirement for the genomic stability and the survival of living organisms. Deficiencies in DNA repair can lead to carcinogenesis, Alzheimer, or Diabetes II, where increased amounts of oxidized DNA bases have been found in patients. Despite the highest mutation frequency among oxidized DNA bases, the base-excision repair process of oxidized and ring-opened guanine, FapydG (2,6-diamino-4-hydroxy-5-formamidopyrimidine), remained unclear since it is difficult to study experimentally. We use newly-developed linear-scaling quantum-chemical methods (QM) allowing us to include up to 700 QM-atoms and achieving size convergence. Instead of the widely assumed base-protonated pathway we find a ribose-protonated repair mechanism which explains experimental observations and shows strong evidence for a base-independent repair process. Our results also imply that discrimination must occur during recognition, prior to the binding within the active site.
26010139: !Alzheimer Synthesis and Anticholinergic Activity of 4-hydroxycoumarin Derivatives Containing Substituted Benzyl-1,2,3-triazole Moiety. A series of 4-hydroxycoumarin-derived compounds 8a-p containing N-benzyl-1,2,3-triazole motif were designed as AChE inhibitors. The title compounds were obtained conveniently using multicomponent click reaction. The in  vitro anticholinesterase evaluation of synthesized compounds against AChE and BuChE showed that some of them are potent and selective inhibitors of AChE. Among them, 2-chlorobenzyl derivative 8k showed the most potent activity against AChE (IC50 = 0.18 mum). Its activity was also superior to that of standard drug tacrine. The kinetic study and molecular docking simulation of the most potent compound 8k were also described.
26003528: !Alzheimer Cohesion and the aneuploid phenotype in Alzheimer's disease: A tale of genome instability. Neurons are postmitotic cells that are in permanent cell cycle arrest. However, components of the cell cycle machinery that are expressed in Alzheimer's disease  (AD) neurons are showing features of a cycling cell and those attributed to a postmitotic cell as well. Furthermore, the unique physiological operations taking place in neurons, ascribed to "core cell cycle regulators" are also key regulators in cell division. Functions of these cell cycle regulators include neuronal migration, axonal elongation, axon pruning, dendrite morphogenesis and synaptic maturation and plasticity. In this review, we focus on cohesion and cohesion related proteins in reference to their neuronal functions and how impaired centromere/cohesion dynamics may connect cell cycle dysfunction to aneuploidy in AD.
26003084: !Alzheimer Anti-inflammatory effects of glaucocalyxin B in microglia cells. Over-activated microglia is involved in various kinds of neurodegenerative process including Parkinson, Alzheimer and HIV dementia. Suppression of microglial over activation has emerged as a novel strategy for treatment of neuroinflammation-based neurodegeneration. In the current study, anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects of the ent-kauranoid diterpenoids,  which were isolated from the aerial parts of Rabdosia japonica (Burm. f.) var. glaucocalyx (Maxim.) Hara, were investigated in cultured microglia cells. Glaucocalyxin B (GLB), one of five ent-kauranoid diterpenoids, significantly decreased the generation of nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated microglia cells. In addition, GLB inhibited activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in LPS-activated microglia cells. Furthermore, GLB strongly induced the expression of heme oxygenase (HO)-1 in BV-2 microglia cells. Finally, GLB exhibited neuroprotective effect by preventing over-activated microglia induced neurotoxicity in a microglia/neuron co-culture model. Taken together, the present study demonstrated that the GLB possesses anti-nueroinflammatory activity, and might serve as a potential therapeutic agent for treating neuroinflammatory diseases.
25988171: !Alzheimer Mediation of organismal aging and somatic proteostasis by the germline. Experimental interventions that reduce reproduction cause an extension in lifespan. In invertebrates, such as Caenorhabditis elegans, the aging of the soma is regulated by signals from the germline. Indeed, ablation of germ cells significantly extends lifespan. Notably, germline-deficient animals exhibit heightened resistance to proteotoxic stress. This phenotype correlates with increased potential of intracellular clearance mechanisms such as the proteasome  and autophagy in somatic tissues. Here we review the molecular mechanisms by which signals from the germline regulate lifespan in C. elegans with special emphasis on clearance mechanisms.
25984755: !Alzheimer Pyrimethamine Derivatives: Insight into Binding Mechanism and Improved Enhancement of Mutant beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase Activity. In order to identify structural features of pyrimethamine (5-(4-chlorophenyl)-6-ethylpyrimidine-2,4-diamine) that contribute to its inhibitory activity (IC50 value) and chaperoning efficacy toward beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase, derivatives of the compound were synthesized that differ at the positions bearing the amino, ethyl, and chloro groups. Whereas the  amino groups proved to be critical to its inhibitory activity, a variety of substitutions at the chloro position only increased its IC50 by 2-3-fold. Replacing the ethyl group at the 6-position with butyl or methyl groups increased IC50 more than 10-fold. Surprisingly, despite its higher IC50, a derivative lacking the chlorine atom in the para-position was found to enhance enzyme activity in live patient cells a further 25% at concentrations >100 muM, while showing less toxicity. These findings demonstrate the importance of the phenyl group in modulating the chaperoning efficacy and toxicity profile of the derivatives.
25977458: !Alzheimer Analysis of Five Gene Sets in Chimpanzees Suggests Decoupling between the Action  of Selection on Protein-Coding and on Noncoding Elements. We set out to investigate potential differences and similarities between the selective forces acting upon the coding and noncoding regions of five different sets of genes defined according to functional and evolutionary criteria: 1) two reference gene sets presenting accelerated and slow rates of protein evolution (the Complement and Actin pathways); 2) a set of genes with evidence of accelerated evolution in at least one of their introns; and 3) two gene sets related to neurological function (Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases). To that  effect, we combine human-chimpanzee divergence patterns with polymorphism data obtained from target resequencing 20 central chimpanzees, our closest relatives with largest long-term effective population size. By using the distribution of fitness effect-alpha extension of the McDonald-Kreitman test, we reproduce inferences of rates of evolution previously based only on divergence data on both coding and intronic sequences and also obtain inferences for other classes of genomic elements (untranslated regions, promoters, and conserved noncoding sequences). Our results suggest that 1) the distribution of fitness effect-alpha  method successfully helps distinguishing different scenarios of accelerated divergence (adaptation or relaxed selective constraints) and 2) the adaptive history of coding and noncoding sequences within the gene sets analyzed is decoupled.
25975497: !Alzheimer In vitro cholinesterase inhibitory and antioxidant effect of selected coniferous  tree species. OBJECTIVE: To explore cholinesterase inhibitory and antioxidant effect of six coniferous trees (Abies bornmulleriana, Picea pungens, Juniperus communis, Cedrus libani, Taxus baccata, and Cupressus sempervirens var. horizantalis). METHODS: Acetone (Ace), ethyl acetate (EtOAc), and ethanol (EtOH) extracts prepared from the needles and shoots of the six coniferous trees were screened for their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitory activity  at 100 mug/mL. Antioxidant activity of the extracts was tested using 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and N,N-dimethyl-p-phenylendiamine (DMPD) radical scavenging, metal-chelation capacity, ferric-(FRAP) and phosphomolibdenum-reducing antioxidant power (PRAP) assays. All of the assays were performed in ELISA microplate reader. Total phenol and flavonoid amounts in  the extracts were determined spectrophotometrically. RESULTS: Among thirty-six extracts in total, the shoot-Ace extract of Cupressus sempervirens var. horizantalis exerted the highest inhibition against AChE [(54.84+/-2.51)%], while the needle-Ace extract of Cedrus libani was the most effective in inhibiting BChE [(67.54+/-0.30)%]. The highest DPPH radical scavenging effect, FRAP and PRAP was  observed in the shoot-Ace and EtOAc extracts from Taxus baccata, whereas all the  extracts showed a variable degree of scavenging effect against DPMD radical. The  shoot-EtOAc extract of Cedrus libani had the highest metal-chelation capacity [(58.04+/-0.70)%]. The shoot extracts of Taxus baccata were determined to have the richest total phenol content, which may contribute to its marked antioxidant  activity. CONCLUSIONS: The conifer species screened in this study may contain cholinesterase-inhibiting and antioxidant properties, which might be useful against Alzheimer's disease.
25971966: !Alzheimer Interaction of alpha-Lipoic Acid with the Human Na+/Multivitamin Transporter (hSMVT). The human Na(+)/multivitamin transporter (hSMVT) has been suggested to transport  alpha-lipoic acid (LA), a potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent used in  therapeutic applications, e.g. in the treatment of diabetic neuropathy and Alzheimer disease. However, the molecular basis of the cellular delivery of LA and in particular the stereospecificity of the transport process are not well understood. Here, we expressed recombinant hSMVT in Pichia pastoris and used affinity chromatography to purify the detergent-solubilized protein followed by reconstitution of hSMVT in lipid bilayers. Using a combined approach encompassing radiolabeled LA transport and equilibrium binding studies in conjunction with the stabilized R-(+)- and S-(-)-enantiomers and the R,S-(+/-) racemic mixture of LA or lipoamide, we identified the biologically active form of LA, R-LA, to be the physiological substrate of hSMVT. Interaction of R-LA with hSMVT is strictly dependent on Na(+). Under equilibrium conditions, hSMVT can simultaneously bind ~2 molecules of R-LA in a biphasic binding isotherm with dissociation constants (Kd) of 0.9 and 7.4 mum. Transport of R-LA in the oocyte and reconstituted system is exclusively dependent on Na(+) and exhibits an affinity of ~3 mum. Measuring transport with known amounts of protein in proteoliposomes containing hSMVT in outside-out orientation yielded a catalytic turnover number (kcat) of about 1 s(-1), a value that is well in agreement with other Na(+)-coupled transporters. Our data suggest that hSMVT-mediated transport is highly specific for R-LA at our tested concentration range, a finding with wide ramifications for the use of LA in therapeutic applications.
25969170: !Alzheimer Design, synthesis and anticholinesterase activity of novel benzylidenechroman-4-ones bearing cyclic amine side chain. A series of 3-(4-(aminoalkoxy)benzylidene)-chroman-4-ones 7a-r were designed and  synthesized as analogs of homoisoflavonoids which are well known natural products with diverse pharmacological properties related to Alzheimer's disease. The in vitro anti-cholinesterase activity of designed compounds 7a-r against AChE and BuChE, revealed that compounds bearing piperidinylethoxy residue showed potent activity against AChE at sub-micromolar level (IC50 values = 0.122-0.207 muM), more potent than reference drug tacrine. The structure-activity relationships study of piperidinylethoxy series demonstrated that the selectivity and physicochemical properties of compounds could be optimized by selection of a proper substituent on the C-7 position of chroman ring, while the high potency of the molecule against AChE was reserved.
25961058: !Alzheimer Immunomodulatory effects mediated by serotonin. Serotonin (5-HT) induces concentration-dependent metabolic effects in diverse cell types, including neurons, entherochromaffin cells, adipocytes, pancreatic beta-cells, fibroblasts, smooth muscle cells, epithelial cells, and leukocytes. Three classes of genes regulating 5-HT function are constitutively expressed or induced in these cells: (a) membrane proteins that regulate the response to 5-HT, such as SERT, 5HTR-GPCR, and the 5HT3-ion channels; (b) downstream signaling transduction proteins; and (c) enzymes controlling 5-HT metabolism, such as IDO and MAO, which can generate biologically active catabolites, including melatonin, kynurenines, and kynurenamines. This review covers the clinical and experimental  mechanisms involved in 5-HT-induced immunomodulation. These mechanisms are cell-specific and depend on the expression of serotonergic components in immune cells. Consequently, 5-HT can modulate several immunological events, such as chemotaxis, leukocyte activation, proliferation, cytokine secretion, anergy, and  apoptosis. The effects of 5-HT on immune cells may be relevant in the clinical outcome of pathologies with an inflammatory component. Major depression, fibromyalgia, Alzheimer disease, psoriasis, arthritis, allergies, and asthma are  all associated with changes in the serotonergic system associated with leukocytes. Thus, pharmacological regulation of the serotonergic system may modulate immune function and provide therapeutic alternatives for these diseases.
25957402: !Alzheimer DAP12 Stabilizes the C-terminal Fragment of the Triggering Receptor Expressed on  Myeloid Cells-2 (TREM2) and Protects against LPS-induced Pro-inflammatory Response. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a DAP12-associated receptor expressed in microglia, macrophages, and other myeloid-derived cells. Previous studies have suggested that TREM2/DAP12 signaling pathway reduces inflammatory responses and promotes phagocytosis of apoptotic neurons. Recently,  TREM2 has been identified as a risk gene for Alzheimer disease (AD). Here, we show that DAP12 stabilizes the C-terminal fragment of TREM2 (TREM2-CTF), a substrate for gamma-secretase. Co-expression of DAP12 with TREM2 selectively increased the level of TREM2-CTF with little effects on that of full-length TREM2. The interaction between DAP12 and TREM2 is essential for TREM2-CTF stabilization as a mutant form of DAP12 with disrupted interaction with TREM2 failed to exhibit such an effect. Silencing of either Trem2 or Dap12 gene significantly exacerbated pro-inflammatory responses induced by lipopolysaccharides (LPS). Importantly, overexpression of either full-length TREM2 or TREM2-CTF reduced LPS-induced inflammatory responses. Taken together, our results support a role of DAP12 in stabilizing TREM2-CTF, thereby protecting  against excessive pro-inflammatory responses.
25930988: !Alzheimer Proteomic analysis of host brain components that bind to infectious particles in  Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Transmissible encephalopathies (TSEs), such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and scrapie, are caused by infectious agents that provoke strain-specific patterns of disease. Misfolded host prion protein (PrP-res amyloid) is believed to be the causal infectious agent. However, particles that are stripped of PrP retain both high infectivity and viral proteins not detectable in uninfected mouse controls. We here detail host proteins bound with FU-CJD agent infectious brain particles by proteomic analysis. More than 98 proteins were differentially  regulated, and 56 FU-CJD exclusive proteins were revealed after PrP, GFAP, C1q, ApoE, and other late pathologic response proteins were removed. Stripped FU-CJD particles revealed HSC70 (144x the uninfected control), cyclophilin B, an FU-CJD  exclusive protein required by many viruses, and early endosome-membrane pathways  known to facilitate viral processing, replication, and spread. Synaptosomal elements including synapsin-2 (at 33x) and AP180 (a major FU-CJD exclusive protein) paralleled the known ultrastructural location of 25 nm virus-like TSE particles and infectivity in synapses. Proteins without apparent viral or neurodegenerative links (copine-3), and others involved in viral-induced protein  misfolding and aggregation, were also identified. Human sCJD brain particles contained 146 exclusive proteins, and heat shock, synaptic, and viral pathways were again prominent, in addition to Alzheimer, Parkinson, and Huntington aggregation proteins. Host proteins that bind TSE infectious particles can prevent host immune recognition and contribute to prolonged cross-species transmissions (the species barrier). Our infectious particle strategy, which reduces background sequences by >99%, emphasizes host targets for new therapeutic initiatives. Such therapies can simultaneously subvert common pathways of neurodegeneration.
25930681: !Alzheimer Astrocyte physiopathology: At the crossroads of intercellular networking, inflammation and cell death. Recent breakthroughs in neuroscience have led to the awareness that we should revise our traditional mode of thinking and studying the CNS, i.e. by isolating the privileged network of "intelligent" synaptic contacts. We may instead need to contemplate all the variegate communications occurring between the different neural cell types, and centrally involving the astrocytes. Basically, it appears  that a single astrocyte should be considered as a core that receives and integrates information from thousands of synapses, other glial cells and the blood vessels. In turn, it generates complex outputs that control the neural circuitry and coordinate it with the local microcirculation. Astrocytes thus emerge as the possible fulcrum of the functional homeostasis of the healthy CNS.  Yet, evidence indicates that the bridging properties of the astrocytes can change in parallel with, or as a result of, the morphological, biochemical and functional alterations these cells undergo upon injury or disease. As a consequence, they have the potential to transform from supportive friends and interactive partners for neurons into noxious foes. In this review, we summarize  the currently available knowledge on the contribution of astrocytes to the functioning of the CNS and what goes wrong in various pathological conditions, with a particular focus on Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Alzheimer's Disease and ischemia. The observations described convincingly demonstrate that the development and progression of several neurological disorders involve the de-regulation of a finely tuned interplay between multiple cell populations. Thus, it seems that a better understanding of the mechanisms governing the integrated communication and detrimental responses of the astrocytes as well as their impact towards the homeostasis and performance of the CNS is fundamental to open novel therapeutic perspectives.
25926691: !Alzheimer Physiological and Pathophysiological roles for Phospholipase D. Individual members of the mammalian Phospholipase D (PLD) superfamily undertake roles that extend from generating the second messenger signaling lipid phosphatidic acid through hydrolysis of the membrane phospholipid phosphatidylcholine, to functioning as an endonuclease to generate small RNAs and facilitating membrane vesicle trafficking through seemingly non-enzymatic mechanisms. With recent advances in genome-wide association studies, RNAi screens, next-generation sequencing approaches, and phenotypic analyses of knockout mice, roles for PLD family members are being uncovered in autoimmune, infectious neurodegenerative, and cardiovascular disease, as well as in cancer. Some of these disease settings pose opportunities for small molecule inhibitory therapeutics, which are currently in development.
25923962: !Alzheimer Neuroprotective effects of fermented soybean products (Cheonggukjang) manufactured by mixed culture of Bacillus subtilis MC31 and Lactobacillus sakei 383 on trimethyltin-induced cognitive defects mice. Cheonggukjang (CGK) manufactured by mixed culture of Bacillus subtilis MC31 and Lactobacillus sakei 383 on neurotoxic damages. Methods The specific aspects of brain functions were measured in ICR mice that had been pretreated for 4 weeks with three difference doses of CGK before trimethyltin (TMT) treatment. Results The short- and long-term memory loss induced by TMT treatment was significantly improved in the CGK-pretreated group in a dose-dependent manner. The number of dead cells in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus was decreased in the TMT/CGK-cotreated group relative to the TMT/vehicle-treated group, whereas significant suppression of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was observed in the same group. Additionally, a dose-dependent increase in nerve growth factor (NGF) concentration, activation of the NGF receptor signaling pathway including the TrkA high affinity receptor and p75NTR low affinity receptor, and decline in  Bax/Bcl-2 level was measured in all TMT/CGK-treated groups, although a decrease in the active form of caspase-3 was observed in the TMT/H-CGK-treated group. Furthermore, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was enhanced in the TMT/CGK-treated group, whereas the level of malondialdehyde (MDA), a marker of lipid peroxidation, was 43-58% lower in the TMT/CGK-treated group than the TMT/vehicle-treated group. Discussion These results demonstrate that CGK fermented by mixed culture of B. subtilis and L. sakei could exert a wide range of beneficial activities for neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer, Parkinson, and Huntington disease. Objectives This study aimed to investigate the beneficial effects of Cheonggukjang (CGK) manufactured by mixed culture of Bacillus subtilis MC31 and Lactobacillus sakei 383 on neurotoxic damages. Methods The specific aspects of brain functions were measured in ICR mice that had been pretreated for 4 weeks with three difference doses of CGK before trimethyltin (TMT) treatment. Results The short- and long-term memory loss induced by TMT treatment was significantly improved in the CGK-pretreated group in a dose-dependent manner. The number of dead cells in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus was decreased in the TMT/CGK-cotreated group relative to the TMT/vehicle-treated group, whereas significant suppression of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was observed in the same group. Additionally, a dose-dependent increase in nerve growth factor (NGF) concentration, activation of the NGF receptor signaling pathway including the TrkA high affinity receptor and p75NTR low affinity receptor, and decline in  Bax/Bcl-2 level was measured in all TMT/CGK-treated groups, although a decrease in the active form of caspase-3 was observed in the TMT/H-CGK-treated group. Furthermore, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was enhanced in the TMT/CGK-treated group, whereas the level of malondialdehyde (MDA), a marker of lipid peroxidation, was 43-58% lower in the TMT/CGK-treated group than the TMT/vehicle-treated group. Discussion These results demonstrate that CGK fermented by mixed culture of B. subtilis and L. sakei could exert a wide range of beneficial activities for neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer, Parkinson, and Huntington disease.
25915614: !Alzheimer Heterocyclic Curcumin Derivatives of Pharmacological Interest: Recent Progress. Curcumin, a natural yellow polyphenol, is isolated from the herb Curcuma longa L. (turmeric), a member of the ginger family. It has been extensively studied due to their multiple pharmacological properties. Nevertheless, curcumin has disadvantages such as poor water solubility, poor bioavailability and rapid metabolism, which has prompted the search for analogues that overcome these shortcomings while maintaining or improving their good pharmacological properties. Among the main curcumin analogues that have been developed, the heterocyclic curcuminoids show a high interest. In this review, we describe recent progress in the synthesis and pharmacological properties of new heterocyclic curcumin derivatives. The most recent developments in anti-cancer, anti-Alzheimer, anti-bacterial and anti-oxidants heterocyclic curcumin derivatives are covered.
25915600: !Alzheimer Understanding multicellular function and disease with human tissue-specific networks. Tissue and cell-type identity lie at the core of human physiology and disease. Understanding the genetic underpinnings of complex tissues and individual cell lineages is crucial for developing improved diagnostics and therapeutics. We present genome-wide functional interaction networks for 144 human tissues and cell types developed using a data-driven Bayesian methodology that integrates thousands of diverse experiments spanning tissue and disease states. Tissue-specific networks predict lineage-specific responses to perturbation, identify the changing functional roles of genes across tissues and illuminate relationships among diseases. We introduce NetWAS, which combines genes with nominally significant genome-wide association study (GWAS) P values and tissue-specific networks to identify disease-gene associations more accurately than GWAS alone. Our webserver, GIANT, provides an interface to human tissue networks through multi-gene queries, network visualization, analysis tools including NetWAS and downloadable networks. GIANT enables systematic exploration  of the landscape of interacting genes that shape specialized cellular functions across more than a hundred human tissues and cell types.
25913570: !Alzheimer Conjugated linoleic acid-enriched butter improved memory and up-regulated phospholipase A2 encoding-genes in rat brain tissue. Reduced phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activity has been reported in blood cells and in  postmortem brains of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), and there is evidence  that conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) modulates the activity of PLA2 groups in non-brain tissues. As CLA isomers were shown to be actively incorporated and metabolized in the brains of rats, we hypothesized that feeding a diet naturally  enriched in CLA would affect the activity and expression of Pla 2 -encoding genes in rat brain tissue, with possible implications for memory. To test this hypothesis, Wistar rats were trained for the inhibitory avoidance task and fed a  commercial diet (control) or experimental diets containing either low CLA- or CLA-enriched butter for 4 weeks. After this period, the rats were tested for memory retrieval and killed for tissue collection. Hippocampal expression of 19 Pla 2 genes was evaluated by qPCR, and activities of PLA2 groups (cPLA2, iPLA2, and sPLA2) were determined by radioenzymatic assay. Rats fed the high CLA diet had increased hippocampal mRNA levels for specific PLA2 isoforms (iPla 2 g6gamma; cPla 2 g4a, sPla 2 g3, sPla 2 g1b, and sPla 2 g12a) and higher enzymatic activity of all PLA2 groups as compared to those fed the control and the low CLA diet. The increment in PLA2 activities correlated significantly with memory enhancement, as assessed by increased latency in the step-down inhibitory avoidance task after 4  weeks of treatment (r s = 0.69 for iPLA2, P < 0.001; r s = 0.81 for cPLA2, P < 0.001; and r s = 0.69 for sPLA2, P < 0.001). In face of the previous reports showing reduced PLA2 activity in AD brains, the present findings suggest that dairy products enriched in cis-9, trans-11 CLA may be useful in the treatment of  this disease.
25904163: !Alzheimer Prohibitin 2: At a communications crossroads. Prohibitins (PHBs) are a highly conserved class of proteins first discovered as inhibitors of cellular proliferation. Since then PHBs have been found to have a significant role in transcription, nuclear signaling, mitochondrial structural integrity, cell division, and cellular membrane metabolism, placing these proteins among the key regulators of pathologies such as cancer, neuromuscular degeneration, and other metabolic diseases. The human genome encodes two PHB proteins, prohibitin 1 (PHB1) and prohibitin 2 (PHB2), which function not only as a heterodimeric complex, but also independently. While many previous reviews have focused on the better characterized prohibitin, PHB1, this review focuses on PHB2 and new data concerning its cellular functions both in complex with PHB1 and independent of PHB1.
25898314: !Alzheimer A rapid and sensitive HPLC-MS/MS method for determination of an aminopyridazine derived anti-neuroinflammatory agent (ZW14) in dog plasma: Application to a pharmacokinetic study. The unclear etiology of Alzheimer's disease leaves a large space for drug exploration. A novel anti-neuroinflammation agent (ZW14) was previously determined to have comparable efficacy to the marketed drug (donepezil) in the Abeta-induced model mice. Herein, a sensitive and rapid HPLC-MS/MS quantitative method was developed and validated for the further evaluation of ZW14 in dogs. Plasma samples were processed by liquid-liquid extraction with ethyl acetate and  separated on Luna C18 column (2.1 mm x 50 mm, 1.7 mum) at room temperature with a flow rate of 0.2 mL/min. The analyte and IS were all detected by monitoring the precursor --> product ion transition at unit resolution using multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) scan mode with positive ionization mode. No endogenous interference was observed and the linear range was 0.05-1500 ng/mL with the lower limit of quantification of 0.05 ng/mL. The intra- and inter-day precisions were within 10.9%, while the accuracy was all between 96.0% and 110%. The developed method was successfully applied to the pharmacokinetic study of ZW14 in beagle dogs after oral and intravenous administration of 2 mg/kg. The oral bioavailability of ZW14 was 26.3% with half-life of 2.6h.
25889712: !Alzheimer Anticholinesterase and antioxidant investigations of crude extracts, subsequent fractions, saponins and flavonoids of atriplex laciniata L.: potential effectiveness in Alzheimer's and other neurological disorders. BACKGROUND: Atriplex laciniata L. was investigated for phenolic, flavonoid contents, antioxidant, anticholinesterase activities, in an attempt to explore its effectiveness in Alzheimer's and other neurological disorders. Plant crude methanolic extract (Al.MeF), subsequent fractions; n-hexane (Al.HxF), chloroform  (Al.CfF), ethyl acetate (Al.EaF), aqueous (Al.WtF), Saponins (Al.SPF) and Flavonoids (Al.FLVF) were investigated for DPPH, ABTS and H2O2 free radical scavenging activities. Further these extracts were subjected to acetylcholinesterase (AChE) & butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitory activities  using Ellman's assay. Phenolic and Flavonoid contents were determined and expressed in mg Gallic acid GAE/g and Rutin RTE/g of samples respectively. RESULTS: In DPPH free radicals scavenging assay, Al.FLVF, Al.SPF and Al.MeF showed highest activity causing 89.41 +/- 0.55, 83.37 +/- 0.34 and 83.37 +/- 0.34% inhibition of free radicals respectively at 1 mg/mL concentration. IC50 for these fractions were 33, 83 and 82 mug/mL respectively. Similarly, plant extracts showed high ABTS scavenging potential, i.e. Al.FLVF (90.34 +/- 0.55), Al.CfF (83.42 +/- 0.57), Al.MeF (81.49 +/- 0.60) with IC50 of 30, 190 and 70 mug/ml respectively. further, H2O2 percent scavenging was highly appraised in Al.FLVF (91.29 +/- 0.53, IC50 75), Al.SPF (85.35 +/- 0.61, IC50 70) and Al.EaF (83.48 +/- 0.67, IC50 270 mug/mL). All fractions exhibited concentration dependent AChE inhibitory activity as; Al.FLVF, 88.31 +/- 0.57 (IC50 70 mug/mL), Al.SPF, 84.36 +/- 0.64 (IC50 90 mug/mL), Al.MeF, 78.65 +/- 0.70 (IC50 280 mug/mL), Al.EaF, 77.45 +/- 0.46 (IC50 270 mug/mL) and Al.WtF 72.44 +/- 0.58 (IC50 263 mug/mL) at 1 mg/mL. Likewise the percent BChE inhibitory activity was most obvious in Al.FLVF  85.46 +/- 0.62 (IC50 100 mug/mL), Al.CfF 83.49 +/- 0.46 (IC50 160 mug/mL), Al.MeF 82.68 +/- 0.60 (IC50 220 mug/mL) and Al.SPF 80.37 +/- 0.54 (IC50 120 mug/mL). CONCLUSIONS: These results stipulate that A. laciniata is enriched with phenolic  and flavonoid contents that possess significant antioxidant and anticholinestrase effects. This provide pharmacological basis for the presence of compounds that may be effective in Alzheimer's and other neurological disorders.
25885958: !Alzheimer Toward spinning artificial spider silk. Spider silk is strong and extensible but still biodegradable and well tolerated when implanted, making it the ultimate biomaterial. Shortcomings that arise in replicating spider silk are due to the use of recombinant spider silk proteins (spidroins) that lack native domains, the use of denaturing conditions under purification and spinning and the fact that the understanding of how spiders control silk formation is incomplete. Recent progress has unraveled the molecular mechanisms of the spidroin N- and C-terminal nonrepetitive domains (NTs and CTs)  and revealed the pH and ion gradients in spiders' silk glands, clarifying how spidroin solubility is maintained and how silk is formed in a fraction of a second. Protons and CO2, generated by carbonic anhydrase, affect the stability and structures of the NT and CT in different ways. These insights should allow the design of conditions and devices for the spinning of recombinant spidroins into native-like silk.
25870785: !Alzheimer Mining disease genes using integrated protein-protein interaction and gene-gene co-regulation information. In humans, despite the rapid increase in disease-associated gene discovery, a large proportion of disease-associated genes are still unknown. Many network-based approaches have been used to prioritize disease genes. Many networks, such as the protein-protein interaction (PPI), KEGG, and gene co-expression networks, have been used. Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) have been successfully applied for the determination of genes associated  with several diseases. In this study, we constructed an eQTL-based gene-gene co-regulation network (GGCRN) and used it to mine for disease genes. We adopted the random walk with restart (RWR) algorithm to mine for genes associated with Alzheimer disease. Compared to the Human Protein Reference Database (HPRD) PPI network alone, the integrated HPRD PPI and GGCRN networks provided faster convergence and revealed new disease-related genes. Therefore, using the RWR algorithm for integrated PPI and GGCRN is an effective method for disease-associated gene mining.
25857346: !Alzheimer Antioxidant and anticholinesterase investigations of Rumex hastatus D. Don: potential effectiveness in oxidative stress and neurological disorders. BACKGROUND: Rumex species are traditionally used for the treatment of neurological disorders including headache, migraine, depression, paralysis etc. Several species have been scientifically validated for antioxidant and anticholinestrase potentials. This study aims to investigate Rumex hastatus D. Don crude methanolic extract, subsequent fractions, saponins and flavonoids for acetylcholinestrase, butyrylcholinestrase inhibition and diverse antioxidant activities to validate its folkloric uses in neurological disorders. Rumex hastatus crude methanolic extract (Rh. Cr), subsequent fractions; n-hexane (Rh. Hex), chloroform (Rh. Chf), ethyl acetate (Rh. EtAc), aqueous fraction (Rh. Aq),  crude saponins (Rh. Sp) and flavonoids (Rh. Fl) were investigated against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) at various concentrations (125, 250, 500, 1000 mug/mL) using Ellman's spectrophotometric analysis. Antioxidant potentials of Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl were evaluated using DPPH,  H2O2 and ABTS free radical scavenging assays at 62.5, 125, 250, 500, 1000 mug/mL. RESULTS: All the test samples showed concentration dependent cholinesterase inhibition and radicals scavenging activity. The AChE inhibition potential of Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl were most prominent i.e., 81.67 +/- 0.88 and 91.62 +/- 1.67 at highest concentration with IC50 135 and 20 mug/mL respectively. All the subsequent fractions exhibited moderate to high AChE inhibition i.e., Rh. Cr, Rh. Hex, Rh. Chf, Rh. EtAc and Rh. Aq showed IC50 218, 1420, 75, 115 and 1210 mug/mL  respectively. Similarly, against BChE various plant extracts i.e., Rh. Sp, Rh. Fl, Rh. Cr, Rh. Hex, Rh. Chf, Rh. EtAc and Rh. Aq resulted IC50 165, 175, 265, 890, 92, 115 and 220 mug/mL respectively. In DPPH free radical scavenging assay,  Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl showed comparable results with the positive control i.e., 63.34 +/- 0.98 and 76.93 +/- 1.13% scavenging at 1 mg/mL concentration (IC50 312 and 104 mug/mL) respectively. The percent ABTS radical scavenging potential exhibited by Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl (1000 mug/mL) were 82.58 +/- 0.52 and 88.25 +/- 0.67 with IC50 18 and 9 mug/mL respectively. Similarly in H2O2 scavenging assay, the Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl exhibited IC50 175 and 275 mug/mL respectively. CONCLUSION: The strong anticholinesterase and antioxidant activities of Rh. Sp, Rh. Fl and various fractions of R. hastatus support the purported ethnomedicinal uses and recommend  R. hastatus as a possible remedy for the treatment of AD and neurodegenerative disorders.
25850380: !Alzheimer Interaction between anti-Alzheimer and antipsychotic drugs in modulating extrapyramidal motor disorders in mice. Antipsychotics are often used in conjunction with anti-Alzheimer drugs to treat the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD). Here, we examined the effects of cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs), donepezil and galantamine, on antipsychotic-induced extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) in mice. The effects of serotonergic agents on the EPS drug interaction were also evaluated. Donepezil (0.3-3 mg/kg) did not induce EPS signs by itself; however, it significantly potentiated bradykinesia induction with a low dose of haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) in  dose-dependent and synergistic manners. Galantamine (0.3-3 mg/kg) elicited mild bradykinesia at a high dose and dose-dependently augmented haloperidol-induced bradykinesia. The EPS potentiation by galantamine was blocked by trihexyphenidyl  (a muscarinic antagonist), but not by mecamylamine (a nicotinic antagonist). In addition, the bradykinesia potentiation by galantamine was significantly reduced  by (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (a 5-HT1A agonist), ritanserin (a 5-HT2 antagonist), and SB-258585 (a 5-HT6 antagonist). The present results give us a caution for the antipsychotics and ChEIs interaction in inducing EPS in the treatment of BPSD. In addition, second generation antipsychotics, which can stimulate 5-HT1A receptors or antagonize 5-HT2 and 5-HT6 receptors, seem to be favorable as an adjunctive therapy for BPSD.
25845859: !Alzheimer Characterization of multiple constituents in Kai-Xin-San prescription and rat plasma after oral administration by liquid chromatography with quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry. A sensitive and reliable ultra high performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole-time-of-flight mass spectrometry method was established to separate and identify the chemical constituents of Kai-Xin-San prescription, a classic traditional Chinese medicine formula that plays an important role in the  treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The detection was performed on an Agilent 6520  Accurate-Mass quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer equipped with an electrospray ionization source in negative modes. With the optimized conditions,  a total of 54 compounds were identified or tentatively characterized. Out of the  54 compounds, six compounds were identified by comparing the retention time and mass spectrometry data with reference standards, the rest were characterized by analyzing mass spectrometry data and retrieving the literature data. Results indicated ginsenosides, polygala saponins, terpenoids, and oligosaccharide esters were the major effective constituents in Kai-Xin-San prescription. There were 26  prototype ingredients that were assigned for identification in rat plasma. It is  also concluded that the developed ultra high performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole-time-of-flight mass spectrometry method with high sensitivity and resolution is suitable for identifying and characterizing the chemical constituents of Kai-Xin-San prescription, and the analysis provides a helpful chemical basis for further research on Kai-Xin-San prescription and the clinical diagnostics of Alzheimer's disease.
25831610: !Alzheimer [What is new in 2014 for the specialist in hospital internal medicine? The point  of view of university hospital chief residents]. The year 2014 was rich in significant advances in all areas of internal medicine. Many of them have an impact on our daily practice and on the way we manage one problem or another. From the use of the ultrasound for the diagnosis of pneumonia to the choice of the site of venous access and the type of line, and the increasing complexity of choosing an oral anticoagulant agent, this selection offers to the readers a brief overview of the major advances. The chief residents in the Service of internal medicine of the Lausanne University hospital are pleased to share their readings.
25831608: !Alzheimer [2014 update in general internal medicine]. This article comments 9 original publications from year 2014 of interest for the  primary care physician in the outpatient setting. The impact of diet such as nut  consumption on health outcomes and mortality is developped, and the importance of dietary changes while taking statins is reminded. Red flags in low back pain and  their predictive value are re-evaluated. An association between benzodiazepine use and Alzheimer dementia seems probable. New treatments for alcohol abuse, restless legs syndrome and type 2 diabetes are discussed. Finally, beta-bloquers' effects on respiratory function in asthmatic patients are beeing reexamined.
25829266: !Alzheimer The European Medicines Agency's strategies to meet the challenges of Alzheimer disease. Regulatory agencies have a key role in facilitating the development of new drugs  for Alzheimer disease, particularly given the challenges associated with early intervention. Here, we highlight the strategies of the European Medicines Agency  to help address such challenges.
25820388: !Alzheimer 9H-Carbazole Derivatives Containing the N-Benzyl-1,2,3-triazole Moiety as New Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors. A series of triazole-containing carbazole derivatives were designed as new anti-acetylcholinesterase (AChE) agents. The target compounds 6a-q were simply prepared via a one-pot three-component click reaction of N-propargyl-9H-carbazole, sodium azide, and an appropriate benzyl halide. The in  vitro anti-cholinesterase assay showed that the unsubstituted benzyl derivative 6p along with the 2-F, 2-Me, 3-Me, 3-MeO, and 3-F analogs (6a, 6c, and 6g-i) had  significant anti-AChE activity (IC50s </= 3.8 muM). Among them, the 2-methylbenzyl derivative 6c with an IC50 value of 1.9 muM was the most active compound. The SAR studies revealed that small halogen atoms such as the fluorine  atom or electron-donating groups such as methyl or methoxy at the ortho or meta positions of the benzyl pendent group could be tolerated or improved the anti-AChE activity.
25812965: !Alzheimer Multi-target tacrine-coumarin hybrids: Cholinesterase and monoamine oxidase B inhibition properties against Alzheimer's disease. A series of novel tacrine-coumarin hybrids were designed, synthesized and evaluated as multi-target agents against Alzheimer's disease. The biological assays indicated that most of compounds displayed potent inhibitory activity toward AChE and BuChE, and clearly selective inhibition for MAO-B. Among these compounds, 14c exhibited strong inhibitory activity for AChE (IC50 values of 33.63 nM for eeAChE and 16.11 nM for hAChE) and BuChE (IC50 values of 80.72 nM for eqBuChE and 112.72 nM for hBuChE), and the highest inhibitory activity against hMAO-B (IC50 value of 0.24 muM). Kinetic and molecular modeling studies revealed that 14c was a mixed-type inhibitor, binding simultaneously to catalytic, peripheral and mid-gorge sites of AChE. It was also a competitive inhibitor, which covered the substrate and entrance cavities of MAO-B. Moreover,  14c could penetrate the CNS and show low cell toxicity. Overall, these results suggested that 14c might be an excellent multi-target agent for AD treatment.
25801452: !Alzheimer Interaction of metal ions with the His13-His14 sequence relevant to Alzheimer's disease. The interaction of a series of metal ions (i.e., groups 1 and 2, first-row transition metals, and groups 11-14) with the His13-His14 sequence relevant to Alzheimer's disease has been studied using quantum chemical calculations. Metal ions prefer to occupy three coordination sites at two Ndelta of the imidazole rings and one carbonyl oxygen. Simulated IR spectra reveal that vibrational frequency of C-O stretch affords a sensitive probe for understanding the interaction of His13-His14 with metal ions. The relative strength of the interaction of His13-His14 with the representative metal ions follows the order of K(+) < Ca(2+) < Zn(2+) < Cu(2+) < Fe(3+) < Al(3+), which is closely correlated with the available experimental results, providing a vivid physical picture about how metal ions bind to amyloid beta-peptide. IR spectra of the [M.(His13-His14)](n+) complexes could be measured by infrared photodissociation spectroscopic technique and thus afford useful information for the understanding  of structure-function relationship and the design of suitable drugs.
25776008: !Alzheimer Coriander (Coriandrum sativum L.) and its bioactive constituents. Coriander (Coriandrum sativum L.), a member of the Apiaceae family, is among most widely used medicinal plant, possessing nutritional as well as medicinal properties. Thus, the aim of this updated review is to highlight the importance of coriander as a potential source of bioactive constituents and to summarize their biological activities as well as their different applications from data obtained in recent literature, with critical analysis on the gaps and potential for future investigations. A literature review was carried out by searching on the electronic databases including PubMed, Scopus, ScienceDirect, and Google Scholar for studies focusing on the biological and pharmacological activities of  coriander seed and herb bioactive constituents. All recent English-language articles published between 2000 and 2014 were searched using the terms 'C. sativum', 'medicinal plant', 'bioactive constituents', and 'biological activities'. Subsequently, coriander seed and herb essential oils have been actively investigated for their chemical composition and biological activities including antimicrobial, antioxidant, hypoglycemic, hypolipidemic, anxiolytic, analgesic, anti-inflammatory, anti-convulsant and anti-cancer activities, among others. Although coriander has been reported to possess a wide range of traditional medicinal uses, no report is available in its effectiveness use in reactive airway diseases such as asthma and bronchiolitis. In brief, the information presented herein will be helpful to create more interest towards this medicinal species by defining novel pharmacological and clinical applications and hence, may be useful in developing new drug formulations in the future or by employing coriander bioactive constituents in combination with conventional drugs to enhance the treatment of diseases such as Alzheimer and cancer.
25767272: !Alzheimer Deletion of Myeloid GSK3alpha Attenuates Atherosclerosis and Promotes an M2 Macrophage Phenotype. OBJECTIVE: Glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3alpha/beta has been implicated in the  pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus, cancer, Alzheimer, and atherosclerosis. The tissue- and homolog-specific functions of GSK3alpha and beta in atherosclerosis are unknown. This study examines the effect of hepatocyte or myeloid cell deletion of GSK3alpha or GSK3beta on atherosclerosis in low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)(-/-) mice. APPROACH AND RESULTS: We ablated GSK3alpha or GSK3beta expression in hepatic or myeloid cells of LDLR(-/-) mice, and mice were fed a high-fat diet for 10 weeks. GSK3alpha or GSK3beta deficiency in hepatic or myeloid cells did not affect metabolic parameters, including plasma lipid levels. Hepatic deletion of GSK3alpha or GSK3beta did not affect the development of atherosclerosis or hepatic lipid content. Myeloid deletion of GSK3alpha, but not  of GSK3beta, reduced atherosclerotic lesion volume and lesion complexity. Mice lacking GSK3alpha in myeloid cells had a less inflammatory and more anti-inflammatory plasma cytokine profile. Macrophages within atherosclerotic lesions of myeloid GSK3alpha-deficient mice, but not of GSK3beta-deficient mice,  displayed reduced expression of markers associated with M1 macrophage polarization and enhanced expression of the M2 markers. Finally, bone marrow-derived macrophages were isolated and differentiated into classical M1 macrophages or alternative M2 macrophages in vitro. GSK3alpha deletion, but not GSK3beta deletion, attenuated the expression of genes associated with M1 polarization while promoting the expression of genes associated with M2 polarization by modulating STAT3 and STAT6 activation. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings  suggest that deletion of myeloid GSK3alpha attenuates the progression of atherosclerosis by promoting an M2 macrophage phenotype.
25764435: !Alzheimer Galanthamine, an anti-cholinesterase drug, effects plant growth and development in Artemisia tridentata Nutt. via modulation of auxin and neurotransmitter signaling. Galanthamine is a naturally occurring acetylcholinesterase (AchE) inhibitor that  has been well established as a drug for treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer disease, but the role of the compound in plant metabolism is not known. The current study was designed to investigate whether galanthamine could redirect morphogenesis of Artemisia tridentata Nutt. cultures by altering concentration of endogenous neurosignaling molecules acetylcholine (Ach), auxin (IAA), melatonin (Mel), and serotonin (5HT). Exposure of axenic A. tridentata cultures to 10 microM galanthamine decreased the concentration of endogenous Ach, IAA, MEL, and  AchE, and altered plant growth in a manner reminiscent of 2-4D toxicity. Galanthamine itself demonstrated IAA activity in an oat coleoptile elongation bioassay, 20 microM galanthamine showed no significant difference compared with 5 muM IAA or 5 muM 1-Naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Metabolomic analysis detected between 20,921 to 27,891 compounds in A. tridentata plantlets and showed greater  commonality between control and 5 microM treatments. Furthermore, metabolomic analysis putatively identified coumarins scopoletin/isoscopoletin, and scopolin in A. tridentata leaf extracts and these metabolites linearly increased in response to galanthamine treatments. Overall, these data indicate that galanthamine is an allelopathic phytochemical and support the hypothesis that neurologically active compounds in plants help ensure plant survival and adaptation to environmental challenges.
25762608: !Alzheimer [NMR study of human biological fluids for detection of pathologies]. The paper deals with the NMR spectra obtained using preparations of five different human biological body fluids. Characteristic metabolite signals of blood, urine, tears, saliva, and sweat spectra have been determined and classified. The biological body fluid samples were used for search and identification of biomarkers of cardiovascular disease. Absolute functional biomarkers for diseases such as coronary heart disease (CHD) have not been recognized even in the case acute myocardial infarction. A hypothesis explaining  reasons of lack of such markers has been formulated. The results of comparative analysis of blood and urine samples from humans and some laboratory animals are given. Identify and analyze signals of metabolites of pathogenic microflora and their dynamics in the urine from patients with urogenital diseases have been determined and analyzed and characteristic biomarkers have been recognized.
25752887: !Alzheimer An update on the role of omega-3 fatty acids on inflammatory and degenerative diseases. Inflammation is involved in the pathophysiology of many chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and neurodegenerative diseases. Several studies have evidenced important anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties of omega-3  long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 LC-PUFAs). This review illustrates current knowledge about the efficacy of n-3 LC-PUFAs (eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), particularly) in preventing and/or treating several chronic inflammatory conditions (inflammatory bowel diseases and rheumatoid arthritis) as well as their potential benefits on neurodegenerative diseases. It is well established that n-3 LC-PUFAs are substrates for synthesis of novel series of lipid mediators (e.g., resolvins, protectins, and maresins) with potent anti-inflammatory and pro-resolving properties, which have been proposed to partly mediate the protective and beneficial actions of n-3 LC-PUFAs. Here, we briefly summarize current knowledge from preclinical studies analyzing the actions of EPA- and DHA-derived resolvins and protectins on pathophysiological models of rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer, and irritable bowel syndrome.
25751960: !Alzheimer [Role of PI3K/Akt pathway in effect of paeoniflorin against Abeta25-35-induced PC12 cell injury]. OBJECTIVE: To study the role of PI3K/Akt pathway in the neuroprotective effect of paeoniflorin on PC12 cells. METHOD: The paeoniflorin group (5, 10, 20 mumol . L(-1)) was pretreated for 30 min, and then added with Abeta25-35 (20 mumol . L(-1)) for interaction for 24 h. Inhibitor LY294002 (10 mumol . L(-1)) was pretreated for 30 min before the action of paeoniflorin (10 mumol . L(-1)). The MTT colorimetric method was used to detect the cell viability. The apoptosis rate was tested by the FITC-Annexin V/PI staining. The protein expression of p-AKT, Bax, Bcl-2 and cleaved caspase-3 protein were detected by Western blot analysis.  RESULT: Paeoniflorin could significantly inhibit the Abeta25-35-induced PC12 cell toxicity and apoptosis. Its protection effect may be achieved by up- regulating AKT phosphorylation level, increasing Bcl-2 protein expression, reducing Bax protein expression, inhibiting the activation of caspase-3. Inhibitor LY294002 could weaken the above protective effects of paeoniflorin. CONCLUSION: Paeoniflorin could activate PI3K/Akt signaling pathway to protect the PC12 cell injury induced by Abeta25-35.
25747452: !Alzheimer Solid lipid nanoparticles loaded with lipoyl-memantine codrug: preparation and characterization. Solid lipid nanoparticles (SLNs) are considered very attractive drug-delivery systems (DDS) able to enhance the efficacy of some therapeutic agents in several  pathologies difficult to treat in a conventional way. Starting from these evidences, this study describes the preparation, physicochemical characterization, release, and in vitro cytotoxicity of stealth SLNs as innovative approach to improve solubility and absorption through the gastrointestinal tract of lipoyl-memantine (LA-MEM), a potential anti-Alzheimer codrug. Physico-chemical properties of LA-MEM loaded SLNs have been intensively investigated. Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) was used to clarify the state and crystalline structure of the formulation. The results obtained from particles size analysis, polydispersity (PDI), and zeta potential measurements allowed the identification of the optimized formulation, which was characterized  by a drug-lipid ratio 1:5, an average intensity diameter of 170nm, a PDI of 0.072, a zeta potential of -33.8mV, and an entrapment efficiency of 88%. Moreover, in vitro stability and release studies in both simulated gastric fluid  (SGF) and simulated intestinal fluid (SIF), and preliminary in vitro cytotoxicity studies revealed that LA-MEM loaded SLNs could represent potential candidate for  an in vivo investigation as DDS for the brain since it resulted devoid of citotoxicity and able to release the free codrug.
25735846: !Alzheimer Effects of non-enzymatic glycation in human serum albumin. Spectroscopic analysis. Human serum albumin (HSA), transporting protein, is exposed during its life to numerous factors that cause its functions become impaired. One of the basic factors - glycation of HSA - occurs in diabetes and may affect HSA-drug binding.  Accumulation of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) leads to diseases e.g. diabetic and non-diabetic cardiovascular diseases, Alzheimer disease, renal disfunction and in normal aging. The aim of the present work was to estimate how  non-enzymatic glycation of human serum albumin altered its tertiary structure using fluorescence technique. We compared glycated human serum albumin by glucose (gHSAGLC) with HSA glycated by fructose (gHSAFRC). We focused on presenting the differences between gHSAFRC and nonglycated (HSA) albumin used acrylamide (Ac), potassium iodide (KI) and 2-(p-toluidino)naphthalene-6-sulfonic acid (TNS). Changes of the microenvironment around the tryptophan residue (Trp-214) of non-glycated and glycated proteins was investigated by the red-edge excitation shift method. Effect of glycation on ligand binding was examined by the binding of phenylbutazone (PHB) and ketoprofen (KP), which a primary high affinity binding site in serum albumin is subdomain IIA and IIIA, respectively. At an excitation and an emission wavelength of lambdaex 335nm and lambdaem 420nm, respectively the increase of fluorescence intensity and the blue-shift of maximum fluorescence was observed. It indicates that the glycation products decreases the polarity microenvironment around the fluorophores. Analysis of red-edge excitation shift method showed that the red-shift for gHSAFRC is higher than for  HSA. Non-enzymatic glycation also caused, that the Trp residue of gHSAFRC becomes less accessible for the negatively charged quencher (I(-)), KSV value is smaller  for gHSAFRC than for HSA. TNS fluorescent measurement demonstrated the decrease of hydrophobicity in the glycated albumin. KSV constants for gHSA-PHB systems are higher than for the unmodified serum albumin, while KSV values for gHSA-KP systems are only slightly lower than that obtained for HSA-KP. The affinity of PHB to the glycated HSA is stronger than to the non-glycated in the first class binding sites within subdomain IIA, in the vicinity of Trp-214. Ketoprofen bound  to unmodified human serum albumin stronger than for glycated albumin and one class of binding sites is observed (Scatchard linear plots).
25725942: !Alzheimer A noninflammatory immune response in aged DNA Abeta42-immunized mice supports its safety for possible use as immunotherapy in AD patients. Aging in the immune system results in tendency to proinflammatory responses. Intradermal DNA immunization showed Th2 polarized noninflammatory immune responses. We tested here 18-month-old mice which were immunized with Abeta42 peptide, DNA Abeta42 trimer, or 2 different prime boost protocols identical to previous experiments. High Abeta42 antibody levels were found in aged mice which  had received peptide immunizations (900 mug/mL plasma), and in mice which had received peptide prime and DNA boost immunizations (500 mug/mL), compared with antibodies in DNA Abeta42 immunized mice with 50 mug/mL. Although we found T-cell proliferation and inflammatory cytokines in mice which had received peptide or prime boost immunization, these were not found in DNA-immunized mice. The results are concordant with proinflammatory responses because of immunosenescence and contraindicate the use of Abeta42 peptide immunizations or prime boost immunization protocols for the use in elderly Alzheimer's disease patients. DNA Abeta42 immunization only on the other hand does lead to effective levels of antibodies without inflammatory cytokine or T-cell responses in the aged animal model tested.
25725931: !Alzheimer Neurobiological studies on the relationship between toxoplasmosis and neuropsychiatric diseases. Toxoplasma gondii is a widespread protozoan parasite infecting approximately one  third of the world population. After proliferation of tachyzoites during the acute stage, the parasite forms tissue cysts in various anatomical sites including the Central Nervous tissue, and establishes a chronic infection. Clinical spectrum normally ranges from a completely asymptomatic infection to severe multi-organ involvement. Many studies have suggested T. gondii infection as a risk factor for the development of some neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly schizophrenia. During the last years, a potential link with other neurobiological diseases such as Parkinson disease and Alzheimer disease has also been suggested. This review will focus on neurobiological and epidemiological data relating infection with T. gondii to neuropsychiatric diseases.
25716692: !Alzheimer The prognostic significance of bromodomain PHD-finger transcription factor in colorectal carcinoma and association with vimentin and E-cadherin. PURPOSE: Bromodomain PHD-finger transcription factor (BPTF) is a chromatin-mediated regulation of transcription factor, playing an important role  in embryogenesis and differentiation. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has a pivotal role in colorectal cancer (CRC) progression, sharing the similar characteristic with BPTF. Therefore, the aim of this study was to examine the expression and clinical value of BPTF and the correlation with EMT markers in patients with CRC. METHODS: Real-time PCR and Western blot were performed to evaluate the mRNA and protein expression levels of BPTF in 20 pairs of fresh-frozen CRC and non-tumor adjacent tissues (NATs). The expressions of BPTF,  vimentin and E-cadherin were examined by immunohistochemical staining in 105 cases of paraffin-embedded primary CRC specimens. In addition, the clinicopathological significance and the prognostic value of BPTF, vimentin and E-cadherin expression were further determined. Then, the correlation of BPTF with vimentin and E-cadherin was also explored. RESULTS: BPTF mRNA and protein expression were significantly overexpressed in CRC tissues when compared with paired NATs (P < 0.01). The expression levels of BPTF and vimentin in CRC paraffin-embedded specimens were significantly higher than the expression in NATs (P < 0.01), while the expressions of E-cadherin in tumors were obviously lower than in NATs (P < 0.01). Tumors with high expression of BPTF and vimentin, as well as low expression of E-cadherin, were significantly correlated with various  adverse clinicopathological factors (P < 0.05). The CRC patients with a high BPTF or vimentin expression had shorter overall survival than those with lower expression (P < 0.05). Furthermore, univariate analysis and multivariate analysis showed that high BPTF expression was an independent prognostic factor for patients with CRC. The last and more interesting Spearman rank correlation analysis and microscopic observation found that the expression of BPTF obviously  correlated with the expression of EMT markers vimentin and E-cadherin. CONCLUSION: Our results strongly suggested that the high BPTF expression was significantly correlated with tumor progression and may be a potent prognostic marker of CRC. Moreover, BPTF expression was significantly associated with EMT markers vimentin and E-cadherin.
25714385: !Alzheimer Resonant oscillation language of a futuristic nano-machine-module: eliminating cancer cells & Alzheimer abeta plaques. Nano-machine-module is designed and synthesized as a futuristic drug (PCMS) for cancer and Alzheimers by doping 2 Nile Red molecules in the cavity of a 5(th) generation PAM AM dendrimer P, and attaching 32 molecular rotors M, 4 pH sensors  S on its surface. Molecular rotors and sensors enable the dendritic box surface to target specific sites, minimizing termination of healthy cells, e.g. cancer cells, nuclei acids (DNA) & spirals of Abeta Amyloid are disintegrated. Combined  Excitation Emission Spectroscopy (CEES) shows directed energy transfer along M<-->C<-->S, this energy transmission path is itself an oscillation, and we image live resonant oscillation of the PCMS and the target molecular system. PCMS engages into resonant oscillations with spiral molecular structures. PCMS is designed to sense microsatellite instability & spirals with resonance frequencies in the kHz range. PCM is toxic, but the toxicity disappears as S is added to derive PCMS. PCMS does not even affect the dynamic instability of microtubule, a  basic operator of living cells.
25713167: !Alzheimer The role of BPTF in melanoma progression and in response to BRAF-targeted therapy. BACKGROUND: Bromodomain PHD finger transcription factor (BPTF) plays an important role in chromatin remodeling, but its functional role in tumor progression is incompletely understood. Here we explore the oncogenic effects of BPTF in melanoma. METHODS: The consequences of differential expression of BPTF were explored using shRNA-mediated knockdown in several melanoma cell lines. Immunoblotting was used to assess the expression of various proteins regulated by BPTF. The functional role of BPTF in melanoma progression was investigated using  assays of colony formation, invasion, cell cycle, sensitivity to selective BRAF inhibitors, and in xenograft models of melanoma progression (n = 12 mice per group). The biomarker role of BPTF in melanoma progression was assessed using fluorescence in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analyses. All statistical tests were two-sided. RESULTS: shRNA-mediated BPTF silencing suppressed the proliferative capacity (by 65.5%) and metastatic potential (by 66.4%) of melanoma cells. Elevated BPTF copy number (mean >/= 3) was observed in  28 of 77 (36.4%) melanomas. BPTF overexpression predicted poor survival in a cohort of 311 melanoma patients (distant metastasis-free survival P = .03, and disease-specific survival P = .008), and promoted resistance to BRAF inhibitors in melanoma cell lines. Metastatic melanoma tumors progressing on BRAF inhibitors contained low BPTF-expressing, apoptotic tumor cell subclones, indicating the continued presence of drug-responsive subclones within tumors demonstrating overall resistance to anti-BRAF agents. CONCLUSIONS: These studies demonstrate multiple protumorigenic functions for BPTF and identify it as a novel target for  anticancer therapy. They also suggest the combination of BPTF targeting with BRAF inhibitors as a novel therapeutic strategy for melanomas with mutant BRAF.
25709784: !Alzheimer New concepts in nutraceuticals as alternative for pharmaceuticals. Nutraceuticals are products, which other than nutrition are also used as medicine. A nutraceutical product may be defined as a substance, which has physiological benefit or provides protection against chronic disease. Nutraceuticals may be used to improve health, delay the aging process, prevent chronic diseases, increase life expectancy, or support the structure or function  of the body. Nowadays, nutraceuticals have received considerable interest due to  potential nutritional, safety and therapeutic effects. Recent studies have shown  promising results for these compounds in various complications. In the present review much effort has been devoted to present new concepts about nutraceuticals  based on their diseases modifying indications. Emphasis has been made to present  herbal nutraceuticals effective on hard curative disorders related to oxidative stress including allergy, alzheimer, cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes, eye, immune, inflammatory and Parkinson's diseases as well as obesity. The recently published papers about different aspects of nutraceuticals as alternative for pharmaceuticals were searched using scientific sites such as Medline, PubMed, and Google Scholar. The used terms included nutraceutical and allergy, alzheimer, cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes, eye, immune, inflammatory or Parkinson.
25708447: !Alzheimer Uptake and metabolism of fructose by rat neocortical cells in vivo and by isolated nerve terminals in vitro. Fructose reacts spontaneously with proteins in the brain to form advanced glycation end products (AGE) that may elicit neuroinflammation and cause brain pathology, including Alzheimer's disease. We investigated whether fructose is eliminated by oxidative metabolism in neocortex. Injection of [(14) C]fructose or its AGE-prone metabolite [(14) C]glyceraldehyde into rat neocortex in vivo led to formation of (14) C-labeled alanine, glutamate, aspartate, GABA, and glutamine. In isolated neocortical nerve terminals, [(14) C]fructose-labeled glutamate, GABA, and aspartate, indicating uptake of fructose into nerve terminals and oxidative fructose metabolism in these structures. This was supported by high expression of hexokinase 1, which channels fructose into glycolysis, and whose activity was similar with fructose or glucose as substrates. By contrast, the fructose-specific ketohexokinase was weakly expressed. The fructose transporter Glut5 was expressed at only 4% of the level of neuronal glucose transporter Glut3, suggesting transport across plasma membranes of brain cells as the limiting factor in removal of extracellular fructose. The genes encoding aldose reductase and sorbitol dehydrogenase, enzymes of the polyol pathway that forms glucose from fructose, were expressed in rat neocortex. These results point to fructose being transported into neocortical cells, including nerve terminals, and that it is metabolized and thereby detoxified primarily through hexokinase activity. We asked how the brain handles fructose, which may react spontaneously  with proteins to form 'advanced glycation end products' and trigger inflammation. Neocortical cells took up and metabolized extracellular fructose oxidatively in vivo, and isolated nerve terminals did so in vitro. The low expression of fructose transporter Glut5 limited uptake of extracellular fructose. Hexokinase was a main pathway for fructose metabolism, but ketohexokinase (which leads to glyceraldehyde formation) was expressed too. Neocortical cells also took up and metabolized glyceraldehyde oxidatively.
25703279: !Alzheimer Translating endoplasmic reticulum biology into the clinic: a role for ER-targeted natural products? ER stress has been identified as a hallmark, and sometimes trigger, of several pathologies, notably cancer, inflammation and neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. Among the molecules described in literature known to affect ER function, the majority are natural products, suggesting that natural molecules may constitute a significant arsenal of chemical entities for modulating this cellular target. In this review, we will start by presenting the  current knowledge of ER biology and the hallmarks of ER stress, thus paving the way for presenting the natural products that have been described as being ER modulators, either stress inducers or ER protectors. The chemistry, distribution  and mechanism of action of these compounds will be presented and discussed.
25701707: !Alzheimer The human CHRNA7 and CHRFAM7A genes: A review of the genetics, regulation, and function. The human alpha7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor gene (CHRNA7) is ubiquitously expressed in both the central nervous system and in the periphery. CHRNA7 is genetically linked to multiple disorders with cognitive deficits, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, ADHD, epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, and Rett syndrome. The regulation of CHRNA7 is complex; more than a dozen mechanisms are known, one of which is a partial duplication of the parent gene. Exons 5-10 of CHRNA7 on chromosome 15 were duplicated and inserted 1.6 Mb upstream of CHRNA7, interrupting an earlier partial duplication of two other genes. The chimeric CHRFAM7A gene product, dupalpha7, assembles with alpha7 subunits, resulting in a dominant negative regulation of function. The duplication is human specific, occurring neither in primates nor in rodents. The  duplicated alpha7 sequence in exons 5-10 of CHRFAM7A is almost identical to CHRNA7, and thus is not completely queried in high throughput genetic studies (GWAS). Further, pre-clinical animal models of the alpha7nAChR utilized in drug development research do not have CHRFAM7A (dupalpha7) and cannot fully model human drug responses. The wide expression of CHRNA7, its multiple functions and modes of regulation present challenges for study of this gene in disease. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'The Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor: From Molecular Biology to Cognition'.
25699290: !Alzheimer Regenerative Medicine for the Aging Brain. In the central nervous system, cholinergic and dopaminergic (DA) neurons are among the cells most susceptible to the deleterious effects of age. Thus, the basal forebrain cholinergic system is known to undergo moderate neurodegenerative changes during normal aging as well as severe atrophy in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Parkinson's disease (PD), a degeneration of nigro-striatal DA neurons is the most conspicuous reflection of the vulnerability of DA neurons to age. In this context, cell reprogramming offers novel therapeutic possibilities for the treatment of these devastating diseases. In effect, the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from somatic cells demonstrated that adult mammalian cells can be reprogrammed to a pluripotent state by the overexpression  of a few embryonic transcription factors (TF). This discovery fundamentally widened the research horizon in the fields of disease modeling and regenerative medicine. Although it is possible to re-differentiate iPSCs to specific somatic cell types, the tumorigenic potential of contaminating iPSCs that failed to differentiate, increases the risk for clinical application of somatic cells generated by this procedure. Therefore, reprogramming approaches that bypass the  pluripotent stem cell state are being explored. A method called lineage reprogramming has been recently documented. It consists of the direct conversion  of one adult cell type into another by transgenic expression of multiple lineage-specific TF or microRNAs. Another approach, termed direct reprogramming,  features several advantages such as the use of universal TF system and the ability to generate a rejuvenated multipotent progenitor cell population, able to differentiate into specific cell types in response to a specific differentiation  factors. These novel approaches offer a new promise for the treatment of pathologies associated with the loss of specific cell types as for instance, nigral DA neurons (in PD) or basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the early stages of AD. The above topics are reviewed here.
25695915: !Alzheimer Metals in obex and retropharyngeal lymph nodes of Illinois white-tailed deer and  their variations associated with CWD status. Prion proteins (PrP(C)) are cell membrane glycoproteins that can be found in many cell types, but specially in neurons. Many studies have suggested PrP(C)'s participation in metal transport and cellular protection against stress in the central nervous system (CNS). On the other hand PrP(Sc), the misfolded isoform of PrP(C) and the pathogenic agent in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE), has been associated with brain metal dyshomeostasis in prion diseases. Thus, changes in metal concentration associated with protein misfolding and aggregation have been reported for human and animal prion diseases, as well as for other neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. The use of metal concentrations in tissues as surrogate markers for early detection of TSEs has been suggested. Studies on the accumulation of metals in free-ranging white-tailed deer have not been conducted. This study established concentrations of copper, iron, manganese, and magnesium in 2 diagnostic tissues  used for CWD testing (obex and retropharyngeal lymph nodes (RLN)). We compared these concentrations between tissues and in relation to CWD status. We established reference intervals (RIs) for these metals and explored their ability to discriminate between CWD-positive and CWD-negative animals. Our results indicate that independent of CWD status, white-tailed deer accumulate higher concentrations of Fe, Mn and Mg in RLN than in obex. White-tailed deer infected with CWD accumulated significantly lower concentrations of Mn and Fe than CWD-negative deer. These patterns differed from other species infected with prion diseases. Overlapping values between CWD positive and negative groups indicate that evaluation of these metals in obex and RLN may not be appropriate as a diagnostic tool for CWD infection in white-tailed deer. Because the CWD-negative  deer were included in constructing the RIs, high specificities were expected and  should be interpreted with caution. Due to the low sensitivity derived from the RIs, we do not recommend using metal concentrations for disease discrimination.
25689303: !Alzheimer HSPA5/Dna K may be a useful target for human disease therapies. The chaperone protein HSPA5/Dna K is conserved throughout evolution from higher eukaryotes down to prokaryotes. The celecoxib derivative OSU-03012 (also called AR-12) interacts with Viagra or Cialis in eukaryotic cells to rapidly reduce HSPA5 levels as well as blunt the functions of many other chaperone proteins. Because multiple chaperones are modulated in eukaryotes, the expression of cell surface virus receptors is reduced and because HSPA5 in blocked viruses cannot efficiently replicate. Because DnaK levels are reduced in prokaryotes by OSU-03012, the levels of DnaK chaperone proteins such as Rec A decline, which is  associated with bacterial cell death and a resensitization of so-called drug-resistant superbugs to standard of care antibiotics. In Alzheimer's disease, HSPA5 has been shown to play a supportive role for the progression of tau phosphorylation and neurodegeneration. Thus, in eukaryotes, HSPA5 represents a target for anticancer, antiviral, and anti-Alzheimer's therapeutics and in prokaryotes, DnaK and bacterial phosphodiesterases represent novel antibiotic targets that should be exploited in the future by pharmaceutical companies.
25686616: !Alzheimer Silybum marianum: Beyond Hepatoprotection. Silybum marianum is a medicinal plant that has long been used as hepatoprotective remedy. It has been used for the treatment of numerous liver disorders characterized by functional impairment or degenerative necrosis. Its hepatoprotective activity is unique and acts in different ways, including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities, cell permeability regulator and membrane stabilizer, stimulation of liver regeneration and inhibition of deposition in collagen fibers, which may lead to cirrhosis. Most of documented data with Silybum marianum are about liver disorders; however, recently several beneficial properties on a wide variety of other disorders such as renal protection, hypolipidemic and anti-atherosclerosis activities, cardiovascular protection, prevention of insulin resistance, especially in cirrhotic patients, cancer, and Alzheimer prevention. It is also used as a food remedy. This review article aims to present different aspects of Silybum marianum, especially the data in recently published articles about its effects on different diseases, apart from presenting the aspects of its hepatoprotection.
25685150: !Alzheimer Edible mushrooms: improving human health and promoting quality life. Mushrooms have been consumed since earliest history; ancient Greeks believed that mushrooms provided strength for warriors in battle, and the Romans perceived them as the "Food of the Gods." For centuries, the Chinese culture has treasured mushrooms as a health food, an "elixir of life." They have been part of the human culture for thousands of years and have considerable interest in the most important civilizations in history because of their sensory characteristics; they have been recognized for their attractive culinary attributes. Nowadays, mushrooms are popular valuable foods because they are low in calories, carbohydrates, fat, and sodium: also, they are cholesterol-free. Besides, mushrooms provide important nutrients, including selenium, potassium, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin D, proteins, and fiber. All together with a long history as food  source, mushrooms are important for their healing capacities and properties in traditional medicine. It has reported beneficial effects for health and treatment of some diseases. Many nutraceutical properties are described in mushrooms, such  as prevention or treatment of Parkinson, Alzheimer, hypertension, and high risk of stroke. They are also utilized to reduce the likelihood of cancer invasion and metastasis due to antitumoral attributes. Mushrooms act as antibacterial, immune  system enhancer and cholesterol lowering agents; additionally, they are important sources of bioactive compounds. As a result of these properties, some mushroom extracts are used to promote human health and are found as dietary supplements.
25681712: !Alzheimer Benzofuran-derived benzylpyridinium bromides as potent acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. A series of benzofuran-based N-benzylpyridinium derivatives 5a-o were designed and synthesized as novel AChE inhibitors. The synthetic pathway of the compounds  involved the preparation of 4-(benzofuran-2-yl)pyridine intermediates via the reaction of different salicylaldehyde derivatives and 4-(bromomethyl)pyridine, followed by intramolecular cyclization. Subsequently, the 4-(benzofuran-2-yl)pyridines were N-benzylated by using appropriate benzyl bromide to afford the final product 5a-o. The results of in vitro AChE activity evaluation of synthesized compounds revealed that all compound had potent anti-AChE activity comparable or more potent than standard drug donepezil. The N-(3,5-dimethylbenzyl) derivative 5e with IC50 value of 4.1 nM was the most active compound, being 7-fold more potent than donepezil.
25680670: !Alzheimer Association Between Psychological Distress and Liver Disease Mortality: A Meta-analysis of Individual Study Participants. BACKGROUND & AIMS: Risk factors for cardiovascular disease, such as obesity and hypertension, have been associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Psychological distress (symptoms of anxiety and depression) is a risk factor for  cardiovascular disease, so it might also be associated, directly or indirectly, with liver disease. We investigated the relationship between psychological distress (measured by the 12-item General Health Questionnaire [GHQ]) and liver disease mortality. METHODS: We performed a meta-analysis of data from individual  participants in 16 prospective studies of the general population in the United Kingdom, initiated from 1994 through 2008. Subjects were assigned to groups based on GHQ score: 0 (no distress), 1-3, 4-6, or 7-12. RESULTS: We analyzed data from  166,631 individuals (55% women; mean +/- SD age, 46.6 +/- 18.4 years; range, 16-102 years). During a mean follow-up period of 9.5 years, 17,368 participants died (457 with liver disease). We found a significant increase in liver disease mortality with increase in GHQ score (Ptrend < .001). The age- and sex-adjusted hazard ratio for the highest GHQ score category (ie, 7-12), compared with the 0 score category, was 3.48 (95% confidence interval: 2.68-4.52). After adjustment for health behaviors, socioeconomic status, body mass index, and diabetes, this hazard ratio decreased to 2.59 (95% confidence interval: 1.82-3.68). CONCLUSIONS: Based on a meta-analysis, psychological distress is associated with liver disease mortality, although this finding requires additional analysis. Although one is not likely to cause the other, we provide additional evidence for the deleterious effects of psychological problems on physical health.
25674632: !Alzheimer Highly sensitive and rapid detection of acetylcholine using an ITO plate modified with platinum-graphene nanoparticles. Determining the concentrations of acetylcholine (ACh) and choline (Ch) is clinically important. ACh is a neurotransmitter that acts as a key link in the communication between neurons in the spinal cord and in nerve skeletal junctions  in vertebrates, and plays an important role in transmitting signals in the brain. A bienzymatic sensor for the detection of ACh was prepared by co-immobilizing choline oxidase (ChO) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) on graphene matrix/platinum nanoparticles, and then electrodepositing them on an ITO-coated glass plate. Graphene nanoparticles were decorated with platinum nanoparticles and were electrodeposited on a modified ITO-coated glass plate to form a modified electrode. The modified electrode was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), cyclic voltammetry (CV) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) studies. The optimum response of the enzyme electrode was obtained at pH 7.0 and 35 degrees C. The response time of this ACh-sensing system was shown to be 4 s. The linear range of responses to ACh was 0.005-700 muM. This biosensor exhibits excellent anti-interferential abilities and good stability, retaining 50% of its original current even after 4 months. It has been applied for the detection of ACh levels in human serum samples.
25665290: !Alzheimer Jean--an illness story: the quest to address the advance of chaos. In Arthur Frank's book The Wounded Storyteller, the illness story is brought to life, highlighting the disruption in the life course that serious illness brings. Frank shows that a narrative can aid suffers by giving a voice to those silenced  within the health system. In this article, one sufferer marginalized within the health care system is offered a voice, and writing the illness story is explored  as a healing process for the author, whose mother suffered from Alzheimer's disease some 30 years ago. Elements of Frank's theoretical processes ofa "chaos story" and a "quest story" are combined in the author's attempt to gain closure with the health and political systems. The author highlights the absence of a meaningful social work intervention, makes recommendations from an anti-oppressive perspective, and offers a discussion of social work interventions that have developed over time. Further, the author advocates for adaptation in a  system ill prepared for the possible future onslaught of dementia cases and details how the illness-story narrative can be used as a therapeutic tool for caregivers.
25661257: !Alzheimer The phospholipase D superfamily as therapeutic targets. The phospholipase D (PLD) lipid-signaling enzyme superfamily has long been studied for its roles in cell communication and a wide range of cell biological processes. With the advent of loss-of-function genetic mouse models that have revealed that PLD1 and PLD2 ablation is overtly tolerable, small-molecule PLD1/2  inhibitors that do not cause unacceptable clinical toxicity, a PLD2 polymorphism  that has been linked to altered physiology, and growing delineation of processes  that are subtly altered in mice lacking PLD1/2 activity, the stage is being set for assessment of PLD1/2 inhibition for therapeutic purposes. Based on findings to date, PLD1/2 inhibition may be of more utility in acute rather than chronic settings, although this generalization will depend on the specific risks and benefits in each disease setting.
25660508: !Alzheimer In situ induced metal-enhanced fluorescence: a new strategy for biosensing the total acetylcholinesterase activity in sub-microliter human whole blood. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities (i.e., total AChE) in human blood are biomarkers for theranostic monitoring of organophosphate neurotoxin-poisoned patients. We developed an ultra-sensitive method to detect the total AChE activity in sub-microliter human whole blood based on in situ induced metal-enhanced fluorescence (MEF). Both AChE and BChE can catalyze the hydrolysis of the acetylthiocholine (ATCh) substrate and produce positively-charged thiocholine (TCh). TCh can reverse the negatively-charged surface of core-shell Ag@SiO2 nanoparticles (NPs). The negatively-charged fluorescent dye (8-hydroxypyrene-1,3,6-trisulfonic acid, HPTS) is then confined to the surface of Ag@SiO2 NPs and generates an enhanced fluorescence signal in situ. Changes in the surface charge of Ag@SiO2 NPs are monitored by Zeta potential, and the MEF effect is confirmed by the measurements of fluorescence time decay. AChE activity has a dynamic range of 0 U/mL to 0.005 U/mL and a detection limit of 0.05 mU/mL. The total AChE activity in the sub-microliter human whole blood could be determined; the results were further validated. Therefore, combining the AChE catalytic reaction with MEF provides a simple, ultra-sensitive, and cost-effective "in situ MEF" approach to determine the total AChE activity in human whole blood sample down to sub-microliters without matrix  interferences. The strategy also allows potential usage in other tissues and other fields.
25651446: !Alzheimer Dual effect of docosahexaenoic acid (attenuation or amplification) on C22:0-, C24:0-, and C26:0-induced mitochondrial dysfunctions and oxidative stress on human neuronal SK-N-BE cells. Increased levels of C22:0, C24:0 and C26:0 were found in cortical lesions of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). So, it was of interest to precise the cytotoxic effects of these fatty acids, and to determine whether docosahexaenoic  acid (DHA), described to prevent AD, can attenuate their eventual side effects. Human neuronal SK-N-BE cells were cultured in the absence or presence of C22:0, C24:0 or C26:0 (0.1-20 microM) without or with DHA (50-150 microM). C22:0, C24:0  and C26:0 induce an inhibition of cell growth, a loss of Deltapsim, an overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS), a decrease of reduced glutathione, and a lipid peroxidation. DHA attenuates C22:0, C24:0 and C26:0 induced-mitochondrial dysfunctions and/or cell growth inhibition measured with MTT whatever the concentrations considered, whereas it can either decrease or amplify (especially at 150 microM) ROS overproduction. C22:0, C24:0 and C26:0 have neurotoxic activities, and depending on its concentration, DHA attenuates or not fatty acid-induced side effects.
25641566: !Alzheimer High throughput multiorgan metabolomics in the APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Metabolomics has demonstrated a great potential for the study of pathological mechanisms occurring in brain from Alzheimer's disease patients and transgenic models. However, its application to peripheral samples is not so common, although it can provide interesting information about systemic abnormalities underlying to disease. This work represents the first metabolomic investigation of multiple peripheral organs (liver, kidney, spleen, and thymus) from the APP/PS1 mice by using a high-throughput approach based on direct infusion MS. Our findings demonstrated that these organs suffer significant metabolic impairments related to energy metabolism (e.g. glycolysis, Krebs cycle, beta-oxidation), lipid homeostasis (e.g. cellular membrane breakdown and fatty acid metabolism), degradation of nucleotides, oxidative stress, hyperammonemia, and metabolism of amino acids. It is noteworthy that many of these alterations have been previously described in brain, confirming the systemic character of this neurodegenerative disorder and the utility of peripheral samples to understand its pathogenesis.
25636690: !Alzheimer Alzheimer's disease shares gene expression aberrations with purinergic dysregulation of HPRT deficiency (Lesch-Nyhan disease). Transcriptomic studies of murine D3 embryonic stem (ES) cells deficient in the purinergic biosynthetic function hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) and undergoing dopaminergic neuronal differentiation has demonstrated a marked shift from neuronal to glial gene expression and aberrant expression of multiple genes also known to be aberrantly expressed in Alzheimer's and other CNS disorders. Such genetic dysregulations may indicate some shared pathogenic metabolic mechanisms in diverse CNS diseases.
25636055: !Alzheimer Potent acetylcholinesterase inhibitors: design, synthesis, biological evaluation, and docking study of acridone linked to 1,2,3-triazole derivatives. A novel series of acridone linked to 1,2,3-triazole derivatives have been synthesized and evaluated in vitro for their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitory activities. The synthetic approach was started from the reaction of 2-bromobenzoic acid with aniline derivatives and subsequent cyclization reaction to give acridone derivatives. Then, reaction of the later compounds with propargyl bromide followed by azide-alkyne cycloaddition reaction (click reaction) led to the formation of the title compounds in good yields. Among the synthesized compounds, 10-((1-(4-chlorobenzyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)methyl)-2-methoxyacridin-9(10H)-one 9g, depicted the most potent anti-AChE activity (IC50 = 7.31 muM). Also, docking  study confirmed the results obtained through in vitro experiments and predicted possible binding conformation.
25624418: !Alzheimer Upregulation of mitochondrial ferritin by proinflammatory cytokines: implications for a role in Alzheimer's disease. Studies have shown an increased expression of mitochondrial ferritin (FtMt) and an antioxidant role for the protein in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. However, little information is available concerning the role of FtMt in other AD pathologies, including inflammation and amyloidogenesis. Therefore, we investigated the regulation and function of FtMt in inflammation and amyloidogenesis. FtMt protein expression was increased by proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and interleukin 6 (IL-6), whereas FtMt mRNA levels were increased by  TNF-alpha but not by IL-1beta or IL-6 in IMR-32 cells. The transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) inhibitor, Bay 11-7082, suppressed this TNF-alpha-induced FtMt expression. FtMt overexpression increased NF-kappaB activity and translocation of p65 into the nucleus in HEK293 cells. Conversely, knockdown of FtMt attenuated TNF-alpha-induced NF-kappaB activity. Overexpression of FtMt inhibited TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis in the cell culture. FtMt overexpression reduced iron-mediated expression of amyloid-beta protein precursor and decreased NF-kappaB-dependent increases in beta- and gamma-secretase, leading to decreased amyloid-beta production. Our data provide new insights into the mechanism underlying the regulation of FtMt expression by proinflammatory cytokines and indicate further roles for FtMt in AD.
25610425: !Alzheimer Farnesol-like endogenous sesquiterpenoids in vertebrates: the probable but overlooked functional "inbrome" anti-aging counterpart of juvenile hormone of insects? Literature on the question whether the juvenile stage of vertebrates is hormonally regulated is scarce. It seems to be intuitively assumed that this stage of development is automated, and does not require any specific hormone(s).  Such reasoning mimics the state of affairs in insects until it was shown that surgical removal of a tiny pair of glands in the head, the corpora allata, ended  larval life and initiated metamorphosis. Decades later, the responsible hormone was found and named "juvenile hormone" (JH) because when present, it makes a larva molt into another larval stage. JH is a simple ester of farnesol, a sesquiterpenoid present in all eukaryotes. Whereas vertebrates do not have an anatomical counterpart of the corpora allata, their tissues do contain farnesol-like sesquiterpenoids (FLS). Some display typical JH activity when tested in appropriate insect bioassays. Some FLS are intermediates in the biosynthetic pathway of cholesterol, a compound that insects and nematodes (=Ecdysozoa) cannot synthesize by themselves. They ingest it as a vitamin. Until  a recent (2014) reexamination of the basic principle underlying insect metamorphosis, it had been completely overlooked that the Ca(2+)-pump (SERCA) blocker thapsigargin is a sesquiterpenoid that mimics the absence of JH in inducing apoptosis. In our opinion, being in the juvenile state is primarily controlled by endogenous FLS that participate in controlling the activity of Ca(2+)-ATPases in the sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum (SERCAs), not only in insects  but in all eukaryotes. Understanding the control mechanisms of being in the juvenile state may boost research not only in developmental biology in general, but also in diseases that develop after the juvenile stage, e.g., Alzheimer's disease. It may also help to better understand some of the causes of obesity, a syndrome that holometabolous last larval insects severely suffer from, and for which they found a very drastic but efficient solution, namely metamorphosis.
25602932: !Alzheimer Synthesis and pharmacological evaluation of benzannulated derivatives as potent and selective sigma-1 protein ligands. The sigma1 proteins are considered to be a new class of target structures for several central nervous system disorders, including depression, anxiety, psychosis, and Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Recently, the involvement of these receptors in neuropathic pain and cancer has also been observed. So far, only a few ligands are in clinical trials. In a continuation of our previous studies on the development of sigma1 ligands, a new series of benzannulated heterocycles was designed and synthesised. In vitro competition binding assays showed that many of them possessed high sigma1 receptor affinity (Ki = 0.6-10.3 nM), and good sigma2/sigma1 subtype selectivity, without cytotoxic effects on SY5Y cells (human neuroblastoma cell line).
25600944: !Alzheimer Functional Gene Networks: R/Bioc package to generate and analyse gene networks derived from functional enrichment and clustering. Functional Gene Networks (FGNet) is an R/Bioconductor package that generates gene networks derived from the results of functional enrichment analysis (FEA) and annotation clustering. The sets of genes enriched with specific biological terms  (obtained from a FEA platform) are transformed into a network by establishing links between genes based on common functional annotations and common clusters. The network provides a new view of FEA results revealing gene modules with similar functions and genes that are related to multiple functions. In addition to building the functional network, FGNet analyses the similarity between the groups of genes and provides a distance heatmap and a bipartite network of functionally overlapping genes. The application includes an interface to directly perform FEA queries using different external tools: DAVID, GeneTerm Linker, TopGO or GAGE; and a graphical interface to facilitate the use.
25597007: !Alzheimer Synthesis and pharmacological evaluation of multifunctional tacrine derivatives against several disease pathways of AD. A novel series of tacrine derivatives were designed and synthesized by combining  caffeic acid (CA), ferulic acid (FA) and lipoic acid (LA) with tacrine. The antioxidant study revealed that all the hybrids have much more antioxidant capacities compared to CA. Among these compounds, 1b possessed a good ability to  inhibit the beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) self-aggregation, sub-micromole acetylcholinesterase (AChE)/butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) inhibitory, modest BACE1 inhibitory. Moreover, compound 1b also was a DPPH radical scavenger and copper chelatory as well as had potent neuroprotective effects against glutamate-induced cell death with low toxicity in HT22 cells. Our findings suggest that the compound 1b might be a promising lead multi-targeted ligand and  worthy of further developing for the therapy of Alzheimer's disease.
25596488: !Alzheimer diamondCopper (II) ions modulate Angiogenin activity in human endothelial cells. Angiogenin (ANG), a member of the secreted ribonuclease family, is a potent angiogenesis stimulator that interacts with endothelial cells inducing a wide range of responses. Metal ions dyshomeostasis play a fundamental role in the onset of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular copper that is also involved in angiogenesis processes. It is known that vascular pathologies are present in neurodegenerative diseases and Angiogenin is down-regulated in Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases, as well as it has been found as one of the mutated genes in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Copper (II) induces an increase of Angiogenin binding to endothelial cells but, so far, the relationship between copper-ANG and angiogenesis induction remain unclear. Herein, the effects of copper (II) ions on Angiogenin activity and expression were evaluated. The binding of copper was demonstrated to affect the intracellular localization of the protein decreasing its nuclear translocation. Moreover, the ANG-copper (II) system negatively affects the protein-induced angiogenesis, as well as endothelial cells migration. Surprisingly, copper also reveals the ability to modulate the Angiogenin transcription. These results highlight the tight relationship between copper and Angiogenin, pointing out the biological relevance of ANG-copper system in the regulation of endothelial cell function, and revealing a possible new mechanism at the basis of vascular pathologies.
25595257: !Alzheimer Co-stimulation with TNF receptor superfamily 4/25 antibodies enhances in-vivo expansion of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ T cells (Tregs) in a mouse study for active DNA Abeta42 immunotherapy. The study was designed to test DNA Abeta42 immunization in mice as alternative approach for possible active immunotherapy in Alzheimer patients. As results, we  found polarized Th2 immune responses, efficient Abeta42 antibody levels, and disappearance of antigen specific T cells. In-vivo TNFRSF4/25 antibody co-stimulation enhanced Abeta42 specific T cell responses with initial Th2 expansion and subsequent development of Abeta42 specific CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ cells. It showed that Th2 biased responses due to gene gun immunizations propagate the development of regulatory T cells. In conclusion, full-length DNA Abeta42 immunization into skin results in a regulatory response with minimal risk of inflammation and autoimmunity.
25592479: !Alzheimer Adapting simultaneous analysis phylogenomic techniques to study complex disease gene relationships. The characterization of complex diseases remains a great challenge for biomedical researchers due to the myriad interactions of genetic and environmental factors.  Network medicine approaches strive to accommodate these factors holistically. Phylogenomic techniques that can leverage available genomic data may provide an evolutionary perspective that may elucidate knowledge for gene networks of complex diseases and provide another source of information for network medicine approaches. Here, an automated method is presented that leverages publicly available genomic data and phylogenomic techniques, resulting in a gene network.  The potential of approach is demonstrated based on a case study of nine genes associated with Alzheimer Disease, a complex neurodegenerative syndrome. The developed technique, which is incorporated into an update to a previously described Perl script called "ASAP," was implemented through a suite of Ruby scripts entitled "ASAP2," first compiles a list of sequence-similarity based orthologues using PSI-BLAST and a recursive NCBI BLAST+ search strategy, then constructs maximum parsimony phylogenetic trees for each set of nucleotide and protein sequences, and calculates phylogenetic metrics (Incongruence Length Difference between orthologue sets, partitioned Bremer support values, combined branch scores, and Robinson-Foulds distance) to provide an empirical assessment of evolutionary conservation within a given genetic network. In addition to the individual phylogenetic metrics, ASAP2 provides results in a way that can be used to generate a gene network that represents evolutionary similarity based on topological similarity (the Robinson-Foulds distance). The results of this study  demonstrate the potential for using phylogenomic approaches that enable the study of multiple genes simultaneously to provide insights about potential gene relationships that can be studied within a network medicine framework that may not have been apparent using traditional, single-gene methods. Furthermore, the results provide an initial integrated evolutionary history of an Alzheimer Disease gene network and identify potentially important co-evolutionary clustering that may warrant further investigation.
25590369: !Alzheimer Blockade of emodin on amyloid-beta 25-35-induced neurotoxicity in AbetaPP/PS1 mice and PC12 cells through activation of the class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Beclin-1/B-cell lymphoma 2 pathway. Autophagy plays an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. In  the present study, the blockade mechanism of emodin on amyloid-beta 25-35-induced neurotoxicity was explored. Cell viability of PC12 cells was evaluated by the MTT assay and neuro damage by the lactate dehydrogenase leakage assay. Gene silencing by small interfering RNA, cDNA constructs and transfection, as well as Western blot were performed to assess protein expression levels. AbetaPP/PS1 mice were administered orally with emodin (50 mg/kg/day), and LC3-II positive cells in their brain cortex sections were detected by immunohistochemical staining. Emodin could significantly inhibit the LC3-I/LC3-II conversion ratio and cell viability  while decreasing the lactate dehydrogenase level in AbetaPP/PS1 mice and PC12 cells. LC3II positive cells in the cortex were decreased significantly by the treatment with both emodin and 3-methyladenine. Furthermore, emodin and 3-methyladenine could increase B-cell lymphoma 2 while decreasing Beclin-1 and hVps34 expressions, which were induced by amyloid-beta 25-35. Small interfering gene silencing Beclin-1 and B-cell lymphoma 2 confirmed this signaling pathway. We also found that the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 could block LC3-I/LC3-II conversion and increase B-cell lymphoma 2 while decreasing hVps34 and Beclin-1 expressions. The results suggest that the blockade of emodin  on amyloid-beta 25-35-induced autophagy may occur via the activation of the class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Beclin-1/B-cell lymphoma 2 pathway. Our results provide confirmatory evidence for the application of emodin in the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
25589730: !Alzheimer Mechanisms of molecular mimicry involving the microbiota in neurodegeneration. The concept of molecular mimicry was established to explain commonalities of structure which developed in response to evolutionary pressures. Most examples of molecular mimicry in medicine have involved homologies of primary protein structure which cause disease. Molecular mimicry can be expanded beyond amino acid sequence to include microRNA and proteomic effects which are either pathogenic or salutogenic (beneficial) in regard to Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and related disorders. Viruses of animal or plant origin may mimic nucleotide sequences of microRNAs and influence protein expression. Both Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases involve the formation of transmissible self-propagating prion-like proteins. However, the initiating factors responsible for creation of these misfolded nucleating factors are unknown. Amyloid patterns  of protein folding are highly conserved through evolution and are widely distributed in the world. Similarities of tertiary protein structure may be involved in the creation of these prion-like agents through molecular mimicry. Cross-seeding of amyloid misfolding, altered proteostasis, and oxidative stress may be induced by amyloid proteins residing in bacteria in our microbiota in the  gut and in the diet. Pathways of molecular mimicry induced processes induced by bacterial amyloid in neurodegeneration may involve TLR 2/1, CD14, and NFkappaB, among others. Furthermore, priming of the innate immune system by the microbiota  may enhance the inflammatory response to cerebral amyloids (such as amyloid-beta  and alpha-synuclein). This paper describes the specific molecular pathways of these cross-seeding and neuroinflammatory processes. Evolutionary conservation of proteins provides the opportunity for conserved sequences and structures to influence neurological disease through molecular mimicry.
25582438: !Alzheimer RAGE gene polymorphism and environmental factor in the risk of oral cancer. Oral squamous cell carcinoma is a common neoplasm that is known to be causally associated with genetic factors and environmental carcinogens. The receptor for advanced glycosylation endproducts (RAGE) is a transmembrane protein of the immunoglobulin superfamily with broad specificity for multiple ligands, and it has been shown to play vital roles in several pathophysiologic processes, including diabetes, Alzheimer disease, renal disease, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. The present study aimed to assess the influences of RAGE gene polymorphisms, combined with environmental carcinogens on the predisposition to oral tumorigenesis. Five polymorphisms of the RAGE gene-including -374T>A (rs1800624), -429T>C (rs1800625), 1704G>T (rs184003), Gly82Ser (rs2070600), and a 63-bp deletion allele (-407 to -345)-were examined from 592 controls and 618 patients with oral cancer. We found that individuals carrying the polymorphic allele of rs1800625 are more susceptible to oral cancer (odds ratio [OR], 1.899;  95% confidence interval [CI], 1.355 to 2.661; adjusted OR [AOR], 2.053; 95% CI, 1.269 to 3.345) after adjustment for age, sex, betel nut chewing, and tobacco consumption. Moreover, we observed a significant association of rs1800625 variants with late-stage tumors (stage III/IV, OR, 1.736; 95% CI, 1.126 to 2.677; AOR, 1.771; 95% CI, 1.101 to 2.851) and large-size tumors (>2 cm in the greatest  dimension; OR, 1.644; 95% CI, 1.083 to 2.493; AOR, 1.728; 95% CI, 1.089 to 2.741). Based on behavioral exposure of environmental carcinogens, the presence of 4 RAGE single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), combined with betel quid chewing and/or tobacco use, greatly augmented the risk of oral cancer. In addition, carriers of particular haplotypes of the 4 RAGE SNPs examined are more  prone to develop oral cancer. These results indicate an involvement of RAGE SNP rs1800625 in the development of oral squamous cell carcinoma and implicate the interaction between RAGE gene polymorphisms and environmental mutagens as a predisposing factor of oral carcinogenesis.
25582330: !Alzheimer Donepezil-ferulic acid hybrids as anti-Alzheimer drugs. BACKGROUND: Due to the complex nature of Alzheimer's disease, there is a renewed  and growing search for multitarget drugs. RESULTS: Donepezil-ferulic acid hybrids (DFAHs) were prepared by the one-pot Ugi-4CR in low-to-moderate yields. DFAHs are potent antioxidant agents, showing oxygen radical absorbance capacity values in the range 4.80-8.71 trolox equivalents, quite higher compared with those recorded for ferulic acid and melatonin. From the ChEs inhibition studies, we conclude that DFAH 8, bearing an ethylene linker, and DFAH 12, bearing a propylene linker, both substituted with a melatonin motif, are the most potent inhibitors, in the nanomolar range. CONCLUSION: We have identified DFAH 8 as a very potent antioxidant, and totally selective equineButyrylCholinEsterase (eqBuChE) inhibitor.
25577016: !Alzheimer [Injectable preparation of labeled leucine with the carbon 13 for a clinical research program on the Alzheimer disease: pharmaceutical control of raw materials and the finished product and stability study]. INTRODUCTION: The L-leucine labeled (L-[U-(13)C] Leu) is a stable isotopic tracer administered by parenteral route within the framework of a new clinical research  program concerning the diagnosis of the Alzheimer's disease. To meet regulatory requirements and have ready to use solution with an expiration date, a pharmaceutical control of raw materials and the finished product followed by a stability study were realised. MATERIALS AND METHOD: After the pharmaceutical control of raw materials, the solution of L-[U-(13)C] Leu was prepared according  to the good practices preparation. Prepared bottles were stored for 1 year of a share in a climatic chamber (25 degrees C+/-2 degrees C) and the other in a refrigerator (5 degrees C+/-3 degrees C). To assess stability, the physicochemical controls (pH, osmolality, sub-visible particles, L-[U-(13)C] Leu  concentration, sodium concentration, isotopic enrichment) and microbiological (bacterial endotoxin and sterility) were performed at regular intervals for 1 year. RESULTS: Neither significant decrease of L-[U-(13)C] Leu concentration and  sodium concentration nor pH and osmolality variation were observed for 1 year. Isotopic enrichment higher than 99.9% reflected the stability of labelling of L-leucine molecule. The sub-visible particles, the bacterial endotoxin and sterility were in accordance with the European pharmacopoeia attesting limpidity, apyrogenicity and sterility of this injectable preparation. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: The injectable preparation of L-[U-(13)C] Leu was stable after 1 year for two preservation conditions, ensuring to safety for administration for human  within the framework of this clinical research.
25575172: !Alzheimer Metabolite profiling for the identification of altered metabolic pathways in Alzheimer's disease. Gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry is the most frequent tool for metabolomic profiling of low molecular weight metabolites. Its suitability in health survey is beyond doubt, given that primary metabolites involved in central pathways of metabolism are usually altered in diseases. The objective of this work is to investigate metabolic differences in serum between Alzheimer's disease patients and healthy controls in order to elucidate pathological mechanisms underlying to disease. Alterations in levels of 23 metabolites were detected, including increased lactic acid, alpha-ketoglutarate, isocitric acid, glucose, oleic acid, adenosine and cholesterol, as well as decreased urea, valine, aspartic acid, pyroglutamate, glutamine, phenylalanine, asparagine, ornithine, pipecolic acid, histidine, tyrosine, palmitic and uric acid, tryptophan, stearic  acid and cystine. Metabolic pathway analysis revealed the involvement of multiple affected pathways, such as energy deficiencies, oxidative stress, hyperammonemia, and others. Moreover, it is noteworthy that some of these compounds have not been previously described in AD research, such as alpha-ketoglutarate, isocitrate pipecolic acid, pyroglutamate and adenosine, confirming the potential of this metabolomic approach in the search of novel potential markers for early detection of Alzheimer's disease.
25572750: !Alzheimer Effect of betamethasone in combination with antibiotics on gram positive and gram negative bacteria. Betamethasone is an anti-inflammatory steroid drug used in cases of anaphylactic  and allergic reactions, of Alzheimer and Addison diseases and in soft tissue injuries. It modulates gene expression for anti-inflammatory activity suppressing the immune system response. This latter effect might decrease the effectiveness of immune system response against microbial infections. Corticosteroids, in fact, mask some symptoms of infection and during their use superimposed infections may  occur. Thus, the use of glucocorticoids in patients with sepsis remains extremely controversial. In this study we analyzed the in vitro effect of a commercial formulation of betamethasone (Bentelan) on several Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria of clinical relevance. It was found to be an inhibitor of the growth of most of the strains examined. Also the effect of betamethasone in combination with some classes of antibiotics was evaluated. Antibiotic-steroid combination therapy is, in such cases, superior to antibiotic-alone treatment to  impair bacterial growths. Such effect was essentially not at all observable on Staphylococcus aureus or Coagulase Negative Staphylococci (CoNS).
25569373: !Alzheimer High Expression Level of Antioxidants and Pharmaceutical Bioactivities of Endophytic Fungus Chaetomium Globosum JN711454. fungus Chaetomium globosum JN711454 during fermentation process, designed fermentation experiments of culture media for three levels of eight culture factors were performed using Taguchi Orthogonal Array (OA) design with layout L18 (21x37). The agitation and the potato extract were the most significant affecting factors and their interaction contributed significantly on fungus activity. The production of antioxidants was more favorable for static condition with 25 g potato extract/100 ml. The remaining factors had no strong impact when considered individually. The validation of statistically optimized medium indicated the improvement of antioxidant activity to the level of double fold with approximately overall 40% enhancement in activity. The extract of optimized medium was investigated for various pharmaceutical bioactivities; it revealed a moderate antimicrobial activity, strong anticancer activity against HepG-2, UACC62 cell lines, an antiviral activity against HSV-2 virus, and strong inhibitory activity to butyrylcholinesterase enzyme, one of neuro hydrolase enzymes that play a major role in development of Alzheimer's disease. As a result of applying statistical fermentation designs, the optimized conditions of endophytic fungus C. globosum JN711454 developed a cost-effective production medium by using inexpensive commercial potato extracts statically, which can lower energy requirement and could become an efficient, economic, and viable fermentation process for production of pharmaceutical secondary metabolites. In order to maximize antioxidant activity of pharmaceutical bioactive endophytic  fungus Chaetomium globosum JN711454 during fermentation process, designed fermentation experiments of culture media for three levels of eight culture factors were performed using Taguchi Orthogonal Array (OA) design with layout L18 (21x37). The agitation and the potato extract were the most significant affecting factors and their interaction contributed significantly on fungus activity. The production of antioxidants was more favorable for static condition with 25 g potato extract/100 ml. The remaining factors had no strong impact when considered individually. The validation of statistically optimized medium indicated the improvement of antioxidant activity to the level of double fold with approximately overall 40% enhancement in activity. The extract of optimized medium was investigated for various pharmaceutical bioactivities; it revealed a moderate antimicrobial activity, strong anticancer activity against HepG-2, UACC62 cell lines, an antiviral activity against HSV-2 virus, and strong inhibitory activity to butyrylcholinesterase enzyme, one of neuro hydrolase enzymes that play a major role in development of Alzheimer's disease. As a result of applying statistical fermentation designs, the optimized conditions of endophytic fungus C. globosum JN711454 developed a cost-effective production medium by using inexpensive commercial potato extracts statically, which can lower energy requirement and could become an efficient, economic, and viable fermentation process for production of pharmaceutical secondary metabolites.
25569096: !Alzheimer Human adipose tissue conditioned media from lean subjects is protective against H2O2 induced neurotoxicity in human SH-SY5Y neuronal cells. Adipose tissue secretes numerous hormone-like factors, which are known as adipokines. Adipokine receptors have been identified in the central nervous system but the potential role of adipokine signaling in neuroprotection is unclear. The aim of this study is to determine (1) Whether adipokines secreted from cultured adipose tissue of lean humans is protective against oxidative stress-induced neurotoxicity in human SH-SY5Y neuronal cells; and (2) To explore  potential signaling pathways involved in these processes. Adipose tissue conditioned media (ATCM) from healthy lean subjects completely prevented H2O2 induced neurotoxicity, while this effect is lost after heating ATCM. ATCM activated the phosphorylation of ERK1/2, JNK and Akt at serine 308 in SH-SY5Y cells. PD98059 (25 microM), SP600125 (5 microM) and LY29400 (20 microM) partially blocked the protective effects of ATCM against H2O2 induced neurotoxicity. Findings demonstrate that heat-sensitive factors secreted from human adipose tissue of lean subjects are protective against H2O2 induced neurotoxicity and ERK1/2, JNK, and PI3K signaling pathways are involved in these processes. In conclusion, this study demonstrates preliminary but encouraging data to further support that adipose tissue secreted factors from lean human subjects might possess neuroprotective properties and unravel the specific roles of ERK1/2, JNK  and PI3K in these processes.
25566531: !Alzheimer Farmer to pharmacist: curcumin as an anti-invasive and antimetastatic agent for the treatment of cancer. A huge number of compounds are widely distributed in nature and many of these possess medicinal/biological/pharmacological activity. Curcumin, a polyphenol derived from the rhizomes (underground stems) of Curcuma longa Linn (a member of  the ginger family, commonly known as turmeric) is a culinary spice and therapeutic used in India for thousands of years to induce color and flavor in food as well as to treat a wide array of diseases. The origin of turmeric as spice and folklore medicine is so old that it is lost in legend. Curcumin has many beneficial pharmacological effects which includes, but are not limited with, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiviral, antiangiogenic, neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease, and antidiabetic activities. Most importantly curcumin possesses immense antitumorigenic effect. It prevents tumor invasion and metastasis in a number of animal models, including models of lung, liver, stomach, colon, breast, esophageal cancer etc. Invasion and metastasis are considered as one of the hallmarks in cancer biology. The pertinent recent applications of curcumin as anti-invasive and antimetastatic agent in in vitro and in vivo and ex vivo studies as well as associated molecular mechanisms have been discussed in this review. Curcumin has also demonstrated the ability to improve patient outcomes in clinical trials.
25558551: !Alzheimer Folate and homocysteine metabolisms and their roles in the biochemical basis of neuropsychiatry. The term 'one-carbon metabolism' is commonly used to describe 3 separate metabolic processes: folate metabolism, the homocysteine remethylation cycle, and the transsulfuration pathway. Folate metabolism concerns the biochemical reactions in which endogenous and exogenous one-carbon units are transferred to tetrahydrofolates. The remethylation cycle is used for the synthesis of methionine from homocysteine with one-carbon units that come from folate. This methionine is thenfused for the synthesis of S-adenosyl methionine, which is a general donor of methyl groups for many biochemical reactions in the human body.  In the transsulfuration pathway, some amino acids and polypeptides, such as cystathionine, cysteine, and glutathione, are synthesized from homocysteine. The  kinetics of the enzymes in this pathway are regulated by the substrates of the remethylation cycle. The methylation process has been thought to have an important role in the biochemical basis of neuropsychiatry. An elevated homocysteine level is the most important marker of folate and vitamin B12 deficiencies, and also the most reliable biochemical sign of functional insufficiency. Some neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases, such as psychosis, Alzheimer's disease, and autism, have been found to be related to disorders of one-carbon metabolism. This review aims to summarize both one-carbon metabolism and its relationships with neuropsychiatric disorders.
25557390: !Alzheimer The ITM2B (BRI2) gene is a target of BCL6 repression: Implications for lymphomas  and neurodegenerative diseases. The human BCL6 gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that is crucial for germinal center B cell development and T follicular helper cell differentiation.  It is involved in the pathogenesis of certain human lymphomas. In an effort to identify targets of BCL6 repression, we used a previously described cell system in which BCL6 repressive effects are inhibited, followed by subtractive hybridization, and identified the integral membrane 2B gene (ITM2B, formerly BRI2) as a potential target. Here we show that BCL6 can bind to its preferential  consensus binding site within the first intron of ITM2B and represses its transcription. Knockdown of endogenous BCL6 in a human B cell lymphoma line increases ITM2B expression. Further, there is an inverse relationship between the expression levels of BCL6 and ITM2B proteins in 16 human B- and T-cell lymphomas  studied by immunohistochemistry. Both the BCL6 and ITM2B proteins are expressed ubiquitously. Similar to some other targets of BCL6, a short form of the ITM2B protein generated by alternative splicing induces apoptosis in hematopoietic cell lines. Molecular alterations in the ITM2B gene are associated with two neurodegenerative diseases, Familial British and Familial Danish dementia. ITM2B  dysfunction also may be relevant for the development of Alzheimer's disease. Our  data confirm ITM2B as a target of BCL6 repression in lymphoma. A further understanding of the genes that function as regulators of the ITM2B protein may provide insights for the development of new molecular tools not only for targeted lymphoma therapy but also for the treatment of these dementias.
25555499: !Alzheimer Gene expression profile in cardiovascular disease and preeclampsia: a meta-analysis of the transcriptome based on raw data from human studies deposited in Gene Expression Omnibus. INTRODUCTION: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) and preeclampsia (PE) share common clinical features. We aimed to identify common transcriptomic signatures involved in CVD and PE in humans. METHODS: Meta-analysis of individual raw microarray data deposited in GEO, obtained from blood samples of patients with CVD versus controls and placental samples from women with PE versus healthy women with uncomplicated pregnancies. Annotation of cases versus control samples was taken directly from the microarray documentation. Genes that showed a significant differential expression in the majority of experiments were selected for subsequent analysis. Hypergeometric gene list analysis was performed using Bioconductor GOstats package. Bioinformatic analysis was performed in PANTHER. RESULTS: Seven studies in CVD and 5 studies in PE were eligible for meta-analysis. A total of 181 genes were found to be differentially expressed in  microarray studies investigating gene expression in blood samples obtained from patients with CVD compared to controls and 925 genes were differentially expressed between preeclamptic and healthy placentas. Among these differentially  expressed genes, 22 were common between CVD and PE. DISCUSSION: Bioinformatic analysis of these genes revealed oxidative stress, p-53 pathway feedback, inflammation mediated by chemokines and cytokines, interleukin signaling, B-cell  activation, PDGF signaling, Wnt signaling, integrin signaling and Alzheimer disease pathways to be involved in the pathophysiology of both CVD and PE. Metabolism, development, response to stimulus, immune response and cell communication were the associated biologic processes in both conditions. Gene set enrichment analysis showed the following overlapping pathways between CVD and PE: TGF-beta-signaling, apoptosis, graft-versus-host disease, allograft rejection, chemokine signaling, steroid hormone synthesis, type I and II diabetes mellitus,  VEGF signaling, pathways in cancer, GNRH signaling, Huntingtons disease and Notch signaling. CONCLUSION: CVD and PE share same common traits in their gene expression profile indicating common pathways in their pathophysiology.
25549552: !Alzheimer Synthesis and molecular modelling studies of 8-arylpyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amines as multitarget Ser/Thr kinases inhibitors. This paper reports the design and synthesis of a novel series of 8-arylpyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amines via microwave-assisted multi-step synthesis. A common precursor of the whole series, 3-amino-5-bromothieno[2,3-b]pyridine-2-carbonitrile, was rapidly synthesized in one step from commercially-available 5-bromo-2-chloronicotinonitrile. Formylation with DMF-DMA led to (E)-N'-(5-bromo-2-cyanothieno[2,3-b]pyridin-3-yl)-N,N-dimethylformimidamide (4) which was conveniently functionalized at position 8 by palladium-catalyzed Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling to introduce a heteroaromatic ring. High-temperature formamide-mediated cyclization of the cyanoamidine intermediate  gave seventeen 8-arylpyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amines. The inhibitory potency of the final products was evaluated against five protein kinases (CDK5/p25, CK1delta/epsilon, GSK3alpha/beta, DYRK1A and CLK1) and revealed that 8-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)pyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amine 1g specifically inhibits CK1delta/epsilon and CLK1 (220 and 88 nM, respectively) while its 7-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)pyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amine isomer 10 showed no activity on the panel of tested kinases. Molecular modelling  of 10 and 1g in the ATP binding sites of CK1delta/epsilon and CLK1 showed that functionalization at position 7 of pyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amines is likely to induce a steric clash on the CK1delta/epsilon P-loop and thus a complete loss of inhibitory activity.
25546749: !Alzheimer 7th International Immunoglobulin Conference: Neurology. Immunoglobulin (Ig) therapy has been used and studied as a treatment for a variety of neurological conditions for decades. In some of these disorders Ig therapy has a significant role as a first-line treatment. This session explores the use of Ig therapy in immune-mediated peripheral neuropathies and various central nervous system (CNS) diseases. Informative practice points relating to the management and treatment of these diseases are discussed. Potential future neurological indications for Ig therapy, as well as data on efficacy and possible mechanisms of action, are also presented. In peripheral immune-mediated neuropathies, data show good response rates to Ig therapy and it is often used as a first-line treatment. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) and subcutaneous immunoglobulin (SCIg) are both well tolerated, but dose and dosing frequency should be based on individual clinical responses. In Alzheimer's disease, although clinical data show no significant differences between IVIg and placebo,  biomarker studies indicate that plasma-derived antibodies may be involved in clearance of amyloid aggregates from the brain. Data suggest that the use of high IVIg doses in early-stage Alzheimer's treatment may warrant further investigation. Ig therapy is considered a valuable option for autoimmune encephalitis, an antibody-mediated CNS disease. Combination treatment with IVIg and corticosteroids shows promising results and is proposed as a first-line treatment in these disorders. Until recently, very little was understood about the pathogenesis of chronic pain disorders. Data now indicate that perpetuation of the pain response may be underpinned by central immune activation. Some data suggest that Ig therapy may mitigate this effect, with good response rates in a number of studies, but these data need confirmation.
25543667: !Alzheimer Genetic diversity is a predictor of mortality in humans. BACKGROUND: It has been well-established, both by population genetics theory and  direct observation in many organisms, that increased genetic diversity provides a survival advantage. However, given the limitations of both sample size and genome-wide metrics, this hypothesis has not been comprehensively tested in human populations. Moreover, the presence of numerous segregating small effect alleles  that influence traits that directly impact health directly raises the question as to whether global measures of genomic variation are themselves associated with human health and disease. RESULTS: We performed a meta-analysis of 17 cohorts followed prospectively, with a combined sample size of 46,716 individuals, including a total of 15,234 deaths. We find a significant association between increased heterozygosity and survival (P = 0.03). We estimate that within a single population, every standard deviation of heterozygosity an individual has over the mean decreases that person's risk of death by 1.57%. CONCLUSIONS: This effect was consistent between European and African ancestry cohorts, men and women, and major causes of death (cancer and cardiovascular disease), demonstrating the broad positive impact of genomic diversity on human survival.
25538615: !Alzheimer Detection of bacterial antigens and Alzheimer's disease-like pathology in the central nervous system of BALB/c mice following intranasal infection with a laboratory isolate of Chlamydia pneumoniae. Pathology consistent with that observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has previously been documented following intranasal infection of normal wild-type mice with Chlamydia pneumoniae (Cpn) isolated from an AD brain (96-41). In the current study, BALB/c mice were intranasally infected with a laboratory strain of Cpn, AR-39, and brain and olfactory bulbs were obtained at 1-4 months post-infection (pi). Immunohistochemistry for amyloid beta or Cpn antigens was performed on sections from brains of infected or mock-infected mice. Chlamydia-specific immunolabeling was identified in olfactory bulb tissues and in cerebrum of AR-39 infected mice. The Cpn specific labeling was most prominent at  1 month pi and the greatest burden of amyloid deposition was noted at 2 months pi, whereas both decreased at 3 and 4 months. Viable Cpn was recovered from olfactory bulbs of 3 of 3 experimentally infected mice at 1 and 3 months pi, and  in 2 of 3 mice at 4 months pi. In contrast, in cortical tissues of infected mice  at 1 and 4 months pi no viable organism was obtained. At 3 months pi, only 1 of 3 mice had a measurable burden of viable Cpn from the cortical tissues. Mock-infected mice (0 of 3) had no detectable Cpn in either olfactory bulbs or cortical tissues. These data indicate that the AR-39 isolate of Cpn establishes a limited infection predominantly in the olfactory bulbs of BALB/c mice. Although infection with the laboratory strain of Cpn promotes deposition of amyloid beta,  this appears to resolve following reduction of the Cpn antigen burden over time.  Our data suggest that infection with the AR-39 laboratory isolate of Cpn results  in a different course of amyloid beta deposition and ultimate resolution than that observed following infection with the human AD-brain Cpn isolate, 96-41. These data further support that there may be differences, possibly in virulence factors, between Cpn isolates in the generation of sustainable AD pathology.
25537267: !Alzheimer Novel tacrine-grafted Ugi adducts as multipotent anti-Alzheimer drugs: a synthetic renewal in tacrine-ferulic acid hybrids. Herein we describe the design, multicomponent synthesis, and biological, molecular modeling and ADMET studies, as well as in vitro PAMPA-blood-brain barrier (BBB) analysis of new tacrine-ferulic acid hybrids (TFAHs). We identified (E)-3-(hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-N-{8[(7-methoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroacridin-9-yl)am ino]octyl}-N-[2-(naphthalen-2-ylamino)2-oxoethyl]acrylamide (TFAH 10 n) as a particularly interesting multipotent compound that shows moderate and completely  selective inhibition of human butyrylcholinesterase (IC50 =68.2 nM), strong antioxidant activity (4.29 equiv trolox in an oxygen radical absorbance capacity  (ORAC) assay), and good beta-amyloid (Abeta) anti-aggregation properties (65.6 %  at 1:1 ratio); moreover, it is able to permeate central nervous system (CNS) tissues, as determined by PAMPA-BBB assay. Notably, even when tested at very high concentrations, TFAH 10 n easily surpasses the other TFAHs in hepatotoxicity profiling (59.4 % cell viability at 1000 muM), affording good neuroprotection against toxic insults such as Abeta1-40 , Abeta1-42 , H2 O2 , and oligomycin A/rotenone on SH-SY5Y cells, at 1 muM. The results reported herein support the development of new multipotent TFAH derivatives as potential drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
25533204: !Alzheimer Convergent genetic and expression data implicate immunity in Alzheimer's disease. BACKGROUND: Late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) is heritable with 20 genes showing genome-wide association in the International Genomics of Alzheimer's Project (IGAP). To identify the biology underlying the disease, we extended these genetic data in a pathway analysis. METHODS: The ALIGATOR and GSEA algorithms were used in the IGAP data to identify associated functional pathways and correlated gene expression networks in human brain. RESULTS: ALIGATOR identified  an excess of curated biological pathways showing enrichment of association. Enriched areas of biology included the immune response (P = 3.27 x 10(-12) after  multiple testing correction for pathways), regulation of endocytosis (P = 1.31 x  10(-11)), cholesterol transport (P = 2.96 x 10(-9)), and proteasome-ubiquitin activity (P = 1.34 x 10(-6)). Correlated gene expression analysis identified four significant network modules, all related to the immune response (corrected P = .002-.05). CONCLUSIONS: The immune response, regulation of endocytosis, cholesterol transport, and protein ubiquitination represent prime targets for AD  therapeutics.
25529145: !Alzheimer Neuroprotective activity and acetylcholinesterase inhibition of five Amaryllidaceae species: a comparative study. AIMS: Amaryllidaceae alkaloids exhibit a wide range of physiological effects, of  which the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activity is the most relevant. However, scientific evidence related to their neuroprotective effectiveness against glutamate-induced toxicity has been lacking. Thus, the purpose of this study was to conduct a comparative study of the neuroprotective activity and the  AChE inhibitory activity of species of Amaryllidaceae. MAIN METHODS: The neuroprotective activity against glutamate-induced toxicity was measured in rat cortical neurons and the Ellman method was employed for the quantification of acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity of alkaloidal extracts of five species of Amaryllidaceae (Crinum jagus, Crinum bulbispermum, Hippeastrum barbatum, Hippeastrum puniceum and Zephyranthes carinata). The alkaloid Amaryllidaceae patterns based on GC/MS analyses were also investigated. KEY FINDINGS: The results showed that the alkaloidal extract from C. jagus presented a high neuroprotective activity in both pre- and post-treatments against a glutamate excitotoxic stimulus. Furthermore, the alkaloid extracts from C. jagus and Z. carinata revealed an inhibitory activity of AChE from the electric eel with IC50  values of 18.28+/-0.29 and 17.96+/-1.22mug/mL, respectively. In addition, 46 alkaloids were detected by GC/MS, and 20 of them were identified based on their mass spectra and retention index. The results suggest that the neuroprotective effects might be associated with lycorine and crinine-type alkaloids, whereas the acetylcholinesterase enzyme inhibitory activity could be related to galanthamine  and lycorine-type alkaloids, although not based on synergistic processes. SIGNIFICANCE: In summary, Amaryllidaceae species are sources of alkaloids with potential use for Alzheimer's disease.
25523365: !Alzheimer Pyrazine derivatives: a patent review (June 2012 - present). INTRODUCTION: Pyrazine is a member of 1,4-diazines, which constitute an important class of heterocycles. Various pyrazine derivatives have been synthesized and successfully evaluated as agents with diverse pharmacological effects (including  but not limited to antiproliferative, anti-infective, and effects on cardiovascular or nervous system) and some of them have become clinically used drugs worldwide. AREA COVERED: This review is a survey of important patents on pyrazine derivatives with pharmacological activity published in the period June 2012 - July 2014. The patent databases SciFinder and esp@cenet were used to locate patent applications. EXPERT OPINION: Pyrazine derivatives possess numerous noteworthy pharmacological effects, including antimycobacterial, antibacterial, antifungal, antidiabetic, diuretic, anticancer, antiviral, hypnotic, and analgesic. The class of pyrazine-based candidate drugs has experienced a rapid growth both in absolute numbers of investigated compounds and in the spectrum of  diverse biological activities. We expect that several of these compounds will add to existing pharmaceuticals in the very near future. According to the number of compounds and filed patents, the most promising areas are: i) inhibitors of protein kinases (applicable as antiproliferatives); and ii) inhibitors of beta-secretase (applicable for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease).
25522186: !Alzheimer Computational analysis of the roles of ER-Golgi network in the cell cycle. BACKGROUND: ER-Golgi network plays an important role in the processing, sorting and transport of proteins, and it's also a site for many signaling pathways that  regulate the cell cycle. Accumulating evidence suggests that, the stressed ER and malfunction of Golgi apparatus are associated with the pathogenesis of cancer and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our previous work discovered and verified that altering the expression levels of target SNARE and GEF could modulate the size of Golgi apparatus. Moreover, Golgi's structure and size undergo dramatic changes during the development of several diseases. It is of importance to investigate the roles of ER-Golgi network in the cell cycle progression and some diseases. RESULTS: In  this work, we first develop a computational model to study the ER stress-induced  and Golgi-related apoptosis-survival signaling pathways. Then, we propose and apply both asynchronous and synchronous model checking methods, which extend our  previous verification technique, to automatically and formally analyze the ER-Golgi-regulated signaling pathways in the cell cycle progression through verifying some computation tree temporal logic formulas. CONCLUSIONS: The proposed asynchronous and synchronous verification technique has advantages for large network analysis and verification over traditional simulation methods. Using the model checking method, we verified several Alzheimer's disease and cancer-related properties, and also identified important proteins (NFkappaB, ATF4, ASK1 and TRAF2) in the ER-Golgi network, which might be responsible for the pathogenesis of cancer and AD. Our studies indicate that targeting the ER stress-induced and Golgi-related pathways might serve as potent therapeutic targets for the treatment of cancer and Alzheimer's disease.
25506810: !Alzheimer Synthesis of indazole motifs and their medicinal importance: an overview. Indazoles is an important class of heterocyclic compounds having a wide range of  biological and pharmaceutical applications. There is enormous potential in the synthesis of novel heterocyclic systems to be used as building blocks for the next generation of pharmaceuticals as anti-bacterial, anti-depressant and anti-inflammatory. Fused aromatic 1H and 2H-indazoles are well recognized for anti-hypertensive and anti-cancer properties. The present review focuses on novel routes of their synthesis and various biological activities.
25505410: !Alzheimer Variations in brain DNA. It is assumed that DNA sequences are conserved in the diverse cell types present  in a multicellular organism like the human being. Thus, in order to compare the sequences in the genome of DNA from different individuals, nucleic acid is commonly isolated from a single tissue. In this regard, blood cells are widely used for this purpose because of their availability. Thus blood DNA has been used to study genetic familiar diseases that affect other tissues and organs, such as  the liver, heart, and brain. While this approach is valid for the identification  of familial diseases in which mutations are present in parental germinal cells and, therefore, in all the cells of a given organism, it is not suitable to identify sporadic diseases in which mutations might occur in specific somatic cells. This review addresses somatic DNA variations in different tissues or cells (mainly in the brain) of single individuals and discusses whether the dogma of DNA invariance between cell types is indeed correct. We will also discuss how single nucleotide somatic variations arise, focusing on the presence of specific  DNA mutations in the brain.
25497098: !Alzheimer Differential regulation of the heat shock factor 1 and DAF-16 by neuronal nhl-1 in the nematode C. elegans. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling (IIS) reduction hyperactivates the transcription factors DAF-16 and heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1), creating long-lived, stress-resistant worms that are protected from proteotoxicity. How DAF-16 executes its distinct functions in  response to IIS reduction is largely obscure. Here, we report that NHL-1, a member of the TRIM-NHL protein family, acts in chemosensory neurons to promote stress resistance in distal tissues by DAF-16 activation but is dispensable for the activation of HSF-1. The expression of nhl-1 is regulated by the IIS, defining a neuronal regulatory circuit that controls the organismal stress response. The knockdown of nhl-1 protects nematodes that express the Alzheimer-disease-associated Abeta peptide from proteotoxicity but has no effect  on lifespan. Our findings indicate that DAF-16- and HSF-1-regulated heat-responsive mechanisms are differentially controlled by neurons and show that one neuronal protein can be involved in the activation of different stress responses in remote tissues.
25491510: !Alzheimer Amyloid-beta precursor protein promotes cell proliferation and motility of advanced breast cancer. BACKGROUND: Amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) is a highly conserved single transmembrane protein that has been linked to Alzheimer disease. Recently, the increased expression of APP in multiple types of cancers has been reported where  it has significant correlation with the cancer cell proliferation. However, the function of APP in the pathogenesis of breast cancer has not previously been determined. In this study, we studied the pathological role of APP in breast cancer and revealed its potential mechanism. METHODS: The expression level of APP in multiple breast cancer cell lines was measured by Western blot analysis and the breast cancer tissue microarray was utilized to analyze the expression pattern of APP in human patient specimens. To interrogate the functional role of  APP in cell growth and apoptosis, the effect of APP knockdown in MDA-MB-231 cells were analyzed. Specifically, multiple signal transduction pathways and functional alterations linked to cell survival and motility were examined in in vivo animal  model as well as in vitro cell culture with the manipulation of APP expression. RESULTS: We found that the expression of APP is increased in mouse and human breast cancer cell lines, especially in the cell line possessing higher metastatic potential. Moreover, the analysis of human breast cancer tissues revealed a significant correlation between the level of APP and tumor development. Knockdown of APP (APP-kd) in breast cancer cells caused the retardation of cell growth in vitro and in vivo, with both the induction of p27(kip1) and caspase-3-mediated apoptosis. APP-kd cells also had higher sensitivity to treatment of chemotherapeutic agents, TRAIL and 5-FU. Such anti-tumorigenic effects shown in the APP-kd cells partially came from reduced pro-survival AKT activation in response to IGF-1, leading to activation of key signaling regulators for cell growth, survival, and pro-apoptotic events such as  GSK3-beta and FOXO1. Notably, knock-down of APP in metastatic breast cancer cells limited cell migration and invasion ability upon stimulation of IGF-1. CONCLUSION: The present data strongly suggest that the increase of APP expression is causally linked to tumorigenicity as well as invasion of aggressive breast cancer and, therefore, the targeting of APP may be an effective therapy for breast cancer.
25484187: !Alzheimer Implications of polyadenylation in health and disease. Polyadenylation is the RNA processing step that completes the maturation of nearly all eukaryotic mRNAs. It is a two-step nuclear process that involves an endonucleolytic cleavage of the pre-mRNA at the 3'-end and the polymerization of  a polyadenosine (polyA) tail, which is fundamental for mRNA stability, nuclear export and efficient translation during development. The core molecular machinery responsible for the definition of a polyA site includes several recognition, cleavage and polyadenylation factors that identify and act on a given polyA signal present in a pre-mRNA, usually an AAUAAA hexamer or similar sequence. This mechanism is tightly regulated by other cis-acting elements and trans-acting factors, and its misregulation can cause inefficient gene expression and may ultimately lead to disease. The majority of genes generate multiple mRNAs as a result of alternative polyadenylation in the 3'-untranslated region. The variable lengths of the 3' untranslated regions created by alternative polyadenylation are a recognizable target for differential regulation and clearly affect the fate of  the transcript, ultimately modulating the expression of the gene. Over the past few years, several studies have highlighted the importance of polyadenylation and alternative polyadenylation in gene expression and their impact in a variety of physiological conditions, as well as in several illnesses. Abnormalities in the 3'-end processing mechanisms thus represent a common feature among many oncological, immunological, neurological and hematological disorders, but slight  imbalances can lead to the natural establishment of a specific cellular state. This review addresses the key steps of polyadenylation and alternative polyadenylation in different cellular conditions and diseases focusing on the molecular effectors that ensure a faultless pre-mRNA 3' end formation.
25482632: !Alzheimer The role of proteases in regulating Eph/ephrin signaling. Proteases regulate a myriad of cell functions, both in normal and disease states. In addition to protein turnover, they regulate a range of signaling processes, including those mediated by Eph receptors and their ephrin ligands. A variety of  proteases is reported to directly cleave Ephs and/or ephrins under different conditions, to promote receptor and/or ligand shedding, and regulate receptor/ligand internalisation and signaling. They also cleave other adhesion proteins in response to Eph-ephrin interactions, to indirectly facilitate Eph-mediated functions. Proteases thus contribute to Eph/ephrin mediated changes  in cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, in cell morphology and in cell migration and invasion, in a manner which appears to be tightly regulated by, and co-ordinated with, Eph signaling. This review summarizes the current literature describing the function and regulation of protease activities during Eph/ephrin-mediated cell signaling.
25482235: !Alzheimer A second-generation Bacillus cell factory for rare inositol production. Some rare inositol stereoisomers are known to exert specific health-promoting effects, including scyllo-inositol (SI), which is a promising therapeutic agent for Alzheimer disease. We recently reported a Bacillus subtilis cell factory that performed the efficient production of SI from the cheapest and most abundant isomer myo-inositol (MI). In the cell factory all "useless" genes involved in MI  and SI metabolism were deleted and overexpression of the key enzymes, IolG and IolW, was appended. It converted 10 g/L MI into the same amount of SI in 48 h of  cultivation. In this addendum, we discuss further improvement in the cell factory and its possible applications.
25481814: !Alzheimer Aspartic protease inhibitors containing tertiary alcohol transition-state mimics. Aspartic proteases (APs) are a class of enzymes engaged in the proteolytic digestion of peptide substrates. APs play important roles in physiological and infectious pathways, making them plausible drug targets. For instance in the treatment of HIV infections, access to an efficient combination of protease and reverse transcriptase inhibitors have changed a terminal illness to a chronic but manageable disease. However, the benefits have been limited due to the emergence  of drug resistant viral strains, poor pharmacokinetic properties of peptidomimetic inhibitors and adverse effects associated with the treatment. In the 1980s, D. Rich and co-workers proposed a novel strategy for the development of AP inhibitors by replacing the secondary hydroxyl group with a tertiary alcohol as part of the transition state (TS) mimicking moiety. This strategy has  been extensively explored over the last decade with a common belief that masking  of the polar group, e.g. by intramolecular hydrogen bonding, has the potential to enhance transcellular transport. This is the first review presenting the advances of AP inhibitors comprising a tertiary hydroxyl group. The inhibitors have been classified into different tert-hydroxy TS mimics and their design strategies, synthesis, biological activities, structure-activity-relationships and X-ray structures are discussed.
25477508: !Alzheimer Phosphorylation and inactivation of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) by  dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (Dyrk1A). Glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) participates in many cellular processes, and its dysregulation has been implicated in a wide range of diseases  such as obesity, type 2 diabetes, cancer, and Alzheimer disease. Inactivation of  GSK3beta by phosphorylation at specific residues is a primary mechanism by which  this constitutively active kinase is controlled. However, the regulatory mechanism of GSK3beta is not fully understood. Dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (Dyrk1A) has multiple biological functions that occur as the result of phosphorylation of diverse proteins that are involved in metabolism, synaptic function, and neurodegeneration. Here we show that GSK3beta directly interacts with and is phosphorylated by Dyrk1A. Dyrk1A-mediated phosphorylation at the Thr(356) residue inhibits GSK3beta activity. Dyrk1A transgenic (TG) mice are lean and resistant to diet-induced obesity because of reduced fat mass, which shows an inverse correlation with the effect of GSK3beta  on obesity. This result suggests a potential in vivo association between GSK3beta and Dyrk1A regarding the mechanism underlying obesity. The level of Thr(P)(356)-GSK3beta was higher in the white adipose tissue of Dyrk1A TG mice compared with control mice. GSK3beta activity was differentially regulated by phosphorylation at different sites in adipose tissue depending on the type of diet the mice were fed. Furthermore, overexpression of Dyrk1A suppressed the expression of adipogenic proteins, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, in 3T3-L1 cells and in young Dyrk1A TG mice fed a chow diet. Taken together, these results reveal a novel regulatory mechanism for GSK3beta activity and indicate that overexpression of Dyrk1A may contribute to the obesity-resistant phenotype through phosphorylation and inactivation of GSK3beta.
25477292: !Alzheimer NMDA-receptor antagonists block B-cell function but foster IL-10 production in BCR/CD40-activated B cells. BACKGROUND: B cells are important effectors and regulators of adaptive and innate immune responses, inflammation and autoimmunity, for instance in anti-NMDA-receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis. Thus, pharmacological modulation of B-cell function could be an effective regimen in therapeutic strategies. Since the non-competitive NMDAR antagonist memantine is clinically applied to treat advanced Alzheimer`s disease and ketamine is supposed to improve the course of resistant depression, it is important to know how these drugs affect B-cell function. RESULTS: Non-competitive NMDAR antagonists impaired B-cell receptor (BCR)- and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced B-cell proliferation, reduced B-cell  migration towards the chemokines SDF-1alpha and CCL21 and downregulated IgM and IgG secretion. Mechanistically, these effects were mediated through a blockade of Kv1.3 and KCa3.1 potassium channels and resulted in an attenuated Ca(2+)-flux and activation of Erk1/2, Akt and NFATc1. Interestingly, NMDAR antagonist treatment increased the frequency of IL-10 producing B cells after BCR/CD40 stimulation. CONCLUSIONS: Non-competitive NMDAR antagonists attenuate BCR and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) B-cell signaling and effector function and can foster IL-10 production. Consequently, NMDAR antagonists may be useful to target B cells in autoimmune diseases or pathological systemic inflammation. The drugs' additional  side effects on B cells should be considered in treatments of neuronal disorders  with NMDAR antagonists.
25470254: !Alzheimer Inflammation-induced tumorigenesis in mouse colon is caspase-6 independent. Caspases play an important role in maintaining tissue homeostasis. Active Caspase-6 (Casp6) is considered a novel therapeutic target against Alzheimer disease (AD) since it is present in AD pathological brain lesions, associated with age-dependent cognitive decline, and causes age-dependent cognitive impairment in the mouse brain. However, active Casp6 is highly expressed and activated in normal human colon epithelial cells raising concerns that inhibiting Casp6 in AD may promote colon carcinogenesis. Furthermore, others have reported rare mutations of Casp6 in human colorectal cancers and an effect of Casp6 on apoptosis and metastasis of colon cancer cell lines. Here, we investigated the role of Casp6 in inflammation-associated azoxymethane/dextran sulfate sodium (AOM/DSS) colon cancer in Casp6-overexpressing and -deficient mice. In wild-type  mice, AOM/DSS-induced tumors had significantly higher Casp6 mRNA, protein and activity levels compared to normal adjacent colon tissues. Increased human Casp6  or absence of Casp6 expression in mice colon epithelial cells did not change colonic tumor multiplicity, burden or distribution. Nevertheless, the incidence of hyperplasia was slightly reduced in human Casp6-overexpressing colons and increased in Casp6 null colons. Overexpression of Casp6 did not affect the grade  of the tumors while all tumors in heterozygous or homozygous Casp6 null colons were high grade compared to only 50% high grade in wild-type mice. Casp6 levels did not alter cellular proliferation and apoptosis. These results suggest that Casp6 is unlikely to be involved in colitis-associated tumors.
25465297: !Alzheimer Roles and regulation of neutral sphingomyelinase-2 in cellular and pathological processes. Our understanding of the functions of ceramide signaling has advanced tremendously over the past decade. In this review, we focus on the roles and regulation of neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase2), an enzyme that generates the  bioactive lipid ceramide through the hydrolysis of the membrane lipid sphingomyelin. A large body of work has now implicated nSMase2 in a diverse set of cellular functions, physiological processes, and disease pathologies. We discuss different aspects of this enzyme's regulation from transcriptional, post-translational, and biochemical. Furthermore, we highlight nSMase2 involvement in cellular processes including inflammatory signaling, exosome generation, cell growth, and apoptosis, which in turn play important roles in pathologies such as cancer metastasis, Alzheimer's disease, and other organ systems disorders. Lastly, we examine avenues where targeted nSMase2-inhibition may be clinically beneficial in disease scenarios.
25463479: !Alzheimer Homeostasis of phospholipids - The level of phosphatidylethanolamine tightly adapts to changes in ethanolamine plasmalogens. Ethanolamine plasmalogens constitute a group of ether glycerophospholipids that,  due to their unique biophysical and biochemical properties, are essential components of mammalian cellular membranes. Their importance is emphasized by the consequences of defects in plasmalogen biosynthesis, which in humans cause the fatal disease rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata (RCDP). In the present lipidomic study, we used fibroblasts derived from RCDP patients, as well as brain tissue from plasmalogen-deficient mice, to examine the compensatory mechanisms of lipid homeostasis in response to plasmalogen deficiency. Our results show that phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), a diacyl glycerophospholipid, which like ethanolamine plasmalogens carries the head group ethanolamine, is the main player in the adaptation to plasmalogen insufficiency. PE levels were tightly adjusted to the amount of ethanolamine plasmalogens so that their combined levels were kept constant. Similarly, the total amount of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in ethanolamine phospholipids was maintained upon plasmalogen deficiency. However, we found an increased incorporation of arachidonic acid at the expense of docosahexaenoic acid in the PE fraction of plasmalogen-deficient tissues. These data show that under conditions of reduced plasmalogen levels, the amount of total ethanolamine phospholipids is precisely maintained by a rise in PE. At the same time, a shift in the ratio between omega-6 and omega-3 PUFAs occurs, which might have unfavorable, long-term biological consequences. Therefore, our findings are not only of interest for RCDP but may have more widespread implications also for other disease conditions, as for example Alzheimer's disease, that have been associated with a decline in plasmalogens.
25462993: !Alzheimer Ionic liquid mediated synthesis and molecular docking study of novel aromatic embedded Schiff bases as potent cholinesterase inhibitors. Novel aromatic embedded Schiff bases have been synthesized in ionic liquid [bmim]Br and evaluated in vitro for their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) enzymes inhibitory activities. Among the newly synthesized compounds, 5f, 5h and 7j displayed higher AChE enzyme inhibitory activities than standard drug, galanthamine, with IC50 values of 1.88, 2.05 and 2.03muM, respectively. Interestingly, all the compounds except for compound 5c displayed higher BChE inhibitories than standard with IC50 values ranging from 3.49 to 19.86muM. Molecular docking analysis for 5f and 7j possessing the most potent AChE and BChE inhibitory activities, disclosed their binding interaction templates to the active site of AChE and BChE enzymes, respectively.
25462245: !Alzheimer New tetracyclic tacrine analogs containing pyrano[2,3-c]pyrazole: efficient synthesis, biological assessment and docking simulation study. A new series of tacrine-based acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors 7a-l were designed by replacing the benzene ring of tacrine with aryl-dihydropyrano[2,3-c]pyrazole. The poly-functionalized hybrid molecules 7a-l  were efficiently synthesized through multi-component reaction and subsequent Friedlander reaction between the obtained pyrano[2,3-c]pyrazoles and cyclohexanone. Most of target compounds showed potent and selective anti-AChE activity at sub-micromolar range. The most potent compound 7h bearing a 3,4-dimethoxyphenyl group was more active than reference drug tacrine. The representative compound 7h could significantly protect neurons against oxidative  stress as potent as quercetin at low concentrations. The docking study of compound 7h with AChE enzyme revealed that the (R)-enantiomer binds preferably to CAS while the (S)-enantiomer prone to be a PAS binder.
25455483: !Alzheimer Discovery of potent iminoheterocycle BACE1 inhibitors. The synthesis of a series of iminoheterocycles and their structure-activity relationships (SAR) as inhibitors of the aspartyl protease BACE1 will be detailed. An effort to access the S3 subsite directly from the S1 subsite initially yielded compounds with sub-micromolar potency. A subset of compounds from this effort unexpectedly occupied a different binding site and displayed excellent BACE1 affinities. Select compounds from this subset acutely lowered Abeta40 levels upon subcutaneous and oral administration to rats.
25451577: !Alzheimer Neuroprotective effects of macranthoin G from Eucommia ulmoides against hydrogen  peroxide-induced apoptosis in PC12 cells via inhibiting NF-kappaB activation. Oxidative stress-mediated cellular injury has been considered as a major cause of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases. The scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS) mediated by antioxidants may be a potential strategy for retarding the disease's progression. Macranthoin G (MCG),  isolated from Eucommia ulmoides, is a derivative from chlorogenic acid methyl ester and caffeic acid. This study is aimed to investigate the protective role of MCG against the cytotoxicity induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and to elucidate potential protective mechanisms in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. The results showed that the treatment of PC12 cells with MCG prior to H2O2 exposure effectively increased the cell viability, and stabilized the mitochondria membrane potential (MMP); furthermore, it enhanced the antioxidant enzyme activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and the levels of intracellular glutathione (GSH); it also decreased the malondialdehyde (MDA) content, intracellular ROS, caspase-3 activation, as well as cell apoptosis. In addition, the MCG treatment minimized the cell injury by H2O2 via down-regulation of the NF-kappaB pathway as well as activation of phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha, p38, and the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). These results showed that that MCG is promising as a potential therapeutic agent for neurodegenerative diseases induced by oxidative damage and should be encouraged for further research.
25451329: !Alzheimer Development of a CCK1R-membrane nanoparticle as a fish-out tool for bioactive peptides. The cholecystokinin receptor type 1 (CCK1R) is a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that is involved in several biological processes including the regulation  of the secretion of digestive enzymes. The peptide hormone cholecystokinin (CCK)  binds to CCK1R, which is an important pharmacological target for several diseases, including obesity. Interestingly, nutritional dietary peptides also appear to activate CCK1R, and may play a role in CCK1R signaling in the gut. In this study, a novel technique to screen for CCK1R ligands based on affinity-selection is described. Functional expressed CCK1R is reconstituted into membrane nanoparticles called NABBs (nanoscale apo-lipoprotein bound bilayers). NABBs are native-like bilayer membrane systems for incorporation of GPCRs. CCK1R-NABBs were characterized using a fluorescently labeled CCK analog and can be used as a cutting-edge technology to screen for CCK1R ligands using affinity-selection mass spectrometry.
25451064: !Alzheimer Viral capsid assembly as a model for protein aggregation diseases: Active processes catalyzed by cellular assembly machines comprising novel drug targets. Viruses can be conceptualized as self-replicating multiprotein assemblies, containing coding nucleic acids. Viruses have evolved to exploit host cellular components including enzymes to ensure their replicative life cycle. New findings indicate that also viral capsid proteins recruit host factors to accelerate their assembly. These assembly machines are RNA-containing multiprotein complexes whose composition is governed by allosteric sites. In the event of viral infection, the assembly machines are recruited to support the virus over the host and are modified to achieve that goal. Stress granules and processing bodies may represent collections of such assembly machines, readily visible by microscopy but biochemically labile and difficult to isolate by fractionation. We hypothesize that the assembly of protein multimers such as encountered in neurodegenerative or other protein conformational diseases, is also catalyzed by  assembly machines. In the case of viral infection, the assembly machines have been modified by the virus to meet the virus' need for rapid capsid assembly rather than host homeostasis. In the case of the neurodegenerative diseases, it is the monomers and/or low n oligomers of the so-called aggregated proteins that  are substrates of assembly machines. Examples for substrates are amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) and tau in Alzheimer's disease, alpha-synuclein in Parkinson's disease, prions in the prion diseases, Disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) in subsets of chronic mental illnesses, and others. A likely continuum between virus capsid assembly and cell-to-cell transmissibility of aggregated proteins is remarkable. Protein aggregation diseases may represent dysfunction and dysregulation of these assembly machines analogous to the aberrations induced by  viral infection in which cellular homeostasis is pathologically reprogrammed. In  this view, as for viral infection, reset of assembly machines to normal homeostasis should be the goal of protein aggregation therapeutics. A key basis for the commonality between viral and neurodegenerative disease aggregation is a  broader definition of assembly as more than just simple aggregation, particularly suited for the crowded cytoplasm. The assembly machines are collections of proteins that catalytically accelerate an assembly reaction that would occur spontaneously but too slowly to be relevant in vivo. Being an enzyme complex with a functional allosteric site, appropriated for a non-physiological purpose (e.g.  viral infection or conformational disease), these assembly machines present a superior pharmacological target because inhibition of their active site will amplify an effect on their substrate reaction. Here, we present this hypothesis based on recent proof-of-principle studies against Abeta assembly relevant in Alzheimer's disease.
25446614: !Alzheimer Compounds blocking methylglyoxal-induced protein modification and brain endothelial injury. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Elevated levels of reactive carbonyl species such as methylglyoxal triggers carbonyl stress and activates a series of inflammatory responses leading to accelerated vascular damage. Carbonyl stress is implicated in conditions and diseases like aging, diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular diseases. Our aim was to examine the effects of methylglyoxal on human hCMEC/D3 brain endothelial cells and search for protective molecules to prevent endothelial damage. METHODS: Methylglyoxal-induced modification of albumin was tested in a cell-free assay. Endothelial cell viability was monitored by impedance measurement in real-time. The following compounds were tested in cell-free and viability assays: beta-alanine, all-trans-retinoic acid, aminoguanidine, ascorbic acid, L-carnosine, GW-3333, indapamide, piracetam, gamma-tocopherol, U0126, verapamil. Barrier function of brain endothelial monolayers was characterized by permeability measurements and visualized by immunohistochemistry for beta-catenin. mRNA expression level of 60 selected blood-brain barrier-related genes in hCMEC/D3 cells was investigated by a custom  Taqman gene array. RESULTS: Methylglyoxal treatment significantly elevated protein modification, exerted toxicity, reduced barrier integrity, increased permeability for markers FITC-dextran and albumin and caused higher production of reactive oxygen species in hCMEC/D3 endothelial cells. Changes in the mRNA expression of 30 genes coding tight junction proteins, transporters and enzymes were observed in methylglyoxal-treated hCMEC/D3 cells. From the tested 11 compounds only all-trans-retinoic acid, an antioxidant and antiglycation agent, U0126, a MAP/ERK kinase inhibitor and aminoguanidine attenuated methylglyoxal-induced damage in hCMEC/D3 cells. CONCLUSIONS: All-trans-retinoic acid and inhibition of the MAP/ERK signaling pathway may be protective in carbonyl stress induced brain endothelial damage.
25444248: !Alzheimer Derivatization oriented strategy for enhanced detection of valproic acid and its  metabolites in human plasma and detection of valproic acid induced reactive oxygen species associated protein modifications by mass spectrometry. Valproic acid (VA) is a branch chain fatty acid that is widely used to treat epilepsy and convulsion. Recent studies show that VA can also be used to treat migraine headaches, bipolar disorder, and other diseases such as Alzheimer disease. However, clinical treatment with VA may cause hepatotoxicity, bone marrow suppression, and hyperammonemic encephalopathy. Valproic acid is also a known human teratogen. Because of the potential cytotoxic effects of VA and its major metabolite, 2-propyl 4-pentenoic acid (4-ene VA), VA plasma concentrations  must be closely monitored during clinical applications of VA in order to avoid severe side effects. This study developed a derivatization oriented strategy for  increasing sensitivity in detecting VA in quantities as low as 20muL and its metabolites in human plasma. After micro-scale liquid-liquid extraction (MLLE) and micro-scale derivatization, VA and 4-ene VA were quantitated by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of- fl ight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). The linear ranges were 10-1000muM for VA and 5-500muM for 4-ene VA. All relative standard deviation (RSD) and relative error (RE) values obtained in intra- and inter-day analyses of VA and 4-ene VA were below 8%. The structures of VA and its metabolite derivatives were further identified by nano ultra performance liquid chromatographic system (nanoUPLC) coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Since protein modifications induced by VA were also identifiable by nanoUPLC-MS/MS, these modifications may be useful biological indicators of a toxic reaction during clinical applications of VA.
25442789: !Alzheimer Infusion of human embryonic kidney cell line conditioned medium reverses kainic acid induced hippocampal damage in mice. BACKGROUND AIMS: Hippocampal neurodegeneration is one of the hallmarks in neurological and neurodegenerative diseases such as temporal lobe epilepsy and Alzheimer disease. Human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells are a mixed population of cells, including neurons, and their conditioned medium is enriched with erythropoietin (EPO). Because EPO is a known neuroprotectant, we hypothesized that infusion of HEK cells or HEK-conditioned medium (HEK-CM) may provide neuroprotection against kainic acid (KA)-induced hippocampal damage in mice. METHODS: Adult CF1 mice were treated with KA to induce hippocampal damage. On 3rd and 5th days after KA treatment, HEK cells or HEK-CM was infused intravenously through the tail vein. On the 7th and 8th days after KA treatment, all groups of  mice were subjected to cognitive and depression assessment by use of a novel object recognition test and a forced swim test, respectively. Subsequent to this  assessment, mice were killed and the brain samples were used to assess the histopathology and messenger RNA expression for EPO and B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2). RESULTS: We found that infusion of HEK cells/HEK-CM improves cognitive function and alleviates symptoms of depression. Histological assessment demonstrates complete neuroprotection against KA-mediated excitotoxicity, and the hippocampal cytoarchitecture of HEK cells/HEK-CM treated mice was comparable to normal control mice. HEK cells/HEK-CM treatment could provide neuroprotection by  upregulating the endogenous EPO and Bcl-2 in KA-treated mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our present data demonstrate for the first time that infusion of HEK cells/HEK-CM can prevent excitotoxic hippocampal damage and alleviate consequent behavioral abnormalities.
25437463: !Alzheimer [Extrapancreatic effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists: an open window towards new treatment goals in type 2 diabetes]. The wide ubiquity of GLP-1 receptors in the body has stimulated the search for different extrapancreatic actions of GLP-1 and its receptor agonists. Thus, severe cardioprotective effects directed on myocardial ischaemia and dysfunction  as well as diverse antiaterogenic actions have been reported. Also, native and GLP-1 receptor agonists have demonstrated significant beneficial effects on liver steatosis and fibrosis and on neuronal protection in experimental models of Alzheimer, and Parkinson's disease as well as on cerebral ischaemia. Recent evidences suggest that these drugs may also be useful for prevention and treatment of diabetic retinopathy, nephropathy and peripheral neuropathy. Good results have also been reported in psoriasis. Despite we still need confirmation  that these promising effects can be applied to clinical practice, they offer new  interesting perspectives for treatment of type 2 diabetes associated complications and give to GLP-1 receptor agonists an even more integral position  in diabetes therapy.
25431144: !Alzheimer Preparation, anticholinesterase activity, and docking study of new 2-butenediamide and oxalamide derivatives. Several new oxalamide and 2-butenediamide derivatives have been designed, synthesized and evaluated as the acetyl- and butyryl-cholinesterase inhibitors for Alzheimer's disease. The enzyme inhibitory activity of the synthesized compounds was measured using Ellman's colorimetric method. It was revealed that compound 1a (N,N'-bis-(4-chloro-benzyl)-N,N'-diphenyl-oxalamide) showed maximum activity against BuChE with a half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) = 1.86 microM and compound 2a (but-2-enedioic acid bis-[(4-chloro-benzyl)-phenyl-amide]) exhibited optimum AChE (IC50 = 1.51 microM) inhibition with a high-selectivity index. To better understand the enzyme-inhibitor interaction of the most active compounds towards cholinesterase, molecular modelling studies were carried out. Docking simulations revealed that inhibitors 1a and 2a targeted both the catalytic active site and the peripheral anionic site of 1ACJ and 1P0I.
25427833: !Alzheimer Huperzine A production by Paecilomyces tenuis YS-13, an endophytic fungus isolated from Huperzia serrata. Huperzine A (HupA), a naturally occurring alkaloid in the plant family Huperziaceae, has drawn great interest for its potential application in Alzheimer disease therapy. Our primary objective was to identify alkaloid- and HupA-producing fungi from the Chinese folk herb, Huperzia serrata. We established a rapid and efficient model for screening HupA-producing endophytic fungal strains. The presence of HupA in Paecilomyces tenuis YS-13 was analysed by thin-layer chromatography, high-performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. The fermentation yield of HupA was 21.0 mug/L, and the IC50 of the  crude extract of YS-13 fermentation broth was 1.27 +/- 0.04 mg/mL. This is the first report of P. tenuis as a HupA-producing endophyte isolated from Huperziaceae.
25417106: !Alzheimer Enhancer interaction networks as a means for singular olfactory receptor expression. The transcriptional activation of one out of ?2800 olfactory receptor (OR) alleles is a poorly understood process. Here, we identify a plethora of putative  OR enhancers and study their in vivo activity in olfactory neurons. Distinguished by an unusual epigenetic signature, candidate OR enhancers are characterized by extensive interchromosomal interactions associated with OR transcription and share a similar pattern of transcription factor footprints. In particular, we establish the role of the transcription factor Bptf as a facilitator of both enhancer interactions and OR transcription. Our observations agree with the model whereby OR transcription occurs in the context of multiple interacting enhancers. Disruption of these interchromosomal interactions results in weak and multigenic  OR expression, suggesting that the rare coincidence of numerous enhancers over a  stochastically chosen OR may account for the singularity and robustness in OR transcription.
25409785: !Alzheimer Therapeutic potential of human adipose-derived stem cells in neurological disorders. Stem cell therapy has been noted as a novel strategy to various diseases including neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, stroke, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Huntington's disease that have no effective treatment available to date. The adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs), mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) isolated from adipose tissue, are well known for their pluripotency with the ability to differentiate into various types of cells and immuno-modulatory property. These biological features make ASCs a promising source for regenerative cell therapy in neurological disorders. Here we discuss the recent progress of regenerative therapies in various neurological disorders utilizing ASCs.
25408280: !Alzheimer Perspectives of biologists, epidemiologists and geneticists' controversies in sciences and health system reforms. The global burden of diseases is predicted to increase considerably in the coming decades (GBD project, WHO, 2010 [1]) - WHO-World Bank study, 1991 [2]); for example, the World Alzheimer Report and the UN Declaration on Non-Communicable Diseases estimate that the burden associated with dementia will increase 2-fold by 2030 and 3-4-fold by 2050. Therefore, urgent needs must be met in order to help policy-makers deal with the increasing societal costs of diseases. Recent technologies can facilitate the detection and prevention of mild cases of cognitive impairments, or integrative genomic medicine can target more individualized genetic traits and pedigrees; however, scientists do not necessarily agree: results from a recent population-based study using population  imaging [3] differed from results obtained using integrative genomics approaches  [4], and controversy exists between molecular biologists [5,6] and geneticists [7,8] with respect to asthma genetics. These differences have led to different predictive disease models and can influence the assessment of aging and environmental modifiers. This paper highlights implications for the governance of health systems using current debates on the evolution of these major fields of science. In addition, this paper discusses the potential translation of these models for use in clinical practice, particularly with telemedicine and telecare  dominated by new IT technologies and challenges of science in transition.
25403412: !Alzheimer Localization and differentiation pattern of transplanted human multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells in the brain of bulbectomized mice. Replacement cell therapy with transplantation of stem cells is a promising approach for the therapy of various neurodegenerative diseases, e.g. Alzheimer's  disease. However, the behavior of transplanted cells in the damaged tissue should be thoroughly studied before introduction of this method into clinical practice.  We studied the pathways of migration of human multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells after their systemic transplantation into the brain of bulbectomized mice characterized by the development of Alzheimer-type neurodegenerative process. Immunohistochemical analysis with antibodies to human nuclear antigen (HNA) and immunofluorescent analysis of the results of transplantation of multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells carrying green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene showed that these cells can cross the blood-brain barrier and penetrate into some structures of recipient brain. Analysis of differentiation of transplanted human  cells using antibodies to neurospecific enolase (NSE) or astroglial marker (GFAP) with parallel staining for human nuclear antigen revealed no neural differentiation of transplanted cells in the brains of bulbectomized animals. However, some of these cells differentiated into astrocytes, which brought us to  an assumption on important role of astroglial abnormalities in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
25380591: !Alzheimer Downsizing of lean body mass is a key determinant of Alzheimer's disease. Lean body mass (LBM) encompasses all metabolically active organs distributed into visceral and structural tissue compartments and collecting the bulk of N and K stores of the human body. Transthyretin (TTR) is a plasma protein mainly secreted by the liver within a trimolecular TTR-RBP-retinol complex revealing from birth to old age strikingly similar evolutionary patterns with LBM in health and disease. TTR is also synthesized by the choroid plexus along distinct regulatory  pathways. Chronic dietary methionine (Met) deprivation or cytokine-induced inflammatory disorders generates LBM downsizing following differentiated physiopathological processes. Met-restricted regimens downregulate the transsulfuration cascade causing upstream elevation of homocysteine (Hcy) safeguarding Met homeostasis and downstream drop of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) impairing anti-oxidative capacities. Elderly persons constitute a vulnerable population group exposed to increasing Hcy burden and declining H2S protection, notably in plant-eating communities or in the course of inflammatory illnesses. Appropriate correction of defective protein status and eradication of inflammatory processes may restore an appropriate LBM size allowing the hepatic production of the retinol circulating complex to resume, in contrast with the refractory choroidal TTR secretory process. As a result of improved health status, augmented concentrations of plasma-derived TTR and retinol may reach the  cerebrospinal fluid and dismantle senile amyloid plaques, contributing to the prevention or the delay of the onset of neurodegenerative events in elderly subjects at risk of Alzheimer's disease.
25377320: !Alzheimer Glycosaminoglycans: anticoagulant and nonanticoagulant actions: a short history of symposia held at villa vigoni. Heparin, a sulfated polysaccharide belonging to the family of glycosaminoglycans, was discovered in the beginning of the 20th century and was initially identified  as a procoagulant isolated from liver tissue. After the first application in patients approximately 30 years later, further purification identified the major  as well as minor, but important, component units of the complex chain mixtures constituting heparin and the multiplex actions became a scientific challenge recently. A series of "Glycosaminoglycan symposium-anticoagulant and nonanticoagulant actions" developed over the past 20 years and focused on this topic has published research data in three issues of Seminars in Thrombosis & Hemostasis and in several other international scientific journals. The latest developments on the methods of analysis, the synthesis, the degradation by heparanases and the nonanticoagulant effects in tumor growth, in anti-inflammatory diseases, and in Alzheimer diseases as presented in the 21st symposium are summarized in the present overview on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the journal with special reference to the journal's founding Editor in Chief, Eberhard F. Mammen.
25375876: !Alzheimer 24-hour rhythms of DNA methylation and their relation with rhythms of RNA expression in the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Circadian rhythms modulate the biology of many human tissues, including brain tissues, and are driven by a near 24-hour transcriptional feedback loop. These rhythms are paralleled by 24-hour rhythms of large portions of the transcriptome. The role of dynamic DNA methylation in influencing these rhythms is uncertain. While recent work in Neurospora suggests that dynamic site-specific circadian rhythms of DNA methylation may play a role in modulating the fungal molecular clock, such rhythms and their relationship to RNA expression have not, to our knowledge, been elucidated in mammalian tissues, including human brain tissues. We hypothesized that 24-hour rhythms of DNA methylation exist in the human brain, and play a role in driving 24-hour rhythms of RNA expression. We analyzed DNA methylation levels in post-mortem human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex samples from 738 subjects. We assessed for 24-hour rhythmicity of 420,132 DNA methylation sites throughout the genome by considering methylation levels as a function of clock time of death and parameterizing these data using cosine functions. We determined global statistical significance by permutation. We then related rhythms of DNA methylation with rhythms of RNA expression determined by RNA sequencing. We found evidence of significant 24-hour rhythmicity of DNA methylation. Regions near transcription start sites were enriched for high-amplitude rhythmic DNA methylation sites, which were in turn time locked to  24-hour rhythms of RNA expression of nearby genes, with the nadir of methylation  preceding peak transcript expression by 1-3 hours. Weak ante-mortem rest-activity rhythms were associated with lower amplitude DNA methylation rhythms as were older age and the presence of Alzheimer's disease. These findings support the hypothesis that 24-hour rhythms of DNA methylation, particularly near transcription start sites, may play a role in driving 24-hour rhythms of gene expression in the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and may be affected by age and Alzheimer's disease.
25374107: !Alzheimer Bone marrow-derived macrophages from AbetaPP/PS1 mice are sensitized to the effects of inflammatory stimuli. Macrophages are key cells in tissue defense in the periphery and, under certain circumstances, infiltrate the central nervous system, where they may play a similar role in the brain, perhaps supporting the function of microglia. Macrophages have been shown to adopt different activation states in response to various stimuli. Specifically, when exposed to inflammatory stimuli such as interferon (IFN)gamma, the cells adopt the M1 phenotype, whereas when exposed to  anti-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-4 or IL-13, the M2 phenotype is adopted. While M1 macrophages are associated with tissue defense and destruction of invading pathogens, M2 macrophages are involved in tissue repair and in terminating inflammation. It is well known that an inflammatory microenvironment exists in the brain of aged animals and also in the brain of mice that overexpress amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) and presenilin 1 (PS1; AbetaPP/PS1 mice), a commonly-used model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent studies have revealed that immune cells, including macrophages, infiltrate the brain in both circumstances raising the possibility that these cells adopt the M1 activation state and contribute to the already-existing neuroinflammation. We set out to examine the responses of bone marrow-derived macrophages prepared from wildtype and AbetaPP/PS1 mice and demonstrate that cells from AbetaPP/PS1 mice, even after several days in culture, respond more profoundly to IFNgamma than those from wildtype mice. We suggest that this propensity to respond to M1-polarizing stimuli, together with the described changes in the brain of AbetaPP/PS1 mice, contribute to the development of chronic neuroinflammation.
25364765: !Alzheimer Cardio-miRNAs and onco-miRNAs: circulating miRNA-based diagnostics for non-cancerous and cancerous diseases. Cardiovascular diseases and cancers are the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the world. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that primarily repress target mRNAs. Here, miR-24, miR-125b, miR-195, and miR-214 were selected as representative cardio-miRs that are upregulated in human heart failure. To bridge the gap between miRNA studies in cardiology and oncology, the  targets and functions of these miRNAs in cardiovascular diseases and cancers will be reviewed. ACVR1B, BCL2, BIM, eNOS, FGFR3, JPH2, MEN1, MYC, p16, and ST7L are miR-24 targets that have been experimentally validated in human cells. ARID3B, BAK1, BCL2, BMPR1B, ERBB2, FGFR2, IL6R, MUC1, SITR7, Smoothened, STAT3, TET2, and TP53 are representative miR-125b targets. ACVR2A, BCL2, CCND1, E2F3, GLUT3, MYB,  RAF1, VEGF, WEE1, and WNT7A are representative miR-195 targets. BCL2L2, ss-catenin, BIM, CADM1, EZH2, FGFR1, NRAS, PTEN, TP53, and TWIST1 are representative miR-214 targets. miR-125b is a good cardio-miR that protects cardiomyocytes; miR-195 is a bad cardio-miR that elicits cardiomyopathy and heart failure; miR-24 and miR-214 are bi-functional cardio-miRs. By contrast, miR-24, miR-125b, miR-195, and miR-214 function as oncogenic or tumor suppressor miRNAs in a cancer (sub)type-dependent manner. Circulating miR-24 is elevated in diabetes, breast cancer and lung cancer. Circulating miR-195 is elevated in acute myocardial infarction, breast cancer, prostate cancer and colorectal adenoma. Circulating miR-125b and miR-214 are elevated in some cancers. Cardio-miRs and onco-miRs bear some similarities in functions and circulation profiles. miRNAs regulate WNT, FGF, Hedgehog and other signaling cascades that are involved in orchestration of embryogenesis and homeostasis as well as pathogenesis of human diseases. Because circulating miRNA profiles are modulated by genetic and environmental factors and are dysregulated by genetic and epigenetic alterations  in somatic cells, circulating miRNA association studies (CMASs) within several thousands of cases each for common non-cancerous diseases and major cancers are necessary for miRNA-based diagnostics.
25362514: !Alzheimer BPTF Associated with EMT Indicates Negative Prognosis in Patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays an important role  in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) dissemination. Bromodomain PHD-finger transcription factor (BPTF) could regulate embrogenesis and stem cell differentiation, and it may be involved in tumor progression and EMT. In this study, we aimed to determine BPTF, E-cadherin and vimentin expression in tumor tissues and the clinical significance in relation to HCC. METHODS: The BPTF, vimentin and E-cadherin expression of 106 HCC tissue samples was examined by immunohistochemical staining. RESULTS: BPTF and vimentin showed high expression and E-cadherin showed low expression in HCC. BPTF is associated with the tumor number, vascular invasion, Edmondson-Steiner grade, TNM stage and recurrence (P < 0.05). Vimentin is positively correlated with tumor size, tumor number, vascular  invasion, Edmondson-Steiner grade, TNM stage and recurrence (P < 0.05). E-cadherin is negatively correlated with tumor number, Edmondson-Steiner grade, TNM stage and recurrence (P < 0.05). Survival analysis has shown that high expression of BPTF and vimentin indicates poorer overall and disease-free survival (P < 0.05). Multivariate analysis shows that BPTF is an independent marker for survival prediction (P = 0.015). Additionally, high BPTF expression is correlated with high vimentin expression and low E-cadherin expression (P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: High BPTF expression may be an independent marker for survival prediction in HCC patients and is probably involved in EMT.
25348714: !Alzheimer Functional interactions between NURF and Ctcf regulate gene expression. Gene expression frequently requires chromatin-remodeling complexes, and it is assumed that these complexes have common gene targets across cell types. Contrary to this belief, we show by genome-wide expression profiling that Bptf, an essential and unique subunit of the nucleosome-remodeling factor (NURF), predominantly regulates the expression of a unique set of genes between diverse cell types. Coincident with its functions in gene expression, we observed that Bptf is also important for regulating nucleosome occupancy at nucleosome-free regions (NFRs), many of which are located at sites occupied by the multivalent factors Ctcf and cohesin. NURF function at Ctcf binding sites could be direct, because Bptf occupies Ctcf binding sites in vivo and has physical interactions with CTCF and the cohesin subunit SA2. Assays of several Ctcf binding sites using reporter assays showed that their regulatory activity requires Bptf in two different cell types. Focused studies at H2-K1 showed that Bptf regulates the ability of Klf4 to bind near an upstream Ctcf site, possibly influencing gene expression. In combination, these studies demonstrate that gene expression as regulated by NURF occurs partly through physical and functional interactions with the ubiquitous and multivalent factors Ctcf and cohesin.
25345893: !Alzheimer Alterations in immune cells and mediators in the brain: it's not always neuroinflammation! Neuroinflammation was once a clearly defined term denoting pathological immune processes within the central nervous system (CNS). Historically, this term was used to indicate the four hallmarks of peripheral inflammaton that occur following severe CNS injuries, such as stroke, injury or infection. Recently, however, the definition of neuroinflammation has relaxed to the point that it is  often now assumed to be present when even only a single classical hallmark of inflammation is measured. As a result, a wide range of disorders, from psychiatric to degenerative diseases, are now assumed to have an integral inflammatory component. Ironically, at the same time, research has revealed unexpected nonclassical immune actions of immune mediators and cells in the CNS in the absence of pathology, increasing the likelihood that homeostatic and adaptive immune processes in the CNS will be mistaken for neuroinflammation. Thus, we suggest reserving the term neuroinflammation for contexts where multiple signs of inflammation are present to avoid erroneously classifying disorders as inflammatory when they may instead be caused by nonimmune etiologies or secondary immune processes that serve adaptive roles.
25342134: !Alzheimer Inhibition of BACE2 counteracts hIAPP-induced insulin secretory defects in pancreatic beta-cells. BACE2 (beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 2) is a protease localized in the brain, where it appears to play a role in the development of Alzheimer disease (AD). It  is also found in the pancreas, although its biologic function is not fully known. Amyloidogenic diseases, including AD and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D), share the accumulation of abnormally folded and insoluble proteins that interfere with  cell function. Islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) deposits are a key pathogenic feature of T2D. Within this context, we found by global gene expression profiling that BACE2 was up-regulated in the rat pancreatic beta-cell line INS1E stably transfected with human IAPP gene (hIAPP-INS1E). Glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in hIAPP-INS1E cells was 30% lower than in INS1E cells. Additionally, INS1E cells transfected with a transient overexpression of BACE2 showed a 60% decrease in proliferation, a 3-fold increase in reactive oxygen species production, and a 25% reduction in GSIS compared to control cells. Remarkably, silencing of endogenous BACE2 in hIAPP-INS1E cells resulted in a significant improvement in GSIS (3-fold increase vs. untransfected cells), revealing the significant role of BACE2 expression in beta-cell function. Thus, BACE2 inhibition may be useful to recover insulin secretion in hIAPP-INS1E defective cells and may be proposed as a therapeutic target for T2D.
25339862: !Alzheimer Inflammasomes in neuroinflammation and changes in brain function: a focused review. Recent literature has pointed to the existence of inflammasome-mediated inflammatory pathways in central nervous system (CNS) disorders and associated changes in behavior. Neuroinflammation, which is an innate immune response in the CNS against harmful and irritable stimuli such as pathogens and metabolic toxic waste, as well as to chronic mild stress, is mediated by protein complexes known  as inflammasomes. Inflammasomes activate pro-inflammatory caspases 1 and 5, which then cleave the precursor forms of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-18, and IL-33 into their active forms. These pro-inflammatory cytokines have been shown to promote a variety of innate immune processes associated with infection,  inflammation, and autoimmunity, and thereby play an instrumental role in the instigation of neuroinflammation during old age and subsequent occurrence of neurodegenerative diseases, cognitive impairment, and dementia. In particular, NLRP inflammasomes may also have a role in the etiologies of depression, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in metabolic disorders, such as Type II diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular diseases that have been shown to be co-morbid with psychiatric illnesses. It has been reported that while these inflammasomes may be activated through TNF-alpha dependent pathways, other cytokines, like IFN-gamma,  may assist in inhibiting their activation and thus delay disease progression. Furthermore, some other cytokines, including IL-6, may not have a direct role in  inflammasome-mediated diseases. An array of recent research suggests that NLRP inflammasomes targeted therapies could be used for alleviating neuroinflammation  and for treatment of associated psychiatric illnesses, although this still remains a challenge and necessitates further extensive research. This review examines the complex inflammatory signaling pathways involved in the activation of NLRP inflammasomes and the role they play in promoting neuroinflammation and subsequent behavioral changes.
25336646: !Alzheimer Minireview series on the thirtieth anniversary of research on O-GlcNAcylation of  nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins: Nutrient regulation of cellular metabolism and  physiology by O-GlcNAcylation. The dynamic cycling of N-acetylglucosamine (termed O-GlcNAcylation) on serine or  threonine residues of nuclear or cytoplasmic proteins serves as a nutrient sensor, both independently and also via its interplay with other post-translational modifications, to regulate signaling, transcription, and cellular physiology. Emerging evidence suggests that dysregulation of this ubiquitous post-translational modification contributes to the etiology of some the most important human chronic diseases.
25327901: !Alzheimer Coumarin derivatives: an updated patent review (2012-2014). INTRODUCTION: Coumarins belong to the benzopyrones family. They are naturally plant-derived and synthetically taken polyphenolic substances, presenting a wide  variety of biological activities and behaviours, supporting their use as therapeutic agents for multiple diseases. Their structural characteristics correlated to physicochemical properties seem to define the extent of the biological activity. AREAS COVERED: Recent patent publications (2012-2014), describing coumarins and their derivatives are analyzed. Synthesis, hybridization techniques and biological evaluation in vitro/in vivo, for example, antimitotic,  antiviral, anticancer, cytotoxic, anti-acne and antioxidant coumarin macromolecule polymer agents are included. Furthermore, a wide range of pharmaceutical applications and pharmaceutical compositions are also summarized.  EXPERT OPINION: Several natural and synthetic coumarins, hybrids and derivatives  appear to have promising anticancer-antitumor activities. Their clinical evaluation will be critical to assess therapeutic utility. The compounds for which the mechanism of action is well defined can serve as lead compounds for the design of new more potent molecules.
25326841: !Alzheimer [Extrapancreatic effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists: an open window towards new treatment goals in type 2 diabetes]. The wide ubiquity of GLP-1 receptors in the body has stimulated the search for different extrapancreatic actions of GLP-1 and its receptor agonists. Thus, severe cardioprotective effects directed on myocardial ischaemia and dysfunction  as well as diverse antiaterogenic actions have been reported. Also, native and GLP-1 receptor agonists have demonstrated significant beneficial effects on liver steatosis and fibrosis and on neuronal protection in experimental models of Alzheimer, and Parkinson's disease as well as on cerebral ischaemia. Recent evidences suggest that these drugs may also be useful for prevention and treatment of diabetic retinopathy, nephropathy and peripheral neuropathy. Good results have also been reported in psoriasis. Despite we still need confirmation  that these promising effects can be applied to clinical practice, they offer new  interesting perspectives for treatment of type 2 diabetes associated complications and give to GLP-1 receptor agonists an even more integral position  in diabetes therapy.
25326131: !Alzheimer Seizure control by derivatives of medium chain fatty acids associated with the ketogenic diet show novel branching-point structure for enhanced potency. The medium chain triglyceride (MCT) ketogenic diet is a major treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy but is problematic, particularly in adults, because of poor tolerability. Branched derivatives of octanoic acid (OA), a medium chain fat provided in the diet have been suggested as potential new treatments for drug-resistant epilepsy, but the structural basis of this functionality has not been determined. Here we investigate structural variants of branched medium chain fatty acids as new seizure-control treatments. We initially employ a series of methyl-branched OA derivatives, and using the GABAA receptor antagonist pentylenetetrazol to induce seizure-like activity in rat hippocampal slices, we show a strong, branch-point-specific activity that improves upon the related epilepsy treatment valproic acid. Using low magnesium conditions to induce glutamate excitotoxicity in rat primary hippocampal neuronal cultures for the assessment of neuroprotection, we also show a structural dependence identical to  that for seizure control, suggesting a related mechanism of action for these compounds in both seizure control and neuroprotection. In contrast, the effect of these compounds on histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibition, associated with teratogenicity, shows no correlation with therapeutic efficacy. Furthermore, small structural modifications of the starting compounds provide active compounds without HDAC inhibitory effects. Finally, using multiple in vivo seizure models,  we identify potent lead candidates for the treatment of epilepsy. This study therefore identifies a novel family of fatty acids, related to the MCT ketogenic  diet, that show promise as new treatments for epilepsy control and possibly other MCT ketogenic diet-responding conditions, such as Alzheimer disease.
25317172: !Alzheimer T cells promote the regeneration of neural precursor cells in the hippocampus of  Alzheimer's disease mice. Alzheimer's disease is closely associated with disorders of neurogenesis in the brain, and growing evidence supports the involvement of immunological mechanisms  in the development of the disease. However, at present, the role of T cells in neuronal regeneration in the brain is unknown. We injected amyloid-beta 1-42 peptide into the hippocampus of six BALB/c wild-type mice and six BALB/c-nude mice with T-cell immunodeficiency to establish an animal model of Alzheimer's disease. A further six mice of each genotype were injected with same volume of normal saline. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the number of regenerated neural progenitor cells in the hippocampus of BALB/c wild-type mice was significantly higher than that in BALB/c-nude mice. Quantitative fluorescence PCR assay showed that the expression levels of peripheral T cell-associated cytokines (interleukin-2, interferon-gamma) and hippocampal microglia-related cytokines (interleukin-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha) correlated with the number of regenerated neural progenitor cells in the hippocampus. These results indicate that T cells promote hippocampal neurogenesis in Alzheimer's disease and T-cell immunodeficiency restricts neuronal regeneration in the hippocampus. The mechanism underlying the promotion of neuronal regeneration by T cells is mediated by an increased expression of peripheral T cells and central microglial  cytokines in Alzheimer's disease mice. Our findings provide an experimental basis for understanding the role of T cells in Alzheimer's disease.
25312618: !Alzheimer Implications of some selected flavonoids towards Alzheimer's disease with the emphasis on cholinesterase inhibition and their bioproduction by metabolic engineering. Flavonoids are one of the most abundant secondary metabolites having a polyphenolic structure in plant and animal species with various desired pharmacological effects towards human health. Many flavonoid derivatives have been reported to possess neuroprotective activity through different mechanisms of action and, among them, cholinesterase (ChE) inhibition constitutes an important  clinically applied treatment strategy of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Some flavonoid derivatives have been demonstrated to inhibit both acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) to varying extent, which are called the sister enzymes linked to the pathogenesis of AD. On the other hand, diverse bioproduction techniques such as plant tissue culture, microbial transformation,  etc. are applicable for flavonoids and, among them, production of flavonoids through metabolic engineering using special bacteria or yeast species has recently become popular. In the current review, some common flavonoids with ChE inhibitory effect as well as the examples of flavonoids obtained from metabolic engineering methods will be discussed.
25311587: !Alzheimer Maternal immune activation and abnormal brain development across CNS disorders. Epidemiological studies have shown a clear association between maternal infection and schizophrenia or autism in the progeny. Animal models have revealed maternal  immune activation (mIA) to be a profound risk factor for neurochemical and behavioural abnormalities in the offspring. Microglial priming has been proposed  as a major consequence of mIA, and represents a critical link in a causal chain that leads to the wide spectrum of neuronal dysfunctions and behavioural phenotypes observed in the juvenile, adult or aged offspring. Such diversity of phenotypic outcomes in the mIA model are mirrored by recent clinical evidence suggesting that infectious exposure during pregnancy is also associated with epilepsy and, to a lesser extent, cerebral palsy in children. Preclinical research also suggests that mIA might precipitate the development of Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases. Here, we summarize and critically review the emerging evidence that mIA is a shared environmental risk factor across CNS disorders that varies as a function of interactions between genetic and additional environmental factors. We also review ongoing clinical trials targeting immune pathways affected by mIA that may play a part in disease manifestation. In addition, future directions and outstanding questions are discussed, including potential symptomatic, disease-modifying and preventive treatment strategies.
25307598: !Alzheimer Hepatic encephalopathy in alcoholic cirrhosis. Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a serious neuropsychiatric complication of cirrhosis in alcoholic patients that is characterized clinically by personality changes, sleep abnormalities, and impaired motor coordination, as well as cognitive dysfunction progressing to stupor and coma. Procedures used for diagnosis and grading of HE include neurologic assessment, electroencephalography, psychometric testing, and use of the critical flicker frequency test. Neuropathologically, HE in cirrhosis is principally a disorder of neuroglia characterized by Alzheimer type II astrocytosis and activation of microglia. However, thalamic and cerebellar neuronal pathologies have been noted  as well as lesions to globus pallidus and substantia nigra, leading to a condition known as "parkinsonism in cirrhosis." Multiple mechanisms have been proposed to account for the pathogenesis of HE in cirrhosis, including the neurotoxic actions of ammonia and manganese (normally removed via the hepatobiliary route), impaired brain energy metabolism, central proinflammatory mechanisms, and alterations of both excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission.  Treatment of HE in cirrhosis continues to rely on ammonia-lowering strategies such as lactulose, antibiotics, probiotics and l-ornithine l-aspartate with nutritional management consisting of adequate (but not excessive) dietary protein and vitamin B1 supplements. l-DOPA may improve parkinsonian symptoms. Liver transplantation leads to recovery of central nervous system function in the majority of cases.
25307560: !Alzheimer An overview of various mammalian models to study chronic copper intoxication associated Alzheimer's disease like pathology. Chronic copper toxicity has been long known to cause hepatotoxicity and liver cirrhosis as observed in Wilson's disease; however, substantial evidence accrued  over the time have shown considerable increase in animal studies demonstrating Alzheimer's disease like pathology due to chronic copper-intoxication under certain conditions. This review integrates the contemporary mammalian studies in  which the effect of chronic copper intoxication was assessed on the central nervous system and cognition of animals.
25306655: !Alzheimer [Genetic and epigenetic news in gerontology]. The overview represents the recent most conspicuous findings in aging studies. It includes new data on the whole genome association studies (GWAS) in big cohort of centenaries, recently found mutation protecting from Alzheimer disease, discovery of hypothalamus as a command center of human aging, very important data on the negative effect of common antioxidants in the treatment of lung cancer as well as new data concerning antiaging and anticancer effects of common drugs such as rapamycine and metformin. Substantial part of the review is devoted to the epigenetic problems of senescence and feasible impact of basic epigenetic mechanisms (methylation of DNA and histone proteins, DNA heterochromatization) in regulation of gene expression, long-term genome reprogramming during early childhood, and transgeneration transmission of epigenetic traits. The necessity of transition from molecular studies of dormant human genome (anatomy of human genome) to genome in action (dynamic genome) and thus with special emphasis to epigenetic medicine is stressed.
25305052: !Alzheimer Age-dependent metabolic dysregulation in cancer and Alzheimer's disease. Age is the main risk factor for cancer and neurodegeneration; two radically divergent diseases. Yet selective pressure to meet cellular metabolic needs may provide a common mechanism linking these two disorders. The exclusive use of glycolysis, despite the presence of oxygen, is commonly referred to as aerobic glycolysis and is the primary metabolic pathway of cancer cells. Recent evidence  suggests that aerobic glycolysis is also a key regulator of synaptic plasticity in the brain that may positively influence cognition. Elevated aerobic glycolysis is a contributing factor to the development of cancer as increased glycolytic flux plays an important role in the biosynthesis of macromolecules and promotes proliferation. In contrast, decreased aerobic glycolysis in the brain occurs with age and could lead to a loss of cell survival mechanisms that counter pathogenic  processes underlying neurodegeneration. In this review we discuss the recent findings from epidemiological studies demonstrating an inverse comorbidity of cancer and Alzheimer's disease. We summarize evidence linking the two diseases through changes in metabolism over the course of normal aging. We discuss the key steps and regulatory mechanisms of aerobic glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation which could be exploited for the development of novel therapies.  In addition, we outline the regulation of aerobic glycolysis at the transcriptional level by HIF-1alpha and Pin1 and their roles in cancer and neurodegeneration. Finally, we provide a possible explanation for metabolic dysregulation that occurs with age, and how it may be a contributing factor to age-related diseases. Determining how metabolism becomes dysregulated over time could lead to the development of effective interventions for ensuring metabolic homeostasis and healthy aging.
25303533: !Alzheimer Identification of causal genetic drivers of human disease through systems-level analysis of regulatory networks. Identification of driver mutations in human diseases is often limited by cohort size and availability of appropriate statistical models. We propose a framework for the systematic discovery of genetic alterations that are causal determinants  of disease, by prioritizing genes upstream of functional disease drivers, within  regulatory networks inferred de novo from experimental data. We tested this framework by identifying the genetic determinants of the mesenchymal subtype of glioblastoma. Our analysis uncovered KLHL9 deletions as upstream activators of two previously established master regulators of the subtype, C/EBPbeta and C/EBPdelta. Rescue of KLHL9 expression induced proteasomal degradation of C/EBP proteins, abrogated the mesenchymal signature, and reduced tumor viability in vitro and in vivo. Deletions of KLHL9 were confirmed in > 50% of mesenchymal cases in an independent cohort, thus representing the most frequent genetic determinant of the subtype. The method generalized to study other human diseases, including breast cancer and Alzheimer's disease.
25281130: !Alzheimer Application of a novel metabolomic approach based on atmospheric pressure photoionization mass spectrometry using flow injection analysis for the study of  Alzheimer's disease. The use of atmospheric pressure photoionization is not widespread in metabolomics, despite its considerable potential for the simultaneous analysis of compounds with diverse polarities. This work considers the development of a novel analytical approach based on flow injection analysis and atmospheric pressure photoionization mass spectrometry for rapid metabolic screening of serum samples. Several experimental parameters were optimized, such as type of dopant, flow injection solvent, and their flows, given that a careful selection of these variables is mandatory for a comprehensive analysis of metabolites. Toluene and methanol were the most suitable dopant and flow injection solvent, respectively.  Moreover, analysis in negative mode required higher solvent and dopant flows (100 microl min(-1) and 40 microl min(-1), respectively) compared to positive mode (50 microl min(-1) and 20 microl min(-1)). Then, the optimized approach was used to elucidate metabolic alterations associated with Alzheimer's disease. Thereby, results confirm the increase of diacylglycerols, ceramides, ceramide-1-phosphate  and free fatty acids, indicating membrane destabilization processes, and reduction of fatty acid amides and several neurotransmitters related to impairments in neuronal transmission, among others. Therefore, it could be concluded that this metabolomic tool presents a great potential for analysis of biological samples, considering its high-throughput screening capability, fast analysis and comprehensive metabolite coverage.
25275896: !Alzheimer Ocular and systemic manifestations of exfoliation syndrome. Exfoliation syndrome is an age-related disease characterized by the production and progressive accumulation of a fibrillar extracellular material in many ocular tissues. It leads to the most common identifiable cause of open-angle glaucoma worldwide, comprising the majority of glaucoma in some countries. The material in the eye appears as white deposits on the anterior lens surface and/or pupillary border. During pupillary movement, the iris scrapes exfoliation material from the lens surface, while the material on the lens causes rupture of iris pigment epithelial cells, with concomitant pigment dispersion into the anterior chamber and its deposition on anterior chamber structures. Exfoliation material can be found in many different organs. It is an ischemic disease and is associated with  elevated serum homocysteine. Systemic associations include transient ischemic attacks, hypertension, angina, myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disease, aortic aneurysm, Alzheimer disease, and hearing loss. The discovery in 2007 of nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms in the LOXL1 (lysyl oxidase-like 1) gene are expected to make a major impact not only in understanding exfoliation syndrome, but in leading to new avenues of therapy.
25273029: !Alzheimer Biopolymer-based transdermal films of donepezil as an alternative delivery approach in Alzheimer's disease treatment. Matrix type transdermal films of donepezil (DNP) as an alternative delivery approach was designed to improve patient compliance to Alzheimer disease treatment. Sodium alginate, a natural polysaccharide, was used as matrix-forming  agent in the optimization of transdermal films. Propylene glycol and dl-limonene  was added into films as a plasticizer and permeation enhancer, respectively. As well as mechanical strength and bioadhesiveness of optimized transdermal films of DNP, the impact of dl-limonene concentration in films on DNP in vitro permeation  across pig skin was assessed. Attenuated total reflectance-Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) measurements were carried out to examine the effects of enhancer on in vitro conformational order of the stratum corneum intercellular lipids following permeation study. Results showed that transdermal formulations of DNP were suitable due to both mechanical and bioadhesive features of the films. In vitro skin permeation study indicated that dl-limonene at a concentration of 3% was optimum with high drug flux. ATR-FTIR results confirmed a more fluidized stratum corneum lipid state in the presence of dl-limonene, indicating its permeation enhancement effect. Regarding to achieve therapeutic levels of DNP, it seems to be feasible deliver DNP with transdermal films for the management of Alzheimer disease.
25257911: !Alzheimer Active compounds from a diverse library of triazolothiadiazole and triazolothiadiazine scaffolds: synthesis, crystal structure determination, cytotoxicity, cholinesterase inhibitory activity, and binding mode analysis. In an effort to identify novel cholinesterase candidates for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a diverse array of potentially bioactive compounds including triazolothiadiazoles (4a-h and 5a-f) and triazolothiadiazines (6a-h) was obtained in good yields through the cyclocondensation reaction of 4-amino-5-(pyridin-3-yl)-4H-1,2,4-triazole-3-thiol (3) with various substituted aryl/heteroaryl/aryloxy acids and phenacyl bromides, respectively. The structures of newly prepared compounds were confirmed by IR, (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy and, in case of 4a, by single crystal X-ray diffraction analysis. The purity of the synthesized compounds was ascertained by elemental analysis. The newly synthesized conjugated heterocycles were screened for cholinesterase inhibitory activity against electric eel acetylcholinesterase (EeAChE) and horse serum butyrylcholinesterase (hBChE). Among the evaluated hybrids, several compounds were identified as potent inhibitors. Compounds 5b and 5d were most active with an IC50 value of 3.09 +/- 0.154 and 11.3 +/- 0.267 muM, respectively, against acetylcholinesterase, whereas 5b, 6a and 6g were most potent against butyrylcholinesterase, with an IC50 of 0.585 +/- 0.154, 0.781 +/- 0.213, and 1.09 +/- 0.156 muM, respectively, compared to neostigmine and donepezil as standard drugs. The synthesized heteroaromatic compounds were also tested for their cytotoxic potential against lung carcinoma (H157) and vero cell lines. Among them, compound 6h exhibited highest antiproliferative activity against H157 cell  lines, with IC50 value of 0.96 +/- 0.43 muM at 1mM concentration as compared to vincristine (IC50=1.03 +/- 0.04 muM), standard drug used in this study.
25249622: !Alzheimer Target-responsive DNA-capped nanocontainer used for fabricating universal detector and performing logic operations. Nucleic acids have become a powerful tool in nanotechnology because of their controllable diverse conformational transitions and adaptable higher-order nanostructure. Using single-stranded DNA probes as the pore-caps for various target recognition, here we present an ultrasensitive universal electrochemical detection system based on graphene and mesoporous silica, and achieve sensitivity with all of the major classes of analytes and simultaneously realize DNA logic gate operations. The concept is based on the locking of the pores and preventing  the signal-reporter molecules from escape by target-induced the conformational change of the tailored DNA caps. The coupling of 'waking up' gatekeeper with highly specific biochemical recognition is an innovative strategy for the detection of various targets, able to compete with classical methods which need expensive instrumentation and sophisticated experimental operations. The present  study has introduced a new electrochemical signal amplification concept and also  adds a new dimension to the function of graphene-mesoporous materials hybrids as  multifunctional nanoscale logic devices. More importantly, the development of this approach would spur further advances in important areas, such as point-of-care diagnostics or detection of specific biological contaminations, and hold promise for use in field analysis.
25243877: !Alzheimer Carthamus, Salvia and Stachys species protect neuronal cells against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. CONTEXT: Finding effective therapies for neurodegenerative diseases is of utmost  importance for the aging population. Plants growing in Iran are rich sources of antioxidants and active phytochemicals. OBJECTIVE: The protective capacity of plants, with a special focus on those with reported antioxidant or neuroprotective potential or nervous system-related applications in folk medicine, was tested against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Aerial parts of 20 plants including Carthamus, Salvia, and Stachys species were extracted with 80% methanol and dichloromethane and preincubated with neuronal PC12 cells for 3 h. Oxidative stress and apoptosis were induced by  hydrogen peroxide (75 microM, 1 h exposure). Cell viability and intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) were measured by MTT and 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein-diacetate (DCFH-DA) assays, respectively, while apoptosis was determined by annexin V-FITC/propidium iodide staining by a flow cytometer. RESULTS: Eighty percent methanol extracts of Carthamus oxyacantha Bieb. (Asteraceae), Salvia santolinifolia Boiss. (Lamiaceae), and Salvia sclarea  L. (Lamiaceae) at the concentration of 100 mug/ml showed significant neuroprotection in the MTT assay by 38.7, 34.7, and 39.5%, respectively, and inhibited intracellular ROS by 48.6, 61.9, and 61.4%, respectively. The first two extracts also significantly inhibited apoptosis. Dichloromethane extracts of C. oxyacantha and Stachys pilifera Benth. (Lamiaceae) at the concentration of 25 mug/ml showed neuroprotection by 27.5 and 26.5%, respectively, and inhibited ROS  by 44.5 and 39.4%, respectively. CONCLUSION: The above-mentioned plants seem to have important biological activities and their further study may lead to the discovery of new natural therapeutics useful against disorders such as Alzheimer  and Parkinson diseases.
25237865: !Alzheimer Chemical biology methods for investigating G protein-coupled receptor signaling. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are targets for a quarter of prescription drugs. Despite recent progress in structural biology of GPCRs, only few key conformational states in the signal transduction process have been elucidated. Agonist ligands frequently display functional selectivity where activated receptors are biased to either G protein- or arrestin-mediated downstream signaling pathways. Selective manipulation of individual steps in the GPCR activation scheme requires precise information about the kinetics of ligand binding and the dynamics of downstream signaling. One approach is to obtain time-resolved information using receptors tagged with fluorescent or structural probes. Recent advances allow for site-specific introduction of genetically encoded unnatural amino acids into expressed GPCRs. We describe how bioorthogonal functional groups on GPCRs enable the mapping of receptor-ligand interactions and how bioorthogonal chemical reactions can be used to introduce fluorescent labels  for single-molecule fluorescence applications to study the kinetics and conformational dynamics of GPCR signaling complexes ("signalosomes").
25233067: !Alzheimer Systematic review of potential health risks posed by pharmaceutical, occupational and consumer exposures to metallic and nanoscale aluminum, aluminum oxides, aluminum hydroxide and its soluble salts. Abstract Aluminum (Al) is a ubiquitous substance encountered both naturally (as the third most abundant element) and intentionally (used in water, foods, pharmaceuticals, and vaccines); it is also present in ambient and occupational airborne particulates. Existing data underscore the importance of Al physical and chemical forms in relation to its uptake, accumulation, and systemic bioavailability. The present review represents a systematic examination of the peer-reviewed literature on the adverse health effects of Al materials published  since a previous critical evaluation compiled by Krewski et al. (2007) . Challenges encountered in carrying out the present review reflected the experimental use of different physical and chemical Al forms, different routes of administration, and different target organs in relation to the magnitude, frequency, and duration of exposure. Wide variations in diet can result in Al intakes that are often higher than the World Health Organization provisional tolerable weekly intake (PTWI), which is based on studies with Al citrate. Comparing daily dietary Al exposures on the basis of "total Al"assumes that gastrointestinal bioavailability for all dietary Al forms is equivalent to that for Al citrate, an approach that requires validation. Current occupational exposure limits (OELs) for identical Al substances vary as much as 15-fold. The toxicity of different Al forms depends in large measure on their physical behavior and relative solubility in water. The toxicity of soluble Al forms depends upon the delivered dose of Al(+3) to target tissues. Trivalent Al reacts  with water to produce bidentate superoxide coordination spheres [Al(O2)(H2O4)(+2) and Al(H2O)6 (+3)] that after complexation with O2(*-), generate Al superoxides [Al(O2(*))](H2O5)](+2). Semireduced AlO2(*) radicals deplete mitochondrial Fe and promote generation of H2O2, O2 (*-) and OH(*). Thus, it is the Al(+3)-induced formation of oxygen radicals that accounts for the oxidative damage that leads to intrinsic apoptosis. In contrast, the toxicity of the insoluble Al oxides depends primarily on their behavior as particulates. Aluminum has been held responsible for human morbidity and mortality, but there is no consistent and convincing evidence to associate the Al found in food and drinking water at the doses and chemical forms presently consumed by people living in North America and Western Europe with increased risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neither is there clear evidence to show use of Al-containing underarm antiperspirants or cosmetics increases the risk of AD or breast cancer. Metallic Al, its oxides, and common Al salts have not been shown to be either genotoxic or carcinogenic. Aluminum exposures during neonatal and pediatric parenteral nutrition (PN) can impair bone mineralization and delay neurological development. Adverse effects to vaccines with Al adjuvants have occurred; however, recent controlled trials found that the immunologic response to certain vaccines with Al adjuvants was no greater, and in some cases less than, that after identical vaccination without Al adjuvants. The  scientific literature on the adverse health effects of Al is extensive. Health risk assessments for Al must take into account individual co-factors (e.g., age,  renal function, diet, gastric pH). Conclusions from the current review point to the need for refinement of the PTWI, reduction of Al contamination in PN solutions, justification for routine addition of Al to vaccines, and harmonization of OELs for Al substances.
25230597: !Alzheimer Using direct infusion mass spectrometry for serum metabolomics in Alzheimer's disease. Currently, there is no cure for Alzheimer's disease and early diagnosis is very difficult, since no biomarkers have been established with the necessary reliability and specificity. For the discovery of new biomarkers, the application of omics is emerging, especially metabolomics based on the use of mass spectrometry. In this work, an analytical approach based on direct infusion electrospray mass spectrometry was applied for the first time to blood serum samples in order to elucidate discriminant metabolites. Complementary methodologies of extraction and mass spectrometry analysis were employed for comprehensive metabolic fingerprinting. Finally, the application of multivariate  statistical tools allowed us to discriminate Alzheimer patients and healthy controls, and identify some compounds as potential markers of disease. This approach provided a global vision of disease, given that some important metabolic pathways could be studied, such as membrane destabilization processes, oxidative  stress, hypometabolism, or neurotransmission alterations. Most remarkable results are the high levels of phospholipids containing saturated fatty acids, respectively, polyunsaturated ones and the high concentration of whole free fatty acids in Alzheimer's serum samples. Thus, these results represent an interesting  approximation to understand the pathogenesis of disease and the identification of potential biomarkers.
25221582: !Alzheimer Role of Notch-1 signaling pathway in PC12 cell apoptosis induced by amyloid beta-peptide (25-35). Recent studies have demonstrated that Notch-1 expression is increased in the hippocampus of Alzheimer's disease patients. We speculate that Notch-1 signaling  may be involved in PC12 cell apoptosis induced by amyloid beta-peptide (25-35) (Abeta25-35). In the present study, PC12 cells were cultured with different doses (0, 0.1, 1.0, 10 and 100 nmol/L) of N-[N-(3,5-Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester, a Notch-1  signaling pathway inhibitor, for 30 minutes. Then cultured cells were induced with Abeta25-35 for 48 hours. Pretreatment of PC12 cells with high doses of N-[N-(3,5-Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (> 10 nmol/L) prolonged the survival of PC12 cells after Abeta25-35 induction, decreased the expression of apoptosis-related proteins caspase-3, -8, -9, increased the activity of oxidative stress-related superoxide dismutase and catalase, inhibited the production of active oxygen, and reduced nuclear factor kappa B expression. This study indicates that the Notch-1 signaling pathway plays a pivotal role in Abeta25-35-induced PC12 apoptosis.
25219999: !Alzheimer Immune responses in neurodegenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative disease is a progressive loss of neurons from central nervous system and has a huge impact on health care system. Various causes have been proposed of which inflammation has been suggested to be a probable key factor in  the most of such conditions. The involvement of immune cells including lymphocytes in such diseased condition of the CNS supports this notion. The effective therapy for these diseases has been sought for more than a half century but still lacking such therapy. On such basis this review article has mainly focussed on evidence of the involvement of immune cells in various neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's diseases and Multiple sclerosis and suggests a possible therapy of such diseased conditions of the CNS by the modulation of immune system.
25217383: !Alzheimer Senescent cells: SASPected drivers of age-related pathologies. The progression of physiological ageing is driven by intracellular aberrations including telomere attrition, genomic instability, epigenetic alterations and loss of proteostasis. These in turn damage cells and compromise their functionality. Cellular senescence, a stable irreversible cell-cycle arrest, is elicited in damaged cells and prevents their propagation in the organism. Under normal conditions, senescent cells recruit the immune system which facilitates their removal from tissues. Nevertheless, during ageing, tissue-residing senescent cells tend to accumulate, and might negatively impact their microenvironment via profound secretory phenotype with pro-inflammatory characteristics, termed senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Indeed, senescent cells are mostly abundant at sites of age-related pathologies, including degenerative disorders and malignancies. Interestingly, studies on progeroid mice indicate that selective elimination of senescent cells can delay age-related deterioration. This suggests that chronic inflammation induced by senescent cells might be a main driver of these pathologies. Importantly, senescent cells accumulate as a result of deficient immune surveillance, and their removal is increased upon the use of immune stimulatory agents. Insights into mechanisms of senescence surveillance could be combined with current approaches for cancer immunotherapy to propose new preventive and therapeutic strategies for age-related diseases.
25206904: !Alzheimer Nasal mucosal inhalation of amyloid-beta peptide 3-10 defective adenovirus attenuates cytotoxicity induced by beta-amyloid (1-42). Three-month-old Alzheimer's disease model transgenic mice were immunized with Abeta1-42 Plp-Adenovirus [Ad]-X-CMV-(Abeta3-10)10-CpG [AdCpG-(Abeta3-10)10] or AdCpG virus fluid via nasal mucosal inhalation, respectively. ELISA analysis of serum showed Abeta42 antibody titers were significantly increased in mice immunized with Abeta1-42 and AdCpG-(Abeta3-10)10. Concanavalin A and AdCpG-(Abeta3-10)10 stimulation significantly increased the number of proliferating spleen cells cultured from AdCpG(Abeta3-10)10 and Abeta42 groups compared with the control group. In the AdCpG(Abeta3-10)10 group, levels of interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-10 were increased, while those of IL-2 and interferon-gamma were decreased. In the Abeta42 group, levels of IL-4, IL-10, IL-2 and interferon-gamma were all increased. Experimental findings indicate that AdCpG-(Abeta3-10)10 vaccine can produce strong T helper 2 (Th2) humoral immune responses in addition to the production of Abeta42 antibody. The cellular immunologic response was weak and avoided Abeta1-42-mediated cytotoxicity.
25206892: !Alzheimer Adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell transplantation promotes adult neurogenesis in the brains of Alzheimer's disease mice. In the present study, we transplanted adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells into the hippocampi of APP/PS1 transgenic Alzheimer's disease model mice. Immunofluorescence staining revealed that the number of newly generated (BrdU(+)) cells in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus was significantly higher in Alzheimer's disease mice after adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell transplantation, and there was also a significant increase  in the number of BrdU(+)/DCX(+) neuroblasts in these animals. Adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell transplantation enhanced neurogenic activity in the subventricular zone as well. Furthermore, adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell transplantation reduced oxidative stress and alleviated cognitive impairment in the mice. Based on these findings, we propose that adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell transplantation enhances endogenous neurogenesis in both the subgranular and subventricular zones in APP/PS1 transgenic Alzheimer's disease mice, thereby facilitating functional recovery.
25203772: !Alzheimer Systemic administration of valproic acid stimulates overexpression of microtubule-associated protein 2 in the spinal cord injury model to promote neurite outgrowth. OBJECTIVES: Growing body of evidence suggests that neurite outgrowth is a key determinant in the re-networking of damaged neuronal circuits as well as synaptogenesis. The essential molecule in this interesting process is microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) studies demonstrated that inhibition of MAP2 by antisense Oligonucleotide hinders neurite outgrowth. METHODS: In the current study, we evaluated the effects of valproic acid (VPA), a histone deacetylase inhibitor on the expression of MAP2 in the rat spinal cord injury model by real time RT-PCR and immunoreactivity assays. RESULTS: We revealed that  a significant increase in the MAP2 overexpression occurred in VPA-treated group compared to the sham group by quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunoreactivity assays for MAP2 gene expression. DISCUSSION: The present findings indicated that systemic administration of VPA stimulated MAP2 gene expression and also supports the involvement of the MAP2-mediated de novo re-arborization and neurite outgrowth of neurons, which might contribute to successful neuronal re-wirings. Thus, VPA has  promising applications in the treatment of many neurological problems, such as neurotrauma, Alzheimer and Parkinson's disease, and others.
25201780: !Alzheimer Metabolic profiling of CHO-AbetaPP695 cells revealed mitochondrial dysfunction prior to amyloid-beta pathology and potential therapeutic effects of both PPARgamma and PPARalpha Agonisms for Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we performed gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOFMS)-based extracellular metabolic profiling on AbetaPP-transfected CHO cells (CHO-AbetaPP695) and its wildtype. Orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA) was then used to identify discriminant metabolites, which gave clues on the effects of AbetaPP transgene on cellular processes. To confirm the hypotheses generated based on the metabolic data, we performed biochemical assays to gather further evidence to support our findings.  The OPLS-DA showed a robust differentiation following 24 h of incubation (Q2(cum) = 0.884) and 15 discriminant metabolites were identified. In contrast, extracellular Abeta42 was identified to increase significantly in CHO-AbetaPP695  only after incubation for 48 h. The observed 24-h metabolic fluxes were associated with increased mitochondrial AbetaPP and reduced mitochondrial viabilities, which occurred before extracellular Abeta accumulation. We also investigated the therapeutic potential of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) agonists, namely rosiglitazone (RSG) and pioglitazone  (PIO), by employing the same approach to characterize the metabolic profiles of CHO-AbetaPP695 treated with RSG and PIO, with or without their respective receptor blockers. Treatment with PIO was found to reduce the perturbation of the discriminant metabolites in CHO-AbetaPP695 to a larger extent than treatment with RSG. We also attributed the PIO effects on the lowering of Abeta42, and restoration of mitochondrial activity to PPARgamma and PPARalpha agonism, respectively. Taken together, PIO was demonstrated to be therapeutically superior to RSG. Our findings provide further insights into early disease stages in this AbetaPP model, and support the advancement of PIO in AD therapy.
25199710: !Alzheimer Breaking peripheral immune tolerance to CNS antigens in neurodegenerative diseases: boosting autoimmunity to fight-off chronic neuroinflammation. Immune cell infiltration to the brain's territory was considered for decades to reflect a pathological process in which immune cells attack the central nervous system (CNS); such a process is observed in the inflammatory autoimmune disease,  multiple sclerosis (MS). As neuroinflammatory processes within the CNS parenchyma are also common to other CNS pathologies, regardless of their etiology, including neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), these pathologies have often been compared to MS, a disease that benefits from immunosuppressive therapy. Yet, over the last decade,  it became clear that autoimmunity has a bright side, and that it plays a pivotal  role in CNS repair following damage. Specifically, autoimmune T cells were found  to facilitate CNS healing processes, such as in the case of sterile mechanical injuries to the brain or the spinal cord, mental stress, or biochemical insults.  Even more intriguingly, autoimmune T cells were found to be involved in supporting fundamental processes of brain functional integrity, such as in the maintenance of life-long brain plasticity, including spatial learning and memory, and neurogenesis. Importantly, autoimmune T cells are part of a cellular network  which, to operate efficiently and safely, requires tight regulation by other immune cell populations, such as regulatory T cells, which are indispensable for  maintenance of immunological self-tolerance and homeostasis. Here, we suggest that dysregulation of the balance between peripheral immune suppression, on one hand, and protective autoimmunity, on the other, is an underlying mechanism in the emergence and progression of the neuroinflammatory response associated with chronic neurodegenerative diseases and brain aging. Mitigating chronic neuroinflammation under these conditions necessitates activation, rather than suppression, of the peripheral immune response directed against self. Accordingly, we propose that fighting off acute and chronic neurodegenerative conditions requires breaking peripheral immune tolerance to CNS self-antigens, in order to boost protective autoimmunity. Nevertheless, the optimal approach to fine tune such immune response must be individually explored for each condition.
25178013: !Alzheimer X-ray micro-diffraction studies on biological samples at the BioCAT Beamline 18-ID at the Advanced Photon Source. The small source sizes of third-generation synchrotron sources are ideal for the  production of microbeams for diffraction studies of crystalline and non-crystalline materials. While several such facilities have been available around the world for some time now, few have been optimized for the handling of delicate soft-tissue specimens under cryogenic conditions. Here the development of a new X-ray micro-diffraction instrument at the Biophysics Collaborative Access Team beamline 18-ID at the Advanced Photon Source, and its use with newly  developed cryo-diffraction techniques for soft-tissue studies, are described. The combination of the small beam sizes delivered by this instrument, the high delivered flux and successful cryo-freezing of rat-tail tendon has enabled us to  record data to better than 4 A resolution. The ability to quickly raster scan samples in the beam allows selection of ordered regions in fibrous samples for markedly improved data quality. Examples of results of experiments obtainable using this instrument are presented.
25175670: !Alzheimer Oliguric acute kidney injury as a main symptom of bradycardia and arteriosclerosis resolved by pacemaker implantation: a case report. INTRODUCTION: Cardiovascular comorbidities regularly determine renal function. We report a case of acute kidney injury (Acute Kidney Injury Network stage 3) due to an intermittent third-degree atrioventricular block, which had not been diagnosed before. CASE PRESENTATION: A 76-year-old Caucasian man with liver cirrhosis due to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and type-2 diabetes was cognitively impaired and had reduced vigilance presumably caused by hepatic encephalopathy and/or Alzheimer dementia. Within 2 years, two hospitalizations occurred for syncope attributed to orthostatic failure and hypovolemia. During the last hospitalization, oliguric acute kidney injury occurred. Sonography ruled out a post-renal cause. His renal resistive index was 1.0; his heart rate was below 50  beats per minute. After cessation of beta-blocker therapy, Holter electrocardiogram showed a new intermittent third-degree atrioventricular block with pauses for less than 3 seconds. Pacemaker insertion resolved his acute kidney injury, despite resumption of beta-blocker therapy. During four months of  follow-up, syncope has not occurred, and vigilance was stable. However, his renal resistive index of 1.0 remained. CONCLUSIONS: Here, typical neurologic symptoms of bradycardia were misclassified. Diagnostic work-up of oliguric acute kidney injury revealed intermittent third-degree heart block. The pathomechanism of acute kidney injury relates to relevant bradycardia and increased vascular stiffness attenuating arterial diastolic renal blood flow.
25175064: !Alzheimer Gold drug auranofin could reduce neuroinflammation by inhibiting microglia cytotoxic secretions and primed respiratory burst. Neuroinflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of neurological disorders. Anti-inflammatory treatments could potentially be used to slow down the progression of these diseases. We studied the anti-neuroinflammatory activity of  gold compounds which have been used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. Non-toxic concentrations of auranofin (0.1-1 muM) significantly reduced the cytotoxic secretions by primary human microglia and microglia-like THP-1 promonocytic cells. Auranofin inhibited primed NADPH-oxidase dependent respiratory burst and secretion of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and nitric oxide by monocytic cells. It had a direct neuroprotective effect on SH-SY5Y neuronal cells. Auranofin could have a novel application in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
25168262: !Alzheimer How dependent is synaptic plasticity on microglial phenotype? Microglia are particularly plastic cells which can be shifted from their resting  state by numerous factors and adopt distinct phenotypes. The cells are multifunctional, though their main role is probably maintenance of homoeostasis.  Resting cells are responsible for surveillance, whereas activation induces the cells to adopt neuroprotective or neurodetrimental roles, which are anti-inflammatory or pro-inflammatory respectively. The evidence indicates that activated cells with a pro-inflammatory phenotype predominate in neurodegenerative diseases and models of neurodegeneration and that this may significantly contribute to the deteriorating neuronal function. This question is considered in this review, in particular in the context of animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neuroimmunology and Synaptic Function'.
25161917: !Alzheimer Summer Savory: From the Selection of Traditional Applications to the Novel Effect in Relief, Prevention, and Treatment of a Number of Serious Illnesses such as Diabetes, Cardiovascular Disease, Alzheimer's Disease, and Cancer. Savory (Satureja L.) plant species have been used for centuries as culinary herbs and spices, as well as traditional remedies for the treatment or relief of various common health symptoms in many parts of the world. Recent studies suggest that the use of some Satureja species is effective in protecting the body against oxidative stress, free radical damage, inflammation, microbial infections, etc.,  A review of many studies suggests that savory species, in addition to treating minor ordinary ailments, can potentially provide a novel natural prevention or treatment for some chronic and serious illnesses such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and Alzheimer's.
25160937: !Alzheimer Chronic inhibition of brain phospholipase A2 in adult rats impairs the survival of newborn mature neurons in the hippocampus. Adult neurogenesis occurs in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) and lateral ventricles, and includes cell proliferation and neuronal differentiation, maturation and survival. In vitro studies suggest a role for phospholipase A2 (PLA2) in neuronal differentiation/maturation and survival. This study aimed to investigate the effect of in vivo chronic inhibition of brain PLA2 in adult rats  on the number of newborn mature neurons in the DG. Male Wistar rats were injected with BrdU (cell proliferation marker) and 2 weeks later (beginning of neuronal maturation) sham-operated or infused intracerebroventricularly with either vehicle (DMSO in saline) or PLA2 inhibitor (MAFP dissolved in the vehicle) for 14 days via osmotic minipump. The animals were euthanised 28 days post-BrdU and their brains immunostained for BrdU and BrdU plus NeuN (mature neuronal marker) for analysis of surviving cells. MAFP reduced the number of BrdU(+) cells in the  ventral DG (p < 0.05 vs. sham; p < 0.01 vs. DMSO) and the number of BrdU(+)NeuN(+) cells in the ventral (p < 0.01 vs. sham and DMSO) and whole DG (p  < 0.02 vs. sham and DMSO). There was no effect of MAFP in the dorsal DG. These findings show that chronic PLA2 inhibition in adult rat hippocampus decreases the number of newborn mature neurons in the ventral DG (reflecting in the whole DG),  perhaps by impairing neuronal maturation and survival, and suggest that PLA2 inhibition reported in the hippocampus of Alzheimer disease subjects might partly contribute to the neurogenic abnormalities found in the DG in this disease.
25153931: !Alzheimer Prioritizing candidate disease metabolites based on global functional relationships between metabolites in the context of metabolic pathways. Identification of key metabolites for complex diseases is a challenging task in today's medicine and biology. A special disease is usually caused by the alteration of a series of functional related metabolites having a global influence on the metabolic network. Moreover, the metabolites in the same metabolic pathway are often associated with the same or similar disease. Based on these functional relationships between metabolites in the context of metabolic pathways, we here presented a pathway-based random walk method called PROFANCY for prioritization of candidate disease metabolites. Our strategy not only takes  advantage of the global functional relationships between metabolites but also sufficiently exploits the functionally modular nature of metabolic networks. Our  approach proved successful in prioritizing known metabolites for 71 diseases with an AUC value of 0.895. We also assessed the performance of PROFANCY on 16 disease classes and found that 4 classes achieved an AUC value over 0.95. To investigate  the robustness of the PROFANCY, we repeated all the analyses in two metabolic networks and obtained similar results. Then we applied our approach to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and found that a top ranked candidate was potentially related to AD but had not been reported previously. Furthermore, our method was applicable to prioritize the metabolites from metabolomic profiles of prostate cancer. The PROFANCY could identify prostate cancer related-metabolites that are  supported by literatures but not considered to be significantly differential by traditional differential analysis. We also developed a freely accessible web-based and R-based tool at http://bioinfo.hrbmu.edu.cn/PROFANCY.
25152362: !Alzheimer Approaches for detecting lysosomal alkalinization and impaired degradation in fresh and cultured RPE cells: evidence for a role in retinal degenerations. Lysosomes contribute to a multitude of cellular processes, and the pH of the lysosomal lumen plays a central mechanistic role in many of these functions. In addition to controlling the rate of enzymatic degradation for material delivered  through autophagic or phagocytotic pathways, lysosomal pH regulates events such as lysosomal fusion with autophagosomes and the release of lysosomal calcium into the cytoplasm. Disruption of either the steady state lysosomal pH or of the regulated manipulations to lysosomal pH may be pathological. For example, chloroquine elevates the lysosomal pH of retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells and triggers a retinopathy characterized by the accumulation of lipofuscin-like material in both humans and animals. Compensatory responses to restore lysosomal  pH are observed; new data illustrate that chronic chloroquine treatment increases mRNA expression of the lysosomal/autophagy master transcription factor TcFEB and  of the vesicular proton pump vHATPase in the RPE/choroid of mice. An elevated lysosomal pH with upregulation of TcFEB and vHATPase resembles the pathology in fibroblasts of patients with mutant presenilin 1 (PS1), suggesting a common link  between age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and Alzheimer's disease. While the absolute rise in pH is often small in these disorders, elevations of only a few tenths of a pH unit can have a major impact on both lysosomal function and the accumulation of waste over decades. Accurate measurement of lysosomal pH can be complex, and imprecise measurements have clouded the field. Protocols to optimize pH measurement from fresh and cultured cells are discussed, and indirect measurements to confirm changes in lysosomal pH and degradative capacity are addressed. The ability of reacidifying treatments to restore degradative function confirms the central role of lysosomal pH in these disorders and identifies potential approaches to treat diseases of lysosomal accumulation like AMD and Alzheimer's disease. In summary, various approaches to determine lysosomal pH in  fresh and cultured cells, as well as the potential to restore pH levels to an optimal range, can help identify and repair pathologies associated with lysosomal defects in RPE cells and perhaps also suggest new approaches to treat lysosomal storage diseases throughout the body.
25147109: !Alzheimer Air pollution and children: neural and tight junction antibodies and combustion metals, the role of barrier breakdown and brain immunity in neurodegeneration. Millions of children are exposed to concentrations of air pollutants, including fine particulate matter (PM2.5), above safety standards. In the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA) megacity, children show an early brain imbalance in oxidative stress, inflammation, innate and adaptive immune response-associated genes, and blood-brain barrier breakdown. We investigated serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) antibodies to neural and tight junction proteins and environmental pollutants in 139 children ages 11.91 +/- 4.2 y with high versus low air pollution exposures. We also measured metals in serum and CSF. MCMA children showed significantly higher serum actin IgG, occludin/zonulin 1 IgA, IgG, myelin  oligodendrocyte glycoprotein IgG and IgM (p < 0.01), myelin basic protein IgA and IgG, S-100 IgG and IgM, and cerebellar IgG (p < 0.001). Serum IgG antibodies to formaldehyde, benzene, and bisphenol A, and concentrations of Ni and Cd were significantly higher in exposed children (p < 0.001). CSF MBP antibodies and nickel concentrations were higher in MCMA children (p = 0.03). Air pollution exposure damages epithelial and endothelial barriers and is a robust trigger of tight junction and neural antibodies. Cryptic 'self' tight junction antigens can  trigger an autoimmune response potentially contributing to the neuroinflammatory  and Alzheimer and Parkinson's pathology hallmarks present in megacity children. The major factor determining the impact of neural antibodies is the integrity of  the blood-brain barrier. Defining the air pollution linkage of the brain/immune system interactions and damage to physical and immunological barriers with short  and long term neural detrimental effects to children's brains ought to be of pressing importance for public health.
25134730: !Alzheimer Dynamic changes in pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in microglia after PPAR-gamma agonist neuroprotective treatment in the MPTPp mouse model of progressive Parkinson's disease. Neuroinflammatory changes play a pivotal role in the progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. Recent findings have suggested that activated microglia may polarize similarly to peripheral macrophages in the central nervous system (CNS), assuming a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype or the alternative anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype via cytokine production. A skewed M1 activation over M2 has been related to disease progression in Alzheimer disease, and modulation of microglia polarization may be a therapeutic target for neuroprotection. By using the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-probenecid (MPTPp) mouse model of progressive PD, we investigated dynamic changes in the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta, and anti-inflammatory cytokines, such as transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta and IL-10, within Iba-1-positive cells in the substantia nigra compacta (SNc). In addition, to further characterize changes in the M2 phenotype, we measured CD206 in microglia. Moreover, in order to target microglia polarization, we evaluated the effect of the peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma agonist rosiglitazone, which has been shown to exert neuroprotective effects on nigral dopaminergic neurons in PD models, and acts as  a modulator of cytokine production and phenotype in peripheral macrophages. Chronic treatment with MPTPp induced a progressive degeneration of SNc neurons. The neurotoxin treatment was associated with a gradual increase in both TNF-alpha and IL-1beta colocalization with Iba-1-positive cells, suggesting an increase in  pro-inflammatory microglia. In contrast, TGF-beta colocalization was reduced by the neurotoxin treatment, while IL-10 was mostly unchanged. Administration of rosiglitazone during the full duration of MPTPp treatment reverted both TNF-alpha and IL-1beta colocalization with Iba-1 to control levels. Moreover, rosiglitazone induced an increase in TGF-beta and IL-10 colocalization compared with the MPTPp  treatment. CD206 was gradually reduced by the chronic MPTPp treatment, while rosiglitazone restored control levels, suggesting that M2 anti-inflammatory microglia were stimulated and inflammatory microglia were inhibited by the neuroprotective treatment. The results show that the dopaminergic degeneration was associated with a gradual microglia polarization to the inflammatory over the anti-inflammatory phenotype in a chronic mouse model of PD. Neuroprotective treatment with rosiglitazone modulated microglia polarization, boosting the M2 over the pro-inflammatory phenotype. PPAR-gamma agonists may offer a novel approach to neuroprotection, acting as disease-modifying drugs through an immunomodulatory action in the CNS.
25134358: !Alzheimer [Mechanisms of the immune system ageing and some age-associated diseases]. In this paper the concept of homeostenosis (progressive reduction of ability to adapt producing loss of effectiveness) of the immune system is presented as a cause of the system ageing. In particular, the progression of immune system homeostenosis was shown to be associated with previous or ongoing chronic inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, chronic kidney disease and Alzheimer's disease.
25125470: !Alzheimer Direct visualization of fungal infection in brains from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Recently, we have reported the presence of fungal infections in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Accordingly, fungal proteins and DNA were found in brain samples, demonstrating the existence of infection in the central nervous system. In the present work, we raised antibodies to specific fungal species and  performed immunohistochemistry to directly visualize fungal components inside neurons from AD patients. Mice infected with Candida glabrata were initially used to assess whether yeast can be internalized in mammalian tissues. Using polyclonal rabbit antibodies against C. glabrata, rounded immunopositive cells could be detected in the cytoplasm of cells from liver, spleen, and brain samples in infected, but not uninfected, mice. Immunohistochemical analyses of tissue from the frontal cortex of AD patients revealed the presence of fungal material in a small percentage (~10%) of cells, suggesting the presence of infection. Importantly, this immunopositive material was absent in control samples. Confocal microscopy indicated that this fungal material had an intracellular localization. The specific morphology of this material varied between patients; in some instances, disseminated material was localized to the cytoplasm, whereas small punctate bodies were detected in other patients. Interestingly, fungal material could be revealed using different anti-fungal antibodies, suggesting multiple infections. In summary, fungal infection can only be observed using specific anti-fungal antibodies and only a small percentage of cells contain fungi. Our findings provide an explanation for the hitherto elusive detection of fungi in AD brains, and are consistent with the idea that fungal cells are internalized inside neurons.
25125469: !Alzheimer The microbiome and disease: reviewing the links between the oral microbiome, aging, and Alzheimer's disease. This review, gathered from diverse sources, shows how our microbiome influences health and ultimately how well we age. Evidence linking oral bacteria to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is discussed in the context of aging, drawing together data from epidemiological, experimental, genetic, and environmental studies. Immunosenescence results in increased bacterial load as cell-mediated and humoral immune responses wane. The innate immune system gradually takes over; contributing to the rise in circulating proinflammatory cytokines such as TNFalpha. Maintaining the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) against a backdrop of increasing bacterial load is important. Aging may favor the proliferation of anaerobes in the mouth eliciting a robust TNFalpha response from the oral epithelium. Prolonged exposure to high levels of circulating TNFalpha compromises the integrity of the BBB. Sensitive techniques now detect the "asymptomatic" presence of bacteria in areas previously thought to be sterile, providing new insights into the wider distribution of components of the microbiome. These "immune-tolerated" bacteria may slowly multiply elsewhere until they elicit a chronic inflammatory response; some are now considered causal in instances of atherosclerosis and back pain. Inflammatory processes have long been associated with AD. We propose for a subset of AD patients, aging favors the overgrowth of oral anaerobes established earlier in life provoking a pro-inflammatory innate response that weakens the BBB allowing bacteria to spread and quietly influence the pathogenesis of AD. Finally, we suggest that human polymorphisms considered alongside components of the microbiome may provide new avenues of research for the prevention and treatment of disease.
25112168: !Alzheimer De novo transcriptome sequencing and digital gene expression analysis predict biosynthetic pathway of rhynchophylline and isorhynchophylline from Uncaria rhynchophylla, a non-model plant with potent anti-alzheimer's properties. BACKGROUND: The major medicinal alkaloids isolated from Uncaria rhynchophylla (gouteng in chinese) capsules are rhynchophylline (RIN) and isorhynchophylline (IRN). Extracts containing these terpene indole alkaloids (TIAs) can inhibit the  formation and destabilize preformed fibrils of amyloid beta protein (a pathological marker of Alzheimer's disease), and have been shown to improve the cognitive function of mice with Alzheimer-like symptoms. The biosynthetic pathways of RIN and IRN are largely unknown. RESULTS: In this study, RNA-sequencing of pooled Uncaria capsules RNA samples taken at three developmental stages that accumulate different amount of RIN and IRN was performed. More than 50 million high-quality reads from a cDNA library were generated and de novo assembled. Sequences for all of the known enzymes involved  in TIAs synthesis were identified. Additionally, 193 cytochrome P450 (CYP450), 280 methyltransferase and 144 isomerase genes were identified, that are potential candidates for enzymes involved in RIN and IRN synthesis. Digital gene expression profile (DGE) analysis was performed on the three capsule developmental stages, and based on genes possessing expression profiles consistent with RIN and IRN levels; four CYP450s, three methyltransferases and three isomerases were identified as the candidates most likely to be involved in the later steps of RIN and IRN biosynthesis. CONCLUSION: A combination of de novo transcriptome assembly and DGE analysis was shown to be a powerful method for identifying genes encoding enzymes potentially involved in the biosynthesis of important secondary metabolites in a non-model plant. The transcriptome data from this study provides an important resource for understanding the formation of major bioactive constituents in the capsule extract from Uncaria, and provides information that may aid in metabolic engineering to increase yields of these important alkaloids.
25107315: !Alzheimer Involvement of Seladin-1 in goniothalamin-induced apoptosis in urinary bladder cancer cells. BACKGROUND: Selective Alzheimer Disease Indicator-1 (or Seladin-1) is a multifunctional protein first discovered by downregulation of its expression in Alzheimer's disease. Interestingly, the expression of this protein is upregulated in several cancers, including primary bladder cancer. However, its role in cancer formation has yet to be discovered. Goniothalamin is a natural product that has been demonstrated to induce apoptosis in various cancer cell lines. In this study, we have elucidated the role of Seladin-1 in goniothalamin-induced cytotoxicity towards human urinary bladder cancer cell line RT4. METHODS: The cytotoxicity of goniothalamin in human urinary bladder cancer cell line RT4 was assessed using MTT assay and the mode of cell death was determined by Annexin V-FITC/PI labeling assay. Finally, the expression of Seladin-1 protein in goniothalamin-treated RT4 cells was determined by Western blot. RESULTS: MTT assay showed that the cytotoxicity of goniothalamin on RT4 cells was concentration and time dependent with IC50 values of 61 muM (24 hr), 38 muM (48 hr) and 31 muM for 72 hr, respectively. Cell death induced was confirmed through  apoptosis; as assessed using the Annexin V-FITC/PI labeling assay. Furthermore, the involvement of Seladin-1 in goniothalamin-induced apoptosis was evidenced through the cleavage of 60 kDa protein to 40 kDa and 20 kDa. This was followed by a gradual increase of 20 kDa fragment suggesting the involvement of Seladin-1 in  goniothalamin-induced apoptosis on RT4 cells. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that goniothalamin induce cytotoxicity and apoptosis on RT4 cells. The involvement of Seladin-1 in goniothalamin-induced apoptosis further suggested that Seladin-1 may play a role in the formation of primary bladder cancer.
25104975: !Alzheimer Alpha-lipoic acid as a pleiotropic compound with potential therapeutic use in diabetes and other chronic diseases. Alpha-lipoic acid is a naturally occurring substance, essential for the function  of different enzymes that take part in mitochondria's oxidative metabolism. It is believed that alpha-lipoic acid or its reduced form, dihydrolipoic acid have many biochemical functions acting as biological antioxidants, as metal chelators, reducers of the oxidized forms of other antioxidant agents such as vitamin C and  E, and modulator of the signaling transduction of several pathways. These above-mentioned actions have been shown in experimental studies emphasizing the use of alpha-lipoic acid as a potential therapeutic agent for many chronic diseases with great epidemiological as well economic and social impact such as brain diseases and cognitive dysfunctions like Alzheimer disease, obesity, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, burning mouth syndrome, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, some types of cancer, glaucoma and osteoporosis. Many conflicting data have been found concerning the clinical use of alpha-lipoic acid in the treatment of diabetes and of diabetes-related chronic complications such as retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy, wound healing and diabetic cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy. The most frequent clinical condition in which alpha-lipoic  acid has been studied was in the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathy in  patients with type 1 as well type 2 diabetes. Considering that oxidative stress,  a imbalance between pro and antioxidants with excessive production of reactive oxygen species, is a factor in the development of many diseases and that alpha-lipoic acid, a natural thiol antioxidant, has been shown to have beneficial effects on oxidative stress parameters in various tissues we wrote this article in order to make an up-to-date review of current thinking regarding alpha-lipoic  acid and its use as an antioxidant drug therapy for a myriad of diseases that could have potential benefits from its use.
25102813: !Alzheimer Dissection of key determinants of cleavage activity in signal peptidase III (SPaseIII) PibD. In Archaea, type IV prepilins and prearchaellins are processed by designated signal peptidase III (SPaseIII) prior to their incorporation into pili and the archaellum, respectively. These peptidases belong to the family of integral membrane aspartic acid proteases that contain two essential aspartate residues of which the second aspartate is located in a conserved GxGD motif. To this group also bacterial type IV prepilin peptidases, Alzheimer disease-related secretases, signal peptide peptidases and signal peptide peptidase-like proteases in humans belong. Here we have performed detailed in vivo analyses to understand the cleavage activity of PibD, SPaseIII from the thermoacidophilic crenarchaeon Sulfolobus acidocaldarius. Using an already established in vivo heterologous system cleavage assay, we could successfully identify the key amino acid residues essential for catalysis of PibD. Furthermore, in trans complementation of a pibD  S. acidocaldarius deletion mutant with PibD variants having substituted key amino acids has consolidated our observations of the importance of these residues in catalysis. Based on our data, we propose to re-define class III peptidases/type IV prepilin/prearchaellin peptidases as GxHyD group (rather than GxGD) of proteases [Hy-hydrophobic amino acid].
25101284: !Alzheimer Ketogenic diet in neuromuscular and neurodegenerative diseases. An increasing number of data demonstrate the utility of ketogenic diets in a variety of metabolic diseases as obesity, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes. In regard to neurological disorders, ketogenic diet is recognized as an effective treatment for pharmacoresistant epilepsy but emerging data suggests that ketogenic diet could be also useful in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer,  Parkinson's disease, and some mitochondriopathies. Although these diseases have different pathogenesis and features, there are some common mechanisms that could  explain the effects of ketogenic diets. These mechanisms are to provide an efficient source of energy for the treatment of certain types of neurodegenerative diseases characterized by focal brain hypometabolism; to decrease the oxidative damage associated with various kinds of metabolic stress;  to increase the mitochondrial biogenesis pathways; and to take advantage of the capacity of ketones to bypass the defect in complex I activity implicated in some neurological diseases. These mechanisms will be discussed in this review.
25101076: !Alzheimer Macromolecular networks and intelligence in microorganisms. Living organisms persist by virtue of complex interactions among many components  organized into dynamic, environment-responsive networks that span multiple scales and dimensions. Biological networks constitute a type of information and communication technology (ICT): they receive information from the outside and inside of cells, integrate and interpret this information, and then activate a response. Biological networks enable molecules within cells, and even cells themselves, to communicate with each other and their environment. We have become  accustomed to associating brain activity - particularly activity of the human brain - with a phenomenon we call "intelligence." Yet, four billion years of evolution could have selected networks with topologies and dynamics that confer traits analogous to this intelligence, even though they were outside the intercellular networks of the brain. Here, we explore how macromolecular networks in microbes confer intelligent characteristics, such as memory, anticipation, adaptation and reflection and we review current understanding of how network organization reflects the type of intelligence required for the environments in which they were selected. We propose that, if we were to leave terms such as "human" and "brain" out of the defining features of "intelligence," all forms of  life - from microbes to humans - exhibit some or all characteristics consistent with "intelligence." We then review advances in genome-wide data production and analysis, especially in microbes, that provide a lens into microbial intelligence and propose how the insights derived from quantitatively characterizing biomolecular networks may enable synthetic biologists to create intelligent molecular networks for biotechnology, possibly generating new forms of intelligence, first in silico and then in vivo.
25097638: !Alzheimer Therapeutic potential of dental pulp stem cells in regenerative medicine: An overview. The purpose of this review is to gain an overview of the applications of the dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) in the treatment of various medical diseases. Stem cells have the capacity to differentiate and regenerate into various tissues. DPSCs are the adult stem cells that reside in the cell rich zone of the dental pulp. These are the multipotent cells that can be explained by their embryonic origin from the neural crest. Owing to this multipotency, these DPSCs can be used in both dental and medical applications. A review of literature has been performed using electronic and hand-searching methods for the medical applications of DPSCs. On the basis of the available information, DPSCs appear to be a promising alternative for the regeneration of tissues and treatment of various diseases, although, long-term clinical trials and studies are needed to confirm their efficacy.
25071571: !Alzheimer The glial response to intracerebrally delivered therapies for neurodegenerative disorders: is this a critical issue? The role of glial cells in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative conditions  of the central nervous system (CNS) is now well established (as is discussed in other reviews in this special issue of Frontiers in Neuropharmacology). What is less clear is whether there are changes in these same cells in terms of their behavior and function in response to invasive experimental therapeutic interventions for these diseases. This has, and will continue to become more of an issue as we enter a new era of novel treatments which require the agent to be  directly placed/infused into the CNS such as deep brain stimulation (DBS), cell transplants, gene therapies and growth factor infusions. To date, all of these treatments have produced variable outcomes and the reasons for this have been widely debated but the host astrocytic and/or microglial response induced by such invasively delivered agents has not been discussed in any detail. In this review, we have attempted to summarize the limited published data on this, in particular  we discuss the small number of human post-mortem studies reported in this field.  By so doing, we hope to provide a better description and understanding of the extent and nature of both the astrocytic and microglial response, which in turn could lead to modifications in the way these therapeutic interventions are delivered.
25070503: !Alzheimer Donepezil can improve ischemic muscle atrophy by activating angiomyogenic properties of satellite cells. BACKGROUND: Saving more limbs of patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD)  from amputation by accelerating angiogenesis in affected limbs has been anticipated for years. We hypothesized that an anti-Alzheimer drug, donepezil (DPZ), can activate angiomyogenic properties of satellite cells, myogenic progenitors, and thus be an additional pharmacological therapy against PAD. METHODS AND RESULTS: In a murine hindlimb ischemia model, we investigated the angiogenic effects of a clinical dose of DPZ (0.2 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) and its combination with cilostazol, a platelet aggregation inhibitor and a conventional  therapeutic drug against PAD. The combination therapy most effectively improved skin coldness and most effectively upregulated vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-producing satellite cells in ischemic hindlimbs. Computed tomography revealed that DPZ remarkably attenuated ischemic muscle atrophy and induced super-restoration in affected hindlimbs. The in vitro study with human aortic endothelial cells showed that DPZ or its combination with cilostazol effectively  upregulated the expression of pAkt, hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha, and VEGF protein. Likewise, in primary cultured satellite cells, DPZ, alone or in combination, upregulated the expression of VEGF, interleukin-1beta, and fibroblast growth factor 2 protein. CONCLUSIONS: The present results suggest that a clinical dosage of DPZ accelerates angiomyogenesis by directly acting on both endothelial and satellite cells. Therefore, DPZ is a potential additional choice  for conventional drug therapy against PAD.
25068731: !Alzheimer Synthesis of new isoxazoline derivatives from harmine and evaluation of their anti-Alzheimer, anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory activities. In our study, a series of new harmine derivatives has been prepared by cycloaddition reaction using various arylnitrile oxides and evaluated in vitro against acetylcholinesterase and 5-lipoxygenase enzymes, MCF7 and HCT116 cancer cell lines. Some of these molecules have been shown to be potent inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase and MCF7 cell line. The greatest activity against acetylcholinesterase (IC50 = 10.4 microM) was obtained for harmine 1 and cytotoxic activities (IC50 = 0.2 microM) for compound 3a. Two derivatives 3e and  3f with the thiophene and furan systems, respectively, showed good activity against 5- lipoxygenase enzyme (IC50 = 29.2 and 55.5 microM, respectively).
25065914: !Alzheimer The Alu-rich genomic architecture of SPAST predisposes to diverse and functionally distinct disease-associated CNV alleles. Intragenic copy-number variants (CNVs) contribute to the allelic spectrum of both Mendelian and complex disorders. Although pathogenic deletions and duplications in SPAST (mutations in which cause autosomal-dominant spastic paraplegia 4 [SPG4]) have been described, their origins and molecular consequences remain obscure. We mapped breakpoint junctions of 54 SPAST CNVs at nucleotide resolution. Diverse combinations of exons are deleted or duplicated, highlighting the importance of particular exons for spastin function. Of the 54 CNVs, 38 (70%) appear to be mediated by an Alu-based mechanism, suggesting that the Alu-rich genomic architecture of SPAST renders this locus susceptible to various genome rearrangements. Analysis of breakpoint Alus further informs a model of Alu-mediated CNV formation characterized by small CNV size and potential involvement of mechanisms other than homologous recombination. Twelve deletions (22%) overlap part of SPAST and a portion of a nearby, directly oriented gene, predicting novel chimeric genes in these subjects' genomes. cDNA from a subject with a SPAST final exon deletion contained multiple SPAST:SLC30A6 fusion transcripts, indicating that SPAST CNVs can have transcriptional effects beyond the gene itself. SLC30A6 has been implicated in Alzheimer disease, so these fusion gene data could explain a report of spastic paraplegia and dementia cosegregating in a family with deletion of the final exon of SPAST. Our findings  provide evidence that the Alu genomic architecture of SPAST predisposes to diverse CNV alleles with distinct transcriptional--and possibly phenotypic--consequences. Moreover, we provide further mechanistic insights into  Alu-mediated copy-number change that are extendable to other loci.
25064643: !Alzheimer Development of a metabolomic approach based on urine samples and direct infusion  mass spectrometry. The analysis of urine by direct infusion mass spectrometry suffers from ion suppression due to its high salt content and inter-sample variability caused by the differences in urine volume between persons. Thus, urine metabolomics requires a careful selection of the sample preparation procedure and a normalization strategy to deal with these problems. Several approaches were tested for metabolomic analysis of urine samples by direct infusion electrospray  mass spectrometry (DI-ESI-MS), including solid phase extraction, liquid-liquid extraction, and sample dilution. In addition, normalization of results based on conductivity values and statistical treatment was performed to minimize sample variability. Both urine dilution and solid phase extraction with mixed mode sorbent considerably reduced the salt content in urine, providing comprehensive metabolomic fingerprints. Moreover, statistical data normalization enabled the correction of inter-sample physiological variability, improving the quality of results obtained. Therefore, high-throughput DI-ESI-MS fingerprinting of urine samples can be achieved with simple pretreatment procedures allowing the use of this noninvasive sampling in metabolomics. Finally, the optimized approach was tested in a pilot metabolomic investigation of urine samples from transgenic mice models of Alzheimer's disease (APP/PS1) in order to illustrate the potential of the methodology.
25061748: !Alzheimer Cloning and characterization of a norbelladine 4'-O-methyltransferase involved in the biosynthesis of the Alzheimer's drug galanthamine in Narcissus sp. aff. pseudonarcissus. Galanthamine is an Amaryllidaceae alkaloid used to treat the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. This compound is primarily isolated from daffodil (Narcissus spp.), snowdrop (Galanthus spp.), and summer snowflake (Leucojum aestivum). Despite its importance as a medicine, no genes involved in the biosynthetic pathway of galanthamine have been identified. This absence of genetic information on biosynthetic pathways is a limiting factor in the development of synthetic biology platforms for many important botanical medicines. The paucity of information is largely due to the limitations of traditional methods for finding  biochemical pathway enzymes and genes in non-model organisms. A new bioinformatic approach using several recent technological improvements was applied to search for genes in the proposed galanthamine biosynthetic pathway, first targeting methyltransferases due to strong signature amino acid sequences in the proteins.  Using Illumina sequencing, a de novo transcriptome assembly was constructed for daffodil. BLAST was used to identify sequences that contain signatures for plant  O-methyltransferases in this transcriptome. The program HAYSTACK was then used to identify methyltransferases that fit a model for galanthamine biosynthesis in leaf, bulb and inflorescence tissues. One candidate gene for the methylation of norbelladine to 4'-O-methylnorbelladine in the proposed galanthamine biosynthetic pathway was identified. This methyltransferase cDNA was expressed in E. coli and  the protein purified by affinity chromatography. The resulting protein was found  to be a norbelladine 4'-O-methyltransferase (NpN4OMT) of the proposed galanthamine biosynthetic pathway.
25061055: !Alzheimer Active invasion of Porphyromonas gingivalis and infection-induced complement activation in ApoE-/- mice brains. Periodontal disease is a polymicrobial inflammatory disease that leads to chronic systemic inflammation and direct infiltration of bacteria/bacterial components, which may contribute to the development of Alzheimer's disease. ApoE-/- mice were orally infected (n = 12) with Porphyromonas gingivalis, Treponema denticola, Tannerella forsythia, and Fusobacterium nucleatum as mono- and polymicrobial infections. ApoE-/- mice were sacrificed following 12 and 24 weeks of chronic infection. Bacterial genomic DNA was isolated from all brain tissues except for the F. nucleatum mono-infected group. Polymerase chain reaction was performed using universal 16 s rDNA primers and species-specific primer sets for each organism to determine whether the infecting pathogens accessed the brain. Sequencing amplification products confirmed the invasion of bacteria into the brain during infection. The innate immune responses were detected using antibodies against complement activation products of C3 convertase stage and the  membrane attack complex. Molecular methods demonstrated that 6 out of 12 ApoE-/-  mice brains contained P. gingivalis genomic DNA at 12 weeks (p = 0.006), and 9 out of 12 at 24 weeks of infection (p = 0.0001). Microglia in both infected and control groups demonstrated strong intracellular labeling with C3 and C9, due to  on-going biosynthesis. The pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus in 4 out of 12 infected mice brains demonstrated characteristic opsonization with C3 activation  fragments (p = 0.032). These results show that the oral pathogen P. gingivalis was able to access the ApoE-/- mice brain and thereby contributed to complement activation with bystander neuronal injury.
25057188: !Alzheimer Deletion of interleukin-6 signal transducer gp130 in small sensory neurons attenuates mechanonociception and down-regulates TRPA1 expression. Glycoprotein 130 (gp130) is the signal transducing receptor subunit for cytokines of the interleukin-6 (IL-6) family, and it is expressed in a multitude of cell types of the immune and nervous system. IL-6-like cytokines are not only key regulators of innate immunity and inflammation but are also essential factors for the differentiation and development of the somatosensory system. Mice with a null mutation of gp130 in primary nociceptive afferents (SNS-gp130(-/-)) are largely protected from hypersensitivity to mechanical stimuli in mouse models of pathological pain. Therefore, we set out to investigate how neuronal gp130 regulates mechanonociception. SNS-gp130(-/-) mice revealed reduced mechanosensitivity to high mechanical forces in the von Frey assay in vivo, and this was associated with a reduced sensitivity of nociceptive primary afferents in vitro. Together with these findings, transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) mRNA expression was significantly reduced in DRG from SNS-gp130(-/-) mice. This was also reflected by a reduced number of neurons responding with calcium transients to TRPA1 agonists in primary DRG cultures. Downregulation of Trpa1 expression was predominantly discovered in nonpeptidergic neurons, with the deficit becoming evident during stages of early postnatal development. Regulation of Trpa1 mRNA expression levels downstream of gp130 involved the classical Janus  kinase family-signal transducer and activator of transcription pathway. Our results closely link proinflammatory cytokines to the expression of TRPA1, both of which have been shown to contribute to hypersensitive pain states. We suggest  that gp130 has an essential role in mechanonociception and in the regulation of TRPA1 expression.
25055921: !Alzheimer A schematic workflow for collecting information about the interaction between copy number variants and microRNAs using existing resources. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) and copy number variations (CNVs) are two extensively studied  genomic components in the field of modern biology-as they have been found to be associated with many disorders such as cancer, Alzheimer, pancreatitis, HIV susceptibility, beta-thalassemia, and glomerulonephritis. Several studies suggested that an alteration in CNV-miRNA interaction could result in some human  diseases such as cancer. Therefore, the possible miRNA-binding site information within the CNV genes opens new avenues in understanding such disorders. In this chapter, we present a schematic approach for collecting the information on CNV-miRNA interactions using miRWalk and TargetScan databases.
25036600: !Alzheimer Novel tacrine/acridine anticholinesterase inhibitors with piperazine and thiourea linkers. A new series of substituted tacrine/acridine and tacrine/tacrine dimers with aliphatic or alkylene-thiourea linkers was synthesized and the potential of these compounds as novel human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE) and human butyrylcholinesterase (hBChE) inhibitors with nanomolar inhibition activity was evaluated. The most potent AChE inhibitor was found to be homodimeric tacrine derivative 14a, which demonstrated an IC50 value of 2 nM; this value indicates an activity rate which is 250-times higher than that of tacrine 1 and 7500-times higher than 7-MEOTA 15, the compounds which were used as standards in the study.  IC50 values of derivatives 1, 9, 10, 14b and 15 were compared with the dissociation constants of the enzyme-inhibitor complex, Ki1, and the enzyme-substrate-inhibitor complex, Ki2, for. A dual binding site is presumed for the synthesized compounds which possess two tacrines or tacrine and acridine as terminal moieties show evidence of dual site binding. DFT calculations of theoretical desolvation free energies, DeltaDeltaGtheor, and docking studies elucidate these suggestions in more detail.
25033982: !Alzheimer Determination of free fatty acids in human serum by HPLC with fluorescence detection. It has been suggested that serum concentrations of polyunsaturated essential fatty acids correlate with the symptoms or severity of various diseases, including depression and Alzheimer-type dementia, and that determination of serum fatty acids might be important for disease diagnosis. Thus, we developed to analyze serum fatty acids in healthy individuals by using a high-performance liquid chromatography method with fluorescence detection, because free fatty acids have a carboxyl group that can be derivatized with a fluorescent reagent, 4-N,N-dimethylaminosulfonyl-7-N-(2-aminoethyl)amino-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole. This approach could quantify five types of free fatty acids [alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), palmitoleic acid (PLA), arachidonic acid (AA), linoleic acid (LA) and oleic acid (OA)] in human serum. The detection limits of the method were in the range of 2.29-4.75 fmol (signal-to-noise ratio 3), and absolute concentrations of ALA, PLA, AA, LA and OA were 8.27 +/- 1.04, 18.8 +/- 2.95, 49.9 +/- 4.03, 230 +/- 18.1 and 201 +/- 22.1 microM, respectively.
25032889: !Alzheimer Pathway network inference from gene expression data. BACKGROUND: The development of high-throughput omics technologies enabled genome-wide measurements of the activity of cellular elements and provides the analytical resources for the progress of the Systems Biology discipline. Analysis and interpretation of gene expression data has evolved from the gene to the pathway and interaction level, i.e. from the detection of differentially expressed genes, to the establishment of gene interaction networks and the identification of enriched functional categories. Still, the understanding of biological systems requires a further level of analysis that addresses the characterization of the interaction between functional modules. RESULTS: We present a novel computational methodology to study the functional interconnections among the molecular elements of a biological system. The PANA approach uses high-throughput genomics measurements and a functional annotation scheme to extract an activity profile from each functional block -or pathway- followed by machine-learning methods to infer the relationships between these functional profiles. The result is a global, interconnected network of pathways that represents the functional cross-talk within the molecular system. We have applied this approach to describe the functional transcriptional connections during the yeast cell cycle and to identify pathways that change their connectivity in a disease condition using an Alzheimer example. CONCLUSIONS: PANA is a useful tool to deepen in our understanding of the functional interdependences that operate within complex biological systems. We show the approach is algorithmically consistent and the inferred network is well supported by the available functional data. The method allows the dissection of the molecular basis of the functional connections and we describe the different regulatory mechanisms that explain the network's topology obtained for the yeast  cell cycle data.
25024695: !Alzheimer Glutathione and mitochondria. Glutathione (GSH) is the main non-protein thiol in cells whose functions are dependent on the redox-active thiol of its cysteine moiety that serves as a cofactor for a number of antioxidant and detoxifying enzymes. While synthesized exclusively in the cytosol from its constituent amino acids, GSH is distributed in different compartments, including mitochondria where its concentration in the  matrix equals that of the cytosol. This feature and its negative charge at physiological pH imply the existence of specific carriers to import GSH from the  cytosol to the mitochondrial matrix, where it plays a key role in defense against respiration-induced reactive oxygen species and in the detoxification of lipid hydroperoxides and electrophiles. Moreover, as mitochondria play a central strategic role in the activation and mode of cell death, mitochondrial GSH has been shown to critically regulate the level of sensitization to secondary hits that induce mitochondrial membrane permeabilization and release of proteins confined in the intermembrane space that once in the cytosol engage the molecular machinery of cell death. In this review, we summarize recent data on the regulation of mitochondrial GSH and its role in cell death and prevalent human diseases, such as cancer, fatty liver disease, and Alzheimer's disease.
25024584: !Alzheimer Aromatic L-Amino acid decarboxylase deficiency: A new case from Turkey with a novel mutation. Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), a vitamin B6-requiring enzyme that converts L-dopa to dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptophan to serotonin. Deficiency of this enzyme results in developmental delay, muscular hypotonia, dystonia, involuntary movements, autonomic dysfunction, and oculogyric crises. We now report a 2-year-old Turkish boy with AADC deficiency confirmed by greatly reduced AADC activity in the plasma and by genetic studies. Mutation analysis revealed a  homozygous mutation c.208C > T (p. His70Tyr) in exon 3 of the AADC gene which has not been described to date.
25005067: !Alzheimer Compounds from the aerial parts of Piper bavinum and their anti-cholinesterase activity. A new alkenylphenol, bavinol A (1), together with six known compounds (2-7) were  isolated from the aerial parts of Piper bavinum (Piperaceae). The chemical structures of these compounds were determined by spectroscopic analyses including 2D NMR spectroscopy. The anti-Alzheimer effects of compounds 1-7 were evaluated from acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitory activity assays. Bavinol A (1), ampelopsin (3), and violanthin (4) exhibited AChE inhibitory activities with IC50 values of 29.80, 59.47 and 79.80 muM. Compound 1  also showed the most potent BChE inhibitory activity with an IC50 value of 19.25  muM.
25002271: !Alzheimer The novel alpha7beta2-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtype is expressed in mouse and human basal forebrain: biochemical and pharmacological characterization. We examined alpha7beta2-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7beta2-nAChR) expression in mammalian brain and compared pharmacological profiles of homomeric  alpha7-nAChRs and alpha7beta2-nAChRs. alpha-Bungarotoxin affinity purification or immunoprecipitation with anti-alpha7 subunit antibodies (Abs) was used to isolate nAChRs containing alpha7 subunits from mouse or human brain samples. alpha7beta2-nAChRs were detected in forebrain, but not other tested regions, from both species, based on Western blot analysis of isolates using beta2 subunit-specific Abs. Ab specificity was confirmed in control studies using subunit-null mutant mice or cell lines heterologously expressing specific human nAChR subtypes and subunits. Functional expression in Xenopus oocytes of concatenated pentameric (alpha7)5-, (alpha7)4(beta2)1-, and (alpha7)3(beta2)2-nAChRs was confirmed using two-electrode voltage clamp recording of responses to nicotinic ligands. Importantly, pharmacological profiles were indistinguishable for concatenated (alpha7)5-nAChRs or for homomeric alpha7-nAChRs constituted from unlinked alpha7 subunits. Pharmacological profiles were similar for (alpha7)5-, (alpha7)4(beta2)1-, and (alpha7)3(beta2)2-nAChRs except for diminished efficacy of nicotine (normalized to acetylcholine efficacy) at alpha7beta2- versus alpha7-nAChRs. This study represents the first direct confirmation of alpha7beta2-nAChR expression in human and mouse forebrain, supporting previous mouse studies that suggested relevance of alpha7beta2-nAChRs in Alzheimer disease etiopathogenesis. These data also indicate that alpha7beta2-nAChR subunit isoforms with different alpha7/beta2 subunit ratios have similar pharmacological profiles to each other and to alpha7  homopentameric nAChRs. This supports the hypothesis that alpha7beta2-nAChR agonist activation predominantly or entirely reflects binding to alpha7/alpha7 subunit interface sites.
24991106: !Alzheimer Screening of siddha medicinal plants for its in-vitro acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase inhibitory activity. BACKGROUND: The plants selected for the study were traditionally used in siddha system of medicine in neurological disorders. AIM: The aim of the following study isto screen the plant species for both acetylcholinesterase (AchE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuchE) inhibition by in-vitro Ellman's method and a thin layer chromatography bioautographic assay for newer drug candidates for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ellman's colorimetric method was performed in a 96 well micro plate for cholinesterases inhibition using galantamine as standard drug. RESULTS: Present studies confirmed that out of all the tested extracts Hemidesmus indicus R.Br (HI) showed considerable IC50  values for AchE (28.40 +/- 0.92 mug/mL) and BuchE (43.47 +/- 0.64 mug/mL) inhibition which indicates that HI extract has considerable specificity toward AchE and BuchE compared with all the tested extracts and the activity was followed by Vernonia anthelmintica (VA) Willd and Saussurea lappa Clarke (SL). The bioautograms also confirmed the activity potent extracts. CONCLUSION: Besides various bioactivities HI, VA and SL exhibited considerable cholinesterases inhibition making it to consider these species for further investigation of new compounds.
24991103: !Alzheimer Anti-cholinesterase activity of the standardized extract of Syzygium aromaticum L. BACKGROUND: Clove (Syzygium aromaticum) is a well-known culinary spice with strong aroma; contains a high amount of oil known as clove oil. The major phyto-constituent of the clove oil is eugenol. Clove and its oil possess various  medicinal uses in indigenous medicine as an antiseptic, anti-oxidant, analgesic and neuroprotective properties. Thus, it draws much attention among researchers from pharmaceutical, food and cosmetic industries. OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to determine the anti-cholinesterase activity of the methanol extract of clove, its oil and eugenol. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In vitro anti-cholinesterase activity of S. aromaticum was performed by a thin layer chromatography bio autography, 96 well micro titer plate and kinetic methods. Reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) analysis was carried out to identify the biomarker compound eugenol in clove oil. RESULTS: Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibition study revealed that eugenol possess better inhibition of the enzymes than extract and oil. Clove extract, its oil and eugenol showed better inhibition of AChE than BChE. Polyphenolic compound eugenol was detected through RP-HPLC analysis. The content of eugenol in essential oil was found to be 0.5 mug/ml. Kinetic analysis  of the cholinesterase inhibition study of the extract; clove oil and eugenol have shown that they possess mixed type of inhibition for AChE and non-competitive type of inhibition for BChE. CONCLUSION: These results might be useful in explaining the effect of clove as anti-cholinesterase agent for the management of cognitive ailments like Alzheimer's disease.
24988102: !Alzheimer Mortality and cancer incidence in aluminum smelter workers: a 5-year update. OBJECTIVE: To determine the mortality and cancer incidence of aluminum smelter workers. METHOD: The experience of 17,089 workers between 1950 and 2004 was studied. RESULTS: There were 25 deaths/47 female incident cancers and 6350 deaths/3984 male incident cancers. Mortality was significantly elevated for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Alzheimer disease (likely influenced by regional factors), all cancers, stomach, bladder, and lung cancers. Incidence was significantly elevated for bladder, lung, and laryngeal cancers. Digestive, lung, and bladder cancer mortality and lung, bladder, and buccal cancer incidence increased significantly with benzo(a)pyrene (B(a)P) exposure. Over time lung cancer risk has diminished but bladder cancer risk has not. CONCLUSIONS: Bladder  cancer incidence was not increased at B(a)P exposures below 40 mug/m.yr. Occupational origins for other cancers occurring above expected rates but probably unrelated to B(a)P exposure cannot be excluded. In the prebake plant, nonsignificant increases of lung cancer were observed between 2000 and 2004.
24987548: !Alzheimer A comparative study on the effect of high cholesterol diet on the hippocampal CA1 area of adult and aged rats. Dementia is one of the most important problems nowadays. Aging is associated with learning and memory impairments. Diet rich in cholesterol has been shown to be detrimental to cognitive performance. This work was carried out to compare the effect of high cholesterol diet on the hippocampus of adult and aged male albino  rats. Twenty adult and twenty aged male rats were used in this study. According to age, the rats were randomly subdivided into balanced and high cholesterol diet fed groups. The diet was 15 g/rat/day for adult rats and 20 g/rat/day for aged rats for eight weeks. Serial coronal sections of hippocampus and blood samples were taken from each rat. For diet effect evaluation, Clinical, biochemical, histological, immunohistochemical, and morphometric assessments were done. In compare to a balanced diet fed rat, examination of Cornu Ammonis 1 (CA 1) area in the hippocampus of the high cholesterol diet adult rats showed degeneration, a significant decrease of the pyramidal cells, attenuation and/or thickening of small blood vessels, apparent increase of astrocytes and apparent decrease of Nissl's granules content. Moreover, the high cholesterol diet aged rats showed aggravation of senility changes of the hippocampus together with Alzheimer like pathological changes. In conclusion, the high cholesterol diet has a significant  detrimental effect on the hippocampus and aging might pronounce this effect. So,  we should direct our attention to limit cholesterol intake in our food to maintain a healthy life style for a successful aging.
24983737: !Alzheimer Telomerase: a target for therapeutic effects of curcumin and a curcumin derivative in Abeta1-42 insult in vitro. This study was designed to investigate whether telomerase was involved in the neuroprotective effect of curcumin and Cur1. Alzheimer's disease is a consequence of an imbalance between the generation and clearance of amyloid-beta peptide in the brain. In this study, we used Abeta1-42 (10 microg/ml) to establish a damaged cell model, and curcumin and Cur1 were used in treatment groups. We measured cell survival and cell growth, intracellular oxidative stress and hTERT expression. After RNA interference, the effects of curcumin and Cur1 on cells were verified.  Exposure to Abeta1-42 resulted in significant oxidative stress and cell toxicity, and the expression of hTERT was significantly decreased. Curcumin and Cur1 both protected SK-N-SH cells from Abeta1-42 and up-regulated the expression of hTERT.  Furthermore, Cur1 demonstrated stronger protective effects than curcumin. However, when telomerase was inhibited by TERT siRNA, the neuroprotection by curcumin and Cur1 were ceased. Our study indicated that the neuroprotective effects of curcumin and Cur1 depend on telomerase, and thus telomerase may be a target for therapeutic effects of curcumin and Cur1.
24980597: !Alzheimer Characterization of Human Hippocampal Neural Stem/Progenitor Cells and Their Application to Physiologically Relevant Assays for Multiple Ionotropic Glutamate  Receptors. The hippocampus is an important brain region that is involved in neurological disorders such as Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia, and epilepsy. Ionotropic glutamate receptors-namely, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors (AMPARs), and kainic acid (KA) receptors (KARs)-are well known to be involved in these diseases by mediating long-term potentiation, excitotoxicity, or both. To predict the therapeutic efficacy and neuronal toxicity of drug candidates acting on these receptors, physiologically relevant systems for assaying brain region-specific human neural cells are necessary. Here, we characterized the functional differentiation of human fetal hippocampus-derived neural stem/progenitor cells-namely, HIP-009 cells. Calcium rise assay demonstrated that, after a 4-week differentiation, the cells responded to NMDA (EC50 = 7.5 +/- 0.4 microM; n = 4),  AMPA (EC50 = 2.5 +/- 0.1 microM; n = 3), or KA (EC50 = 33.5 +/- 1.1 microM; n = 3) in a concentration-dependent manner. An AMPA-evoked calcium rise was observed  in the absence of the desensitization inhibitor cyclothiazide. In addition, the calcium rise induced by these agonists was inhibited by antagonists for each receptor-namely, MK-801 for NMDA stimulation (IC50 = 0.6 +/- 0.1 microM; n = 4) and NBQX for AMPA and KA stimulation (IC50 = 0.7 +/- 0.1 and 0.7 +/- 0.03 microM, respectively; n = 3). The gene expression profile of differentiated HIP-009 cells was distinct from that of undifferentiated cells and closely resembled that of the human adult hippocampus. Our results show that HIP-009 cells are a unique tool for obtaining human hippocampal neural cells and are applicable to systems for assay of ionotropic glutamate receptors as a physiologically relevant in vitro model.
24973211: !Alzheimer Anamorsin, a novel caspase-3 substrate in neurodegeneration. Activated caspases play a central role in the execution of apoptosis by cleaving  endogenous substrates. Here, we developed a high throughput screening method to identify novel substrates for caspase-3 in a neuronal cell line. Critical steps in our strategy consist of two-dimensional electrophoresis-based protein separation and in vitro caspase-3 incubation of immobilized proteins to sort out  direct substrates. Among 46 putative substrates identified in MN9D neuronal cells, we further evaluated whether caspase-3-mediated cleavage of anamorsin, a recently recognized cell death-defying factor in hematopoiesis, is a general feature of apoptosis. In vitro and cell-based cleavage assays indicated that anamorsin was specifically cleaved by caspase-3 but not by other caspases, generating 25- and 10-kDa fragments. Thus, in apoptosis of neuronal and non-neuronal cells induced by various stimuli including staurosporine, etoposide, or 6-hydroxydopamine, the cleavage of anamorsin was found to be blocked in the presence of caspase inhibitor. Among four tetrapeptide consensus DXXD motifs existing in anamorsin, we mapped a specific cleavage site for caspase-3 at DSVD(209) downward arrowL. Intriguingly, the 25-kDa cleaved fragment of anamorsin was also detected in post-mortem brains of Alzheimer and Parkinson disease patients. Although the RNA interference-mediated knockdown of anamorsin rendered  neuronal cells more vulnerable to staurosporine treatment, reintroduction of full-length anamorsin into an anamorsin knock-out stromal cell line made cells resistant to staurosporine-induced caspase activation, indicating the antiapoptotic function of anamorsin. Taken together, our approach seems to be effective to identify novel substrates for caspases and has the potential to provide meaningful insights into newly identified substrates involved in neurodegenerative processes.
24969117: !Alzheimer Inflammation and insulin/IGF-1 resistance as the possible link between obesity and neurodegeneration. Obesity is a growing epidemic that contributes to several brain disorders including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases. Obesity could promote these diseases through several different mechanisms. Here we review evidence supporting the involvement of two recently recognized factors linking obesity with neurodegeneration: the induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines and onset of insulin and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) resistance. Excess peripheral pro-inflammatory mediators, some of which can cross the blood brain barrier, may trigger neuroinflammation, which subsequently exacerbates neurodegeneration. Insulin and IGF-1 resistance leads to weakening of neuroprotective signaling by these molecules and can contribute to onset of neurodegenerative diseases.
24964362: !Alzheimer Structure elucidation of phase I metabolites of the microtubule perturbagens: ceratamines A and B. The heterocyclic alkaloids, ceratamines A and B, are isolates from a marine Pseudoceratina sp. sponge. They behave as antimitotic agents, with IC50 values in the low micromolar range. The mechanism of this activity involves the disruption  of microtubule dynamics; therefore, the ceratamines are of great interest in cancer drug discovery. Studies of in vitro metabolism were performed using rat liver microsomes to begin to understand the pharmacokinetics of these unique natural products. A total of eight metabolites were identified using UV and LC-MS/MS techniques. The majority of metabolites were formed as a result of various demethylation reactions. The formation of two metabolites, M1 and M3, involved monooxygenation, most likely on the aromatic ring, however the exact structure has not been determined. UV absorbance revealed a hypsochromic shift as a result of monooxygenation, an observation that may suggest the loss of aromaticity; however, further investigation is required. The structures of two major metabolites of ceratamine B, M4 and M6, were confirmed by (1)H NMR spectroscopy. These metabolites formed as a result of demethylation at the methoxy and aminoimidazole, respectively.
24963152: !Alzheimer Maternal choline supplementation programs greater activity of the phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT) pathway in adult Ts65Dn trisomic mice. Maternal choline supplementation (MCS) induces lifelong cognitive benefits in the Ts65Dn mouse, a trisomic mouse model of Down syndrome and Alzheimer's disease. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying these beneficial effects, we conducted a study to test the hypothesis that MCS alters choline metabolism in adult Ts65Dn offspring. Deuterium-labeled methyl-d9-choline was administered to adult Ts65Dn and disomic (2N) female littermates born to choline-unsupplemented or choline-supplemented Ts65Dn dams. Enrichment of d9-choline metabolites (derived from intact choline) and d3 + d6-choline metabolites [produced when choline-derived methyl groups are used by phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT)] was measured in harvested tissues. Adult offspring (both Ts65Dn and 2N) of choline-supplemented (vs. choline-unsupplemented) dams exhibited 60% greater (P</=0.007) activity of hepatic PEMT, which functions in de novo choline synthesis and produces phosphatidylcholine (PC) enriched in docosahexaenoic acid. Higher (P<0.001) enrichment of PEMT-derived d3 and d6 metabolites was detected in liver, plasma, and brain in both genotypes but to a greater extent in the Ts65Dn adult offspring. MCS also yielded higher (P<0.05) d9 metabolite enrichments in liver, plasma, and brain. These data demonstrate that MCS exerts lasting effects on offspring choline metabolism, including up-regulation of the hepatic PEMT pathway and enhanced provision of choline and PEMT-PC to the brain.
24958380: !Alzheimer The decreased expression of mitofusin-1 and increased fission-1 together with alterations in mitochondrial morphology in the kidney of rats with chronic fluorosis may involve elevated oxidative stress. This study was designed to characterize changes in the expression of mitofusin-1  (Mfn1) and fission-1 (Fis1), as well as in mitochondrial morphology in the kidney of rats subjected to chronic fluorosis and to elucidate whether any mitochondrial injury observed is associated with increased oxidative stress. Sixty Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were divided randomly into 3 groups of 20 each, i.e., the untreated control group (natural drinking water containing <0.5mg fluoride/L), the low-fluoride group (drinking water supplemented with 10mg fluoride/L, prepared with NaF) and the high-fluoride group (50mg fluoride/L), and treated for 6 months. Thereafter, renal expression of Mfn1 and Fis1 at both the protein and mRNA levels was determined by immunohistochemistry and real-time PCR, respectively. In addition, the malondiadehyde (MDA) was quantitated by the thiobarbituric acid procedure and the total antioxidative capability (T-AOC) by a colorimetric method. The morphology of renal mitochondria was observed under the  transmission electron microscope. In the renal tissues of rats with chronic fluorosis, expression of both Mfn1 protein and mRNA was clearly reduced, whereas  that of Fis1 was elevated. The level of MDA was increased and the T-AOC lowered.  Swollen or fragmented mitochondria in renal cells were observed under the electronic microscope. These findings indicate that chronic fluorosis can lead to the abnormal mitochondrial dynamics and changed morphology in the rat kidney, which in mechanism might be induced by a high level of oxidative stress in the disease.
24951896: !Alzheimer Double negative (CD19+IgG+IgD-CD27-) B lymphocytes: a new insight from telomerase in healthy elderly, in centenarian offspring and in Alzheimer's disease patients. Immunosenescence is characterized by the impairment of humoral immunity with changes in the memory/naive B cell compartment. In particular we have previously  reported the percentage increase of a Memory IgD(-)CD27(-) (Double Negative, DN)  B cell population in aged people. In this study, we have further characterized DN B cells with the aim to better understand their contribution to immunosenescence. As DN B cells show a poor ability to proliferate in vitro, we have evaluated the  expression of the inhibitory receptors CD307d and CD22 on these cells from young  and old individuals. In addition we have evaluated the ability to activate DN B cells by the simultaneous use of innate (CpG) and adaptive (alpha-Ig/CD40) ligands. Our data demonstrate that the refractoriness to proliferate of DN B cells does not depend on the expression of inhibitory receptors, but it is due to the kind of stimulation. Indeed, when DN B cells are stimulated engaging both BCR and TLR9, they become able to proliferate and reactivate the telomerase enzyme. In the present study, we have also compared the telomerase activity in a group of people genetically advantaged for longevity as centenarian offspring (CO) and in  a group of moderate-severe Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, who represent a model of unsuccessful aging. Our study suggests that telomerase reactivation of DN B cells, as well as their number and ability in activating, depend essentially by the biological age of the subjects studied, so the evaluation of DN B cells might allow to gain insight to healthy and unsuccessful aging.
24941128: !Alzheimer Synthesis and anti-cholinesterase activity of new 7-hydroxycoumarin derivatives. A series of 7-hydroxycoumarin derivatives connected by an amidic linker to the different amines were designed and synthesized as cholinesterase inhibitors. Most compounds showed remarkable inhibitory activity against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE). Among them, N-(1-benzylpiperidin-4-yl)acetamide derivative 4r with IC50 value of 1.6 muM was  the most potent compound against AChE. The selectivity index of compound 4r for anti-AChE activity was about 26. Moreover, the compound 4r significantly protected PC12 neurons against H2O2-induced cell death at low concentrations. The docking study of compound 4r with AChE enzyme showed that both CAS and PAS are occupied by the ligand.
24934545: !Alzheimer Additional clues for a protective role of vitamin D in neurodegenerative diseases: 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 triggers an anti-inflammatory response in brain pericytes. Epidemiological and experimental studies suggest that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D) plays a neuroprotective role in neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease. Most of the experimental data regarding the genes regulated  by this hormone in brain cells have been obtained with neuron and glial cells. Pericytes play a critical role in brain function that encompasses their classical function in blood-brain barrier control and maintenance. However, the gene response of brain pericyte to 1,25D remains to be investigated. Analyses of the transcriptomic response of human brain pericytes to 1,25D demonstrate that human  brain pericytes in culture respond to 1,25D by regulating genes involved in the control of neuroinflammation. In addition, pericytes respond to the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha and Interferon-gamma by inducing the expression of the CYP27B1 gene which is involved in 1,25D synthesis. Taken together, these results suggest that neuroinflammation could trigger the synthesis of 1,25D by brain pericytes, which in turn respond to the hormone by a  global anti-inflammatory response. These findings identify brain pericytes as a novel 1,25D-responsive cell type and provide additional evidence for the potential value of vitamin D in the prevention or therapy of Alzheimer's disease  and other neurodegenerative/neuropsychiatric diseases associated with an inflammatory component.
24929105: !Alzheimer Coptis chinensis Franch. exhibits neuroprotective properties against oxidative stress in human neuroblastoma cells. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The dried rhizome of Coptis chinensis Franch. (family Ranunculaceae) is traditionally used in Chinese medicine for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and diabetes. Recent studies showed a variety  of activities of Coptis chinensis Franch. alkaloids, including neuroprotective, neuroregenerative, anti-diabetic, anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effects. However, there is no report on the neuroprotective effect of Coptis chinensis Franch. watery extract against tert-butylhydroperoxide (t-BOOH) induced oxidative damage. The aim of the study is to investigate neuroprotective properties of Coptis chinensis Franch. rhizome watery extract (CRE) and to evaluate its potential mechanism of action. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Neuroprotective properties  on t-BOOH induced oxidative stress were investigated in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. Cells were pretreated with CRE for 2 h or 24 h followed by 2 h of treatment with t-BOOH. To evaluate the neuroprotective effect of CRE, cell viability, cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and the apoptotic rate were determined and microarray analyses, as well as qRT-PCR analyses were conducted. RESULTS: Two hours of exposure to 100 microM t-BOOH resulted in a significant reduction of cell viability, increased apoptotic rate, declined mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and increased ROS production. Reduction of cell viability, increased apoptotic rate and declined mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) could be significantly reduced in cells pretreated with CRE (100 microg/ml) for 2h or 24h ahead of t-BOOH exposure with the greatest effect after 24h of pretreatment; however ROS production was not changed significantly. Furthermore, microarray analyses revealed that the expressions of 2 genes; thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) and mitochondrially encoded NADH dehydrogenase 1, were significantly regulated. Down  regulation of TXNIP was confirmed by qRT-PCR. CONCLUSION: Due to its neuroprotective properties CRE might be a potential therapeutic agent for the prevention or amelioration of diseases like diabetic neuropathy and neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer and Parkinsons disease.
24927706: !Alzheimer Nutraceuticals: a novel concept in prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. Alzheimer's disease is a growing health problem worldwide. The pharmaceutical industry has not recently developed any new drugs that have had a significant impact on the natural history of the disease, so considerable attention has been  given to nutraceuticals and nutritional bioactive compounds that can be obtained  directly from diet or supplementation. These compounds may be able to modify physiopathological processes responsible for neurodegeneration and/or to have pro-cognitive properties. Here, we review current knowledge on the role of diet modifications, lipid and carbohydrates consumption, vitamin supplementation, and  the possible effects of antioxidant and nutraceutical compounds with neuroprotective activity, in the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease  and related disorders.
24922517: !Alzheimer Gene-wide analysis detects two new susceptibility genes for Alzheimer's disease. BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is a common debilitating dementia with known heritability, for which 20 late onset susceptibility loci have been identified, but more remain to be discovered. This study sought to identify new susceptibility genes, using an alternative gene-wide analytical approach which tests for patterns of association within genes, in the powerful genome-wide association dataset of the International Genomics of Alzheimer's Project Consortium, comprising over 7 m genotypes from 25,580 Alzheimer's cases and 48,466 controls. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In addition to earlier reported genes, we detected genome-wide significant loci on chromosomes 8 (TP53INP1, p = 1.4x10-6) and 14 (IGHV1-67 p = 7.9x10-8) which indexed novel susceptibility loci. SIGNIFICANCE: The additional genes identified in this study, have an array of functions previously implicated in Alzheimer's disease, including aspects of energy metabolism, protein degradation and the immune system and add further weight to these pathways as potential therapeutic targets in Alzheimer's disease.
24919005: !Alzheimer Alzheimer's disease and periodontitis--an elusive link. Alzheimer's disease is the preeminent cause and commonest form of dementia. It is clinically characterized by a progressive descent in the cognitive function, which commences with deterioration in memory. The exact etiology and pathophysiologic mechanism of Alzheimer's disease is still not fully understood.  However it is hypothesized that, neuroinflammation plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is marked by salient inflammatory features, characterized by microglial activation and escalation in the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the affected regions. Studies have suggested a probable role of systemic infection conducing to inflammatory status  of the central nervous system. Periodontitis is common oral infection affiliated  with gram negative, anaerobic bacteria, capable of orchestrating localized and systemic infections in the subject. Periodontitis is known to elicit a "low grade systemic inflammation" by release of pro-inflammatory cytokines into systemic circulation. This review elucidates the possible role of periodontitis in exacerbating Alzheimer's disease. Periodontitis may bear the potential to affect  the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease. Periodontitis shares the two important features of Alzheimer's disease namely oxidative damage and inflammation, which are exhibited in the brain pathology of Alzheimer's disease.  Periodontitis can be treated and hence it is a modifiable risk factor for Alzheimer's disease.
24911293: !Alzheimer Superoxide production by cytochrome bc1 complex: a mathematical model. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in the pathophysiology of several diseases (e.g. Alzheimer or atherosclerosis) and also in the aging process. The main source of ROS in aerobic organisms is the electron transport chain (ETC) in  the inner mitochondrial membrane. Superoxide is produced at complexes I and III of the ETC, starting a complex network of ROS reactions. To achieve a deeper mechanistic understanding of how ROS are generated by complex III, we developed a mathematical model that successfully describes experimental data of complex III activity in various rat tissues, the production of ROS with and without antimycin and ROS generation depending on different values of the membrane potential Psi. The model also reinforces the idea of ubiquinone acting as a redox mediator between heme bL and oxygen, as proposed earlier.
24911171: !Alzheimer Human olfactory bulb neural stem cells expressing hNGF restore cognitive deficit  in Alzheimer's disease rat model. In this study, we aim to demonstrate the fate of allogenic adult human olfactory  bulb neural stem/progenitor cells (OBNSC/NPCs) transplanted into the rat hippocampus treated with ibotenic acid (IBO), a neurotoxicant specific to hippocampal cholinergic neurons that are lost in Alzheimer's disease. We assessed their possible ability to survive, integrate, proliferate, and differentiate into different neuronal and glial elements: we also evaluate their possible therapeutic potential, and the mechanism(s) relevant to neuroprotection following their engraftment into the CNS milieu. OBNSC/NPCs were isolated from adult human  olfactory bulb patients, genetically engineered to express GFP and human nerve growth factor (hNGF) by lentivirus-mediated infection, and stereotaxically transplanted into the hippocampus of IBO-treated animals and controls. Stereological analysis of engrafted OBNSCs eight weeks post transplantation revealed a 1.89 fold increase with respect to the initial cell population, indicating a marked ability for survival and proliferation. In addition, 54.71 +/- 11.38%, 30.18 +/- 6.00%, and 15.09 +/- 5.38% of engrafted OBNSCs were identified by morphological criteria suggestive of mature neurons, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes respectively. Taken together, this work demonstrated that human OBNSCs expressing NGF ameliorate the cognitive deficiencies associated with IBO-induced lesions in AD model rats, and the improvement can probably be attributed primarily to neuronal and glial cell replacement as well as the trophic influence exerted by the secreted NGF.
24909082: !Alzheimer Synthesis and characterization of novel 1,2-oxazine-based small molecules that targets acetylcholinesterase. Thirteen 2-oxazine-based small molecules were synthesized targeting 5-lipoxygenase (LOX), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE). The test revealed that the newly synthesized compounds had potent inhibition towards both 5-LOX and AChE in  lower micro molar concentration. Among the tested compounds, the most active compound, 2-[(2-acetyl-6,6-dimethyl-4-phenyl-5,6-dihydro-2H-1,2-oxazin-3-yl)methyl]-1H-isoi ndole-1,3(2H)-dione (2a) showed inhibitory activity towards 5-LOX and AChE with an IC50 values of 1.88, and 2.5 muM, respectively. Further, the in silico molecular docking studies revealed that the compound 2a bound to the catalytic domain of AChE strongly with a highest CDOCKER score of -1.18 kcal/mol when compared to other compounds of the same series. Additionally, 2a showed a good lipophilicity (logP=2.66), suggesting a potential ability to penetrate the blood-brain-barrier. These initial pharmacological data revealed that the compound 2a could serve as a drug-seed in developing anti-Alzheimer's agents.
24906069: !Alzheimer Agent Orange exposure and disease prevalence in Korean Vietnam veterans: the Korean veterans health study. Between 1961 and 1971, military herbicides were used by the United States and allied forces for military purposes. Agent Orange, the most-used herbicide, was a mixture of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and contained an impurity of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Many Korean Vietnam veterans were exposed to Agent Orange during the Vietnam War. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between Agent Orange exposure and the prevalence of diseases of the endocrine, nervous, circulatory, respiratory, and digestive systems. The Agent Orange exposure was assessed by a geographic information system-based model. A total of 111,726 Korean Vietnam veterans were analyzed for  prevalence using the Korea National Health Insurance claims data from January 2000 to September 2005. After adjusting for covariates, the high exposure group had modestly elevated odds ratios (ORs) for endocrine diseases combined and neurologic diseases combined. The adjusted ORs were significantly higher in the high exposure group than in the low exposure group for hypothyroidism (OR=1.13),  autoimmune thyroiditis (OR=1.93), diabetes mellitus (OR=1.04), other endocrine gland disorders including pituitary gland disorders (OR=1.43), amyloidosis (OR=3.02), systemic atrophies affecting the nervous system including spinal muscular atrophy (OR=1.27), Alzheimer disease (OR=1.64), peripheral polyneuropathies (OR=1.09), angina pectoris (OR=1.04), stroke (OR=1.09), chronic  obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD) including chronic bronchitis (OR=1.05) and  bronchiectasis (OR=1.16), asthma (OR=1.04), peptic ulcer (OR=1.03), and liver cirrhosis (OR=1.08). In conclusion, Agent Orange exposure increased the prevalence of endocrine disorders, especially in the thyroid and pituitary gland; various neurologic diseases; COPD; and liver cirrhosis. Overall, this study suggests that Agent Orange/2,4-D/TCDD exposure several decades earlier may increase morbidity from various diseases, some of which have rarely been explored in previous epidemiologic studies.
24900924: !Alzheimer Effects of diet on brain plasticity in animal and human studies: mind the gap. Dietary interventions have emerged as effective environmental inducers of brain plasticity. Among these dietary interventions, we here highlight the impact of caloric restriction (CR: a consistent reduction of total daily food intake), intermittent fasting (IF, every-other-day feeding), and diet supplementation with polyphenols and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) on markers of brain plasticity in animal studies. Moreover, we also discuss epidemiological and intervention studies reporting the effects of CR, IF and dietary polyphenols and  PUFAs on learning, memory, and mood. In particular, we evaluate the gap in mechanistic understanding between recent findings from animal studies and those human studies reporting that these dietary factors can benefit cognition, mood, and anxiety, aging, and Alzheimer's disease-with focus on the enhancement of structural and functional plasticity markers in the hippocampus, such as increased expression of neurotrophic factors, synaptic function and adult neurogenesis. Lastly, we discuss some of the obstacles to harnessing the promising effects of diet on brain plasticity in animal studies into effective recommendations and interventions to promote healthy brain function in humans. Together, these data reinforce the important translational concept that diet, a modifiable lifestyle factor, holds the ability to modulate brain health and function.
24890706: !Alzheimer Design, synthesis, and evaluation of 7H-thiazolo-[3,2-b]-1,2,4-triazin-7-one derivatives as dual binding site acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. New dual binding site acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors have been designed and synthesized as a new drug candidate for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease  (AD) through the binding to both catalytic and peripheral sites of the enzyme. Therefore, a series of 7H-thiazolo[3,2-b]-1,2,4-triazin-7-one derivatives 6a-j were synthesized and investigated for their ability to inhibit the activity of human AChE (hAChE) in comparison with huperzine-A. All the compounds were found to inhibit AChE activity, especially compounds 6c and 6i with the inhibition value of 76.10% and 77.82%, respectively. The molecular docking study indicated that they were nicely accommodated by AChE. The molecular docking study revealed  that 6c and 6i possessed a more optimal binding conformation than 6a and can perfectly fit into the active and peripheral site of hAChE, and consequently exhibited highly improved inhibitor potency to hAChE.
24865990: !Alzheimer Efficient strategy for maintaining and enhancing the huperzine A production of Shiraia sp. Slf14 through inducer elicitation. Huperzine A (HupA), a naturally occurring lycopodium alkaloid, is a potent, highly specific and reversible inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase and is a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease. However, isolating HupA from Huperziaceae plants is inefficient; thus, extracting this compound from endophytic fungi may be more controllable and sustainable. However, the large-scale production of this chemical from endophytes is limited by the innate  instability of endophytic fungi. In this study, we maintained the stability and viability of the HupA-producing endophytic fungus Shiraia sp. Slf14 and enhanced  the HupA titers during fermentation by adding Huperzia serrata extracts (HSE), L-lysine, and acetic acid into the culture as inducers. Adding trace amounts of HupA clearly improved the HupA production of Shiraia sp. Slf14, reaching a maximum content of approximately 40 mug g(-1). Moreover, the addition of HSE and  L-lysine promoted HupA production in the flask fermentation. The aforementioned bioprocessing strategy may be potentially applied to other endophytic fungal culture systems for the efficient production of plant secondary metabolites.
24858540: !Alzheimer Dibenzo[1,4,5]thiadiazepine: a hardly-known heterocyclic system with neuroprotective properties of potential usefulness in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. In this work we describe a new family of dibenzo[1,4,5]thiadiazepines (2-12) that showed an interesting in vitro biological profile, namely neuroprotective and antioxidant properties, as well as blockade of cytosolic calcium entry. They showed no cytotoxic effects and the majority were predicted as CNS-permeable compounds. In human neuroblastoma cells they displayed good neuroprotective properties against mitochondrial oxidative stress which, in many cases, almost reached the full protection (>90%) when compounds were incubated with cells 24 h  before the addition of toxic stressors. In co-incubation conditions these figures were smaller, although some compounds maintained an interesting level of neuroprotection, higher than 50%. Four selected compounds (2, 5, 8, and 11) were  found to be effective antioxidant agents by sequestering mitochondrial radical oxygen species (ROS). Moreover, compound 2 showed a remarkable calcium-channel modulating activity. The interest of these compounds is increased by the fact that dibenzo[1,4,5]thiadiazepine is a barely known structure that is not difficult to synthesize and presents very few described derivatives, opening a new and broad line of research in Medicinal Chemistry.
24857034: !Alzheimer Novel and sensitive reversed-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography method with electrochemical detection for the simultaneous and fast determination of eight biogenic amines and metabolites in human brain tissue. A fast and simple RP-HPLC method with electrochemical detection (ECD) and ion pair chromatography was developed, optimized and validated in order to simultaneously determine eight different biogenic amines and metabolites in post-mortem human brain tissue in a single-run analytical approach. The compounds of interest are the indolamine serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), the catecholamines dopamine (DA) and (nor)epinephrine ((N)E), as well as their respective metabolites, i.e. 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxy-3-indoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG). A two-level fractional factorial experimental design was applied to study the effect of five experimental factors  (i.e. the ion-pair counter concentration, the level of organic modifier, the pH of the mobile phase, the temperature of the column, and the voltage setting of the detector) on the chromatographic behaviour. The cross effect between the five quantitative factors and the capacity and separation factors of the analytes were then analysed using a Standard Least Squares model. The optimized method was fully validated according to the requirements of SFSTP (Societe Francaise des Sciences et Techniques Pharmaceutiques). Our human brain tissue sample preparation procedure is straightforward and relatively short, which allows samples to be loaded onto the HPLC system within approximately 4h. Additionally,  a high sample throughput was achieved after optimization due to a total runtime of maximally 40min per sample. The conditions and settings of the HPLC system were found to be accurate with high intra and inter-assay repeatability, recovery and accuracy rates. The robust analytical method results in very low detection limits and good separation for all of the eight biogenic amines and metabolites in this complex mixture of biological analytes.
24848532: !Alzheimer Cellular senescence and the senescent secretory phenotype in age-related chronic  diseases. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Possible mechanisms in cellular senescence and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) that drive and promote chronic inflammation in multiple age-related chronic diseases are considered. RECENT FINDINGS: A series of studies about the SASP indicate that senescent cells may be involved in the development of chronic inflammatory diseases associated with aging. SUMMARY: Aging is a complex biological process accompanied by a state of chronic, low-grade, 'sterile' inflammation, which is a major contributor to the development of many age-related chronic disorders including atherosclerosis, osteoarthritis, Alzheimer's disease, type 2 diabetes, cancers, and others. It appears that cellular senescence plays a role in causing inflammation through the SASP. A better understanding of the contribution of senescent cells to the pathologies of chronic inflammatory disorders could have potentially profound diagnostic and therapeutic implications.
24844448: !Alzheimer Synthesis and biological evaluation of 7H-thiazolo[3,2-b]-1,2,4-triazin-7-one derivatives as dual binding site acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. A series of 7H-thiazolo[3,2-b]-1,2,4-triazin-7-one derivatives 7a-i were synthesized and evaluated as novel acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors. All target compounds were evaluated in vitro for the inhibitory activities against AChE via Ellman colorimetric assay. Compound 7c showed an excellent (89.82%) inhibitory activity. The molecular docking studies revealed that 7c, 7d and 7g, with the lateral chain in the para position of the phenyl ring, possessed an optimal docking pose and can perfectly fit into the catalytic active site (CAS) and peripheral anionic site (PAS), simultaneously, and, consequently, exhibited higher inhibitory potency than 7b that bears the same lateral chain as 7g, but in the ortho position of the phenyl ring.
24842139: !Alzheimer Neuronal differentiation of rat hair follicle stem cells: the involvement of the  neuroprotective factor Seladin-1 (DHCR24). BACKGROUND: The seladin-1 (selective Alzheimer disease indicator-1), also known as DHCR24, is a gene found to be down-regulated in brain region affected by Alzheimer disease (AD). Whereas, hair follicle stem cells (HFSC), which are affected in with neurogenic potential, it might to hypothesize that this multipotent cell compartment is the predominant source of seladin-1. Our aim was  to evaluate seladin-1 gene expression in hair follicle stem cells. METHODS: In this study, bulge area of male Wistar rat HFSC were cultured and then characterized with Seladin-1 immunocytochemistry and flow cytometry on days 8 to  14. Next, 9-11-day cells were evaluated for seladin-1 gene expression by real-time PCR. RESULTS: Our results indicated that expression of the seladin-1 gene (DHCR24) on days 9, 10, and 11 may contribute to the development of HFSC. However, the expression of this gene on day 11 was more than day 10 and on 10th day was more than day 9. Also, we assessed HFSC on day 14 and demonstrated these  cells were positive for beta-small sha, Cyrillic tubulin, and seladin-1 was not expressed in this day. CONCLUSION: HFSC express seladin-1 and this result demonstrates that these cells might be used to cell therapy for AD in future.
24841380: !Alzheimer Associations of genetic polymorphisms of Siglecs with human diseases. Genetic polymorphism studies in humans provide unique opportunities to understand human biology and the mechanisms of diseases. Correlations between polymorphisms  in the genes encoding human Siglecs and various diseases have been reported. Leading examples, such as the CD33 polymorphism associated with late-onset Alzheimer's disease, are well supported by genetic replication and mechanistic studies, while some others (such as SIGLEC8 polymorphism associated with bronchial asthma and SIGLEC14 polymorphism associated with exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) may benefit reinforcement by independent genetic replication or mechanistic studies. In a few cases, such as MAG polymorphism associated with psychological disorder and CD22 polymorphism associated with autoimmune disease, the phenotype associated with a genetic polymorphism of a Siglec gene and that of an enzyme gene involved in the biosynthesis of Siglec ligand show some overlap, providing indirect support for the observed genotype-phenotype association. Although studies using engineered mutant mice have provided invaluable insights into the biological functions and mechanisms of diseases, it is not always possible to develop appropriate mouse model to replicate human situations because of significant species-to-species differences, which can be a major obstacle in understanding the biology of some of human CD33/Siglec-3-related Siglecs. Further studies in genetic polymorphisms  of human Siglecs, combined with appropriate functional studies, may reveal unexpected biological roles of human Siglecs, and identify possible targets for prevention and/or treatment of certain diseases.
24835770: !Alzheimer S-linolenoyl glutathione intake extends life-span and stress resistance via Sir-2.1 upregulation in Caenorhabditis elegans. Oxidative stress has a prominent role in life-span regulation of living organisms. One of the endogenous free radical scavenger systems is associated with glutathione (GSH), the most abundant nonprotein thiol in mammalian cells, acting as a major reducing agent and in antioxidant defense by maintaining a tight control over redox status. We have recently designed a series of novel S-acyl-GSH derivatives capable of preventing amyloid oxidative stress and cholinergic dysfunction in Alzheimer disease models, upon an increase in GSH intake. In this study we show that the longevity of the wild-type N2 Caenorhabditis elegans strain was significantly enhanced by dietary supplementation with linolenoyl-SG (lin-SG) thioester with respect to the ethyl ester of GSH, linolenic acid, or vitamin E. RNA interference analysis and activity inhibition assay indicate that life-span extension was mediated by the upregulation of Sir-2.1, a NAD-dependent histone deacetylase ortholog of mammalian SIRT1. In particular, lin-SG-mediated overexpression of Sir-2.1 appears to be related to the Daf-16 (FoxO) pathway. Moreover, the lin-SG derivative protects N2 worms from the paralysis and oxidative stress induced by Abeta/H2O2 exposure. Overall, our findings put forward lin-SG thioester as an antioxidant supplement triggering sirtuin upregulation, thus opening new future perspectives  for healthy aging or delayed onset of oxidative-related diseases.
24833295: !Alzheimer Liver X receptors in lipid metabolism: opportunities for drug discovery. The liver X receptors (LXRs) are pivotal regulators of lipid homeostasis in mammals. These transcription factors control the expression of a battery of genes involved in the uptake, transport, efflux and excretion of cholesterol in a tissue-dependent manner. The identification of the LXRs, and an increased understanding of the mechanisms by which LXR signalling regulates lipid homeostasis in different tissues (including the liver, intestine and brain), has  highlighted new opportunities for therapeutic intervention in human metabolism. New strategies for the pharmacological manipulation of LXRs and their target genes offer promise for the treatment of human diseases in which lipids have a central role, including atherosclerosis and Alzheimer's disease.
24824217: !Alzheimer Human-induced pluripotent stem cells: potential for neurodegenerative diseases. The cell biology of human neurodegenerative diseases has been difficult to study  till recently. The development of human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) models has greatly enhanced our ability to model disease in human cells. Methods  have recently been improved, including increasing reprogramming efficiency, introducing non-viral and non-integrating methods of cell reprogramming, and using novel gene editing techniques for generating genetically corrected lines from patient-derived iPSCs, or for generating mutations in control cell lines. In this review, we highlight accomplishments made using iPSC models to study neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Fronto-Temporal Dementia, Alzheimer's disease, Spinomuscular Atrophy and other polyglutamine diseases. We review disease-related phenotypes shown in patient-derived iPSCs differentiated to relevant neural subtypes, often with stressors or cell "aging", to enhance disease-specific phenotypes. We also discuss prospects for the future of using of iPSC models of neurodegenerative disorders, including screening and testing of therapeutic compounds, and possibly of cell transplantation in regenerative medicine. The new iPSC models have the potential to greatly enhance our understanding of pathogenesis and to facilitate the development of novel therapeutics.
24813882: !Alzheimer Donepezil + propargylamine + 8-hydroxyquinoline hybrids as new multifunctional metal-chelators, ChE and MAO inhibitors for the potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The synthesis, biochemical evaluation, ADMET, toxicity and molecular modeling of  novel multi-target-directed Donepezil + Propargylamine + 8-Hydroxyquinoline (DPH) hybrids 1-7 for the potential prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease is  described. The most interesting derivative was racemic alpha-aminotrile4-(1-benzylpiperidin-4-yl)-2-(((8-hydroxyquinolin-5-yl)methyl)(pr op-2-yn-1-yl)amino) butanenitrile (DPH6) [MAO A (IC50 = 6.2 +/- 0.7 muM; MAO B (IC50 = 10.2 +/- 0.9 muM); AChE (IC50 = 1.8 +/- 0.1 muM); BuChE (IC50 = 1.6 +/- 0.25 muM)], an irreversible MAO A/B inhibitor and mixed-type AChE inhibitor with  metal-chelating properties. According to docking studies, both DPH6 enantiomers interact simultaneously with the catalytic and peripheral site of EeAChE through  a linker of appropriate length, supporting the observed mixed-type AChE inhibition. Both enantiomers exhibited a relatively similar position of both hydroxyquinoline and benzyl moieties with the rest of the molecule easily accommodated in the relatively large cavity of MAO A. For MAO B, the quinoline system was hosted at the cavity entrance whereas for MAO A this system occupied the substrate cavity. In this disposition the quinoline moiety interacted directly with the FAD aromatic ring. Very similar binding affinity values were also observed for both enantiomers with ChE and MAO enzymes. DPH derivatives exhibited moderate to good ADMET properties and brain penetration capacity for CNS activity. DPH6 was less toxic than donepezil at high concentrations; while at low concentrations both displayed a similar cell viability profile. Finally, in a passive avoidance task, the antiamnesic effect of DPH6 was tested on mice with experimentally induced amnesia. DPH6 was capable to significantly decrease scopolamine-induced learning deficits in healthy adult mice.
24811002: !Alzheimer Antimuscle atrophy effect of nicotine targets muscle satellite cells partly through an alpha7 nicotinic receptor in a murine hindlimb ischemia model. We have recently identified that donepezil, an anti-Alzheimer drug, accelerates angiogenesis in a murine hindlimb ischemia (HLI) model. However, the precise mechanisms are yet to be fully elucidated, particularly whether the effects are derived from endothelial cells alone or from other nonvascular cells. Further investigation of the HLI model revealed that nicotine accelerated angiogenesis by activation of vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF) synthesis through nicotinic receptors in myogenic cells, that is, satellite cells, in vivo and upregulated the expression of angiogenic factors, for example, VEGF and fibroblast growth factor 2, in vitro. As a result, nicotine prevented skeletal muscle from ischemia-induced muscle atrophy and upregulated myosin heavy chain expression in vitro. The in vivo anti-atrophy effect of nicotine on muscle was also observed in galantamine, another anti-Alzheimer drug, playing as an allosteric potentiating ligand. Such effects of nicotine were attenuated in alpha7 nicotinic receptor knockout mice. In contrast, PNU282987, an alpha7 nicotinic receptor agonist, comparably salvaged skeletal muscle, which was affected by HLI. These results suggest that cholinergic signals also target myogenic cells and have inhibiting roles in muscle loss by ischemia-induced muscle atrophy.
24807822: !Alzheimer Multifunctional liposomes for nasal delivery of the anti-Alzheimer drug tacrine hydrochloride. The purpose of this study was the development of multifunctional liposomes for nasal administration of tacrine hydrochloride. Liposomes were prepared using traditional excipients (cholesterol and phosphatidylcholine), partly enriched with alpha-tocopherol and/or Omega3 fatty acids. This approach was chosen in order to obtain at the same time two positive results: an enhanced drug permeation through nasal mucosa and a concomitant neuroprotective effect. Several liposome formulations were prepared using the Reverse Phase Evaporation technique followed by membrane filter extrusion. In particular, liposome capacity to enhance drug permeation was evaluated by means of membrane permeation and cellular uptake studies. Furthermore, liposome effect on neuronal viability and intracellular ROS production was evaluated as well as their cytoprotective effect against oxidative stress. All liposome formulations showed a mean diameter in the range of 175 nm to 219 nm with polydispersity index lower than 0.22, a lightly negative zeta potential and excellent encapsulation efficiency. Moreover, along with good mucoadhesive properties, multifunctional liposomes showed a markedly increase in tacrine permeability, which can be related to liposome fusion with cellular membrane, a hypothesis, which was also supported by cellular uptake studies. Finally, the addition of alpha-tocopherol without Omega3 fatty acids, was found to increase the neuroprotective activity and antioxidant properties of  liposomes.
24806347: !Alzheimer Attitudes of Saudi parents with a deaf child towards prenatal diagnosis and termination of pregnancy. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the attitudes of Muslim parents from Saudi Arabia with a deaf child towards prenatal diagnosis (PND) and termination of pregnancy (TOP) for deafness and 29 other genetic and medical conditions. METHODS: A questionnaire mainly focused on parent's attitude toward PND and TOP for 30 different hypothetical scenarios for a series of genetic, non-genetic and non-medical conditions was completed by 70 Saudi parents with a deaf child. The results were compared and scored, and parents' comments were noted. RESULTS: The attitude for PND was favorable (81.4%) and was influenced by  the severity of the condition among men. Among women, it was influenced by cultural considerations. For TOP, average acceptance rate (25.2%) was lower than  for PND. Attitudes toward TOP were fairly similar for men and women, as both groups would consider TOP for Alzheimer disease, cleft lip and palate, and cystic fibrosis. In addition, women also ranked high deafness and thalassemia for consideration of TOP. Acceptance for TOP was not influenced by gender, income, education level, number of children, or partner attending clinic. CONCLUSION: In  the Saudi society, cultural consideration influences attitudes towards PND and TOP rather than the severity of the condition.
24799715: !Alzheimer Noninvasive in vivo monitoring of tissue-specific global gene expression in humans. Circulating cell-free RNA in the blood provides a potential window into the health, phenotype, and developmental programs of a variety of human organs. We used high-throughput methods of RNA analysis such as microarrays and next-generation sequencing to characterize the global landscape circulating RNA in a cohort of human subjects. By focusing on genes whose expression is highly specific to certain tissues, we were able to identify the relative contributions  of these tissues to circulating RNA and to monitor changes in tissue development  and health. As one application of this approach, we performed a longitudinal study on pregnant women and analyzed their combined cell-free RNA transcriptomes  across all three trimesters of pregnancy and after delivery. In addition to the analysis of mRNA, we observed and characterized noncoding species such as long noncoding RNA and circular RNA transcripts whose presence had not been previously observed in human plasma. We demonstrate that it is possible to track specific longitudinal phenotypic changes in both the mother and the fetus and that it is possible to directly measure transcripts from a variety of fetal tissues in the maternal blood sample. We also studied the role of neuron-specific transcripts in the blood of healthy adults and those suffering from the neurodegenerative disorder Alzheimer's disease and showed that disease specific neural transcripts  are present at increased levels in the blood of affected individuals. Characterization of the cell-free transcriptome in its entirety may thus provide  broad insights into human health and development without the need for invasive tissue sampling.
24795757: !Alzheimer miR-191: an emerging player in disease biology. Specific microRNAs have emerged as key players in disease biology by playing crucial role in disease development and progression. This review draws attention  to one such microRNA, miR-191 that has been recently reported to be abnormally expressed in several cancers (>20) and various other diseases like diabetes-type  2, Crohn' s, pulmonary hypertension, and Alzheimer' s. It regulates important cellular processes such as cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and migration by targeting important transcription factors, chromatin remodelers, and cell cycle associated genes. Several studies have demonstrated it to be an excellent biomarker for cancer diagnosis and prognosis leading to two patents already in its kitty. In this first review we summarize the current knowledge of  the regulation, functions and targets of miR-191 and discuss its potential as a promising disease biomarker and therapeutic target.
24794747: !Alzheimer Novel aromatic-polyamine conjugates as cholinesterase inhibitors with notable selectivity toward butyrylcholinesterase. Three types of aromatic-polyamine conjugates (6a-6s) were designed, synthesized and evaluated as potential inhibitors for cholinesterases (ChEs). The results showed that anthraquinone-polyamine conjugates (AQPCs) exhibited the most potent  acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activity with IC50 values from 1.50 to 11.13 muM. Anthracene-polyamine conjugates (APCs) showed a surprising selectivity (from 76- to 3125-fold) and were most potent at inhibiting butyrylcholinesterase  (BChE), with IC50 values from 0.016 to 0.657 muM. A Lineweaver-Burk plot and molecular modeling studies indicated that the representative compounds, 6l and 6k, targeted both the catalytic active site (CAS) and the peripheral anionic site (PAS) of ChEs. Furthermore, APCs did not affect HepG2 cell viability at the concentration of 100 muM. Consequently, these polyamine conjugates could be thoroughly and systematically studied for the treatment of AD.
24786080: !Alzheimer Polarization of the effects of autoimmune and neurodegenerative risk alleles in leukocytes. To extend our understanding of the genetic basis of human immune function and dysfunction, we performed an expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) study of  purified CD4(+) T cells and monocytes, representing adaptive and innate immunity, in a multi-ethnic cohort of 461 healthy individuals. Context-specific cis- and trans-eQTLs were identified, and cross-population mapping allowed, in some cases, putative functional assignment of candidate causal regulatory variants for disease-associated loci. We note an over-representation of T cell-specific eQTLs  among susceptibility alleles for autoimmune diseases and of monocyte-specific eQTLs among Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease variants. This polarization implicates specific immune cell types in these diseases and points to the need to identify the cell-autonomous effects of disease susceptibility variants.
24781778: !Alzheimer PEG-like nanoprobes: multimodal, pharmacokinetically and optically tunable nanomaterials. "PEG-like Nanoprobes" (PN's) are pharmacokinetically and optically tunable nanomaterials whose disposition in biological systems can be determined by fluorescence or radioactivity. PN's feature a unique design where a single PEG polymer surrounds a short fluorochrome and radiometal bearing peptide, and endows the resulting nanoprobe with pharmacokinetic control (based on molecular weight of the PEG selected) and optical tunability (based on the fluorochrome selected), while the chelate provides a radiolabeling option. PN's were used to image brain  capillary angiography (intravital 2-photon microscopy), tumor capillary permeability (intravital fluorescent microscopy), and the tumor enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect (111In-PN and SPECT). Clinical applications of PN's include use as long blood half-life fluorochromes for intraoperative angiography, for measurements of capillary permeability in breast  cancer lesions, and to image EPR by SPECT, for stratifying patient candidates for long-circulating nanomedicines that may utilize the EPR mechanism.
24780498: !Alzheimer Neuroprotective effects of leptin in the context of obesity and metabolic disorders. As the population of the world ages, the prevalence of neurodegenerative disease  continues to rise, accompanied by increases in disease burden related to obesity  and metabolic disorders. Thus, it will be essential to develop tools for preventing and slowing the progression of these major disease entities. Epidemiologic studies have shown strong associations between obesity, metabolic dysfunction, and neurodegeneration, while animal models have provided insights into the complex relationships between these conditions. Experimentally, the fat-derived hormone leptin has been shown to act as a neuroprotective agent in various animal models of dementia, toxic insults, ischemia/reperfusion, and other neurodegenerative processes. Specifically, leptin minimizes neuronal damage induced by neurotoxins and pro-apoptotic conditions. Leptin has also demonstrated considerable promise in animal models of obesity and metabolic disorders via modulation of glucose homeostasis and energy intake. However, since obesity is known to induce leptin resistance, we hypothesize that resistance to the neuroprotective effects of leptin contributes to the pathogenesis of obesity-associated neurodegenerative diseases. This review aims to explore the literature pertinent to the role of leptin in the protection of neurons from the  toxic effects of aging, obesity and metabolic disorders, to investigate the physiological state of leptin resistance and its causes, and to consider how leptin might be employed therapeutically in the prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative disease.
24766626: !Alzheimer Synthesis and characterization of (68)Ga-labeled curcumin and curcuminoid complexes as potential radiotracers for imaging of cancer and Alzheimer's disease. Curcumin (CUR) and curcuminoids complexes labeled with fluorine-18 or technetium-99m have recently shown their potential as diagnostic tools for Alzheimer's disease. Gallium-68 is a positron-emitting, generator-produced radionuclide, and its properties can be exploited in situ in medical facilities without a cyclotron. Moreover, CUR showed a higher uptake in tumor cells compared to normal cells, suggesting potential diagnostic applications in this field. In spite of this, no studies using labeled CUR have been performed in this direction, so far. Herein, (68)Ga-labeled complexes with CUR and two curcuminoids, namely diacetyl-curcumin (DAC) and bis(dehydroxy)curcumin (bDHC), were synthesized and characterized by means of experimental and theoretical approaches. Moreover, a first evaluation of their affinity to synthetic beta-amyloid fibrils and uptake by A549 lung cancer cells was performed to show the potential application of these new labeled curcuminoids in these diagnostic fields. The radiotracers were prepared by reacting (68)Ga(3+) obtained from a (68)Ge/(68)Ga generator with 1 mg/mL curcuminoids solutions. Reaction parameters  (precursor amount, reaction temperature, and pH) were optimized to obtain high and reproducible radiochemical yield and purity. Stoichiometry and formation of the curcuminoid complexes were investigated by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, NMR, ultraviolet-visible, and fluorescence spectroscopy on the equivalent (nat)Ga-curcuminoids (nat = natural)  complexes, and their structure was computed by theoretical density functional theory calculations. The analyses evidenced that CUR, DAC, and bDHC were predominantly in the keto-enol form and attested to Ga(L)2(+) species formation.  Identity of the (68)Ga(L)2(+) complexes was confirmed by coelution with the equivalent (nat)Ga(L)2(+) complexes in ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography analyses.(68)Ga(CUR)2(+), (68)Ga(DAC)2(+), and (68)Ga(bDHC)2(+) were highly (87 +/- 4, 90 +/- 1%) and moderately (48 +/- 2%), respectively, retained by synthetic beta-amyloid fibrils in vitro. All the Ga-curcuminoid complexes showed an uptake in A549 lung cancer cells, at least equivalent to the  respective free curcuminoids, confirming potential applications as cancer-detecting radiotracers.
24763262: !Alzheimer 4-Oxo-1,4-dihydro-quinoline-3-carboxamides as BACE-1 inhibitors: synthesis, biological evaluation and docking studies. In this work, we report a series of new 4-oxo-1,4-dihydro-quinoline-3-carboxamide derivatives as beta-secretase (BACE-1) inhibitors. Supported by docking study, a  small library of derivatives were designed, synthesized and biologically evaluated in vitro. The studies revealed that the most potent analog 14e (IC50 =  1.89 muM) with low cellular cytotoxicity and high predicted blood brain barrier permeability, could serve as a good structure for further modification.
24756818: !Alzheimer Determination of Meserine, a new candidate for Alzheimer's disease in mice brain  by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and its application to a pharmacokinetic and tissue distribution study. A rapid and sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for determination of Meserine ((-)-meptazinol phenylcarbamate), a novel potent inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), was developed, validated, and applied to a pharmacokinetic study in mice brain. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) was 1 ng mL(-1) and the linear range was 1-1,000 ng mL(-1). The analyte was eluted on a Zorbax SB-Aq column (2.1 x 100 mm, 3.5 mum) with the  mobile phase composed of methanol and water (70:30, v/v, aqueous phase contained  10 mM ammonium formate and 0.3% formic acid) using isocratic elution, and monitored by positive electrospray ionization in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. The flow rate was 0.25 mL min(-1). The injection volume was 5 muL and total run time was 4 min. The relative standard deviation (RSD) of intraday and interday variation was 2.49-7.81 and 3.01-7.67%, respectively. All analytes were  stable after 4 h at room temperature and 6 h in autosampler. The extraction recoveries of Meserine in brain homogenate were over 90%. The main brain pharmacokinetic parameters obtained after intranasal administration were T max =  0.05 h, C max = 462.0 +/- 39.7 ng g(-1), T 1/2 = 0.4 h, and AUC(0-infinity) = 283.1 +/- 9.1 ng h g(-1). Moreover, Meserine was distributed rapidly and widely into brain, heart, liver, spleen, lung, and kidney tissue. The method is validated and could be applied to the pharmacokinetic and tissue distribution study of Meserine in mice.
24748223: !Alzheimer Biological consequences of zinc deficiency in the pathomechanisms of selected diseases. From many points of view, zinc is one of the most important trace elements in biological systems. Many articles describe the well-known role of this metal in human physiology and pathophysiology, but in the related literature, there is a lack of current and reliable reviews of the role of zinc deficiency in many diseases. In this article, we describe the role of zinc deficiency in the oxidative stress control, immune response, proliferation, and pathogenesis and pathophysiology of selected diseases such as depression, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer's disease, and Wilson's disease.
24743900: !Alzheimer Ischemic heart disease and the Mediterranean diet. Lifestyle modification is primary in cardiovascular (CV) disease prevention. A major contribution is the Mediterranean diet (MedDiet), defined by two of seven components. Italian investigators determined a significant decrease in peripheral arterial disease of 56 % for a high score. Multiple specific CV risk factors are  also favorably modified by the MedDiet. This includes beneficial effect on inflammation, vascular endothelium, and insulin resistance. There is also evidence that coronary heart disease, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome are decreased. Benefit appears to extend to new migrants in France. The economics of dietary adherence are favorable with decreased total lifetime health costs. Although mixed nuts appear to be a major factor in the MedDiet, special emphasis  goes to extra virgin olive oil. Benefit also extends to other noncommunicable diseases with a decrease in cancer, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Further quantitation of benefit and understanding of mechanisms involved in dietary benefit is essential.
24742457: !Alzheimer Extrasynaptic NMDA receptor involvement in central nervous system disorders. NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-induced excitotoxicity is thought to contribute to the cell death associated with certain neurodegenerative diseases, stroke, epilepsy, and traumatic brain injury. Targeting NMDARs therapeutically is complicated by the fact that cell signaling downstream of their activation can promote cell survival and plasticity as well as excitotoxicity. However, research over the past decade  has suggested that overactivation of NMDARs located outside of the synapse plays  a major role in NMDAR toxicity, whereas physiological activation of those inside  the synapse can contribute to cell survival, raising the possibility of therapeutic intervention based on NMDAR subcellular localization. Here, we review the evidence both supporting and refuting this localization hypothesis of NMDAR function and discuss the role of NMDAR localization in disorders of the nervous system. Preventing excessive extrasynaptic NMDAR activation may provide therapeutic benefit, particularly in Alzheimer disease and Huntington disease.
24742402: !Alzheimer Capturing the biological impact of CDKN2A and MC1R genes as an early predisposing event in melanoma and non melanoma skin cancer. Germline mutations in CDKN2A and/or red hair color variants in MC1R genes are associated with an increased susceptibility to develop cutaneous melanoma or non  melanoma skin cancer. We studied the impact of the CDKN2A germinal mutation p.G101W and MC1R variants on gene expression and transcription profiles associated with skin cancer. To this end we set-up primary skin cell co-cultures  from siblings of melanoma prone-families that were later analyzed using the expression array approach. As a result, we found that 1535 transcripts were deregulated in CDKN2A mutated cells, with over-expression of immunity-related genes (HLA-DPB1, CLEC2B, IFI44, IFI44L, IFI27, IFIT1, IFIT2, SP110 and IFNK) and  down-regulation of genes playing a role in the Notch signaling pathway. 3570 transcripts were deregulated in MC1R variant carriers. In particular, genes related to oxidative stress and DNA damage pathways were up-regulated as well as  genes associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's, Alzheimer and Huntington. Finally, we observed that the expression signatures indentified in phenotypically normal cells carrying CDKN2A mutations or MC1R variants are maintained in skin cancer tumors (melanoma and squamous cell carcinoma). These results indicate that transcriptome deregulation represents an early event critical for skin cancer development.
24735001: !Alzheimer Prolonged altered mental status and bradycardia following pediatric donepezil ingestion. CONTEXT: Donepezil is a centrally-acting, reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that is used in the treatment of Alzheimer disease. Altered mental status, nausea, vomiting, and bradycardia have been reported in therapeutic and supratherapeutic ingestions of donepezil, though pediatric exposures have not been well-described. We report a case of prolonged altered mental status and recurrent bradycardia in a child with a single-pill ingestion of donepezil. CASE  DETAILS: A 14-month-old boy was brought to the Emergency Department 3 hours after ingesting one of his grandfather's donepezil tablets (10 mg). Upon arrival, he was somnolent and drooling, with multiple episodes of vomiting and diarrhea. Pupils were normal. Initial vitals: temperature, 36.8 degrees C; blood pressure,  103/56 mmHg; heart rate, 140/min; respiratory rate, 36/min; oxygen saturation, 97%. His drooling, vomiting, and diarrhea resolved, but he remained intermittently agitated. Over the course of the following four days, he had intermittent, episodes of asymptomatic bradycardia to a low of 55/min, primarily  when sleeping. A transient episode of junctional rhythm was observed. Serum donepezil level 97 hours post-ingestion was 10 ng/ml. He did not require atropine treatment, and was discharged in stable condition on hospital day 5. DISCUSSION:  Donepezil has a prolonged elimination of half-life in adults of approximately 70  hours. Despite its relative specificity for central AChEs, peripheral cholinergic symptoms have been described. We report a case of a symptomatic ingestion of donepezil in a child. CONCLUSIONS: Even after a single-tablet ingestion, donepezil may cause prolonged altered mental status and bradycardia in young children.
24713701: !Alzheimer Altering O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine cycling disrupts mitochondrial function. Mitochondrial impairment is commonly found in many diseases such as diabetes, cancer, and Alzheimer disease. We demonstrate that the enzymes responsible for the addition or removal of the O-GlcNAc modification, O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT)  and O-GlcNAcase (OGA), respectively, are critical regulators of mitochondrial function. Using a SILAC (stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture)-based proteomics screen, we quantified the changes in mitochondrial protein expression in OGT- and OGA-overexpressing cells. Strikingly, overexpression of OGT or OGA showed significant decreases in mitochondria-localized proteins involved in the respiratory chain and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Furthermore, mitochondrial morphology was altered in these cells. Both cellular respiration and glycolysis were reduced in OGT/OGA-overexpressing cells. These data demonstrate that alterations in O-GlcNAc cycling profoundly affect energy and metabolite production.
24705924: !Alzheimer Nanowire array chips for molecular typing of rare trafficking leukocytes with application to neurodegenerative pathology. Despite the presence of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) that restricts the entry of immune cells and mediators into the central nervous system (CNS), a small number  of peripheral leukocytes can traverse the BBB and infiltrate into the CNS. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is one of the major routes through which trafficking leukocytes migrate into the CNS. Therefore, the number of leukocytes and their phenotypic compositions in the CSF may represent important sources to investigate immune-to-brain interactions or diagnose and monitor neurodegenerative diseases.  Due to the paucity of trafficking leucocytes in the CSF, a technology capable of  efficient isolation, enumeration, and molecular typing of these cells in the clinical settings has not been achieved. In this study, we report on a biofunctionalized silicon nanowire array chip for highly efficient capture and multiplexed phenotyping of rare trafficking leukocytes in small quantities (50 microliters) of clinical CSF specimens collected from neurodegenerative disease patients. The antibody coated 3D nanostructured materials exhibited vastly improved rare cell capture efficiency due to high-affinity binding and enhanced cell-substrate interactions. Moreover, our platform creates multiple cell capture interfaces, each of which can selectively isolate specific leukocyte phenotypes.  A comparison with the traditional immunophenotyping using flow cytometry demonstrated that our novel silicon nanowire-based rare cell analysis platform can perform rapid detection and simultaneous molecular characterization of heterogeneous immune cells. Multiplexed molecular typing of rare leukocytes in CSF samples collected from Alzheimer's disease patients revealed the elevation of white blood cell counts and significant alterations in the distribution of major  leukocyte phenotypes. Our technology represents a practical tool for potentially  diagnosing and monitoring the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases by allowing an effective hematological analysis of the CSF from patients.
24694195: !Alzheimer mTor is a signaling hub in cell survival: a mass-spectrometry-based proteomics investigation. mTor plays a central role in controlling protein homeostasis and cell survival. Recently, we have demonstrated that perturbations of mTor signaling are implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and that mTor complex 1 (mTorC1) is involved in the formation of toxic phospho-tau. Therefore, we employed mass-spectrometry-based proteomics to identify specific protein expression changes in relation with cell survival in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells expressing genetically modified mTor. Cell death in SH-SY5Y cells was induced by  moderate serum deprivation. Using flow cytometry we observed that up-regulated mTor complex 2 (mTorC2) increases the number of viable cells. By using a combination approach of proteomic and enrichment analysis we have identified several proteins (Thioredoxin-dependent peroxide reductase, Peroxiredoxin-5, Cofilin 1 (non-muscle), Annexin A5, Mortalin, and 14-3-3 protein zeta/delta) involved in mitochondrial integrity, apoptotosis, and pro-survival functions (caspase inhibitor activity and anti-apoptosis) that were significantly altered by mTor activity modulation. The major findings of this study are the implication of mTorC2 but not mTorC1 in cell viability modulation by activating the pro-survival machinery. Taken together, these results suggest that up-regulated mTorC2 might be playing an important role in promoting cell survival by suppressing the mitochondria-caspase-apoptotic pathway in vitro.
24690897: !Alzheimer Galanthamine, an anticholinesterase drug, effects plant growth and development in Artemisia tridentate Nutt. via modulation of auxin and neutrotransmitter signaling. Galanthamine is a naturally occurring acetylcholinesterase (AchE) inhibitor that  has been well established as a drug for treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer disease, but the role of the compound in plant metabolism is not known. The current study was designed to investigate whether galanthamine could redirect morphogenesis of Artemisia tridentata Nutt. cultures by altering concentration of endogenous neurosignaling molecules acetylcholine (Ach), auxin (IAA), melatonin (Mel), and serotonin (5HT). Exposure of axenic A. tridentata cultures to 10 microM galanthamine decreased the concentration of endogenous Ach, IAA, MEL, and  AchE, and altered plant growth in a manner reminiscent of 2-4D toxicity. Galanthamine itself demonstrated IAA activity in an oat coleotile elongation bioassay, 20 microM galanthamine showed no significant difference compared with 5 muM IAA or 5 muM 1-Naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Metabolomic analysis detected between 20,921 to 27,891 compounds in A. tridentata plantlets and showed greater  commonality between control and 5 microM treatments. Furthermore, metabolomic analysis putatively identified coumarins scopoletin/isoscopoletin, and scopolin in A. tridentata leaf extracts and these metabolites linearly increased in response to galanthamine treatments. Overall, these data indicate that galanthamine is an allelopathic phytochemical and support the hypothesis that neurologically active compounds in plants help ensure plant survival and adaptation to environmental challenges.
24685625: !Alzheimer Celastrol enhances cell viability and inhibits amyloid-beta production induced by lipopolysaccharide in vitro. BACKGROUND: Neuroinflammation is a notable hallmark of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis and can markedly exacerbate amyloid pathology. Celastrol, a pentacyclic-triterpene, has been found to possess anti-inflammatory properties. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to characterize the effects of celastrol on cell viability and amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide production induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration in H4 human neuroglioma cells stably transfected to overexpress human full length APP (H4-APP). METHODS: H4-APP cells  were exposed to 1, 10, and 100 nM of celastrol in the presence of 0.1 mug/ml or 100 mug/ml of LPS for 24 hours. The effects of celastrol were determined using MTT cell viability assay, immunohistochemistry, western blot, and ELISA. RESULTS: Cell viability tests revealed that a dose-dependent death of H4-APP cells following administration of LPS. Moreover, celastrol significantly reduced (p < 0.05) cell death induced by LPS compared to LPS alone. Furthermore, the administration of celastrol was associated with a significant reduction in LPS-stimulated Abeta production compared to LPS alone. Western blot and immunofluorescence analysis showed that exposure to celastrol increased HSP-70 and Bcl-2 expression but decreased NFkappaB activity, phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) at tyrosine 216 and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression, Abeta accumulation together with a reduction of superoxide and hydrogen peroxide generation. HSP-70 siRNA abolished celastrol mediated cytoprotection. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that celastrol reduced both LPS-induced cell death and Abeta production in vitro through increasing HSP-70 and Bcl-2 expression and reducing NFkappaB, COX-2, and GSK-3beta expression and oxidative stress.
24685507: !Alzheimer Two novel clerodane diterpenenes with NGF-potentiating activities from the twigs  of Croton yanhuii. Nerve growth factor (NGF) and analog reagents to promote the neurite outgrowth of nerve cells against the neuron degeneration are expected to be potentially useful for the medical treatment of Alzheimer's disease. In our focus on the discovery of bioactive diterpenes, we investigated the chemical constituents of the plant Croton yanhuii. This investigation led to the isolation and identification of two novel clerodane diterpenes (1 and 2). Their structures were elucidated on the basis of extensive 1D and 2D NMR (COSY, HMQC, HMBC, and NOESY) and mass (ESIMS and HR-ESIMS) spectroscopic data analyses. Further biological screenings showed that both of the compounds enhanced NGF-mediated neurite outgrowth from PC12 cells.
24680754: !Alzheimer A new liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry method for quantification of gangliosides in human plasma. Gangliosides are a family of glycosphingolipids characterized by mono- or polysialic acid-containing oligosaccharides linked through 1,3- and 1,4-beta glycosidic bonds with subtle differences in structure that are abundantly present in the central nervous systems of many living organisms. Their cellular surface expression and physiological malfunction are believed to be pathologically implicated in considerable neurological disorders, including Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases. Recently, studies have tentatively elucidated that mental retardation or physical stagnation deteriorates as the physiological profile of gangliosides becomes progressively and distinctively abnormal during the development of these typical neurodegenerative syndromes. In this work, a reverse-phase liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) assay using standard addition calibration for determination of GM2, GM3, GD2, and GD3 in human plasma has been developed and validated. The analytes and internal standard were extracted from human plasma using a simple protein precipitation procedure. Then the samples were analyzed by reverse-phase ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC)/MS/MS interfaced to mass spectrometry with electrospray ionization using a multiple reaction monitoring mode to obtain superior sensitivity and specificity. This assay was validated for extraction recovery, calibration linearity, precision, and accuracy. Our quick and sensitive method can be applied to monitor ganglioside levels in plasma from normal people  and neurodegenerative patients.
24667364: !Alzheimer Luteolin protects against high fat diet-induced cognitive deficits in obesity mice. The epidemic and experimental studies have confirmed that the obesity can lead to neuroinflammation, neurodegenerative diseases and adversely affect cognition. Despite the numerous elucidations on the impact of obesity on cognition decline,  the contributors to the impairments in obesity remain unclear. Male C57BL/6J mice were fed either a control or high-fat diet (HFD) for 16 weeks and then randomized into four groups treated with their respective diets for 4 weeks including control diet (CD); control diet+luteolin (CDL); high-fat diet (HFD), high-fat diet+luteolin (HFDL). The dose of luteolin was 10mg/kg, oral. We showed that adding luteolin in high-fat diet can significantly reduce body weight gain, food  intake and plasma cytokines as well as improving glucose metabolism of mice on HFD. Importantly, we showed that luteolin treatment had the effects of alleviating neuroinflammation, oxidative stress and neuronal insulin resistance in the mouse brain, restored blood adipocytokines level to normal. Furthermore, luteolin increased the level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), the action of synapsin I (SYP) and postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) in the cortex and hippocampus as to that the behavioral performance in Morris water maze (MWM) and step-through task were significantly improved. These results indicate a previously unrecognized potential of luteolin in alleviating obesity-induced cognitive impairment for type-2 diabetes mellitus and Alzheimer disease (AD).
24657052: !Alzheimer Quinolone-benzylpiperidine derivatives as novel acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and antioxidant hybrids for Alzheimer disease. Design, synthesis and evaluation of new acetylcholinesterase inhibitors by combining quinolinecarboxamide to a benzylpiperidine moiety are described. Then,  a series of hybrids have been developed by introducing radical scavengers. Molecular modeling was performed and structure activity relationships are discussed. Among the series, most potent compounds show effective AchE inhibitions, high selectivities over butyrylcholinesterase and high radical scavenging activities. On the basis of this work, the ability of quinolone derivatives to serve in the design of N-benzylpiperidine linked multipotent molecules for the treatment of Alzheimer Disease has been established.
24638131: !Alzheimer Microglial priming in neurodegenerative disease. Under physiological conditions, the number and function of microglia--the resident macrophages of the CNS--is tightly controlled by the local microenvironment. In response to neurodegeneration and the accumulation of abnormally folded proteins, however, microglia multiply and adopt an activated state--a process referred to as priming. Studies using preclinical animal models  have shown that priming of microglia is driven by changes in their microenvironment and the release of molecules that drive their proliferation. Priming makes the microglia susceptible to a secondary inflammatory stimulus, which can then trigger an exaggerated inflammatory response. The secondary stimulus can arise within the CNS, but in elderly individuals, the secondary stimulus most commonly arises from a systemic disease with an inflammatory component. The concept of microglial priming, and the subsequent exaggerated response of these cells to secondary systemic inflammation, opens the way to treat neurodegenerative diseases by targeting systemic disease or interrupting the signalling pathways that mediate the CNS response to systemic inflammation. Both lifestyle changes and pharmacological therapies could, therefore, provide efficient means to slow down or halt neurodegeneration.
24637985: !Alzheimer Brown-Sequard, a restless mind. Brown-Sequard, a remarkable medical personality of the 19 th century, was born in a small island of the Indian Ocean. He travelled over the world exerting his skills: a successful physician, and an innovative researcher, with a very ample range of interests. His favored subject was the nervous system. The spinal cord was studied extensively, with novel and important discoveries on the sensory pathways. He identified cases with spinal cord hemisection, and described the clinical presentation corresponding to a syndrome which bears his name (Brown-Sequard syndrome), for which he is best known among neurologists. Regarding the brain, he proposed nine mental and physical functions (organs) related to dynamically interconnected cell clusters, in harmony with the " reseau de cellules anastomosees ", " activites dynamogeniques et inhibitrices ", and " action a distance " concepts. Finally, he is considered by some as the "father" of endocrinology, due to his studies on glands and their secretions.
24636189: !Alzheimer The possible role of stem cells in acupuncture treatment for neurodegenerative diseases: a literature review of basic studies. This review reports on recent findings concerning the effects of acupuncture and  electroacupuncture (EA) on stem cell mobilization and differentiation, in particular with regard to neurogenesis. Traditional Chinese acupuncture has a history of over 2,500 years and is becoming more popular worldwide. Evidence has  demonstrated that acupuncture may be of benefit in stroke rehabilitation, parkinsonism, dementia, and depression. This article reviews recent studies concerning the effects of acupuncture/EA on stem cell mobilization and on progenitor cell proliferation in the CNS. The reviewed evidence indicates that acupuncture/EA has beneficial effects in several neurodegenerative diseases, and  it may prove to be a nondrug method for mobilizing stem cells in the CNS.
24633750: !Alzheimer Angiotensin-converting enzyme overexpression in myelocytes enhances the immune response. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) plays an important role in blood pressure control. ACE also has effects on renal function, reproduction, hematopoiesis, and several aspects of the immune response. ACE 10/10 mice overexpress ACE in monocytic cells; macrophages from ACE 10/10 mice demonstrate increased polarization toward a proinflammatory phenotype. As a result, ACE 10/10 mice have a highly effective immune response following challenge with melanoma, bacterial infection, or Alzheimer disease. As shown in ACE 10/10 mice, enhanced monocytic function greatly contributes to the ability of the immune response to defend against a wide variety of antigenic and non-antigenic challenges.
24631516: !Alzheimer Madecassoside prevents Abeta(25-35)-induced inflammatory responses and autophagy  in neuronal cells through the class III PI3K/Beclin-1/Bcl-2 pathway. Inflammatory responses and autophagy have been implicated in the amyloid-beta (Abeta) aggregation in Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to recycling cellular waste and eliminating toxic protein aggregates. Madecassoside (Mad), a triterpenoid saponin compound, has been found to improve impaired cognitive function. However, little was known about the protection of Mad nerve cells against inflammation response and autophagy, as well as their underlying mechanism. In the present study, we investigated whether Mad could prevent Abeta25-35-induced inflammatory  responses and autophagy, as well as the possible mechanism. Transmission electron microscopy results showed that Mad could significantly reduce Abeta25-35-induced  autophagosomes in neural cells. Mad could also increase cell viability whereas decrease remarkably LDH leakage in Abeta25-35-induced neural cells. Both ELISA assay and western blot showed that Mad attenuated inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-10, IL-6 and COX-2  production. Moreover, western blot results showed that Mad could block the conversion of light chain3-I (LC3-I) to light chain3-II (LC3-II), reduce Beclin-1, whereas increase anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 level. The levels of Beclin-1 and hVps34 in control vector-transfected NG108-15 neural cells but not in Bcl-2 transfected NG108-15 neural cells were reduced by Mad. The levels of inflammatory cytokines including TNF-alpha and IL-6 productions decreased significantly by the treatment with Mad. These results demonstrated that Mad protected neural cells against inflammation and autophagy induced by Abeta25-35 through the class III PI3K/Beclin-1/Bcl-2 pathway. Our findings provide evidences for the beneficial effect of Mad on the treatment of AD.
24610822: !Alzheimer Simultaneous quantitation of polygalaxanthone III and four ginsenosides by ultra-fast liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry in rat and beagle  dog plasma after oral administration of Kai-Xin-San: application to a comparative pharmacokinetic study. A fast, selective, and quantitative ultra-fast liquid chromatography with tandem  mass spectrometry method has been developed and validated for the simultaneous quantitation of polygalaxanthone III, ginsenoside Rb1, ginsenoside Rd, ginsenoside Re, and ginsenoside Rg1 in the plasma of rat and beagle dog after oral administration of Kai-Xin-San. After addition of the internal standard, salidroside, the plasma samples were extracted by liquid-liquid extraction and separated on a Venusil MP C18 column with methanol/0.01% acetic acid water as mobile phase. The tandem mass spectrometric detection was performed in the multiple reaction monitoring with turbo ion spray source in a switching ionization mode. The method was examined, and found to be precise and accurate with the linearity range of the compounds. The intra- and interday precision and  accuracy of the analytes were well within acceptance criteria (+/-15%). The mean  extraction recoveries of analytes and internal standard were all >75.0%. The validated method has been successfully applied to comparing pharmacokinetic profiles of analytes in rat and beagle dog plasma. The results indicated that no  significant differences were observed in pharmacokinetic parameters of ginsenoside Rg1, while the others had significant differences, which may due to the different mechanisms of absorption and metabolism.
24607730: !Alzheimer New Th2 adjuvants for preventive and active immunotherapy of neurodegenerative proteinopathies. Active immunotherapy of neurodegenerative proteinopathies, such as Alzheimer's disease, requires a Th2 antibody immune response with exclusion of damaging inflammatory Th1 immunity. Because these diseases affect the elderly whom, owing  to immunosenescence, are frequently immune compromised, a successful therapy would require immune agonists capable of eliciting Th2 immunity solely while ameliorating the immune decline linked to aging; an objective hampered by the scarcity of Th2 immune agonists. The fact that some helminth-derived glycans and  modified triterpene glycosides elicit Th2 immunity only, even when administered with antigens carrying T cell epitopes, presents new ways to improve the active immune therapy of proteinopathies. Of additional benefit is that these triterpene glycosides could amend some of the detrimental effects of the immunosenescence.
24589379: !Alzheimer Current understandings and perspectives on non-cancer health effects of benzene:  a global concern. OBJECTIVE: Benzene, as a volatile organic compound, is known as one of the main air pollutants in the environment. The aim of this review is to summarize all available evidences on non-cancerous health effects of benzene providing an overview of possible association of exposure to benzene with human chronic diseases, specially, in those regions of the world where benzene concentration is being poorly monitored. METHODOLOGY: A bibliographic search of scientific databases including PubMed, Google Scholar, and Scirus was conducted with key words of "benzene toxic health effects", "environmental volatile organic compounds", "diabetes mellitus and environmental pollutants", "breast cancer and  environmental pollution", "prevalence of lung cancer", and "diabetes prevalence". More than 300 peer reviewed papers were examined. Experimental and epidemiologic  studies reporting health effects of benzene and volatile organic compounds were included in the study. RESULTS: Epidemiologic and experimental studies suggest that benzene exposure can lead to numerous non-cancerous health effects associated with functional aberration of vital systems in the body like reproductive, immune, nervous, endocrine, cardiovascular, and respiratory. CONCLUSION: Chronic diseases have become a health burden of global dimension with special emphasis in regions with poor monitoring over contents of benzene in petrochemicals. Benzene is a well known carcinogen of blood and its components, but the concern of benzene exposure is more than carcinogenicity of blood components and should be evaluated in both epidemiologic and experimental studies. Aspect of interactions and mechanism of toxicity in relation to human general health problems especially endocrine disturbances with particular reference to diabetes, breast and lung cancers should be followed up.
24588829: !Alzheimer Brain innate immunity in the regulation of neuroinflammation: therapeutic strategies by modulating CD200-CD200R interaction involve the cannabinoid system. The central nervous system (CNS) innate immune response includes an arsenal of molecules and receptors expressed by professional phagocytes, glial cells and neurons that is involved in host defence and clearance of toxic and dangerous cell debris. However, any uncontrolled innate immune responses within the CNS are widely recognized as playing a major role in the development of autoimmune disorders and neurodegeneration, with multiple sclerosis (MS) Alzheimer's disease (AD) being primary examples. Hence, it is important to identify the key regulatory mechanisms involved in the control of CNS innate immunity and which could be harnessed to explore novel therapeutic avenues. Neuroimmune regulatory proteins (NIReg) such as CD95L, CD200, CD47, sialic acid, complement regulatory proteins (CD55, CD46, fH, C3a), HMGB1, may control the adverse immune responses in health and diseases. In the absence of these regulators, when neurons die by apoptosis, become infected or damaged, microglia and infiltrating immune cells are free to cause injury as well as an adverse inflammatory response in acute and chronic settings. We will herein provide new emphasis on the role of the pair CD200-CD200R in MS and its experimental models: experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and Theiler's virus induced demyelinating disease (TMEV-IDD). The interest of the cannabinoid system as inhibitor of inflammation prompt us to introduce our findings about the role of endocannabinoids (eCBs) in  promoting CD200-CD200 receptor (CD200R) interaction and the benefits caused in TMEV-IDD. Finally, we also review the current data on CD200-CD200R interaction in AD, as well as, in the aging brain.
24588281: !Alzheimer Blockade of gap junction hemichannel protects secondary spinal cord injury from activated microglia-mediated glutamate exitoneurotoxicity. We previously demonstrated that activated microglia release excessive glutamate through gap junction hemichannels and identified a novel gap junction hemichannel blocker, INI-0602, that was proven to penetrate the blood-brain barrier and be an effective treatment in mouse models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer disease. Spinal cord injury causes tissue damage in two successive waves. The initial injury is mechanical and directly causes primary tissue damage, which induces subsequent ischemia, inflammation, and neurotoxic factor release resulting in the secondary tissue damage. These lead to activation of glial cells. Activated glial cells such as microglia and astrocytes are common pathological observations in the damaged lesion. Activated microglia release glutamate, the major neurotoxic factor released into the extracellular space after neural injury, which causes neuronal death at high concentration. In the present study, we demonstrate that reduction of glutamate-mediated exitotoxicity  via intraperitoneal administration of INI-0602 in the microenvironment of the injured spinal cord elicited neurobehavioral recovery and extensive suppression of glial scar formation by reducing secondary tissue damage. Further, this intervention stimulated anti-inflammatory cytokines, and subsequently elevated brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Thus, preventing microglial activation by a gap junction hemichannel blocker, INI-0602, may be a promising therapeutic strategy in spinal cord injury.
24587236: !Alzheimer Metabotyping of docosahexaenoic acid - treated Alzheimer's disease cell model. BACKGROUND: Despite the significant amount of work being carried out to investigate the therapeutic potential of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), the mechanism by which DHA affects amyloid-beta precursor protein (AbetaPP)-induced metabolic changes has not been studied. OBJECTIVE: To elucidate the metabolic phenotypes (metabotypes) associated with DHA therapy via metabonomic profiling of an AD cell model using gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC/TOFMS). METHODS: The lysate and supernatant samples of CHO-wt and CHO-AbetaPP695 cells treated with DHA and vehicle control were collected and prepared for GC/TOFMS metabonomics profiling.  The metabolic profiles were analyzed by multivariate data analysis techniques using SIMCA-P+ software. RESULTS: Both principal component analysis and subsequent partial least squares discriminant analysis revealed distinct metabolites associated with the DHA-treated and control groups. A list of statistically significant marker metabolites that characterized the metabotypes associated with DHA treatment was further identified. Increased levels of succinic acid, citric acid, malic acid and glycine and decreased levels of zymosterol, cholestadiene and arachidonic acid correlated with DHA treatment effect. DHA levels were also found to be increased upon treatment. CONCLUSION: Our study shows that DHA plays a role in mitigating AbetaPP-induced impairment in energy metabolism and inflammation by acting on tricarboxylic acid cycle, cholesterol biosynthesis pathway and fatty acid metabolism. The perturbations of  these metabolic pathways by DHA in CHO-wt and CHO-AbetaPP695 cells shed further mechanistic insights on its neuroprotective actions.
24586201: !Alzheimer Molecular evidence for the inverse comorbidity between central nervous system disorders and cancers detected by transcriptomic meta-analyses. There is epidemiological evidence that patients with certain Central Nervous System (CNS) disorders have a lower than expected probability of developing some  types of Cancer. We tested here the hypothesis that this inverse comorbidity is driven by molecular processes common to CNS disorders and Cancers, and that are deregulated in opposite directions. We conducted transcriptomic meta-analyses of  three CNS disorders (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Schizophrenia)  and three Cancer types (Lung, Prostate, Colorectal) previously described with inverse comorbidities. A significant overlap was observed between the genes upregulated in CNS disorders and downregulated in Cancers, as well as between the genes downregulated in CNS disorders and upregulated in Cancers. We also observed expression deregulations in opposite directions at the level of pathways. Our analysis points to specific genes and pathways, the upregulation of which could increase the incidence of CNS disorders and simultaneously lower the risk of developing Cancer, while the downregulation of another set of genes and pathways  could contribute to a decrease in the incidence of CNS disorders while increasing the Cancer risk. These results reinforce the previously proposed involvement of the PIN1 gene, Wnt and P53 pathways, and reveal potential new candidates, in particular related with protein degradation processes.
26064851: !Alzheimer Mass Spectrometry-based Lipidomics and Its Application to Biomedical Research. Lipidomics, a branch of metabolomics, is the large-scale study of pathways and networks of all cellular lipids in biological systems such as cells, tissues or organisms. The recent advance in mass spectrometry technologies have enabled more comprehensive lipid profiling in the biological samples. In this review, we compared four representative lipid profiling technoligies including GC-MS, LC-MS, direct infusion-MS and imaging-MS. We also summarized representative lipid database, and further discussed the applications of lipidomics to the diagnostics of various diseases such as diabetes, obesity, hypertension, and Alzheimer diseases.
24570004: !Alzheimer Developmental regulation of synthesis and dimerization of the amyloidogenic protease inhibitor cystatin C in the hematopoietic system. The cysteine protease inhibitor cystatin C is thought to be secreted by most cells and eliminated in the kidneys, so its concentration in plasma is diagnostic of kidney function. Low extracellular cystatin C is linked to pathologic protease activity in cancer, arthritis, atherosclerosis, aortic aneurism, and emphysema. Cystatin C forms non-inhibitory dimers and aggregates by a mechanism known as domain swapping, a property that reportedly protects against Alzheimer disease but can also cause amyloid angiopathy. Despite these clinical associations, little is known about the regulation of cystatin C production, dimerization, and  secretion. We show that hematopoietic cells are major contributors to extracellular cystatin C levels in healthy mice. Among these cells, macrophages and dendritic cells (DC) are the predominant producers of cystatin C. Both cell types synthesize monomeric and dimeric cystatin C in vivo, but only secrete monomer. Dimerization occurs co-translationally in the endoplasmic reticulum and  is regulated by the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) derived from mitochondria. Drugs or stimuli that reduce the intracellular concentration of ROS inhibit cystatin C dimerization. The extracellular concentration of inhibitory cystatin C is thus partly dependent on the abundance of macrophages and DC, and the ROS levels. These results have implications for the diagnostic use of serum cystatin C as a marker of kidney function during inflammatory processes that induce changes in DC or macrophage abundance. They also suggest an important role for macrophages, DC, and ROS in diseases associated with the protease inhibitory  activity or amyloidogenic properties of cystatin C.
24560029: !Alzheimer The MultiTEP platform-based Alzheimer's disease epitope vaccine activates a broad repertoire of T helper cells in nonhuman primates. BACKGROUND: As a prelude to clinical trials we have characterized B- and T-cell immune responses in macaques to AD vaccine candidates: AV-1955 and its slightly modified version, AV-1959 (with 3 additional promiscuous Th epitopes). METHODS: T- and B-cell epitope mapping was performed using the ELISPOT assay and competition ELISA, respectively. RESULTS: AV-1955 and AV-1959 did not stimulate potentially harmful autoreactive T cells, but instead activated a broad but individualized repertoire of Th cells specific to the MultiTEP platform in macaques. Although both vaccines induced robust anti-Abeta antibody responses without producing antibodies specific to Th epitopes of MultiTEP platforms, analyses of cellular immune responses in macaques demonstrated that the addition  of Th epitopes in the case of AV-1959 created a more potent, superior vaccine. CONCLUSION: AV-1959 is a promising vaccine candidate capable of producing therapeutically potent anti-amyloid antibody in a broader population of vaccinated subjects with high MHC class II gene polymorphisms.
24557020: !Alzheimer Navigating the cell: how motors overcome roadblocks and traffic jams to efficiently transport cargo. Intracellular transport plays an essential role in maintaining the organization of cells. The importance of long-range, bi-directional transport is evidenced by  the fact that its failure goes hand in hand with several diseases including neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. The nanoscale cellular transport machinery consisting of cytoskeletal tracks and  motor-proteins is responsible for effectively delivering important materials to specific locations inside the cell. Motor-proteins manage to overcome several challenges in the crowded cellular environment to achieve well-coordinated and effective transport. In recent years, thanks to state-of-the-art single molecule  biophysical tools, we have started to gain insights into the cellular traffic rules. This perspective summarizes the challenges that motors face in navigating  the complex cytoskeleton and the lessons learned about transport in crowded environments from both bottom-up in vitro studies as well as top-down in vivo studies.
24548007: !Alzheimer Oleic acid and linoleic acid from Tenebrio molitor larvae inhibit BACE1 activity  in vitro: molecular docking studies. In our ongoing research to find therapeutic compounds for Alzheimer's disease (AD) from natural resources, the inhibitory activity of the BACE1 enzyme by Tenebrio molitor larvae and its major compounds were evaluated. The T. molitor larvae extract and its fractions exhibited strong BACE1 suppression. The major components of hexane fraction possessing both high yield and strong BACE1 inhibition were determined by thin layer chromatography, gas chromatography, and  nuclear magnetic resonance analysis. A remarkable composition of unsaturated long chain fatty acids, including oleic acid and linoleic acid, were identified. Oleic acid, in particular, noncompetitively attenuated BACE1 activity with a half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(5)(0)) value of 61.31 muM and Ki value  of 34.3 muM. Furthermore, the fatty acids were stably interacted with BACE1 at different allosteric sites of the enzyme bound with the OH of CYS319 and the NH(3) of TYR320 for oleic acid and with the C=O group of GLN304 for linoleic acid. Here, we first revealed novel pharmacophore features of oleic acids and linoleic acid to BACE1 by in silico docking studies. The present findings would clearly suggest potential guidelines for designing novel BACE1 selective inhibitors.
24530494: !Alzheimer Design, synthesis, pharmacological evaluation, QSAR analysis, molecular modeling  and ADMET of novel donepezil-indolyl hybrids as multipotent cholinesterase/monoamine oxidase inhibitors for the potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The design, synthesis, and pharmacological evaluation of donepezil-indolyl based  amines 7-10, amides 12-16, and carboxylic acid derivatives 5 and 11, as multipotent ASS234 analogs, able to inhibit simultaneously cholinesterase (ChE) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) enzymes for the potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is reported. Theoretical studies using 3D-Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship (3D-QSAR) was used to define 3D-pharmacophores for inhibition of MAO A/B, AChE, and BuChE enzymes. We found that, in general, and for the same substituent, amines are more potent ChE inhibitors (see compounds 12, 13 versus 7 and 8) or equipotent (see compounds 14, 15 versus 9 and 10) than the corresponding amides, showing a clear EeAChE inhibition selectivity. For the MAO inhibition, amides were not active, and among the amines, compound 14 was totally MAO A selective, while amines 15 and 16 were quite MAO A selective. Carboxylic acid derivatives 5 and 11 showed a multipotent moderate selective profile as EeACE and MAO A inhibitors. Propargylamine 15 [N-((5-(3-(1-benzylpiperidin-4-yl)propoxy)-1-methyl-1H-indol-2-yl)methyl)prop-2-y n-1-amine] resulted in the most potent hMAO A (IC50 = 5.5 +/- 1.4 nM) and moderately potent hMAO B (IC50 = 150 +/- 31 nM), EeAChE (IC50 = 190 +/- 10 nM), and eqBuChE (IC50 = 830 +/- 160 nM) inhibitor. However, the analogous N-allyl and the N-morpholine derivatives 16 and 14 deserve also attention as they show an attractive multipotent profile. To sum up, donepezil-indolyl hybrid 15 is a promising drug for further development for the potential prevention and treatment of AD.
24525100: !Alzheimer Instant neurons: directed somatic cell reprogramming models of central nervous system disorders. Nuclear transplantation, cell fusion, and induced pluripotent stem cell studies have revealed a surprising degree of plasticity in mature mammalian cell fates. Somatic cell reprogramming also has been achieved more recently by the directed conversion of nonneuronal somatic cells, such as skin fibroblasts, to neuronal phenotypes. This approach appears particularly applicable to the in vitro modeling of human neurologic disorders. Central nervous system neurons are otherwise difficult to obtain from patients with neurologic disorders; however, nonhuman models may not reflect patient pathology. Somatic cell reprogramming may afford models of nonfamilial "sporadic" neurologic disorders, which are likely caused by multiple interacting genetic and nongenetic factors. Directed somatic cell reprogramming, which does not pass through typical in vivo developmental stages, toward many mature neuronal phenotypes has now been described. This article reviews the field and discusses the potential utilities of such models, such as for the development of personalized medicine strategies.
24517390: !Alzheimer Acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase 1 - significance of single-nucleotide polymorphism at residue 526 and the role of Pro347 near the fifth transmembrane domain. Acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferases (ACATs), which are members of the membrane-bound O-acyltransferase family, catalyze the conversion of cholesterol to cholesteryl esters. Mammals have two isoenzymes: ACAT1 and ACAT2. Both enzymes are drug targets for treating human diseases. ACAT1 is present in various cell types. It contains nine transmembrane domains (TMDs), with the active site His460 located within TMD7, and the active site Asn421 located within the fourth large cytoplasmic loop. In human ACAT1, a single-nucleotide polymorphism exists for residue 526: the codon is either CAG for Gln, or CGG for Arg. Gln526/Arg526 is present within the C-terminal loop. Its biochemical significance is unknown. In addition, within the C-terminal half of ACAT1, numerous residues conserved with those of ACAT2 are present; the functions of these conserved residues are largely unknown. Here, we performed single-substitution mutagenesis experiments to investigate the roles of individual residues present in the C-terminal loop, including Gln526/Arg526, and the eight conserved Pro residues located near/in various TMDs. The results show that the enzyme activity of ACAT1 with Gln526 is less active than that of ACAT1 with Arg526 by 40%. In addition, several residues  in the C-terminal loop are important for maintaining proper ACAT1 protein stability. Other results show that Pro347 plays an important role in modulating enzyme catalysis. Overall, our results imply that the CAG/CGG polymorphism can be utilized to perform ACAT1 activity/human disease susceptibility studies, and that Pro347 located near TMD5 plays an important role in modulating enzyme catalysis.
24510122: !Alzheimer Sequential pH-driven dimerization and stabilization of the N-terminal domain enables rapid spider silk formation. The mechanisms controlling the conversion of spider silk proteins into insoluble  fibres, which happens in a fraction of a second and in a defined region of the silk glands, are still unresolved. The N-terminal domain changes conformation and forms a homodimer when pH is lowered from 7 to 6; however, the molecular details  still remain to be determined. Here we investigate site-directed mutants of the N-terminal domain from Euprosthenops australis major ampullate spidroin 1 and find that the charged residues D40, R60 and K65 mediate intersubunit electrostatic interactions. Protonation of E79 and E119 is required for structural conversions of the subunits into a dimer conformation, and subsequent  protonation of E84 around pH 5.7 leads to the formation of a fully stable dimer.  These residues are highly conserved, indicating that the now proposed three-step  mechanism prevents premature aggregation of spidroins and enables fast formation  of spider silk fibres in general.
24508187: !Alzheimer High-energy compounds mobilize intracellular Ca2+ and activate calpain in cultured cells: is calpain an energy-dependent protease? Deficiency in energy metabolisms is perhaps the earliest modifiable defect in brain aging and sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD). Several high-energy compounds (HECs) such as ATP, phosphoenolpyruvate, phosphocreatine and acetyl coenzyme A have been shown to exhibit neuroprotective effects. To understand their mechanism of actions, we tested the effects of these HECs on intracellular Ca(2+), a central regulator in brain function. Our data showed that the HECs robustly and dose-dependently mobilized intracellular Ca(2+) in cultured SH-SY5Y cells, and the actions were sensitive to intracellular Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA-AM or energy metabolism blocker rotenone. The Ca(2+) influx triggered by the HECs was from both extracellular medium and intracellular stores and the HECs also induced repetitive Ca(2+) oscillations. As these actions were similar to those of classical Ca(2+) agonists, the HECs may be viewed as a new group of physiological Ca(2+) agonists. We also found that the HECs promoted the intracellular activity  of calpain, a Ca(2+)-dependent protease, and the enzyme activity fluctuated in concert with cellular energy levels, suggesting that calpain activity may also be energy-driven or energy-dependent. These findings may add to current knowledge for the regulatory mechanisms of Ca(2+) and calpain. Since Ca(2+) and calpain undergo critical dysfunction in brain aging but the underlying mechanisms remain  elusive, our work may provide a new perspective for clarifying some controversies. More importantly, the HECs, as key intermediates in glucose catabolism, the primary source of energy supply in the brain, may be used as potential drugs for rational prevention of sAD.
24507620: !Alzheimer Immunostimulant patches containing Escherichia coli LT enhance immune responses to DNA- and recombinant protein-based Alzheimer's disease vaccines. Immunotherapeutic approaches to treating Alzheimer's disease (AD) using vaccination strategies must overcome the obstacle of achieving adequate responses to vaccination in the elderly. Here we demonstrate for the first time that application of the Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin adjuvant-laden immunostimulatory patches (LT-IS) dramatically enhances the onset and magnitude of immune responses to DNA- and protein-based vaccines for Alzheimer's disease following intradermal immunization via gene gun and conventional needles, respectively. Our studies suggest that the immune activation mediated by LT-IS offers improved potency for generating AD-specific vaccination responses that should be investigated as an adjuvant in the clinical arena.
24503514: !Alzheimer The solution structure of the copper clioquinol complex. Clioquinol (5-chloro-7-iodo-8-hydroxyquinoline) recently has shown promising results in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and in cancer therapy, both of which also are thought to be due to clioquinol's ability as a lipophilic copper chelator. Previously, clioquinol was used as an anti-fungal and anti-protozoal drug that was responsible for an epidemic of subacute myelo-optic neuropathy (SMON) in Japan during the 1960s, probably a myeloneuropathy arising from a clioquinol-induced copper deficiency. Previous X-ray absorption spectroscopy of solutions of copper chelates of clioquinol suggested unusual coordination chemistry. Here we use a combination of electron paramagnetic, UV-visible and X-ray absorption spectroscopies to provide clarification of the chelation chemistry between clioquinol and copper. We find that the solution structures for the copper complexes formed with stoichiometric and excess clioquinol are conventional 8-hydroxyquinolate chelates. Thus, the promise of clioquinol in new  treatments for Alzheimer's disease and in cancer therapy is not likely to be due  to any novel chelation chemistry, but rather due to other factors including the high lipophilicity of the free ligand and chelate complexes.
24502897: !Alzheimer Toxicological and pharmacological evaluation, antioxidant, ADMET and molecular modeling of selected racemic chromenotacrines {11-amino-12-aryl-8,9,10,12-tetrahydro-7H-chromeno[2,3-b]quinolin-3-ols} for the  potential prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The pharmacological analysis of racemic chromenotacrines (CT) 1-7, bearing the 11-amino-12-aryl-8,9,10,12-tetrahydro-7H-chromeno[2,3-b]quinolin-3-ol ring skeleton, in a series of experiments targeted to explore their potential use for  the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is reported. The toxicological evaluation showed that among all these chromenotacrines, CT6 is much less hepatotoxic than tacrine in a range of concentrations from 1 to 300 muM, measured as cell viability in HepG2 cells. Moreover, CT6 did not significantly increase lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate transaminase, and alanine transaminase release in HepG2 cells. Besides, CT6 treatment exerts a high protective effect against the lipid peroxidation induced after H(2)O(2)-treated SH-SY5Y cells, in a concentration-dependent manner. CT6 showed an excellent antioxidant profile in the AAPH test, and protects against the decrease in cell viability induced by respiratory chain inhibitors (Oligomicyn A/Rotenone) and NO donors in neuronal cultures. This effect could be due to a mixed antiapoptotic and antinecrotic neuroprotective effect at low and intermediate CT6 concentrations, respectively.  CT1-7 are potent and selective inhibitors of EeAChE in the submicromolar range. CT3 [IC(5)(0) (EeAChE) = 0.007 +/- 0.003 muM], and CT6 [IC(5)(0) (EeAChE) = 0.041 +/- 0.001 muM] are the most potent AChE inhibitors. Kinetic studies on the non-toxic chromenotacrine CT6 showed that this compound behaves as a non-competitive inhibitor (Ki = 0.047 +/- 0.003 muM), indicating that CT6 binds at the peripheral anionic site, a fact confirmed by molecular modeling analysis.  In silico ADMET analysis showed also that CT6 should have a moderate BBB permeability. Consequently, non-toxic chromenotacrine CT6 can be considered as an attractive multipotent molecule for the potential treatment of AD.
24499319: !Alzheimer Phytochemical and medicinal importance of Ginkgo biloba L. Ginkgo biloba L., also popularly known as living fossil, possesses a variety of biological and pharmacological activities. The leaf extract of G. biloba L. (EGb  761) has been used for years to treat age-related memory-deficit problems, including Alzheimer's and dementia. Experimental and clinical studies have revealed its beneficial effects on a wide range of pathological conditions including hepatoprotective, photoprotective effects, DNA repair mechanism, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Recent studies have also suggested  that leaf extract of G. biloba L. may exert beneficial effects on cancer. This review focuses on recent scientific evidence of the reported medicinal effects of G. biloba L.
24498199: !Alzheimer A network based method for analysis of lncRNA-disease associations and prediction of lncRNAs implicated in diseases. Increasing evidence has indicated that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are implicated in and associated with many complex human diseases. Despite of the accumulation of lncRNA-disease associations, only a few studies had studied the roles of these associations in pathogenesis. In this paper, we investigated lncRNA-disease associations from a network view to understand the contribution of these lncRNAs to complex diseases. Specifically, we studied both the properties of the diseases in which the lncRNAs were implicated, and that of the lncRNAs associated with complex diseases. Regarding the fact that protein coding genes and lncRNAs are involved in human diseases, we constructed a coding-non-coding gene-disease bipartite network based on known associations between diseases and disease-causing genes. We then applied a propagation algorithm to uncover the hidden lncRNA-disease associations in this network. The algorithm was evaluated by leave-one-out cross validation on 103 diseases in which at least two genes were known to be involved, and achieved an AUC of 0.7881. Our algorithm successfully predicted 768 potential lncRNA-disease associations between 66 lncRNAs and 193 diseases. Furthermore, our results for Alzheimer's disease, pancreatic cancer, and gastric cancer were verified by other independent studies.
24495863: !Alzheimer Structure activity relationship studies of 3-arylsulfonyl-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-imines as potent 5-HT(6) antagonists. Comprehensive structure activity relationship (SAR) studies were conducted on a focused screening hit, 2-(methylthio)-3-(phenylsulfonyl)-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-imine (1, IC50: 4.0 nM), as 5-HT6 selective antagonists. Activity was improved some 2-4 fold when small, electron-donating groups were added to the central core as observed in 19, 20 and 26. Molecular docking of key compounds in a homology model of the human 5-HT6 receptor was used to rationalize our structure-activity relationship (SAR)  findings. In pharmacokinetic experiments, compound 1 displayed good brain uptake  in rats following intra-peritoneal administration, but limited oral bioavailability.
24479629: !Alzheimer Isolation and characterisation of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors from Aquilaria  subintegra for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Aquilaria subintegra, locally known as "Gaharu", belongs to the Thymelaeceae family. This plant's leaves have been claimed to be effective for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by Malay traditional practitioner in Malaysia. In this research, the chloroform extracts of the leaves and stem of A. subintegra were tested for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activity. The Thin Layer Chromatography (TLC) results indicated the presence of phenols, flavonoids, terpenoids, and alkaloids compounds in the extracts. Analysis of the stem chloroform extracts with LCMS/MS displayed that it contains kaempferol 3,4,7-trimethyl ether. The AChE inhibitory activity of leaves and stem chloroform extracts and kaempferol were 80%, 93% and 85.8%, respectively. The Brine Shrimp Lethality Assay (BSLA) exhibited low to moderate toxicity of the chloroform extract from leaves (LC50=531.18 +/- 49.53 mug/ml), the stem chloroform extract (LC50=407.34 +/- 68.05 mug/ml) and kaempferol (LC50=762.41 +/- 45.09 mug/ml). The extracts and kaempferol were not cytotoxic to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), human normal gastric epithelial cell line (GES-1) and human normal hepatic cell line (WRL-68). The effect of leaf and stem chloroform extracts and kaempferol were determined in the Radial Arm Maze (RAM) after administration by oral gavage to ICR male and female mice with valium-impaired memory. Administration of kaempferol to the mice significantly reduced the number of repeated entries into the arms of maze in males and females. In conclusion, the inhibition of AChE by leaf and stem chloroform extracts of A. subintegra could be due to the presence of kaempferol. This extract is safe for use as a natural AChE inhibitor as an alternative to berberine for the treatment of AD.
24473150: !Alzheimer Copper, aluminum, iron and calcium inhibit human acetylcholinesterase in vitro. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is an important part of cholinergic nerves where it participates in termination of neurotransmission. AChE can be inhibited by e.g. some Alzheimer disease drugs, nerve agents, and secondary metabolites. In this work, metal salts aluminum chloride, calcium chloride, cupric chloride, ferric chloride, potassium chloride, magnesium chloride and sodium chloride were tested  for their ability to inhibit AChE. Standard Ellman assay based on human recombinant AChE was done and inhibition was measured using Dixon plot. No inhibition was proved for sodium, potassium and magnesium ions. However, aluminum, cupric, ferric and calcium ions were able to inhibit AChE via noncompetitive mechanism of inhibition. Though the inhibition is much weaker when compared to e.g. drugs with noncompetitive mechanism of action, biological relevance of the findings can be anticipated.
24467234: !Alzheimer Influence of electronic and formulation variables on transdermal iontophoresis of tacrine hydrochloride. Freshly excised rat skin and side-by-side permeation cells were used to study the effect of electronic and formulation variables on transdermal iontophoretic delivery of tacrine. Current strength at 0.1-0.3 mA was observed to be the driving force resulting in tacrine permation flux of 30.3-366.6 mug/cm(2)/h. Depot formation of tacrine and altered skin permeability resulted in post iontophoretic flux even after termination of applied current. Increase in the duration of current application did not show significant difference in tacrine permeation flux upto 6 h. Tacrine permeation was directly proportional to tacrine concentration upto 10 mg/ml but further increase in concentration (upto 20 mg/ml) exhibited permeation flux plateau. Buffer molarity had an inverse relationship on permeation flux and the presence of co-ions in formulation exhibited reduced permeation flux. Permeation flux decreased when pH of formulation was successively increased from 7.0 to 10.0 suggesting electromigration of tacrine. Alternate buffer systems including HEPES and Tris showed improved tacrine permeation due to their larger ion size compared to phosphate buffer ions. The results of this study show that transdermal tacrine permeation can be controlled  by electronic and formulation variables which would be useful for the development of transdermal iontophoretic delivery of tacrine for the treatment of Alzehimer's disease.
24465270: !Alzheimer MicroRNA-206: a promising theranostic marker. MicroRNAs (miRs) are small non-coding RNAs that negatively regulate gene expression by binding to the 3` untranslated regions (3`UTR) of their target mRNAs. MiRs were shown to play pivotal roles in tissue development and function and are also involved in the pathogenesis of various diseases including cancer. MicroRNA-206, which belongs to the group of so-called "myomiRs", is one of the most studied miRs thus far. In addition to being involved in skeletal muscle development and pathology, it has also been established that it is involved in the pathogenesis of numerous diseases including heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Alzheimer's disease and various types of cancers.  The aim of this review is to provide a complex overview of microRNA-206, including regulating its expression, a brief description of its known functions in skeletal muscle and a complex overview of its roles in the biology and pathology of other tissues, emphasizing its significant diagnostic and therapeutic potential.
24465216: !Alzheimer A neurotoxic glycerophosphocholine impacts PtdIns-4, 5-bisphosphate and TORC2 signaling by altering ceramide biosynthesis in yeast. Unbiased lipidomic approaches have identified impairments in glycerophosphocholine second messenger metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Specifically, we have shown that amyloid-beta42 signals the intraneuronal accumulation of PC(O-16:0/2:0) which is associated with neurotoxicity. Similar to neuronal cells, intracellular accumulation of PC(O-16:0/2:0) is also toxic to Saccharomyces cerevisiae, making yeast an excellent model to decipher the pathological effects of this lipid. We previously reported that phospholipase D, a phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2)-binding protein, was relocalized in response to PC(O-16:0/2:0), suggesting that this neurotoxic lipid may remodel lipid signaling networks. Here  we show that PC(O-16:0/2:0) regulates the distribution of the PtdIns(4)P 5-kinase Mss4 and its product PtdIns(4,5)P2 leading to the formation of invaginations at the plasma membrane (PM). We further demonstrate that the effects of PC(O-16:0/2:0) on the distribution of PM PtdIns(4,5)P2 pools are in part mediated by changes in the biosynthesis of long chain bases (LCBs) and ceramides. A combination of genetic, biochemical and cell imaging approaches revealed that PC(O-16:0/2:0) is also a potent inhibitor of signaling through the Target of rampamycin complex 2 (TORC2). Together, these data provide mechanistic insight into how specific disruptions in phosphocholine second messenger metabolism associated with Alzheimer's disease may trigger larger network-wide disruptions in ceramide and phosphoinositide second messenger biosynthesis and signaling which have been previously implicated in disease progression.
24443964: !Alzheimer Review: The genetics of Alzheimer's disease; putting flesh on the bones. For two decades the search for genes involved in Alzheimer's disease brought little reward; it was not until the advent of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) that genetic associations started to be revealed. Since 2009 increasingly  large GWAS have revealed 20 loci, which in itself is a substantial increase in our understanding, but perhaps the more important feature is that these studies have highlighted novel pathways that are potentially involved in the disease process. This commentary assembles our latest knowledge while acknowledging that  the casual functional variants, and undoubtedly, other genes are still yet to be  discovered. This is the challenge that remains and the promise of next-generation sequencing is anticipated as there are a number of large initiatives which themselves should start to yield information before long.
24439402: !Alzheimer Curcumin nanoformulations: a review of pharmaceutical properties and preclinical  studies and clinical data related to cancer treatment. Curcumin, a natural yellow phenolic compound, is present in many kinds of herbs,  particularly in Curcuma longa Linn. (turmeric). It is a natural antioxidant and has shown many pharmacological activities such as anti-inflammatory, anti-microbial, anti-cancer, and anti-Alzheimer in both preclinical and clinical  studies. Moreover, curcumin has hepatoprotective, nephroprotective, cardioprotective, neuroprotective, hypoglycemic, antirheumatic, and antidiabetic  activities and it also suppresses thrombosis and protects against myocardial infarction. Particularly, curcumin has demonstrated efficacy as an anticancer agent, but a limiting factor is its extremely low aqueous solubility which hampers its use as therapeutic agent. Therefore, many technologies have been developed and applied to overcome this limitation. In this review, we summarize the recent works on the design and development of nano-sized delivery systems for curcumin, including liposomes, polymeric nanoparticles and micelles, conjugates,  peptide carriers, cyclodextrins, solid dispersions, lipid nanoparticles and emulsions. Efficacy studies of curcumin nanoformulations using cancer cell lines  and in vivo models as well as up-to-date human clinical trials are also discussed.
24417981: !Alzheimer Synthesis of new lipoic acid conjugates and evaluation of their free radical scavenging and neuroprotective activities. A series of new lipoic acid derivatives were designed and synthesized as multitarget ligands against Alzheimer's disease. In particular, analogues combining both lipoic acid and cysteine core structures were synthesized. The antioxidant properties of these compounds were evaluated by 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS(*+) ) radical cation  scavenging assays and ferrous ion chelation. The antioxidant potential of the synthesized compounds was also evaluated in a cellular context and compared to alpha-lipoic acid and its reduced form, dihydrolipoic acid. The antioxidant effects observed for these compounds in vitro confirmed the importance of free thiol functions for effective antioxidant capacities. However, these promising in vitro results were not mirrored by the antioxidant activity in T67 cell line. This suggests that multiple factors are at stake and warrant further investigations.
24414229: !Alzheimer Papaverine increases human serum albumin glycation. Glycation is a non-enzymatic reaction that is initiated by the primary addition of sugars to amino groups of proteins. In the early phase of glycation, the synthesis of intermediates leads to formation of Amadori compounds. In the last phase, advanced glycation end products (AGE) are irreversibly formed following a  complex cascade of reactions. It has recently been shown that glycation also affects diabetes-related complications and Alzheimer's disease. In this study, human serum albumin at a concentration of 10 mg/ml was incubated in PBS with 40 mM of glucose and in different concentrations of papaverine (25, 100, 250, 500 muM) for 42 days at 37 degrees C. HSA with no additives as well as with glucose 40 mM were incubated as a control and as a glycated sample, respectively. Following the incubation, the samples were prepared for circular dichroism, fluorescence and absorbance techniques. The results showed that in presence of papaverine and glucose, the glycation of HSA increased notably compared with the  glycated sample. In conclusion, in this work, we showed that papaverine affects HSA and increases its glycation level.
24413832: !Alzheimer Acetylcholinesterase inhibitory, antioxidant and phytochemical properties of selected medicinal plants of the Lamiaceae family. The present study aimed to evaluate acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory and antioxidant activities of Lamiaceae medicinal plants growing wild in Croatia. Using Ellman's colorimetric assay all tested ethanolic extracts and their hydroxycinnamic acid constituents demonstrated in vitro AChE inhibitory properties in a dose dependent manner. The extracts of Mentha x piperita, M. longifolia, Salvia officinalis, Satureja montana, Teucrium arduini, T. chamaedrys, T. montanum, T. polium and Thymus vulgaris at 1 mg/mL showed strong inhibitory activity against AChE. The antioxidant potential of the investigated Lamiaceae species was assessed by DPPH* scavenging activity and total antioxidant capacity assays, in comparison with hydroxycinnamic acids and trolox. The extracts differed greatly in their total hydroxycinnamic derivatives content, determined spectrophotometrically. Rosmarinic acid was found to be the predominant constituent in most of the investigated medicinal plants (by RP-HPLC) and had a substantial influence on their AChE inhibitory and antioxidant properties, with the exception of Teucrium species. These findings indicate that  Lamiaceae species are a rich source of various natural AChE inhibitors and antioxidants that could be useful in the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's  and other related diseases.
24405708: !Alzheimer BACE1 activity regulates cell surface contactin-2 levels. BACKGROUND: Although BACE1 is a major therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease  (AD), potential side effects of BACE1 inhibition are not well characterized. BACE1 cleaves over 60 putative substrates, however the majority of these cleavages have not been characterized. Here we investigated BACE1-mediated cleavage of human contactin-2, a GPI-anchored cell adhesion molecule. RESULTS: Our initial protein sequence analysis showed that contactin-2 harbors a strong putative BACE1 cleavage site close to its GPI membrane linker domain. When we overexpressed BACE1 in CHO cells stably transfected with human contactin-2, we found increased release of soluble contactin-2 in the conditioned media. Conversely, pharmacological inhibition of BACE1 in CHO cells expressing human contactin-2 and mouse primary neurons decreased soluble contactin-2 secretion. The BACE1 cleavage site mutation 1008MM/AA dramatically impaired soluble contactin-2 release. We then asked whether contactin-2 release induced by BACE1 expression would concomitantly decrease cell surface levels of contactin-2. Using immunofluorescence and surface-biotinylation assays, we showed that BACE1 activity tightly regulates contactin-2 surface levels in CHO cells as well as in  mouse primary neurons. Finally, contactin-2 levels were decreased in Alzheimer's  disease brain samples correlating inversely with elevated BACE1 levels in the same samples. CONCLUSION: Our results clearly demonstrate that mouse and human contactin-2 are physiological substrates for BACE1. BACE1-mediated contactin-2 cleavage tightly regulates the surface expression of contactin-2 in neuronal cells. Given the role of contactin-2 in cell adhesion, neurite outgrowth and axon guidance, our data suggest that BACE1 may play an important role in these physiological processes by regulating contactin-2 surface levels.
24405291: !Alzheimer Plant-based vaccines for Alzheimer's disease: an overview. Plants are considered advantageous platforms for biomanufacturing recombinant vaccines. This constitutes a field of intensive research and some plant-derived vaccines are expected to be marketed in the near future. In particular, plant-based production of immunogens targeting molecules with implications on the pathology of Alzheimer's has been explored over the last decade. These efforts involve targeting amyloid beta and beta-secretase with several immunogen configurations that have been evaluated in test animals. The results of these developments are analyzed in this review. Perspectives on the topic are identified, such as exploring additional antigen configurations and adjuvants in  order to improve immunization schemes, characterizing in detail the elicited immune responses, and immunological considerations in the achievement of therapeutic humoral responses via mucosal immunization. Safety concerns related to these therapies will also be discussed.
24402873: !Alzheimer Lack of association between cyclooxygenase 2-765G/C gene polymorphism and breast  cancer risk in Ahvaz, west-south Iran. Cyclooxygenases are key enzymes in conversion of arachidonic acid into prostaglandin H2. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) increases prostaglandins in neoplastic tissue. COX-2 has important roles in cell proliferation cancers, angiogenesis, and alzheimer. COX-2 is up-regulated in several types of cancer, and it is hypothesized that COX-2 expression may be genetically influenced. Our main objective was to evaluated the association of polymorphism COX-2 with risk of breast cancer in khouzestan province, and the second objective of the study was to evaluate the association with biochemistry parameters. This study consisting of 150 patients with breast cancer and 120 normal DNA was extracted from the white blood cells. Polymorphism cox2 gene was detected by polymerase chain reaction according to the standard methods. The profile lipids and estrogen were  measured in two groups by standard methods. Chi square analysis showed that there was no association between breast cancer risk and COX-2 -765G>C genotype and alleles. Also, no association were observed between -765G>C polymorphism and biochemistry parameters. A multiple logistic regression model with cox2 genotypes and LDL and HDL as covariates revealed that there is no significant association between cox2 genotypes and risk of breast cancer, but higher values of LDL and HDL significantly increase risk of breast cancer.
24398134: !Alzheimer Implications of heparan sulfate and heparanase in neuroinflammation. Heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs), expressed on the cell surface and in the extracellular matrix of most animal tissues, have essential functions in development and homeostasis, and have been implicated in several pathological conditions. The functions of HSPGs are mainly mediated through interactions of the heparan sulfate (HS) polysaccharide side chains with different protein ligands. The molecular structure of HS is highly diverse, expressed in a cell-type specific manner. The flexible yet controlled structure of HS is primarily generated through a strictly regulated biosynthesis process and is further modified post-synthetically, such as desulfation by endosulfatases and fragmentation by heparanase. Heparanase is an endo-glucuronidase expressed in all tissues. The enzyme has been found up-regulated in a number of pathological conditions, implying a role in diseases mainly through degradation of HS. Emerging evidence demonstrates important roles of HS and heparanase in inflammatory reactions, particularly in the regulation of leukocyte activation and extravasation. Neuroinflammation is a common feature of various central nervous system disorders, thus it is a great interest to understand the implications of HS and heparanase in neuroinflammation.
24395390: !Alzheimer Omega-3 fatty acids: a growing ocean of choices. There has been increasing interest in the health benefits of supplemental and/or  dietary omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), particularly in their role in disease prevention. This interest escalated once their effects on cardiovascular health were observed from numerous observational studies in populations whose diet consisted mainly of fish. Research has since been undertaken on omega-3 PUFAs to investigate their health benefits in a vast array  of medical conditions, including primary and secondary prevention. This article discusses the evidence and controversies concerning omega-3 PUFAs in various health conditions. In addition to the effects on cardiovascular health, omega-3 PUFAs have been shown to prevent the development of dementia, reduce systemic inflammatory diseases, prevent prostate cancer, and possibly have a role in the treatment of depression and bipolar disorder.
24393377: !Alzheimer Synthesis, characterization, and cytotoxicity studies of Cu(II), Zn(II), and Fe(III) complexes of N-derivatized 3-hydroxy-4-pyridiones. The deleterious role of metal ions in Alzheimer's disease has inspired the study  of various metal chelators. We previously showed the synthesis and in vitro activity of several bidentate hydroxypyridinone compounds, including 3-hydroxy-2-methyl-1-phenyl-4(1H)-pyridinone (1), 1-(4-aminophenyl)-3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4(1H)-pyridinone (2), and 1-(2-benzothiazolyl)-3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4(1H)-pyridinone (3). While the focus has been on the Cu(II) ion, the other biorelevant metals, Zn(II) and Fe(III) have been largely neglected. Herein, we report the synthesis of Zn(II) and Fe(III) complexes of ligands 1, 2, and 3, and their characterization by infrared (IR) spectroscopy, high resolution mass spectrometry (HR-MS), elemental analysis, and  NMR, where applicable. Solid state structures of Zn(1)2, Fe(1)3, and Cu(3)2 are analyzed with X-ray crystallography. The cytotoxicity of pro-ligands 1, 2, and 3, and the three metal complexes of 2 are examined in a neuronal cell line to determine the effect of metal chelation on toxicity of the compounds.
24389509: !Alzheimer 1,2,3,4-Tetrahydrobenzo[h][1,6]naphthyridines as a new family of potent peripheral-to-midgorge-site inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase: synthesis, pharmacological evaluation and mechanistic studies. A series of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[h][1,6]naphthyridines differently substituted at positions 1, 5, and 9 have been designed from the pyrano[3,2-c]quinoline derivative 1, a weak inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) with predicted ability to bind to the AChE peripheral anionic site (PAS), at the entrance of the catalytic gorge. Fourteen novel benzonaphthyridines have been synthesized through synthetic sequences involving as the key step a multicomponent Povarov reaction between an aldehyde, an aniline and an enamine or an enamide as the activated alkene. The novel compounds have been tested against Electrophorus electricus AChE (EeAChE), human recombinant AChE (hAChE), and human serum butyrylcholinesterase (hBChE), and their brain penetration has been assessed using the PAMPA-BBB assay. Also, the mechanism of AChE inhibition of the most potent compounds has been thoroughly studied by kinetic studies, a propidium displacement assay, and molecular modelling. We have found that a seemingly small structural change such as a double O --> NH bioisosteric replacement from the hit 1 to 16a results in a dramatic increase of EeAChE and hAChE inhibitory activities (>217- and >154-fold, respectively), and in a notable increase in hBChE inhibitory activity (>11-fold), as well. An optimized binding at the PAS besides  additional interactions with AChE midgorge residues seem to account for the high  hAChE inhibitory potency of 16a (IC50 = 65 nM), which emerges as an interesting anti-Alzheimer lead compound with potent dual AChE and BChE inhibitory activities.
24381170: !Alzheimer Clusterin is a ligand for apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2) and very low density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and signals via the Reelin-signaling pathway. Clusterin, also known as apolipoprotein J, is a multifunctional glycoprotein with the capacity to interact with a wide range of molecules. Although clusterin has been implicated in a broad spectrum of physiological and pathological processes,  such as Alzheimer disease or cancer, its precise functions remain elusive. Here we report, that clusterin binds to apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2) and very  low density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and is internalized by cells expressing  either one of these receptors. Binding of clusterin to these receptors triggers a Reelin-like signal in cells expressing disabled-1 (Dab1). It induces phosphorylation of Dab1, which leads to activation of PI3K/Akt and n-cofilin. Cell proliferation and neuroblast chain formation in subventricular zone (SVZ) explants are compromised when clusterin, which is present in the subventricular zone, is blocked in vitro. These data suggest that in the subventricular zone where Reelin is not present but ApoER2, VLDLR, and Dab1, clusterin might be involved in maintaining neurogenesis in vivo.
24380849: !Alzheimer Age-dependent changes on TGFbeta1 Smad3 pathway modify the pattern of microglial  cell activation. Aging is the main risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Among other characteristics, it shows changes in inflammatory signaling that could affect the regulation of glial cell activation. We have shown that astrocytes prevent microglial cell cytotoxicity by mechanisms mediated by TGFbeta1. However, whereas TGFbeta1 is increased, glial cell activation persists in aging. To understand this apparent contradiction, we studied TGFbeta1-Smad3 signaling during aging and their effect on microglial cell function. TGFbeta1 induction and activation of Smad3 signaling in the hippocampus by inflammatory stimulation was greatly reduced in adult mice. We evaluated the effect of TGFbeta1-Smad3 pathway on the regulation of nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) secretion, and  phagocytosis of microglia from mice at different ages with and without in vivo treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce an inflammatory status. NO secretion was only induced on microglia from young mice exposed to LPS, and was potentiated by inflammatory preconditioning, whereas in adult mice the induction  of ROS was predominant. TGFbeta1 modulated induction of NO and ROS production in  young and adult microglia, respectively. Modulation was partially dependent on Smad3 pathway and was impaired by inflammatory preconditioning. Phagocytosis was  induced by inflammation and TGFbeta1 only in microglia cultures from young mice.  Induction by TGFbeta1 was also prevented by Smad3 inhibition. Our findings suggest that activation of the TGFbeta1-Smad3 pathway is impaired in aging. Age-related impairment of TGFbeta1-Smad3 can reduce protective activation while facilitating cytotoxic activation of microglia, potentiating microglia-mediated neurodegeneration.
24374923: !Alzheimer Immunochemical detection of lipid hydroperoxide- and aldehyde-modified proteins in diseases. Polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) is easily peroxidized by free radicals and enzymes. When this occurs, it results in the compromised integrity of cellular membranes and leads to lipid hydroperoxide as a major reaction product, which is  decomposed into aldehyde. Lipid hydroperoxide-modified lysine is known to be an early product of the lipid peroxidation process, suggesting that it might be a PUFA-oxidative stress marker during the initial stage of oxidative stress. Lipid  hydroperoxides cause or enhance ROS-mediated DNA fragmentation. The alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes are end products of PUFA peroxidation. They are  highly reactive and readily attack and modify the protein amino acid residues into aldehyde-modified proteins. Lipid peroxidation-derived alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes are capable of inducing cellular stress-responsive processes such as cell signaling and apoptosis. The lipid hydroperoxide- and aldehyde-modified proteins have been immunohistochemically detected in diverse pathological situations such as atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's  disease, Parkinson's disease, and chemical material-induced liver injury and renal tubular injury in humans and experimental animals. These findings suggest that the expression of the lipid hydroperoxide- and aldehyde-modified proteins is closely associated with the pathogenesis of these diseases in humans and experimental animals.
24374905: !Alzheimer Cholinesterase inhibitors from the roots of Harpagophytum procumbens. Inhibition of cholinesterase has been proposed to be a therapeutic target for the treatment of Alzheimer's diseases. In our preliminary screening study on the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activity, an ethyl acetate soluble fraction of the roots of Harpagophytum procumbens (Pedaliaceae) was found to inhibit AChE activity at the concentration of 100 mug/mL. Ten compounds (1-10) were isolated from the active fraction and evaluated for their inhibitory effect  on AChE and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). Among the isolates, verbascosides (5, 6, and 8) containing a caffeoyl and a 3,4-dihydroxyphenethyl groups in their structures, showed effective AChE inhibitory activity and also possessed BChE inhibitory activity. The findings suggest that verbascoside derivatives may be partially related to the anti-Alzheimer effect of this medicinal plant.
24374297: !Alzheimer Non-protein amino acids and neurodegeneration: the enemy within. Animals, in common with plants and microorganisms, synthesise proteins from a pool of 20 protein amino acids (plus selenocysteine and pyrolysine) (Hendrickson  et al., 2004). This represents a small proportion (~2%) of the total number of amino acids known to exist in nature (Bell, 2003). Many 'non-protein' amino acids are synthesised by plants, and in some cases constitute part of their chemical armoury against pathogens, predators or other species competing for the same resources (Fowden et al., 1967). Microorganisms can also use selectively toxic amino acids to gain advantage over competing organisms (Nunn et al., 2010). Since non-protein amino acids (and imino acids) are present in legumes, fruits, seeds and nuts, they are ubiquitous in the diets of human populations around the world. Toxicity to humans is unlikely to have been the selective force for their evolution, but they have the clear potential to adversely affect human health. In this review we explore the links between exposure to non-protein amino acids and  neurodegenerative disorders in humans. Environmental factors play a major role in these complex disorders which are predominantly sporadic (Coppede et al., 2006).  The discovery of new genes associated with neurodegenerative diseases, many of which code for aggregation-prone proteins, continues at a spectacular pace but little progress is being made in identifying the environmental factors that impact on these disorders. We make the case that insidious entry of non-protein amino acids into the human food chain and their incorporation into protein might  be contributing significantly to neurodegenerative damage.
24373826: !Alzheimer Ferulic acid: pharmacological and toxicological aspects. Ferulic acid (FA) belongs to the family of phenolic acids and is very abundant in fruits and vegetables. Over the past years, several studies have shown that FA acts as a potent antioxidant by scavenging free radicals and enhancing the cell stress response through the up-regulation of cytoprotective systems, e.g. heme oxygenase-1, heat shock protein 70, extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and the proto-oncogene Akt. Furthermore, FA was shown to inhibit the expression and/or activity of cytotoxic enzymes, including inducible nitric oxide synthase,  caspases and cyclooxygenase-2. Based on this evidence, FA has been proposed as a  potential treatment for many disorders including Alzheimer's disease, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus and skin disease. However, despite the great abundance of preclinical research, only a few studies were carried out in humans, the majority of which used foods containing FA, and therefore the clinical efficacy of this mode of administration needs to be further documented.  New efforts and resources are needed in clinical research for the complete evaluation of FA therapeutic potential in chronic diseases.
26237255: !Alzheimer Maternal Germinal Trisomy 21 in Down Syndrome. It has now been over 50 years since it was discovered that Down syndrome is caused by an extra chromosome 21, i.e., trisomy 21. In the interim, it has become clear that in the majority of cases, the extra chromosome is inherited from the mother, and there is, in this respect, a strong maternal age effect. Numerous investigations have been devoted to clarifying the underlying mechanism, most recently suggesting that this situation is exceedingly complex, involving both biological and environmental factors. On the other hand, it has also been proposed that germinal trisomy 21 mosaicism, arising during the very early stages of maternal oogenesis with accumulation of trisomy 21 germ cells during subsequent development, may be the main predisposing factor. We present data here on the incidence of trisomy 21 mosaicism in a cohort of normal fetal ovarian samples, indicating that an accumulation of trisomy 21 germ cells does indeed take place during fetal oogenesis, i.e., from the first to the second trimester of pregnancy. We presume that this accumulation of trisomy 21 (T21) cells is caused by their delay in maturation and lagging behind the normal cells. We further presume that this trend continues during the third trimester of pregnancy and postnatally, up until ovulation, thereby explaining the maternal age effect in Down syndrome.
25796851: !Alzheimer [The value of transendoscopy thermometry of gastric mucosa in the evaluation of blood flow in patients with osteoarthrosis and atherosclerosis by duplex ultrasound of extracranial brachiocephalic arteries]. The pathogenesis of gastric mucosa lesions in elderly and senile people has many  factors. It's based on contradiction between protective factors (mucus secretion, prostaglandins, bicarbonate, microcirculation, regeneration, etc.) and aggression factors (hydrochloric acid, pepsin, bile acids, pancreatic enzymes, bacteria). In addition, such important factors as neurohumoral disorders, nutrition and vascularization of the gastric mucosa have attached. The aim of the study was to  evaluate the possible relations between microcirculation and data of gastric mucosa transendoscopy thermometry in elderly and senile patients with atherosclerosis confirmed by duplex ultrasound of extracranial brachiocephalic arteries.
24363376: !Alzheimer JEPETTO: a Cytoscape plugin for gene set enrichment and topological analysis based on interaction networks. SUMMARY: JEPETTO (Java Enrichment of Pathways Extended To TOpology) is a Cytoscape 3.x plugin performing integrative human gene set analysis. It identifies functional associations between genes and known cellular pathways, and processes using protein interaction networks and topological analysis. The plugin integrates information from three separate web servers we published previously, specializing in enrichment analysis, pathways expansion and topological matching. This integration substantially simplifies the analysis of user gene sets and the  interpretation of the results. We demonstrate the utility of the JEPETTO plugin on a set of misregulated genes associated with Alzheimer's disease. AVAILABILITY: Source code and binaries are freely available for download at http://apps.cytoscape.org/apps/jepetto, implemented in Java and multi-platform. Installable directly via Cytoscape plugin manager. Released under the GNU General Public Licence.
24361548: !Alzheimer Immunogenicity of epitope vaccines targeting different B cell antigenic determinants of human alpha-synuclein: feasibility study. Immunotherapeutic approaches reducing alpha-synuclein deposits may provide therapeutic benefit for Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB). Immunization with full-length human alpha-synuclein (halpha-Syn) protein in a Parkinson's disease mouse model decreased the accumulation of the aggregated forms of this protein in neurons and reduced neurodegeneration. To enhance the immunogenicity of candidate vaccines and to avoid the risk of autoreactive anti-halpha-Syn T-helper (Th) cell responses, we generated three peptide-based epitope vaccines composed of different B-cell epitopes of halpha-Syn fused with a "non-self" Th epitope from tetanus toxin (P30). Immunization of mice with these epitope vaccines produced high titers of anti-halpha-Syn antibodies that bound to Lewy bodies (LBs) and Lewy neurites (LNs) in brain tissue from DLB cases and induced robust Th cell responses to P30, but not to halpha-Syn. Further development of these first generation epitope vaccines may facilitate induction of anti-halpha-Syn immunotherapy without producing potentially harmful autoreactive Th cell responses.
24360558: !Alzheimer Synthesis of long-chain fatty acid derivatives as a novel anti-Alzheimer's agent. In order to develop new drugs for Alzheimer's disease, we prepared 17 fatty acid  derivatives with different chain lengths and different numbers and positions of double bonds by using Wittig reaction and stereospecific hydrogenation of triple  bonds as key reactions. Among them, (4Z,15Z)-octadecadienoic acid (10) and (23Z,34Z)-heptatriacontadienoic acid (16) showed the most potent neurite outgrowth activities on Abeta(25-35)-treated rat cortical neurons, which activities were comparable to that of a positive control, NGF. Both fatty acids 10 and 16 possess two (Z)-double bonds at the n-3 and n-14 positions, which might be important for the neurite outgrowth activity.
24359503: !Alzheimer Regulator of calcineurin 1 gene transcription is regulated by nuclear factor-kappaB. Regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1) has been implicated in pathogenesis of neurodegeneration and various cancers. Recently, we showed that RCAN1 expression  was elevated in Down Syndrome and Alzheimer's disease and its expression transpose over induced neuronal apoptosis. As NF-kappaB is an important transcription factor involved in cell survival and RCAN1 played vital roles in cell viability, we examined whether NF-kappaB regulates RCAN1 gene expression. Our results here showed that the RCAN1 isoform 4 gene transcription can be activated by NF-kappaB signaling. NF-kappaB activated RCAN1 isoform 4 gene promoter. Luciferase assay, electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and chromatin immunoprecipitation identified a NF-kappaB responsive element in the region of -576-554bp of the RCAN1 isoform 4 promoter. Activation of RCAN1 gene expression by NF-kappaB is independent from the calcineurin-NFAT signaling since  the NF-kappaB responsive element was distinct from the NFAT binding sites that was previously identified in the region of -350-166bp. Indeed, activation of calcineurin-NFAT signaling decreased NF-kappaB transcriptional activity, while activation of NF-kappaB elevated NFAT transcriptional activity. RCAN1 isoform 4 gene transcription was repressed by its own protein expression in a negative feedback loop. Our findings about RCAN1 gene transcription regulated by NF-kappaB further supported the vital roles of RCAN1 in cellular functions and its involvement in AD pathogenesis.
24345324: !Alzheimer Complex regulation of acute and chronic neuroinflammatory responses in mouse models deficient for nuclear factor kappa B p50 subunit. Inflammation is a major mechanism of acute brain injury and chronic neurodegeneration. This neuroinflammation is known to be substantially regulated  by the transcription factor NF-kappaB, which is predominantly found in the form of heterodimer of p65 (RelA) and p50 subunit, with p50/p50 homodimers being also  common. The p65 subunit has a transactivation domain, whereas p50 is chiefly involved in DNA binding. Binding of the p65/p50 heterodimers is thought to induce expression of numerous proinflammatory genes in microglia. Here we show that cultured microglia deficient for the gene (Nfkb1) encoding p50 subunit show reduced induction of proinflammatory mediators, increased expression of anti-inflammatory genes, and increased expression of CD45, an immunoregulatory molecule, in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure, but increased capacity to take up beta-amyloid (Abeta) which is associated with enhanced release of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha). However, Nfkb1 deficiency strongly increases leukocyte infiltration and the expression of proinflammatory genes in response to intrahippocampal administration of LPS. Also, when crossing  Nfkb1 deficient mice with APdE9 transgenic mice the expression of proinflammatory genes was strongly enhanced, whereas Abeta burden was slightly but significantly  reduced. These alterations in expression of inflammatory mediators in Nfkb1 deficient mice were associated with reduced expression of CD45. Our data demonstrates a crucial and complex role p50 subunit of NF-kappaB in brain inflammation, especially in regulating the phenotype of microglia after acute and chronic inflammatory insults relevant to clinical conditions, contributing to both pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory responses of microglia, infiltration  of leukocytes, and clearance of Abeta in Alzheimer's disease.
24345046: !Alzheimer Resveratrol in peanuts. Peanuts are important dietary food source of resveratrol with potent antioxidant  properties implicated in reducing risk of cancer, cardiovascular and Alzheimer's  disease, and delaying aging. Resveratrol is a naturally occurring stilbene phytoalexin phenolic compound produced in response to a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses. This paper is a review of trans-resveratrol and related stilbenes from peanuts--their chemical structures, mechanisms for their biosynthesis, and concentrations in comparison with other major food sources. It  will also discuss trans-resveratrol's absorption, bioavailability, and major health benefits; processes to enhance their biosynthesis in peanuts by biotic and abiotic stresses; process optimization for enhanced levels in peanuts and their potential food applications; and methods used for its extraction and analysis.
24342238: !Alzheimer Design, synthesis and anti-Alzheimer properties of dimethylaminomethyl-substituted curcumin derivatives. Eight dimethylaminomethyl-substituted curcumin derivatives were designed and synthesized. The antioxidant test revealed that the synthesized compounds had higher free radical scavenging activity towards both 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl free radicals (DPPH) (IC50 1.5-29.9muM) and galvinoxyl radicals (IC50 4.9-41.1muM) than the lead compound curcumin. Besides,  compound 3a could effectively inhibit the Abeta self-aggregation in vitro. Investigated in phosphate-buffered solutions (pH=7.4) in the presence or absence  of 0.1% FBS 3a showed a good stability while curcumin did not. Furthermore, 3a showed a good lipophilicity (logP=3.48), suggesting a potential ability to penetrate the blood-brain-barrier. The aqueous solubility of the hydrochloride salt of 3a (16.7mg/mL) has also been significantly improved as compared with curcumin (<0.1mg/mL).
24327518: !Alzheimer Inhibition of GSK-3 induces differentiation and impaired glucose metabolism in renal cancer. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), a constitutively active serine/threonine kinase, is a key regulator of numerous cellular processes ranging from glycogen metabolism to cell-cycle regulation and proliferation. Consistent with its involvement in many pathways, it has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of  various human diseases, including type II diabetes, Alzheimer disease, bipolar disorder, inflammation, and cancer. Consequently, it is recognized as an attractive target for the development of new drugs. In the present study, we investigated the effect of both pharmacologic and genetic inhibition of GSK-3 in  two different renal cancer cell lines. We have shown potent antiproliferative activity of 9-ING-41, a maleimide-based GSK-3 inhibitor. The antiproliferative activity is most likely caused by G(0)-G(1) and G(2)-M phase arrest as evident from cell-cycle analysis. We have established that inhibition of GSK-3 imparted a differentiated phenotype in renal cancer cells. We have also shown that GSK-3 inhibition induced autophagy, likely as a result of imbalanced energy homeostasis caused by impaired glucose metabolism. In addition, we have demonstrated the antitumor activity of 9-ING-41 in two different subcutaneous xenograft renal cell carcinoma tumor models. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing autophagy induction due to GSK-3 inhibition in renal cancer cells.
24316057: !Alzheimer MAM (mitochondria-associated membranes) in mammalian cells: lipids and beyond. One mechanism by which communication between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondria is achieved is by close juxtaposition between these organelles via mitochondria-associated membranes (MAM). The MAM consist of a region of the ER that is enriched in several lipid biosynthetic enzyme activities and becomes reversibly tethered to mitochondria. Specific proteins are localized, sometimes transiently, in the MAM. Several of these proteins have been implicated in tethering the MAM to mitochondria. In mammalian cells, formation of these contact sites between MAM and mitochondria appears to be required for key cellular events including the transport of calcium from the ER to mitochondria, the import of phosphatidylserine into mitochondria from the ER for decarboxylation to phosphatidylethanolamine, the formation of autophagosomes, regulation of the morphology, dynamics and functions of mitochondria, and cell survival. This review focuses on the functions proposed for MAM in mediating these events in mammalian cells. In light of the apparent involvement of MAM in multiple fundamental cellular processes, recent studies indicate that impaired contact between MAM and mitochondria might underlie the pathology of several human neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, MAM has been implicated in modulating glucose homeostasis and insulin resistance, as well as in some viral infections.
24315728: !Alzheimer Age and duration of inflammatory environment differentially affect the neuroimmune response and catecholaminergic neurons in the midbrain and brainstem. Neuroinflammation and degeneration of ascending catecholaminergic systems occur early in the neurodegenerative process. Age and the duration of a pro-inflammatory environment induced by continuous intraventricular lipopolysaccharide (LPS) differentially affect the expression profile of pro- and anti-inflammatory genes and proteins as well as the number of activated microglia (express major histocompatibility complex II; MHC II) and the integrity and density of ascending catecholaminergic neural systems originating from the locus  coeruleus (LC) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) in rats. LPS infusion increased gene expression and/or protein levels for both pro- and anti-inflammatory biomarkers. Although LPS infusion stimulated a robust increase  in IL-1ss gene and protein expression, this increase was blunted with age. LPS infusion also increased the density of activated microglia cells throughout the midbrain and brainstem. Corresponding to the development of a pro-inflammatory environment, LC and SNpc neurons immunopositive for tyrosine-hydroxylase (the rate-limiting synthetic enzyme for dopamine and norepinephrine) decreased in number, along with a decrease in tyrosine-hydroxylase gene expression in the midbrain and/or brainstem region. Our data support the concept that continuous exposure to a pro-inflammatory environment drives exaggerated changes in the production and release of inflammatory mediators that interact with age to impair functional capacity of the SNpc and LC.
24296089: !Alzheimer Eucommia ulmoides Oliv.: ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry and pharmacology of an important traditional Chinese medicine. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Eucommia ulmoides Oliv. (Family Eucommiaceae), also known as Du-zhong (Chinese: ), Tuchong (in Japanese), is the sole species of the genus Eucommia. The leaf, stem, and bark as well as staminate flower of Eucommia ulmoides have been traditionally used to cure many diseases in China, Japan, Korea, among others. The aim of this review is to comprehensively outline  the botanical description, ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, biological activities, and toxicology of Eucommia ulmoides and to discuss possible trends for further study of Eucommia ulmoides. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information on Eucommia ulmoides was gathered via the internet (using Pub Med, Elsevier, Baidu Scholar, Google Scholar, Medline Plus, ACS, CNKI, and Web of Science) and from books in local libraries. RESULTS: One-hundred twelve compounds of Eucommia ulmoides, including the main active constituents, lignans and iridoids, have been isolated and identified. In vitro and in vivo studies indicated that monomer compounds and extracts from Eucommia ulmoides possess wide-ranging pharmacological actions, especially in treating hypertension, hyperlipemia, diabetes, obesity, sexual dysfunction, osteoporosis, Alzheimer's disease, aging,  lupus-like syndrome, and immunoregulation. CONCLUSIONS: Eucommia ulmoides has been used as a source of traditional medicine and as a beneficial health food. Phytochemical and pharmacological studies of Eucommia ulmoides have received much interest, and extracts and active compounds continue to be isolated and proven to exert various effects. Further toxicity and clinical studies are warranted to establish more detailed data on crude extracts and pure compounds, enabling more  convenient preparations for patients. Therefore, this review on the ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, biological activities, and toxicity of Eucommia ulmoides will provide helpful data for further studies as well as the commercial exploitation of this traditional medicine.
24294985: !Alzheimer Medicinal chemistry of inhibitors of 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11beta-HSD1). 11beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11beta-HSD1) is the enzyme primarily  responsible for the regulation of intracellular cortisol levels. Inhibition of 11beta-HSD1 is an attractive mechanism for the treatment of obesity and other elements of the metabolic syndrome. Emerging literature also supports a potential role in the treatment of other unmet medical needs including Alzheimer's disease, vascular inflammation, cardiovascular disease, and glaucoma. The aim of this article is to review the medicinal chemistry literature around small molecule approaches to developing synthetic inhibitors of 11beta-HSD1 and to highlight key compounds that have resulted from the efforts of both industrial and academic groups. The reported data from 11beta-HSD1 inhibitors that have progressed into the clinic are summarized followed by a perspective from the authors.
24291096: !Alzheimer Ryanodine receptors as leak channels. Ryanodine receptors are Ca(2+) release channels of internal stores. This review focuses on those situations and conditions that transform RyRs from a finely regulated ion channel to an unregulated Ca(2+) leak channel and the pathological  consequences of this alteration. In skeletal muscle, mutations in either CaV1.1 channel or RyR1 results in a leaky behavior of the latter. In heart cells, RyR2 functions normally as a Ca(2+) leak channel during diastole within certain limits, the enhancement of this activity leads to arrhythmogenic situations that  are tackled with different pharmacological strategies. In smooth muscle, RyRs are involved more in reducing excitability than in stimulating contraction so the leak activity of RyRs in the form of Ca(2+) sparks, locally activates Ca(2+)-dependent potassium channels to reduce excitability. In neurons the enhanced activity of RyRs is associated with the development of different neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer and Huntington diseases. It appears then that the activity of RyRs as leak channels can have both physiological and pathological consequences depending on the cell type and the metabolic condition.
24290604: !Alzheimer Genistein antagonizes inflammatory damage induced by beta-amyloid peptide in microglia through TLR4 and NF-kappaB. OBJECTIVES: Microglia activation and neuroinflammation have been associated with  the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB-mediated signal pathways exert key modulating roles in the inflammatory processes. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether genistein (Gen) has a neuroprotective effect against inflammatory damage induced by beta-amyloid peptide25-35 (Abeta25-35) through the TLR4 and NF-kappaB-mediated signal pathways. METHODS: BV-2 microglia cells were preincubated with Gen for 2 h and then treated with 25  muM Abeta25-35 for another 24 h. The expression of inflammatory mediators, TLR4 and NF-kappaB and the activity of NF-kappaB were measured. RESULTS: The results showed that Gen could attenuate the cytotoxicity and inflammatory damage induced  by Abeta25-35. Gen also significantly reversed Abeta25-35-induced up-regulation of TLR4 and NF-kappaB expression and the DNA binding and transcriptional activities of NF-kappaB. CONCLUSION: These results indicated that Gen could alleviate the inflammation caused by Abeta25-35 treatment, which might be associated with the regulation of the TLR4/NF-kappaB signal pathway.
24290439: !Alzheimer A 3D Alzheimer's disease culture model and the induction of P21-activated kinase  mediated sensing in iPSC derived neurons. The recent progress in stem cell techniques has broadened the horizon for in vitro disease modeling. For desired in vivo like phenotypes, not only correct cell type specification will be critical, the microenvironmental context will be  essential to achieve relevant responses. We demonstrate how a three dimensional (3D) culture of stem cell derived neurons can induce in vivo like responses related to Alzheimer's disease, not recapitulated with conventional 2D cultures.  To acquire a neural population of cells we differentiated neurons from neuroepithelial stem cells, derived from induced pluripotent stem cells. p21-activated kinase mediated sensing of Abeta oligomers was only possible in the 3D environment. Further, the 3D phenotype showed clear effects on F-actin associated proteins, connected to the disease processes. We propose that the 3D in vitro model has higher resemblance to the AD pathology than conventional 2D cultures and could be used in further studies of the disease.
24274269: !Alzheimer Ultrahigh resolution mass spectrometry-based metabolic characterization reveals cerebellum as a disturbed region in two animal models. In the previous reports about cognitive dysfunction, cerebellum was thought to be a less affected tissue by genetic or environmental alterations in comparison to other tissues in the brain including hippocampus under the same conditions. In this work, we investigated two types of metabolomic alterations inside the cerebellum tissue. The first one addressed the differences in the metabolomics profiles between Transgenic (Tg) CRND8 of Alzheimer's disease mice and non-transgenic (non-Tg) littermates. The second one addressed the metabolic differences between wild type mice exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and wild type mice which are not exposed to this toxic compound. For these two investigations, ultrahigh resolution Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (FT-ICR/MS) was implemented. As a result, the significant changes of each comparison were tentatively annotated by the high mass accuracy generated from the measurements in the negative ion mode. The biosynthesis of amino acids was also enhanced pronouncedly, and perturbation of purine metabolism was also observed in Tg mice compared to non-Tg littermates. In another animal model, the reduced levels of amino acids were found whereas the intermediate levels in purine metabolism and fatty acids including fatty acid conjugated metabolites were elevated in cerebellar tissues of mice exposed to TCDD compared to control group. Collectively, it was demonstrated that FT-ICR/MS  was a powerful tool for interpretation of the elemental compositions of the peaks, revealing that the metabolic perturbations in cerebellar tissues of mice were induced by either genetic manipulation or environmental factor. Therefore, the non-targeted approach, alternatively, provides various metabolic phenotypes for the systems-level mirror of the complex etiology of neurotoxicity in the cerebellum.
24274264: !Alzheimer Label-free voltammetric detection of MicroRNAs at multi-channel screen printed array of electrodes comparison to graphite sensors. The multi-channel screen-printed array of electrodes (MUX-SPE16) was used in our  study for the first time for electrochemical monitoring of nucleic acid hybridization related to different miRNA sequences (miRNA-16, miRNA-15a and miRNA-660, i.e, the biomarkers for Alzheimer disease). The MUX-SPE16 was also used for the first time herein for the label-free electrochemical detection of nucleic acid hybridization combined magnetic beads (MB) assay in comparison to the disposable pencil graphite electrode (PGE). Under the principle of the magnetic beads assay, the biotinylated inosine substituted DNA probe was firstly  immobilized onto streptavidin coated MB, and then, the hybridization process between probe and its complementary miRNA sequence was performed at MB surface. The voltammetric transduction was performed using differential pulse voltammetry  (DPV) technique in combination with the single-use graphite sensor technologies;  PGE and MUX-SPE16 for miRNA detection by measuring the guanine oxidation signal without using any external indicator. The features of single-use sensor technologies, PGE and MUX-SPE16, were discussed concerning to their reproducibility, detection limit, and selectivity compared to the results in the  earlier studies presenting the electrochemical miRNA detection related to different miRNA sequences.
24211396: !Alzheimer Traditional usage, phytochemistry and pharmacology of the South African medicinal plant Boophone disticha (L.f.) Herb. (Amaryllidaceae). ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Boophone disticha is the most common member of the South African Amaryllidaceae used extensively in traditional medicine of the  various indigenous population groups, including the Sotho, Xhosa and Zulu as well as the San. This survey was carried out to identify and highlight areas relevant  to the traditional usage of Boophone disticha. Pharmacological aspects were examined with the purpose of reconciling these with the traditional usage of the  plant. In relation to phytochemical make-up, particular attention was paid on how its alkaloid constitution might corroborate the various biological effects manifested by the plant. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information gathering involved the use of four different database platforms, including Google Scholar, ScienceDirect, SciFinder((R)) and Scopus. Arrangement and detailing of this information is as reflected in the various sections of the paper. RESULTS: Sixteen categories were identified under which Boophone disticha finds use in traditional medicine. These were shown to include general usage purposes, such as 'cultural and dietary', 'well-being', 'personal injury', 'divinatory purposes', 'psychoactive properties' and 'veterinary uses'. Furthermore, traditional usage was seen to involve six body systems, including functions pertaining to the circulatory, gastrointestinal, muscular, neurological, respiratory and urinary systems. The four remaining categories relate to use for inflammatory conditions, cancer, malaria and tuberculosis. Overall, three areas were discernible in which  Boophone disticha finds most usage, which are (i) ailments pertaining to the CNS, (ii) wounds and infections, and (iii) inflammatory conditions. In addition, several aspects pertaining to the toxic properties of the plant are discussed, including genotoxicity, mutagenicity and neurotoxicity. CONCLUSION: The widespread ethnic usage of Boophone disticha has justified its standing as a flagship for the Amaryllidaceae and its relevance to South African traditional medicine. Furthermore, its promising pharmacological and phytochemical profiles have stimulated significant interest in the clinical realm, especially in the areas of cancer and motor neuron disease chemotherapy. These collective properties should prove useful in steering the progress of the plant towards a wider audience.
24200971: !Alzheimer GSI promotes vincristine-induced apoptosis by enhancing multi-polar spindle formation. Gamma secretase inhibitors (GSI), cell-permeable small-molecule inhibitors of gamma secretase activity, had been originally developed for the treatment of Alzheimer disease. In recent years, it has been exploited in cancer research to inhibit Notch signaling that is aberrantly activated in various cancers. We previously found that GSI could synergize with anti-microtubule agent, vincristine (VCR) in a Notch-independent manner. Here, we delineate the underlying cell cycle-related mechanism using HeLa cells, which have strong mitotic checkpoints. GSI enhanced VCR-induced cell death, although GSI alone did  not affect cell viability at all. GSI augmented VCR-induced mitotic arrest in a dose-dependent manner, which was preceded by apoptotic cell death, as shown by an increase in Annexin V-positive and caspase-positive cell population. Furthermore, GSI amplified multi-polar spindle formation triggered by VCR. Altogether, we show the evidence that GSI enhances VCR-induced apoptosis in HeLa cells via multi-polar mitotic spindle formation, independent of Notch signaling. These data suggest that one or more GS substrates, yet to be identified, in a post-GS processed form, may play a role in maintaining functional centrosomes/mitotic spindles. More significantly, the synergistic effect of GSI in combination with VCR could be exploited in clinical setting to improve the efficacy of VCR.
24184575: !Alzheimer TAM receptor tyrosine kinases: expression, disease and oncogenesis in the central nervous system. Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) are cell surface proteins that tightly regulate  a variety of downstream intra-cellular processes; ligand-receptor interactions result in cascades of signaling events leading to growth, proliferation, differentiation and migration. There are 58 described RTKs, which are further categorized into 20 different RTK families. When dysregulated or overexpressed, these RTKs are implicated in disordered growth, development, and oncogenesis. The TAM family of RTKs, consisting of Tyro3, Axl, and MerTK, is prominently expressed during the development and function of the central nervous system (CNS). Aberrant expression and dysregulated activation of TAM family members has been demonstrated in a variety of CNS-related disorders and diseases, including the most common but least treatable brain cancer in children and adults: glioblastoma multiforme.
24161280: !Alzheimer Sphingolipid profiles are altered in prefrontal cortex of rats under acute hyperglycemia. Diabetes type 1 is a common autoimmune disease manifesting by insulin deficiency  and hyperglycemia, which can lead to dementia-like brain dysfunctions. The factors triggering the pathological processes in hyperglycemic brain remain unknown. We reported in this study that brain areas with different susceptibility to diabetes (prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum) revealed differential alterations in ceramide (Cer) and sphingomyelin (SM) profiles in rats with streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia. Employing gas-liquid  chromatography, we found that level of total Cer increased significantly only in  the PFC of diabetic animals, which also exhibited a broad spectrum of sphingolipid (SLs) changes, such as elevations of Cer-C16:0, -C18:0, -C20:0, -C22:0, -C18:1, -C24:1 and SM-C16:0 and -C18:1. In opposite, only minor changes were noted in other examined structures. In addition, de novo synthesis pathway could play a role in generation of Cer containing monounsaturated fatty acids in  PFC during hyperglycemia. In turn, simultaneous accumulation of Cers and their SM counterparts may suggest that overproduced Cers are converted to SMs to avoid excessive Cer-mediated cytotoxicity. We conclude that broad changes in SLs compositions in PFC induced by hyperglycemia may provoke membrane rearrangements  in some cell populations, which can disturb cellular signaling and cause tissue damage.
24121965: !Alzheimer Pathogen-free husbandry conditions alleviate behavioral deficits and neurodegeneration in AD10 anti-NGF mice. It has been suggested that systemic infection, occurring during aging and chronic neurodegenerative diseases, can evoke an immune response that aggravates the progression of neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. It has been shown that the AD11 neurodegeneration mouse model, expressing a recombinant anti-nerve growth factor (NGF) antibody, shows a milder phenotype when housed in murine pathogen-free (MPF) conditions with respect to AD11 mice reared in conventional (CV) housing. AD10 mice, a variant of the anti-NGF AD11 model, expressing only an immunoglobulin light chain for the transgenic anti-NGF antibody, in the absence of the corresponding transgenic antibody chain VH, exhibit a complex neurodegenerative phenotype, similar to that of AD11 mice. Here we show that the  AD10 transgenic mice, housed in murine pathogen-free conditions (MPF-AD10 mice),  also display a milder behavioral and neurodegenerative phenotype compared to the  corresponding mice kept under conventional housing conditions (CV-AD10). As a first step toward the identification of mechanisms underlying this difference, a  differential gene expression profiling was performed on brains from CV-AD10 and MPF-AD10 mice, showing a decrease of the immune response and neuroinflammation gene expression in MPF-AD10 mice. Results suggest that the activation of the immune response gene expression in the CV-AD10, in a microbially unprotected environment, might contribute to a more severe and progressive neurodegenerative  phenotype, compared to the MPF mice.
24117490: !Alzheimer Inflammation induces multinucleation of Microglia via PKC inhibition of cytokinesis, generating highly phagocytic multinucleated giant cells. Microglia are brain macrophages, which can undergo multinucleation to give rise to multinucleated giant cells that accumulate with ageing and some brain pathologies. However, the origin, regulation and function of multinucleate microglia remain unclear. We found that inflammatory stimuli, including lipopolysaccharide, amyloid beta, alpha-synuclein, tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interferon gamma, but not interleukin-4, induced multinucleation of cultured  microglia: primary rat cortical microglia and the murine microglial cell line BV-2. Inflammation-induced multinucleation was prevented by a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor Go6976 (100 nM) and replicated by a PKC activator phorbol myristate acetate (160 nM). Multinucleation was reversible and not because of cell fusion or phagocytosis, but rather failure of cytokinesis. Time-lapse imaging revealed that some dividing cells failed to abscise, even after formation of long cytoplasmic bridges, followed by retraction of bridge and reversal of cleavage furrow to form multinucleate cells. Multinucleate microglia were larger  and 2-4 fold more likely to phagocytose large beads and both dead and live PC12 cells. We conclude that multinucleate microglia are reversibly generated by inflammation via PKC inhibition of cytokinesis, and may have specialized functions/dysfunctions including the phagocytosis of other cells. Inflammation resulted in the accumulation of multiple nuclei per cell in cultured microglia. This multinucleation was reversible and due to a PKC-dependent block of the last  step of cell division. Multinucleate microglia were larger and had a greater capacity to phagocytose other cells, suggesting they might remove neurons in the  brain.
24112036: !Alzheimer Neuroprotective and anti-apoptotic effects of liraglutide on SH-SY5Y cells exposed to methylglyoxal stress. Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) is a growth factor that has demonstrated neuroprotective properties in a range of studies. In an APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we previously found protective effects on memory formation, synaptic plasticity, synapse survival and a reduction of amyloid synthesis and plaque load in the brain. Here, we analyse the neuroprotective properties of the GLP-1 analogue liraglutide in human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y during methyl glyoxal stress. We show for the first time that cell viability was enhanced by liraglutide (XTT assay) in a dose-dependent way, while cytotoxicity (LDH assay) and apoptosis were reduced. Expression of the pro-survival Mcl1 signaling protein was increased, as was activation of cell survival kinases Akt, MEK1/2 and the transcription factor p90RSK. Liraglutide also decreased pro-apoptotic Bax and Bik expression. In addition, the membrane potential and the influx of calcium into the cell were enhanced by liraglutide. GLP-1 receptor expression was also increased by the drug. The results demonstrate a range of growth factor-related cytoprotective processes induced by liraglutide, which is currently on the market as a treatment for type 2 diabetes (Victoza(R)). It is also tested in clinical trials in patients with Alzheimer disease.
24090990: !Alzheimer Controlled assembly: a prerequisite for the use of recombinant spider silk in regenerative medicine? Recent biotechnological progress has enabled the production of spider silk proteins, spidroins, in heterologous hosts. Matrices based on recombinant spidroins support stem cell growth and are well tolerated when implanted in living tissue, thus the material is highly attractive for use in regenerative medicine. However, the matrices made are far from natural silk in terms of mechanical properties and are either spontaneously assembled, which results in heterogeneous products, or spun from harsh solvents with the concomitant risk of  harmful remnants in the final products. If we could mimic the spider's aqueous silk spinning process we would likely obtain a material that had reproducible and better characteristics and that more easily could be transferred to clinical practice. Herein, the knowledge of the spiders' silk production system and the prerequisites for artificial spinning and assembly of recombinant proteins are reviewed and discussed in a biomedical context.
24085630: !Alzheimer Chemical constituents and their acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory and antioxidant  activities from leaves of Acanthopanax henryi: potential complementary source against Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this study was to investigate chemical constituents of the leaves of Acanthopanax henryi, and their antioxidant, acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory activities. Caffeoyl quinic acid derivates and flavonoids were obtained from A. henry, through column chromatography technologies, and the content of major constituents was determined by the HPLC-UV method. Anti-oxidant activity of the isolated metabolites was evaluated by free radical scavenging (DPPH, ABTS radicals) and superoxide anion scavenging. The results showed that di-caffeoyl quinic acid derivates had stronger antioxidant activity than positive controls (ascorbic acid, trolox and allopurinol). Acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory activity was estimated on the constituents, among which, quercetin, 4-caffeoyl-quinic acid and 4,5-caffeoyl quinic acid were found to have strong acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory activity with IC50 values ranging from 62.6 to 121.9 muM. The present study showed that some of the tested constituents from the leaves of A. henryi exhibit strong antioxidant and acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory effects. This suggest that the leaves of A. henryi can be used as a new natural complementary source of acetyl cholinesterase inhibitors and anti-oxidant agents, thus being a promising potential complementary source against Alzheimer's disease.
24072066: !Alzheimer Functional and molecular characterization of the effect of amyloid-beta42 on an in vitro epithelial barrier model. Recently, the blood-brain barrier (BBB) has been pointed to as an active player in neurodegenerative disorders, albeit the actual succession of pathogenic events remains to be elucidated. Amyloid-beta (Abeta) is an important pathogenic player  in Alzheimer's disease, and it is cleared from the brain partly by transportation across the BBB. In this work we asked the question whether Abeta-induced alteration of tight junction (TJ) protein expression is a result of the complex in situ microenvironment of the BBB or if it can be replicated in an externalized environment, such as an in vitro epithelial barrier, where barrier property changes can be investigated without confounding factors. Therefore, we treated barrier forming MDCKI and II epithelial cells with Abeta42 and investigated TJ occludin and claudin-2 protein levels and cellular distribution through western blot and immunofluorescence. To assess barrier function, we measured transepithelial resistance (TEER) and studied cell polarity through atomic force  microscopy (AFM). We found that Abeta42 cell treatment increased occludin expression and decreased claudin-2 expression. With TEER, an increase in paracellular resistance was noted, which started at 10 hours and peaked at 20 hours of Abeta42 treatment. AFM analysis demonstrated an associated morphological alteration of the cell monolayer. In conclusion, we demonstrated that Abeta42 is  able to modify TJ protein expression and to functionally alter barrier properties in vitro and that this effect is not conditioned by other pathogenic Alzheimer's  disease events taking place in the complex brain microenvironment.
24059320: !Alzheimer Insulin-degrading enzyme: a link between Alzheimer's and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Enzymes play a very vital role in maintaining the homeostasis inside the body. Improper functioning of enzymes is associated with many diseases. Insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE), a ubiquitously expressed zinc metalloprotease, is believed to act as a junction point of Type 2 Diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies provide inkling for the use of IDE as a potential target hence the design of its regulators would be a viable approach towards treatment of these diseases. This review provides an overview of the IDE structure and function; a relationship is drawn between IDE, Type 2 Diabetes mellitus and Alzheimer's disease and the approaches that make IDE a potential target, are discussed.
24059304: !Alzheimer Bacteriophage--a common divergent therapeutic approach for Alzheimer's disease and type II diabetes mellitus. Alzheimer's disease, the most important neurodegenerative disorder, is an irreversible, age-dependent disease of the brain characterized by problems in progressive impairments in memory, language, reasoning, behavior and visuospatial skills. It is characterized by the deposition of amyloid beta peptide, forming compact fibrillar plaques and neurofibrillary tau tangles. Another major and much more prevalent cause of morbidity and mortality in world is diabetes especially type 2 diabetes mellitus. It is caused by a combination of resistance to insulin  action and an inadequate compensatory insulin secretory response. Chronic wounds  caused by antibiotic resistant bacterial infections that fail to heal are a common complication of diabetes mellitus and the most frequent reason for nontraumatic lower limb amputation. Holistically, these two diseases are linked at molecular level but the exact mechanism is a topic of debate. Bacteriophages are viruses infecting bacteria and lack ability to infect mammalian cells. They are neither causative agent for Alzheimer's disease or type 2 diabetes mellitus nor involved in their pathogenicity but promises for a novel divergent therapeutic approach. The great versatility of the phage system has led to the development of improved phage delivery vectors, as well as immunomodulation of anti-amyloid beta peptide response. Phages could also constitute valuable prophylaxis against bacterial infections, especially in immunocompromised patients like in the case of diabetes. Patients having diabetes have a high risk  of developing foot ulcers which are difficult to be treated by antibiotics alone  due to ever increasing antibiotic resistance strains. Combination therapy based on multiple phage and broad spectrum antibiotics holds great promise. The potential therapeutic phage therapy arises from its lack of natural tropism for mammalian cells, resulting in no adverse effects.
24011544: !Alzheimer Familial Alzheimer's disease coding mutations reduce Presenilin-1 expression in a novel genomic locus reporter model. We have generated a physiologically relevant bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-based genomic DNA expression model to study PS1 gene expression and function. The PS1-WT-BAC construct restored gamma-secretase function, whereas the mutant PS1 BACs demonstrated partial to complete loss of enzymatic activity when  stably expressed in a PS double knock-out clonal cell line. We then engineered WT and mutant human PS1-BAC-Luciferase whole genomic locus reporter transgenes, which we transiently transduced in mouse and human non-neuronal and neuronal-like cells, respectively. PS1 DeltaE9 and C410Y FAD were found to lower PS1 gene expression in both cell lines, whereas PS1-M146V showed a neuron-specific effect. The nonclinical gamma-secretase inactive PS1-D257A mutation did not alter gene expression in either cell line. This is the first time that pathogenic coding mutations in the PS1 gene have been shown to lower PS1 gene expression. These findings may represent a pathologic mechanism for PS1 FAD mutations independent of their effects on gamma-secretase activity and demonstrate how dominant PS1 mutations may exert their pathogenic effects by a loss-of-function mechanism.
24004341: !Alzheimer Bioenergetic medicine. Here we discuss a specific therapeutic strategy we call 'bioenergetic medicine'.  Bioenergetic medicine refers to the manipulation of bioenergetic fluxes to positively affect health. Bioenergetic medicine approaches rely heavily on the law of mass action, and impact systems that monitor and respond to the manipulated flux. Since classically defined energy metabolism pathways intersect  and intertwine, targeting one flux also tends to change other fluxes, which complicates treatment design. Such indirect effects, fortunately, are to some extent predictable, and from a therapeutic perspective may also be desirable. Bioenergetic medicine-based interventions already exist for some diseases, and because bioenergetic medicine interventions are presently feasible, new approaches to treat certain conditions, including some neurodegenerative conditions and cancers, are beginning to transition from the laboratory to the clinic.
23981537: !Alzheimer Metabolic features of the cell danger response. The cell danger response (CDR) is the evolutionarily conserved metabolic response that protects cells and hosts from harm. It is triggered by encounters with chemical, physical, or biological threats that exceed the cellular capacity for homeostasis. The resulting metabolic mismatch between available resources and functional capacity produces a cascade of changes in cellular electron flow, oxygen consumption, redox, membrane fluidity, lipid dynamics, bioenergetics, carbon and sulfur resource allocation, protein folding and aggregation, vitamin availability, metal homeostasis, indole, pterin, 1-carbon and polyamine metabolism, and polymer formation. The first wave of danger signals consists of the release of metabolic intermediates like ATP and ADP, Krebs cycle intermediates, oxygen, and reactive oxygen species (ROS), and is sustained by purinergic signaling. After the danger has been eliminated or neutralized, a choreographed sequence of anti-inflammatory and regenerative pathways is activated to reverse the CDR and to heal. When the CDR persists abnormally, whole body metabolism and the gut microbiome are disturbed, the collective performance  of multiple organ systems is impaired, behavior is changed, and chronic disease results. Metabolic memory of past stress encounters is stored in the form of altered mitochondrial and cellular macromolecule content, resulting in an increase in functional reserve capacity through a process known as mitocellular hormesis. The systemic form of the CDR, and its magnified form, the purinergic life-threat response (PLTR), are under direct control by ancient pathways in the  brain that are ultimately coordinated by centers in the brainstem. Chemosensory integration of whole body metabolism occurs in the brainstem and is a prerequisite for normal brain, motor, vestibular, sensory, social, and speech development. An understanding of the CDR permits us to reframe old concepts of pathogenesis for a broad array of chronic, developmental, autoimmune, and degenerative disorders. These disorders include autism spectrum disorders (ASD),  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), asthma, atopy, gluten and many other food and chemical sensitivity syndromes, emphysema, Tourette's syndrome, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), traumatic brain injury (TBI), epilepsy, suicidal  ideation, organ transplant biology, diabetes, kidney, liver, and heart disease, cancer, Alzheimer and Parkinson disease, and autoimmune disorders like lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and primary sclerosing cholangitis.
23943274: !Alzheimer Herbal therapeutics that block the oncogenic kinase PAK1: a practical approach towards PAK1-dependent diseases and longevity. Over 35 years research on PAKs, RAC/CDC42(p21)-activated kinases, comes of age, and in particular PAK1 has been well known to be responsible for a variety of diseases such as cancer (mainly solid tumors), Alzheimer's disease, acquired immune deficiency syndrome and other viral/bacterial infections, inflammatory diseases (asthma and arthritis), diabetes (type 2), neurofibromatosis, tuberous sclerosis, epilepsy, depression, schizophrenia, learning disability, autism, etc. Although several distinct synthetic PAK1-blockers have been recently developed, no FDA-approved PAK1 blockers are available on the market as yet. Thus, patients  suffering from these PAK1-dependent diseases have to rely on solely a variety of  herbal therapeutics such as propolis and curcumin that block PAK1 without affecting normal cell growth. Furthermore, several recent studies revealed that some of these herbal therapeutics significantly extend the lifespan of nematodes  (C. elegans) and fruit flies (Drosophila), and PAK1-deficient worm lives longer than the wild type. Here, I outline mainly pathological phenotypes of hyper-activated PAK1 and a list of herbal therapeutics that block PAK1, but cause no side (harmful) effect on healthy people or animals.
23899502: !Alzheimer Interaction of membrane/lipid rafts with the cytoskeleton: impact on signaling and function: membrane/lipid rafts, mediators of cytoskeletal arrangement and cell signaling. The plasma membrane in eukaryotic cells contains microdomains that are enriched in certain glycosphingolipids, gangliosides, and sterols (such as cholesterol) to form membrane/lipid rafts (MLR). These regions exist as caveolae, morphologically observable flask-like invaginations, or as a less easily detectable planar form.  MLR are scaffolds for many molecular entities, including signaling receptors and  ion channels that communicate extracellular stimuli to the intracellular milieu.  Much evidence indicates that this organization and/or the clustering of MLR into  more active signaling platforms depends upon interactions with and dynamic rearrangement of the cytoskeleton. Several cytoskeletal components and binding partners, as well as enzymes that regulate the cytoskeleton, localize to MLR and  help regulate lateral diffusion of membrane proteins and lipids in response to extracellular events (e.g., receptor activation, shear stress, electrical conductance, and nutrient demand). MLR regulate cellular polarity, adherence to the extracellular matrix, signaling events (including ones that affect growth and migration), and are sites of cellular entry of certain pathogens, toxins and nanoparticles. The dynamic interaction between MLR and the underlying cytoskeleton thus regulates many facets of the function of eukaryotic cells and their adaptation to changing environments. Here, we review general features of MLR and caveolae and their role in several aspects of cellular function, including polarity of endothelial and epithelial cells, cell migration, mechanotransduction, lymphocyte activation, neuronal growth and signaling, and a  variety of disease settings. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Reciprocal influences between cell cytoskeleton and membrane channels, receptors  and transporters. Guest Editor: Jean Claude Herve.
23880505: !Alzheimer Encapsulated cell therapy for neurodegenerative diseases: from promise to product. Delivering therapeutic molecules, including trophic factor proteins, across the blood brain barrier to the brain parenchyma to treat chronic neurodegenerative diseases remains one of the great challenges in biology. To be effective, delivery needs to occur in a long-term and stable manner at sufficient quantities directly to the target region in a manner that is selective but yet covers enough of the target site to be efficacious. One promising approach uses cellular implants that produce and deliver therapeutic molecules directly to the brain region of interest. Implanted cells can be precisely positioned into the desired  region and can be protected from host immunological attack by encapsulating them  and by surrounding them within an immunoisolatory, semipermeable capsule. In this approach, cells are enclosed within a semiporous capsule with a perm selective membrane barrier that admits oxygen and required nutrients and releases bioactive cell secretions while restricting passage of larger cytotoxic agents from the host immune defense system. Recent advances in human cell line development have increased the levels of secreted therapeutic molecules from encapsulated cells, and membrane extrusion techniques have led to the first ever clinical demonstrations of long-term survival and function of encapsulated cells in the brain parenchyma. As such, cell encapsulation is capable of providing a targeted, continuous, de novo synthesized source of very high levels of therapeutic molecules that can be distributed over significant portions of the brain.
23876085: !Alzheimer The impact of neuroimmune changes on development of amyloid pathology; relevance  to Alzheimer's disease. Neuroinflammatory changes are a characteristic of several, if not all, neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease and are typified by increased microglial activation. Microglia express several receptors making them  highly reactive and plastic cells, and, at least in vitro, they adopt different phenotypes in a manner analogous to their peripheral counterparts, macrophages. Microglia also express numerous cell surface proteins enabling them to interact with cells and the evidence indicates that maintenance of microglia in a quiescent state relies, at least to some extent, on an interaction with neurons by means of specific ligand-receptor pairs, for example CD200-CD200R. It is clear that microglia also interact with T cells and recent evidence indicates that co-incubation of microglia with T helper type 1 cells markedly increases their activation. Under normal conditions, small numbers of activated T cells gain entry to the brain and are involved in immune surveillance but infiltration of significant numbers of T cells occurs in disease and following injury. The consequences of T cell infiltration appear to depend on the conditions, with descriptions of both neurodestructive and neuroprotective effects in animal models of different diseases. This review will discuss the modulatory effect of T cells on microglia and the impact of infiltration of T cells into the brain with  a focus on Alzheimer's disease, and will propose that infiltration of interferon-gamma-producing cells may be an important factor in triggering inflammation that is pathogenic and destructive.
23848536: !Alzheimer 4-Hydroxynonenal in the pathogenesis and progression of human diseases. Metastable aldehydes produced by lipid peroxidation act as 'toxic second messengers' that extend the injurious potential of free radicals. 4-hydroxy 2-nonenal (HNE), a highly toxic and most abundant stable end product of lipid peroxidation, has been implicated in the tissue damage, dysfunction, injury associated with aging and other pathological states such as cancer, Alzheimer, diabetes, cardiovascular and inflammatory complications. Further, HNE has been considered as a oxidative stress marker and it act as a secondary signaling molecule to regulates a number of cell signaling pathways. Biological activity of HNE depends on its intracellular concentration, which can differentially modulate cell death, growth and differentiation. Therefore, the mechanisms responsible for maintaining the intracellular levels of HNE are most important, not only in the defense against oxidative stress but also in the pathophysiology of a number of disease processes. In this review, we discussed the significance of HNE in mediating various disease processes and how regulation of its metabolism could be therapeutically effective.
23707056: !Alzheimer Mortality among 24,865 workers exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in three electrical capacitor manufacturing plants: a ten-year update. The objective of this analysis was to evaluate mortality among a cohort of 24,865 capacitor-manufacturing workers exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) at plants in Indiana, Massachusetts, and New York and followed for mortality through 2008. Cumulative PCB exposure was estimated using plant-specific job-exposure matrices. External comparisons to US and state-specific populations used standardized mortality ratios, adjusted for gender, race, age and calendar year.  Among long-term workers employed 3 months or longer, within-cohort comparisons used standardized rate ratios and multivariable Poisson regression modeling. Through 2008, more than one million person-years at risk and 8749 deaths were accrued. Among long-term employees, all-cause and all-cancer mortality were not elevated; of the a priori outcomes assessed only melanoma mortality was elevated. Mortality was elevated for some outcomes of a priori interest among subgroups of  long-term workers: all cancer, intestinal cancer and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (women); melanoma (men); melanoma and brain and nervous system cancer (Indiana plant); and melanoma and multiple myeloma (New York plant). Standardized rates of stomach and uterine cancer and multiple myeloma mortality increased with estimated cumulative PCB exposure. Poisson regression modeling showed significant associations with estimated cumulative PCB exposure for prostate and stomach cancer mortality. For other outcomes of a priori interest--rectal, liver, ovarian, breast, and thyroid cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, Alzheimer disease, and Parkinson disease--neither elevated mortality nor positive associations with PCB  exposure were observed. Associations between estimated cumulative PCB exposure and stomach, uterine, and prostate cancer and myeloma mortality confirmed our previous positive findings.
23583830: !Alzheimer Create and preserve: proteostasis in development and aging is governed by Cdc48/p97/VCP. The AAA-ATPase Cdc48 (also called p97 or VCP) acts as a key regulator in proteolytic pathways, coordinating recruitment and targeting of substrate proteins to the 26S proteasome or lysosomal degradation. However, in contrast to  the well-known function in ubiquitin-dependent cellular processes, the physiological relevance of Cdc48 in organismic development and maintenance of protein homeostasis is less understood. Therefore, studies on multicellular model organisms help to decipher how Cdc48-dependent proteolysis is regulated in time and space to meet developmental requirements. Given the importance of developmental regulation and tissue maintenance, defects in Cdc48 activity have been linked to several human pathologies including protein aggregation diseases.  Thus, addressing the underlying disease mechanisms not only contributes to our understanding on the organism-wide function of Cdc48 but also facilitates the design of specific medical therapies. In this review, we will portray the role of Cdc48 in the context of multicellular organisms, pointing out its importance for  developmental processes, tissue surveillance, and disease prevention. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Ubiquitin-Proteasome System. Guest Editors: Thomas Sommer and Dieter H. Wolf.
23551178: !Alzheimer Immunohistochemical detection of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 and 5 in human multiple sclerosis lesions. AIMS: Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor (S1PR) modulating therapies are currently  in the clinic or undergoing investigation for multiple sclerosis (MS) treatment.  However, the expression of S1PRs is still unclear in the central nervous system under normal conditions and during neuroinflammation. METHODS: Using immunohistochemistry we examined tissues from both grey and white matter MS lesions for sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1P1 ) and 5 (S1P5 ) expression.  Tissues from Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases were also examined. RESULTS: S1P1 expression was restricted to astrocytes and endothelial cells in control tissues  and a decrease in endothelial cell expression was found in white matter MS lesions. In grey matter MS lesions, astrocyte expression was lost in active lesions, while in quiescent lesions it was restored to normal expression levels.  CNPase colocalization studies demonstrated S1P5 expression on myelin and both were reduced in demyelinated lesions. In AD tissues we found no difference in S1P1 expression. CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate a differential modulation of  S1PRs in MS lesions, which may have an impact on S1PR-directed therapies.
26577887: !GIMB Magnetic resonance spectroscopy reveals oral Lactobacillus promotion of increases in brain GABA, N-acetyl aspartate and glutamate. The gut microbiome has been shown to regulate the development and functions of the enteric and central nervous systems. Its involvement in the regulation of behavior has attracted particular attention because of its potential translational importance in clinical disorders, however little is known about the pathways involved. We previously have demonstrated that administration of Lactobacillus rhamnosus (JB-1) to healthy male BALB/c mice, promotes consistent changes in GABA-A and -B receptor sub-types in specific brain regions, accompanied by reductions in anxiety and depression-related behaviors. In the present study, using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), we quantitatively assessed two clinically validated biomarkers of brain activity and function, glutamate+glutamine (Glx) and total N-acetyl aspartate+N-acetylaspartylglutamic acid (tNAA), as well as GABA, the chief brain inhibitory neurotransmitter. Mice received 109 JB-1 per day for 28days and were subjected to MRS weekly and again 4weeks after cessation of treatment to ascertain temporal changes in these neurometabolites. Baseline concentrations for Glx, tNAA and GABA were equal to 10.4+/-0.3mM, 8.7+/-0.1mM, and 1.2+/-0.1mM, respectively. Delayed increases were  first seen for Glx (~10%) and NAA (~37%) at 2weeks which persisted only to the end of treatment. However, Glx was still elevated 4weeks after treatment had ceased. Significantly elevated GABA (~25%) was only seen at 4weeks. These results suggest specific metabolic pathways in our pursuit of mechanisms of action of psychoactive bacteria. They also offer through application of standard clinical neurodiagnostic techniques, translational opportunities to assess biomarkers accompanying behavioral changes induced by alterations in the gut microbiome.
26560526: !GIMB Nutrient interface with biology and aging. biology and aging. RECENT FINDINGS: A Mediterranean diet with extra virgin olive  oil, or similar plant-based diets, including five helpings of fruit and vegetables, exercise and nonsmoking are the mainstays of aging successfully. Recent studies have questioned the utility of weight loss in older persons, the use of antioxidant vitamin supplements as well as the appropriate level of sodium intake. The understanding of the role of ethnicity in the levels of vitamin D-binding protein has questioned the measurement of 25(OH)vitamin D by itself. Gut microbiota may also appear important for aging. SUMMARY: Continuous scientific advances are leading us to question whether some of our nutrient beliefs need to be altered in older persons. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To highlight recent conundrums in the interface of nutrition,  biology and aging. RECENT FINDINGS: A Mediterranean diet with extra virgin olive  oil, or similar plant-based diets, including five helpings of fruit and vegetables, exercise and nonsmoking are the mainstays of aging successfully. Recent studies have questioned the utility of weight loss in older persons, the use of antioxidant vitamin supplements as well as the appropriate level of sodium intake. The understanding of the role of ethnicity in the levels of vitamin D-binding protein has questioned the measurement of 25(OH)vitamin D by itself. Gut microbiota may also appear important for aging. SUMMARY: Continuous scientific advances are leading us to question whether some of our nutrient beliefs need to be altered in older persons.
26559394: !GIMB Pomegranate's Neuroprotective Effects against Alzheimer's Disease Are Mediated by Urolithins, Its Ellagitannin-Gut Microbial Derived Metabolites. several reported animal studies. However, whether its constituent ellagitannins and/or their physiologically relevant gut microbiota-derived metabolites, namely, urolithins (6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one derivatives), are the responsible bioactive constituents is unknown. Therefore, from a pomegranate extract (PE), previously reported by our group to have anti-AD effects in vivo, 21 constituents, which were primarily ellagitannins, were isolated and identified (by HPLC, NMR, and HRESIMS). In silico computational studies, used to predict blood-brain barrier permeability, revealed that none of the PE constituents, but  the urolithins, fulfilled criteria required for penetration. Urolithins prevented beta-amyloid fibrillation in vitro and methyl-urolithin B (8-methoxy-6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one), but not PE or its predominant ellagitannins, had a protective effect in Caenorhabditis elegans post induction of amyloid beta1-42 induced neurotoxicity and paralysis. Therefore, urolithins are the possible brain absorbable compounds which contribute to pomegranate's anti-AD effects warranting further in vivo studies on these compounds. Pomegranate shows neuroprotective effects against Alzheimer's disease (AD) in several reported animal studies. However, whether its constituent ellagitannins and/or their physiologically relevant gut microbiota-derived metabolites, namely, urolithins (6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one derivatives), are the responsible bioactive constituents is unknown. Therefore, from a pomegranate extract (PE), previously reported by our group to have anti-AD effects in vivo, 21 constituents, which were primarily ellagitannins, were isolated and identified (by HPLC, NMR, and HRESIMS). In silico computational studies, used to predict blood-brain barrier permeability, revealed that none of the PE constituents, but  the urolithins, fulfilled criteria required for penetration. Urolithins prevented beta-amyloid fibrillation in vitro and methyl-urolithin B (8-methoxy-6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-6-one), but not PE or its predominant ellagitannins, had a protective effect in Caenorhabditis elegans post induction of amyloid beta1-42 induced neurotoxicity and paralysis. Therefore, urolithins are the possible brain absorbable compounds which contribute to pomegranate's anti-AD effects warranting further in vivo studies on these compounds.
26554714: !GIMB Plasma levels of trimethylamine-N-oxide are confounded by impaired kidney function and poor metabolic control. BACKGROUND: After ingestion of phosphatidylcholine, l-carnitine or betaine, trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) is formed by gut microbiota and liver enzymes. Elevated TMAO plasma levels were associated with increased cardiovascular risk and other diseases. Also betaine and choline itself were recently associated with increased cardiovascular risk. METHODS: A newly developed LC-HRMS method was applied to measure the plasma concentrations of TMAO, betaine and choline in a cohort of 339 patients undergoing coronary angiography for the evaluation of suspected coronary artery disease. RESULTS: Betaine concentrations in males were  significantly higher than in females (42.0 vs. 35.9 mumol/L; p < 0.001). Plasma concentrations of TMAO but not of betaine or choline were higher in patients with diabetes compared to euglycemic patients (2.39 vs. 0.980 mumol/L; p = 0.001) as well as in patients with metabolic syndrome as compared to patients without metabolic syndrome (2.37 vs. 1.43 mumol/L; p = 0.002). Plasma concentrations of TMAO or choline increased significantly with decreasing renal function (Spearman's rho: -0.281; p < 0.001). However, plasma levels of TMAO or betaine were associated with neither a history of myocardial infarction nor the angiographically assessed presence of coronary heart disease, nor incident cardiovascular events during 8 years of follow-up. Plasma levels of choline were  significantly lower in patients with a history of acute myocardial infarction as  compared to those without such history (10.0 vs. 10.8 mumol/L; p = 0.045). CONCLUSIONS: Plasma levels of TMAO are confounded by impaired kidney function and poor metabolic control but are not associated with the history, presence or incidence of symptoms or events of coronary heart disease.
26537034: !GIMB Improved Socio-Economic Status of a Community Population Following Schistosomiasis and Intestinal Worm Control Interventions on Kome Island, North-Western Tanzania. Research on micro-level assessment of the changes of socio-economic status following health interventions is very scarce. The use of household asset data to determine wealth indices is a common procedure for estimating socio-economic position in resource poor settings. In such settings information about income is  usually lacking, and the collection of individual consumption or expenditure data would require in-depth interviews, posing a considerable risk of bias. In this study, we determined the socio-economic status of 213 households in a community population in an island in the north-western Tanzania before and 3 year after implementation of a participatory hygiene and sanitation transformation (PHAST) intervention to control schistosomiasis and intestinal worm infections. We constructed a household 'wealth index' based housing construction features (e.g., type of roof, walls, and floor) and durable assets ownership (e.g., bicycle, radio, etc.). We employed principal components analysis and classified households into wealth quintiles. The study revealed that asset variables with positive factor scores were associated with higher socio-economic status, whereas asset variables with negative factor scores were associated with lower socio-economic status. Overall, households which were rated as the poorest and very poor were on the decrease, whereas those rated as poor, less poor, and the least poor were on  the increase after PHAST intervention. This decrease/increase was significant. The median shifted from -0.4376677 to 0.5001073, and the mean from -0.2605787 (SD; 2.005688) to 0.2605787 (SD; 1.831199). The difference in socio-economic status of the people between the 2 phases was highly statistically significant (P<0.001). We argue that finding of this study should be treated with caution as  there were other interventions to control schistosomiasis and intestinal worm infections which were running concurrently on Kome Island apart from PHAST intervention.
26537033: !GIMB Schistosoma mansoni-Related Hepatosplenic Morbidity in Adult Population on Kome Island, Sengerema District, Tanzania. Schistosomiasis is one of the important neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) in Tanzania, particularly in Lake Victoria zone. This baseline survey was a part of  the main study of integrated control of schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminths (STHs) aimed at describing morbidity patterns due to intestinal schistosomiasis among adults living on Kome Island, Sengerema District, Tanzania. Total 388 adults from Kome Islands (about 50 people from each village) aged between 12 and 85 years, were examined by abdominal ultrasound according to the Niamey protocol. Liver image patterns (LIPs) A and B were considered normal, and  C-F as distinct periportal fibrosis (PPF). The overall prevalence of PPF was 42.2%; much higher in males than in females (47.0% in male vs 34.4% in females, P=0.007). Abnormal increase of segmental branch wall thickness (SBWT) and dilated portal vein diameter (PVD) were also more common in males than in females. Hepatosplenomegaly was frequently encountered; 68.1% had left liver lobe hepatomegaly and 55.2% had splenomegaly. Schistosoma mansoni-related morbidity is quite high among adults in this community justifying the implementation of integrated control strategies through mass drug administration, improved water supply (pumped wells), and health education that had already started in the study area.
26520057: !GIMB The clinical presentation of coeliac disease in 1030 Swedish children: Changing features over the past four decades. BACKGROUND: The features of paediatric coeliac disease have changed in recent decades. We hypothesised that the age at diagnosis might continue to increase, whereas the severity of symptoms should decrease. METHODS: In the present study,  filed data on 1030 paediatric patients diagnosed with coeliac disease between 1973 and 2013 were analysed. The information available covered 99.8% of small bowel biopsies and included information on sex, age and clinical symptoms. RESULTS: The age at diagnosis increased significantly, from a mean of 2.2 years during the first 10 years to 8.2 years in recent years. The proportion of children with severe symptoms declined from 92.8% to 78%, as did the proportion of biopsies characterised by severe pathology. In recent years, the monosymptomatic form of coeliac disease has been more common, and the number of patients detected at screening has increased. The frequency of patients with gastrointestinal symptoms, extra-intestinal symptoms, and failure to thrive and/or short stature at presentation decreased. CONCLUSIONS: The mean age of newly diagnosed patients has increased over the last 15 years. Currently, coeliac disease shows a less severe picture in terms of symptoms and intestinal pathology. Younger children suffer primarily from gastrointestinal symptoms and growth failure, and adolescents from extra-intestinal manifestations.
26519334: !GIMB Gestational Age and Birth Weight and the Risk of Childhood Type 1 Diabetes: A Population-Based Cohort and Sibling Design Study. OBJECTIVE: We investigated the effects of gestational age, birth weight, small for gestational age (SGA), and large for gestational age (LGA) on risk of childhood type 1 diabetes. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We conducted a population-based cohort study of all singleton live births in Sweden between 1973 and 2009 and a sibling control study. Perinatal data were extracted from the Swedish Medical Birth Register. Children with type 1 diabetes diagnosis were identified from the Swedish National Patient Register. Log-linear Poisson regression and conditional logistic regression were used for data analysis. RESULTS: The study cohort consisted of 3,624,675 singleton live births (42,411,054 person-years). There were 13,944 type 1 diabetes cases during the study period. The sibling control study consisted of 11,403 children with type 1  diabetes and 17,920 siblings. Gestational age between 33 and 36 weeks (relative risk [RR] 1.18 [95% CI 1.09, 1.28) and 37 and 38 weeks (RR 1.12 [95% CI 1.07, 1.17]) was associated with type 1 diabetes in the cohort study and remained significant in the sibling control study. SGA (RR 0.83 [95% CI 0.75, 0.93]) and LGA (RR 1.14 [95% CI 1.04, 1.24]) were associated with type 1 diabetes in the cohort study. The SGA association remained unchanged in the sibling study, while  the LGA association disappeared. Very low birth weight was associated with a reduced risk of type 1 diabetes. CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest a small association between gestational age and type 1 diabetes that is not likely due to familial confounding factors. Gestational age and type 1 diabetes may be related  to insulin resistance due to early life growth restriction or altered gut microbiota in preterm babies.
26479726: !GIMB Type 2 Diabetes Biomarkers of Human Gut Microbiota Selected via Iterative Sure Independent Screening Method. Type 2 diabetes, which is a complex metabolic disease influenced by genetic and environment, has become a worldwide problem. Previous published results focused on genetic components through genome-wide association studies that just interpret this disease to some extent. Recently, two research groups published metagenome-wide association studies (MGWAS) result that found meta-biomarkers related with type 2 diabetes. However, One key problem of analyzing genomic data  is that how to deal with the ultra-high dimensionality of features. From a statistical viewpoint it is challenging to filter true factors in high dimensional data. Various methods and techniques have been proposed on this issue, which can only achieve limited prediction performance and poor interpretability. New statistical procedure with higher performance and clear interpretability is appealing in analyzing high dimensional data. To address this problem, we apply an excellent statistical variable selection procedure called iterative sure independence screening to gene profiles that obtained from metagenome sequencing, and 48/24 meta-markers were selected in Chinese/European cohorts as predictors with 0.97/0.99 accuracy in AUC (area under the curve), which showed a better performance than other model selection methods, respectively. These results demonstrate the power and utility of data mining technologies within the large-scale and ultra-high dimensional genomic-related dataset for diagnostic and predictive markers identifying.
26473016: !GIMB Streptococcus bovis infectious endocarditis and occult gastrointestinal neoplasia: experience with 25 consecutive patients treated surgically. To assess the prevalence of gastrointestinal neoplasia in patients with Streptococcus bovis infectious endocarditis we performed a retrospective cohort analysis of all episodes of S. bovis infectious endocarditis treated at our institution between January 2000 through December 2014. Twenty-five patients were identified for this purpose. 12/25 patients received colonoscopy and 1/25 of the  patients was assessed with CT colonography. Of the 13 who underwent colonic assessment, 11 were diagnosed with colonic neoplasms at different stages of development. In the absence of any strong contraindication, gastroenteroscopic evaluation in all patients diagnosed with S. bovis infectious endocarditis should be pursued.
26458738: !GIMB Patients with ankylosing spondylitis have been breast fed less often than healthy controls: a case-control retrospective study. OBJECTIVE: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease affecting the spine and pelvis of young adults. On the HLA-B27 genetic background, the occurrence of AS is influenced by the intestinal microbiota. The  goal of our study was to test whether breast feeding, which influences microbiota, can prevent the development of AS. METHODS: First, 203 patients with  HLA-B27-positive AS fulfilling the modified New York criteria were recruited in the Department of Rheumatology, Ste Marguerite hospital in Marseilles. A total of 293 healthy siblings were also recruited to make up a control group within the same families. Second, 280 healthy controls, and 100 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and their siblings were recruited. The data collected were age, gender, number of brothers and sisters, age at disease onset, type and duration of feeding (breast or bottle). RESULTS: Patients with AS had been breast fed less often than healthy controls. In families where children were breast fed, the patients with AS were less often breast fed than their healthy siblings (57% vs 72%), giving an OR for AS onset of 0.53 (95% CI (0.36 to 0.77), p value=0.0009).  Breast feeding reduced familial prevalence of AS. The frequency of breast feeding was similar in the AS siblings and in the 280 unrelated controls. However, patients with AS were less often breast fed compared with the 280 unrelated controls (OR 0.6, 95% CI (0.42 to 0.89), p<0.01). CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests a breastfeeding-induced protective effect on the occurrence of AS. To our knowledge, this is the first study of breastfeeding history in patients with AS.
26457003: !GIMB Elevated Blood Ammonia Level Is a Potential Biological Risk Factor of Behavioral  Disorders in Prisoners. Hydrothion (H2S) and ammonia (NH3) can be toxic for the human central nervous system and cause psychological disturbances and behavioral disorders. In order to evaluate the association between the two potential toxicants and mental health, in this study, we compare a male prisoner and control population. Forty-nine male prisoners and 52 control volunteers took part in the study. An aggressive behavior assessment, the Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS), and the State-Trait  Anxiety Inventory (STAI) were used to characterize the participants' mental health status. Venous blood was collected for detection of H2S and NH3. The results indicated that blood NH3 was significantly higher in male prisoners than  in controls. However, blood H2S was significantly lower. Blood NH3 was also significantly and positively correlated with prisoners. In the multivariate adjusted models, after controlling for age, education, marital status, and BMI, we found a positive association between NH3 and prisoners, but not blood H2S. While the functions of the two toxicants were quite different, blood NH3 may be a potential biological risk factor for behavioral disorders and blood H2S showed neuroprotection. Additionally, the impact of other factors such as diet and gut bacteria should be considered when evaluating risk for behavioral disorders.
26439212: !GIMB Osteomyelitis in adult patients on long-term parenteral nutrition: 2745 patient-years of experience in a national referral centre. BACKGROUND & AIMS: Osteomyelitis (OM) is a rare complication of catheter related  sepsis after central venous catheter (CVC) use. The prevalence, characteristics and diagnosis of OM in patients with intestinal failure (IF) receiving long term  parenteral nutrition (PN) through CVCs have not previously been described. METHODS: This was a retrospective study from a prospectively maintained database  of patients referred to a National IF centre. Age, IF aetiology, past medical history, time on PN, OM site and organism(s) cultured were recorded. Patients were divided into 2 groups: OM occurring in the setting of acute (Type 2) IF (AIF) or chronic (Type 3) IF (CIF). Diagnosis of OM was made clinically and supported by radiological and/or microbial evidence. RESULTS: 21 cases of OM occurred in 17 patients (7 male (41%)) between 1994 and 2014. 0 cases were observed between 1994 and 1999, 1 case between 2000 and 2004, 6 cases between 2005 and 2009 and 14 cases between 2010 and 2014. There were 11 cases in 7 patients with CIF managed at the IFU between 1994 and 2014; the latter yielded a  period prevalence for OM of 0.9% when compared to the 794 HPN patients managed by the IFU over this period. There were 10 cases of OM in 10 patients with AIF; patients with AIF had spent less time on PN before developing OM, compared to patients with CIF; despite this, the rate of preceding CVC infections was higher  in the AIF (5.6/1000 catheter days) than in the CIF (0.3/1000 catheter days) group, as a result of patients with AIF contracting CVC infections prior to specialist referral. Patients with AIF had more severe OM compared to those with  CIF, according to the Cierny Mader classification. All patients received at least 6 weeks antimicrobial chemotherapy. 4/10 (40%) AIF cases and 2/11 (18%) CIF cases required surgical intervention. No patient died from OM or its treatment. CONCLUSION: OM is a rare complication of IF and its treatment, but is being diagnosed more frequently than before and should be noted as a potential focus of sepsis in patients with IF, because it may lead to considerable morbidity.
26415268: !GIMB [ANALYSIS OF THE RESULTS OF ENDOSCOPIC AND MORPHOLOGICAL STUDIES OF THE STOMACH MUCOSA WITH REDUCED PEPSINOGEN-I IN PATIENTS WITH H. PYLORI (H.P.)--ASSOCIATED GASTRITIS IN TOMSK AND TOMSK REGION]. AIM OF INVESTIGATION: To explore and describe the endoscopic picture of HP--associated atrophic gastritis and to analyze the specificity of endoscopic markers indicating the presence of atrophic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia and  dysplasia using high-tech methods of endoscopy in comparison with morphological characteristics of atrophic gastritis defining the degree of activity and stage of atrophic gastritis according to the system OLGA. MATERIALS AND METHODS: 40 people: males and females aged 40 to 70 years with a reduced level of pepsinogen  I and a positive titre of antibodies to H. pylori in serum--were included into the study. THE RESULTS: Risk groups with atrophic gastritis based on indicators of pepsinogen 1 were formed. Endoscopic picture of H. Pylori--associated atrophic gastritis in patients with reduced level of pepsinogen I in serum is studied and  described. Analysis of the specificity of endoscopic markers indicating the presence of AG, intestinal metaplasia and dysplasia using high-tech methods of endoscopy (endoscopy with high resolution, magnifying endoscopy, chromoendoscopy  and narrow band imaging endoscopy (NBI) is made. Analysis of their sensitivity in comparison with the results of morphological studies of biopsy material is made.  CONCLUSION: Thus, these studies show that high-resolution endoscopy in combination with magnification and chromoendoscopy allows accurately identify areas of atrophy, intestinal.Narrow band imaging endoscopy (NBI) provides a detailed picture of the vascular pattern of tissues, pattern changes typical for  pathological areas of inflammatory genesis, as well as for precancers and early cancers. All these methods have high sensitivity and specificity in the diagnosis of HP-associated atrophic gastritis in comparison with the results of morphological studies of biopsy materials of stomach mucosa.
26412215: !GIMB Plasma metabolomic biomarkers of mixed nuts exposure inversely correlate with severity of metabolic syndrome. SCOPE: To identify the most discriminant dietary biomarkers of nuts exposure in subjects with metabolic syndrome (MetS), and investigate the potential association between exposure and the severity of the MetS diagnostic traits. METHODS AND RESULTS: We applied the untargeted LC-ESI-qToF-MS-driven metabolomic  workflow to explore the changes occurring in the plasma metabolome of MetS subjects following 12-wk intake of mixed nuts (30 g/d; nuts versus control groups). Urolithin A glucuronide was the most discriminative biomarker of nuts exposure, showing the highest predictive capacity (area under the ROC curve = 89.6% [80.8-98.4]) despite the interindividual variation expected for a host-microbial cometabolite. Furthermore, the detection of urolithin A glucuronide in plasma showed significant inverse correlation with basal abdominal adiposity (waist circumference: r = -0.550, p < 0.01; waist-hip ratio: r = -0.409, p < 0.05) and impaired glycemic control (fasting insulin: r = -0.414, p < 0.05; HOMA-IR: r = -0.417, p < 0.05). Significant changes in medium-chain dicarboxylic acids, recognized as alternative energy substrates that are particularly relevant in the case of glycemic control impairment, were also associated with nut consumption. CONCLUSION: Higher levels of utolithin A glucuronide are reported in subjects with less severe MetS traits, especially in  females. We believe that this inverse correlation may be related with profile of  gut microbial dysbiosis, recently associated to subjects with MetS.
26411174: !GIMB The Addition of High-Risk HPV Testing to Anal Cytology Increases the Identification of Anal Dysplasia in HIV-Infected Patients. BACKGROUND: Anal dysplasia (AD) is prevalent in HIV-infected patients. Screening  for AD is recommended for high-risk groups, including HIV-infected patients. We evaluated screening algorithms for AD using cytology, high-risk human papillomavirus (HRH) testing, or both. METHODS: HIV-infected patients were offered AD screening by both anal cytology and PCR-based detection of HRH. Patients with abnormal cytology (AC) or HRH genotypes were referred to the same oncologic surgeon for high-resolution anoscopy (HRA). RESULTS: Ninety patients underwent screening (84% men who have sex with men). Forty-four patients (52.6%)  had abnormal screens (31.5% AC, 46% HRH). Twenty-six patients with AC and/or positive HRH had HRA. AC and nadir CD4+ cell count of < 200 cells/mm3 were predictors of abnormal histology on HRA by univariate analysis (OR 4.5 and 2.5, respectively). Using a log-linear model, we estimated that for every 49 cases with two normal screening tests, one case of AD would be missed. Conclusions: Universal screening for AD in an HIV+ population yielded a high percentage of abnormal findings. Addition of HRH to cytology screening increased positive screens by 24%. Larger studies are needed to determine the ideal screening method.
26378866: !GIMB Safety and tolerability evaluation of the use of Montanide ISA51 as vaccine adjuvant: A systematic review. Montanide ISA51 (ISA 51) is a vaccine adjuvant which has been tested in therapeutic and prophylactic vaccine trials. The aim of this review is to present a comprehensive examination of the safety and tolerability of ISA 51 containing vaccines. A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed, EMBASE and clinicaltrials.gov . Eligible studies were categorized into: (A) uncontrolled studies with non-healthy subjects, (B) controlled studies with non-healthy subjects, and (C) controlled studies with healthy subjects. Reported adverse events (AEs) were assessed. 91 studies were included in our review. Generally observed AEs included injection site reaction; injection site pain; myalgia; headache; gastro-intestinal disorders; fatigue and fever - regardless of the administration route and subject characteristic. Specific AEs, e.g. injection site reactions and rash, were more frequently reported from subjects receiving ISA 51-adjuvanted vaccines than from subjects receiving antigen or ISA 51 only. The reported AEs were mainly mild to moderate in intensity. Serious AEs (SAEs) were reported in 27% of the uncontrolled trials and 2 trials conducted with healthy subjects. Notably, 2 other trials conducted with healthy subjects were stopped due to unacceptable AEs. Some studies indicate that the mixing procedure  of antigen and adjuvant might influence the occurrence of AEs. Reports on SAEs and premature termination of 2 trials advise caution when using ISA 51. Yet, AEs  might be preventable by proper mixing of vaccine and adjuvant to a stable emulsion. Trials including an active control group are needed for a fair evaluation of adjuvant safety.
26374599: !GIMB Insulin resistance and vascular dysfunction in chronic kidney disease: mechanisms and therapeutic interventions. Insulin resistance (IR) is a novel cardiovascular risk factor that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Beyond its metabolic effects, insulin can potentially mediate the increased risk for CVD through its vasoactive properties. This review examines key clinical data and potential mechanisms linking IR and cardiovascular risk in CKD. While lifestyle interventions and pharmacotherapies with known insulin-sensitizing properties are promising therapeutic targets to reduce the CVD burden in this population, clinical trial data on the effect of insulin sensitization on vascular function in CKD are either lacking or conflicting and are limited by small sample size and short duration of intervention. Affirming the role of IR in lowering CVD risk in CKD will require prospective randomized controlled studies with sufficient sample size and hard clinical outcomes. Future research efforts should be directed at assessing the efficacy, safety and mechanisms by which novel insulin sensitizers such as bile acid sequestrant, selective and dual peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor modulators and modulators of gut microbiota and uraemic toxins alter vascular function in patients with CKD.
26373255: !GIMB Turning the inside out: The microbiology of atopic dermatitis. Allergy is worldwide on the rise. The hygiene hypothesis of atopic diseases linked microbes with atopic dermatitis (AD) both as drivers or modulators of skin pathology. The earlier literature favored an inside-outside model of AD where an  immunological abnormality compounded by a gut microbiota dysbiosis is the primary event. Probiotic intervention trials with lactobacilli and bifidobacteria as well as the application of bifidogenic oligosaccharide prebiotics showed indeed promising clinical results, but no consistent gut microbiota dysbiosis could be linked with AD. An alternative hypothesis known as outside-inside model of AD considers a genetic skin barrier effect compounded by a skin microbiota dysbiosis as primary pathogenic event. Cultivation microbiology has demonstrated strong skin colonization with superantigen-encoding Staphylococcus aureus in AD patients; microbiota and molecular microbiome analyses demonstrated that S. aureus abundance fluctuates and parallels clinical symptoms. In a mouse model delta-toxin of S. aureus induced mast cell degranulation leading to AD-like symptoms. Mutant mice developing AD symptoms showed increased skin colonization with S. aureus; antibiotic treatment alleviated symptoms. Clinical trials showed  that various treatments reducing S. aureus skin load also reduced AD symptoms suggesting S. aureus as a potential critical driver of AD and a target for anti-microbial interventions other than antibiotics.
26370263: !GIMB Systematic review of evidence to support the theory of psychobiotics. CONTEXT: The theory that supplemented probiotic bacteria could affect psychological outcomes has recently been outlined in narrative reviews; to date,  however, this area of research has not been systematically reviewed. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this review was to compare the effects of probiotics with those  of placebo on psychological outcomes and symptoms of psychiatric disorders. DATA  SOURCES: The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, Embase, PubMed, PsycINFO, and PsycARTICLES databases were searched electronically for studies published up to July 17, 2014. Reference lists of relevant articles were  searched manually. STUDY SELECTION: Only double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled human trials that used a standardized, validated scale to assess the effects of probiotic interventions compared with placebo on psychological outcomes or symptoms of psychiatric disorders were included. DATA EXTRACTION: Two researchers independently assessed trials and evaluated them for  methodological quality. Data were extracted from the included studies using a data extraction form. DATA SYNTHESIS: Ten trials met the inclusion criteria. Overall, there is very limited evidence for the efficacy of probiotic interventions in psychological outcomes. The evidence base is incomplete and lacks applicability. CONCLUSIONS: More trials are necessary before any inferences can be made about the efficacy of probiotics in mental health applications.
26355341: !GIMB Towards a science of eating disorders: Replacing myths with realities: The fourth Birgit Olsson lecture. BACKGROUND: For too long we have been "stuck" in old perspectives that have hampered the advance of knowledge. In part, this is related to the challenges that people have in unlearning misinformation. AIM: To address the need for an upgrade in the eating disorders field. METHOD: To assist with replacing outdated  and inaccurate ideas with new data, this lecture reviewed novel approaches to eating disorders that engage scientists and clinicians from diverse fields to approach questions about aetiology and treatment of eating disorders through new  lenses. This forward-looking lecture outlined critical questions that need to be  addressed to move the field forward and strategies for engaging scientists from different fields. RESULTS: Leading-edge findings on genetics, intestinal microbiota, and neuroscience are reviewed. CONCLUSIONS: This review encourages the integration of new evidence-based knowledge to form the backbone of our understanding of and approach to eating disorders.
26339892: !GIMB What tests should you use to assess small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in systemic sclerosis? OBJECTIVES: Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) plays a major role in the pathogenesis of malabsorption in SSc patients and is a source of great morbidity and even mortality, in those patients. This manuscript reviews which tests are valid and should be used in SSc when evaluating SIBO. METHODS: We performed systematic literature searches in PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane library from 1966 up to November 2014 for English language, published articles examining bacterial overgrowth in SSc (e.g. malabsorption tests, breath tests, xylose test, etc). Articles obtained from these searches were reviewed for additional references. The validity of the tests was evaluated according to the OMERACT principles of truth, discrimination and feasibility. RESULTS: From a total of 65 titles, 22 articles were reviewed and 20 were ultimately extracted to examine the validity of tests for GI morphology, bacterial overgrowth and malabsorption in SSc. Only 1 test (hydrogen and methane breath tests) is fully validated. Four tests are partially validated, including jejunal cultures, xylose, lactulose tests, and 72 hours fecal fat test. CONCLUSIONS: Only 1 of a total of 5 GI tests of bacterial overgrowth (see above) is fully validated in SSc. For clinical trials, fully validated tests are preferred, although some investigators use partially validated tests (4 tests). Further validation of GI tests in SSc is needed.
26290222: !GIMB Diagnosing Balamuthia mandrillaris Encephalitis With Metagenomic Deep Sequencing. OBJECTIVE: Identification of a particular cause of meningoencephalitis can be challenging owing to the myriad bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites that can  produce overlapping clinical phenotypes, frequently delaying diagnosis and therapy. Metagenomic deep sequencing (MDS) approaches to infectious disease diagnostics are known for their ability to identify unusual or novel viruses and  thus are well suited for investigating possible etiologies of meningoencephalitis. METHODS: We present the case of a 74-year-old woman with endophthalmitis followed by meningoencephalitis. MDS of her cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was performed to identify an infectious agent. RESULTS: Sequences aligning  to Balamuthia mandrillaris ribosomal RNA genes were identified in the CSF by MDS. Polymerase chain reaction subsequently confirmed the presence of B. mandrillaris  in CSF, brain tissue, and vitreous fluid from the patient's infected eye. B. mandrillaris serology and immunohistochemistry for free-living amoebas on the brain biopsy tissue were positive. INTERPRETATION: The diagnosis was made using MDS after the patient had been hospitalized for several weeks and subjected to costly and invasive testing. MDS is a powerful diagnostic tool with the potential for rapid and unbiased pathogen identification leading to early therapeutic targeting. Ann Neurol 2015;78:Ann Neurol 2015;78:679-696.
26282537: !GIMB Diagnosis of neglected tropical diseases among patients with persistent digestive disorders (diarrhoea and/or abdominal pain >/=14 days): Pierrea multi-country, prospective, non-experimental case-control study. BACKGROUND: Diarrhoea still accounts for considerable mortality and morbidity worldwide. The highest burden is concentrated in tropical areas where populations lack access to clean water, adequate sanitation and hygiene. In contrast to acute diarrhoea (<14 days), the spectrum of pathogens that may give rise to persistent  diarrhoea (>/=14 days) and persistent abdominal pain is poorly understood. It is  conceivable that pathogens causing neglected tropical diseases play a major role, but few studies investigated this issue. Clinical management and diagnostic work-up of persistent digestive disorders in the tropics therefore remain inadequate. Hence, important aspects regarding the pathogenesis, epidemiology, clinical symptomatology and treatment options for patients presenting with persistent diarrhoea and persistent abdominal pain should be investigated in multi-centric clinical studies. METHODS/DESIGN: This multi-country, prospective,  non-experimental case-control study will assess persistent diarrhoea (>/=14 days; in individuals aged >/=1 year) and persistent abdominal pain (>/=14 days; in children/adolescents aged 1-18 years) in up to 2000 symptomatic patients and 2000 matched controls. Subjects from Cote d'Ivoire, Indonesia, Mali and Nepal will be  clinically examined and interviewed using a detailed case report form. Additionally, each participant will provide a stool sample that will be examined  using a suite of diagnostic methods (i.e., microscopic techniques, rapid diagnostic tests, stool culture and polymerase chain reaction) for the presence of bacterial and parasitic pathogens. Treatment will be offered to all infected participants and the clinical treatment response will be recorded. Data obtained  will be utilised to develop patient-centred clinical algorithms that will be validated in primary health care centres in the four study countries in subsequent studies. DISCUSSION: Our research will deepen the understanding of the importance of persistent diarrhoea and related digestive disorders in the tropics. A diversity of intestinal pathogens will be assessed for potential associations with persistent diarrhoea and persistent abdominal pain. Different diagnostic methods will be compared, clinical symptoms investigated and diagnosis-treatment algorithms developed for validation in selected primary health care centres. The findings from this study will improve differential diagnosis and evidence-based clinical management of digestive syndromes in the tropics. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov; identifier: NCT02105714 .
26233309: !GIMB Use of miRNAs in biofluids as biomarkers in dietary and lifestyle intervention studies. The selection of biomarkers in nutrigenomics needs to reflect subtle changes in homoeostasis representing the relation between nutrition and health, or nutrition and disease. It is believed that noncoding RNAs, such as circulating microRNAs (miRNAs), may represent such a new class of integrative biomarkers. Until now, the most relevant body fluids for miRNA quantification in response to nutrition have not been clearly defined, but recent studies listed in this review indicate  that miRNAs from plasma or serum, PBMC and faeces might be relevant biomarkers to quantify the physiological impacts of dietary or lifestyle intervention studies.  In addition, a number of recent studies also indicate that miRNAs could permit to monitor the impact of diet on gut microbiota. We also discuss the main preanalytical considerations that are important to take into account before miRNA screening which can affect the reproducibility of the data.
26207183: !GIMB Erratum: Gut resistome development in healthy twin pairs in the first year of life. [This corrects the article DOI: 10.1186/s40168-015-0090-9.].
26207260: !GIMB Mutations in Plasmalemma Vesicle Associated Protein Result in Sieving Protein-Losing Enteropathy Characterized by Hypoproteinemia, Hypoalbuminemia, and Hypertriglyceridemia. BACKGROUND & AIMS METHODS: Severe intestinal diseases observed in very young children are often the result of monogenic defects. We used whole exome sequencing (WES) to examine the genetic cause in a patient with a distinct severe form of protein losing enteropathy (PLE) characterized by hypoproteinemia, hypoalbuminemia, and hypertriglyceridemia. METHODS: WES was performed at the Centre for Applied Genomics, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada. Exome library preparation was performed using the Ion Torrent AmpliSeq RDY Exome Kit. Functional studies were carried out based on the identified mutation. RESULTS: Using whole exome sequencing we identified a homozygous nonsense mutation (1072C>T; p.Arg358*) in the PLVAP (plasmalemma vesicle associated protein) gene in an infant from consanguineous parents who died at five months of age of severe protein losing enteropathy. Functional studies determined that the mutated PLVAP  mRNA and protein were not expressed in the patient biopsy tissues, presumably secondary to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. Pathological analysis showed that the  loss of PLVAP resulted in disruption of endothelial fenestrated diaphragms. CONCLUSIONS: PLVAP p.Arg358* mutation resulted in loss of PLVAP expression with subsequent deletion of the diaphragms of endothelial fenestrae leading to plasma  protein extravasation, protein-losing enteropathy and ultimately death.
26196272: !GIMB Metabolomics: Applications and Promise in Mycobacterial Disease. Until recently, the study of mycobacterial diseases was trapped in culture-based  technology that is more than a century old. The use of nucleic acid amplification is changing this, and powerful new technologies are on the horizon. Metabolomics, which is the study of sets of metabolites of both the bacteria and host, is being used to clarify mechanisms of disease, and can identify changes leading to better diagnosis, treatment, and prognostication of mycobacterial diseases. Metabolomic  profiles are arrays of biochemical products of genes in their environment. These  complex patterns are biomarkers that can allow a more complete understanding of cell function, dysfunction, and perturbation than genomics or proteomics. Metabolomics could herald sweeping advances in personalized medicine and clinical trial design, but the challenges in metabolomics are also great. Measured metabolite concentrations vary with the timing within a condition, the intrinsic  biology, the instruments, and the sample preparation. Metabolism profoundly changes with age, sex, variations in gut microbial flora, and lifestyle. Validation of biomarkers is complicated by measurement accuracy, selectivity, linearity, reproducibility, robustness, and limits of detection. The statistical  challenges include analysis, interpretation, and description of the vast amount of data generated. Despite these drawbacks, metabolomics provides great opportunity and the potential to understand and manage mycobacterial diseases.
26190966: !GIMB Role of neuroinflammation in the emotional and cognitive alterations displayed by animal models of obesity. Obesity is associated with a high prevalence of mood disorders and cognitive dysfunctions in addition to being a significant risk factor for important health  complications such as cardiovascular diseases and type 2 diabetes. Identifying the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying these health issues is a major public health challenge. Based on recent findings, from studies conducted on animal models of obesity, it has been proposed that inflammatory processes may participate in both the peripheral and brain disorders associated with the obesity condition including the development of emotional and cognitive alterations. This is supported by the fact that obesity is characterized by peripheral low-grade inflammation, originating from increased adipose tissue mass and/or dysbiosis (changes in gut microbiota environment), both of which contribute to increased susceptibility to immune-mediated diseases. In this review, we provide converging evidence showing that obesity is associated with exacerbated neuroinflammation leading to dysfunction in vulnerable brain regions  associated with mood regulation, learning, and memory such as the hippocampus. These findings give new insights to the pathophysiological mechanisms contributing to the development of brain disorders in the context of obesity and  provide valuable data for introducing new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of neuropsychiatric complications often reported in obese patients.
26186531: !GIMB Plasma-metabolite-biomarkers for the therapeutic response in depressed patients by the traditional Chinese medicine formula Xiaoyaosan: A (1)H NMR-based metabolomics approach. BACKGROUND: Depression is one of the most prevalent and serious mental disorders. Xiaoyaosan, a well-known Chinese prescription, has been widely used for the treatment of depression in China. Both clinical studies and animal experiments indicate that Xiaoyaosan has an obvious antidepressant activity. Additionally, a  large number of candidate biomarkers have emerged that can be used for early disease detection and for monitoring ongoing treatment response to therapy because of their correlations with the characteristics of the disease. However, there have been few reports on biomarkers that measure the treatment response to  the clinical use of Xiaoyaosan using a metabolomics approach. The current study is aimed at discovering biomarkers and biochemical pathways to facilitate the diagnosis of depression and the efficient evaluation of Xiaoyaosan using plasma metabolomics profiles based on (1)H NMR. METHODS: Sixteen depressed patients diagnosed by standard methods (HAMD and CGI-SI) and sixteen healthy volunteers were recruited. (1)H NMR-based metabolomics techniques and multivariate statistical methods were used to analyze the plasma metabolites of the depressed  patients before and after treatment and to compare them with healthy controls. RESULTS: The plasma levels of trimethylamine oxide, glutamine and lactate in depressed patients increased significantly (p</=0.05) compared with healthy controls, whereas the levels of phenylalanine, valine, alanine, glycine, leucine, citrate, choline, lipids and glucose decreased significantly (p</=0.05). Additionally, alanine, choline, trimethylamine oxide, glutamine, lactate and glucose were returned to normal levels after Xiaoyaosan treatment. These statistically significant perturbations are involved in energy metabolism, amino  acid metabolism and gut microbiota metabolism. LIMITATIONS: Additional experimentation with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) or liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) is required to confirm our findings. CONCLUSIONS: Application of these biomarkers in clinical practice may help to optimize the diagnosis of depression and to evaluate the efficacy of Xiaoyaosan.  Metabolomics is promising as a biomarker discovery tool.
26171634: !GIMB Lactobacillus pentosus var. plantarum C29 increases the protective effect of soybean against scopolamine-induced memory impairment in mice. Biological activities of soybean saponins are dependent on their metabolism by gut microbiota, which generate absorbable bioactive metabolites. Therefore, to enhance the pharmacological effect of soybean, we fermented defatted soybean powder (SP) with Lactobacillus pentosus var. plantarum C29 and measured its protective effect against scopolamine-induced memory impairment in mice using the passive avoidance, Y-maze and Morris water maze tasks. Fermentation increased soyasapogenol B, genistein and daidzein content of soybean and enhanced the protective effect of soybean against scopolamine-induced memory impairment. Additionally, compared with the exthanol extract of soybean, fermented SP (FSP) increased the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampi of scopolamine-treated mice. Furthermore, FSP inhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in vitro and ex vivo. These findings suggest that C29 fermentation might increase the ameliorating effect of soybean against memory impairments by inhibiting AChE activity and increasing BDNF expression.
26163607: !GIMB Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors: A Clinicopathologic and Risk Stratification Study of 255 Cases from Pakistan and Review of Literature. PURPOSE: To describe the clinicopathological features of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) diagnosed in our section and to perform risk stratification of our  cases by assigning them to specific risk categories and groups for disease progression based on proposals by Fletcher et al and Miettinen and Lasota. MATERIALS AND RESULTS: We retrieved 255 cases of GIST diagnosed between 2003 and  2014. Over 59% were male. The age range was 16 to 83 years with a mean of 51 years. Over 70% occurred between 40 and 70 years of age. Average diameter of tumors was 10 cms. The stomach was the most common site accounting for about 40%. EGISTs constituted about 16%. On histologic examination, spindle cell morphology  was seen in almost of 85% cases. CD117 was the most useful immunohistochemical antibody, positive in 98%. Risk stratification was possible for 220 cases. Based  on Fletcher's consensus proposal, 62.3 gastric, 81.8% duodenal, 68% small intestinal, 72% colorectal and 89% EGISTs were assigned to the high risk category; while based on Miettinen and Lasota's algorithm, about 48% gastric, 100% duodenal, 76% small intestinal, 100% colorectal and 100% EGISTs in our study were associated with high risk for disease progression, tumor metastasis and tumor related death. Follow up was available in 95 patients; 26 were dead and 69  alive at follow up. Most of the patients who died had high risk disease and on average death occurred just a few months to a maximum of one to two years after initial surgical resection. CONCLUSIONS: Epidemiological and morphologic findings in our study were similar to international published data. The majority of cases  in our study belonged to the high risk category.
26161741: !GIMB Effect of Probiotics on Glycemic Control: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized, Controlled Trials. BACKGROUND: Previous clinical trials indicate that probiotic consumption may improve blood glucose control, however, results from randomized trials on glycemic control have been inconsistent. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of probiotics on glycemic control in a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. DATA SOURCES: PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Clinicaltrial.gov through October 2014. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Two independent reviewers extracted relevant data and assessed study quality and risk of bias. Data were pooled using a random-effects model and expressed as mean differences (MD) with 95% CI. Heterogeneity was assessed (Cochran Q-statistic) and quantified (I2). RESULTS: Seventeen randomized controlled trials were included, in which 17 fasting blood glucose (n = 1105), 11 fasting plasma insulin (n = 788), 8 homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (n = 635) comparisons were reported. Probiotic consumption, compared with placebo, significantly reduced fasting glucose (MD = -0.31 mmol/L; 95% CI 0.56, 0.06; p =  0.02), fasting plasma insulin (MD = -1.29 muU/mL; 95% CI -2.17, -0.41; p = 0.004), and HOMA-IR (MD = 0.48; 95% CI -0.83, -0.13; p = 0.007). CONCLUSIONS: Probiotic consumption may improve glycemic control modestly. Modification of gut  microbiota by probiotic supplementation may be a method for preventing and control hyperglycemia in clinical practice.
26159309: !GIMB Coincidental detection of the first outbreak of carbapenemase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae colonisation in a primary care hospital, Finland, 2013. In Finland, occurrence of Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase-producing K. pneumoniae (KPC-KP) has previously been sporadic and related to travel. We describe the first outbreak of colonisation with KPC-KP strain ST512; it affected nine patients in a 137-bed primary care hospital. The index case was detected by  chance when a non-prescribed urine culture was taken from an asymptomatic patient with suprapubic urinary catheter in June 2013. Thereafter, all patients on the 38-bed ward were screened until two screening rounds were negative and extensive  control measures were performed. Eight additional KPC-KP-carriers were found, and the highest prevalence of carriers on the ward was nine of 38. All other patients hospitalised on the outbreak ward between 1 May and 10 June and 101 former roommates of KPC-KP carriers since January had negative screening results. Two screening rounds on the hospital's other wards were negative. No link to travel abroad was detected. Compared with non-carriers, but without statistical significance, KPC-KP carriers were older (83 vs 76 years) and had more often received antimicrobial treatment within the three months before screening (9/9 vs 90/133). No clinical infections occurred during the six-month follow-up. Early detection, prompt control measures and repetitive screening were crucial in controlling the outbreak.
26044032: !GIMB Other notable protein blotting methods: a brief review. Proteins have been transferred from the gel to the membrane by a variety of methods. These include vacuum blotting, centrifuge blotting, electroblotting of proteins to Teflon tape and membranes for N- and C-terminal sequence analysis, multiple tissue blotting, a two-step transfer of low- and high-molecular-weight proteins, acid electroblotting onto activated glass, membrane-array method for the detection of human intestinal bacteria in fecal samples, protein microarray using a new black cellulose nitrate support, electrotransfer using square wave alternating voltage for enhanced protein recovery, polyethylene glycol-mediated significant enhancement of the immunoblotting transfer, parallel protein chemical processing before and during western blot and the molecular scanner concept, electronic western blot of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometric-identified polypeptides from parallel processed gel-separated proteins, semidry electroblotting of peptides and proteins from acid-urea polyacrylamide gels, transfer of silver-stained proteins from polyacrylamide gels to polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membranes, and the display of K(+) channel proteins on a solid nitrocellulose support for assaying toxin binding. The quantification of proteins bound to PVDF membranes by elution of CBB, clarification of immunoblots on PVDF for transmission densitometry, gold coating  of nonconductive membranes before matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization tandem mass spectrometric analysis to prevent charging effect for analysis of peptides from PVDF membranes, and a simple method for coating native polysaccharides onto nitrocellulose are some of the methods involving either the  manipulation of membranes with transferred proteins or just a passive transfer of antigens to membranes. All these methods are briefly reviewed in this chapter.
25970936: !GIMB Current concepts in minimal hepatic encephalopathy. Minimal hepatic encephalopathy (MHE) defines the presence of neurocognitive impairments in patients with cirrhosis or portal-systemic shunting that show a normal neurologic and psychiatric status on clinical examination. Although ammonia has the central role in MHE pathogenesis, factors such as infection, oxidative stress, manganese or intestinal bacterial overgrowth contribute to the  development of the neurocognitive deficits associated with this disease. Many methods have proven useful in identifying MHE but because of the major drawbacks  (standardization requirements, high price, sophisticated equipment, and limited access) a gold-standard test is still missing. Although beneficial, the treatment of MHE is not routinely recommended and should be taken into consideration in patients at risk for accidents and in those with cognitive complaints or decline  in work performance.
25929106: !GIMB [The study of Balantidium Helenae Bezzenberger, 1904 (Litostomatea, Trichostomatia) inhabiting the intestines of the frog Rana temporaria Linnaeus, 1758, in optical and electron microscopes]. The structure of the ciliate Balantidium helenae Bezzenberger, 1904 was investigated with the use of optical and electron microscopy. It was demonstrated that, together with the basic dimensional characteristics, main distinguishing features of the studied species include the following characters: the presence of a pointed prominence on the posterior margin of the cell; the presence of elongated cilia on the left margin of the vestibulum; and different shape and size of cortical ridges. Two morphologically different types of electron-dense bodies (supposedly hydrogenosoms) and also endobiotic bacteria were also found in the cytoplasm of B. helenae.
25914466: !GIMB Predisposing factors for positive D-Xylose breath test for evaluation of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth: a retrospective study of 932 patients. AIM: To investigate, in the largest cohort to date, patient characteristics and associated risk factors for developing small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) using the D-Xylose breath test (XBT). METHODS: We performed a retrospective cross-sectional study to analyze patient characteristics who underwent the XBT for evaluation of SIBO. Diagnostic testing with the XBT was performed based on a clinical suspicion for SIBO in patients with symptoms of bloating, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, weight loss, diarrhea, and/or constipation. Consecutive electronic medical records of 932 patients who completed the XBT at the University of Florida between 2005 and 2009 were reviewed. A two-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) was used to test for several associations including age, gender, and body mass index (BMI) with a +XBT. A two-way ANOVA was also performed to control for the differences and interaction with age and between genders. A similar analysis was repeated for BMI. Associations between medical conditions and prior surgical histories were conducted using the Mantel-Haenszel method for 2 by 2 contingency tables, stratified for gender. Reported odds ratio estimates reflect the odds of the prevalence of a condition within the +XBT group to that of the -XBT group. P values of less than 0.05 (two-sided) were considered statistically significant. RESULTS: In the 932 consecutive eligible subjects studied, 513 had a positive XBT. A positive association was found between female gender and a positive XBT (P = 0.0025), and females with a positive test were, on average, greater than 5 years older than those with a negative test (P = 0.024). The mean BMI of positive XBT subjects was normal (24.5) and significantly lower than the subjects with a negative XBT (29.5) (P = 0.0050). A positive XBT was associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) (OR = 1.35; 95%CI: 1.02-1.80, P = 0.04), peptic ulcer disease (PUD) (OR = 2.61; 95%CI: 1.48-4.59, P < 0.01), gastroparesis (GP) (OR = 2.04; 95%CI: 1.21-3.41, P < 0.01) and steroid use (OR = 1.35; 95%CI: 1.02-1.80, P = 0.01). Irritable bowel syndrome, independent proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) usage, or previous abdominal surgery was not significantly associated with  a positive XBT. No single subdivision by gender or PPI use was associated with a  significant difference in the odds ratios between any of the subsets. CONCLUSION: Female gender, lower BMI, steroid use, PUD, GERD (independent of PPI use), and GP were more prevalent in patients with SIBO, determined by a positive XBT. Increasing age was associated with SIBO in females, but not in males.
25906546: !GIMB [Clinical characteristics of patients with a double pylori]. Double pylorus (DP), is a form of gastroduodenal fistula, which consists of a short accessory canal from the gastic antrum to the duodenal bulb, and mostly occrus in the background of peptic ulcer disease. Prevalence, as well long-term follow-up of patients with DP is less elucidated in western countries. Aim of our study was to analyse demografic, clinical and endoscopic characteristics in our case-series. During 2008-2013. a total of 23836 upper endoscopies were performed  in 16759 patients. DP was diagnosed in 6 patients (prevalence of 0.04%). The follow-up period was f 8 to 72 months. In 87% DP was a complication of the upper  gastrointestinal bleeding. In 83% cases opening of the fistula was on lesser curvature of gastric antrumu. During follow-up period the fistula healing did not occur in any of our patients. DP is a very rare entity, with a benign course of the disease Associated comorbidity and use of ulceriform medications plays important role in persistence of DP, wheras possible eradication of Helicobacter  infection in this background remains elusive.
25822311: !GIMB Multidimensional clinical phenotyping of an adult cystic fibrosis patient population. BACKGROUND: Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a multi-systemic disease resulting from mutations in the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator (CFTR) gene and has major manifestations in the sino-pulmonary, and gastro-intestinal tracts. Clinical phenotypes were generated using 26 common clinical variables to generate classes that overlapped quantiles of lung function and were based on multiple aspects of CF systemic disease. METHODS: The variables included age, gender, CFTR mutations, FEV1% predicted, FVC% predicted, height, weight, Brasfield chest xray  score, pancreatic sufficiency status and clinical microbiology results. Complete  datasets were compiled on 211 subjects. Phenotypes were identified using a proximity matrix generated by the unsupervised Random Forests algorithm and subsequent clustering by the Partitioning around Medoids (PAM) algorithm. The final phenotypic classes were then characterized and compared to a similar dataset obtained three years earlier. FINDINGS: Clinical phenotypes were identified using a clustering strategy that generated four and five phenotypes. Each strategy identified 1) a low lung health scores phenotype, 2) a younger, well-nourished, male-dominated class, 3) various high lung health score phenotypes that varied in terms of age, gender and nutritional status. This multidimensional clinical phenotyping strategy identified classes with expected microbiology results and low risk clinical phenotypes with pancreatic sufficiency. INTERPRETATION: This study demonstrated regional adult CF clinical phenotypes using non-parametric, continuous, ordinal and categorical data with a  minimal amount of subjective data to identify clinically relevant phenotypes. These studies identified the relative stability of the phenotypes, demonstrated specific phenotypes consistent with published findings and identified others needing further study.
25808540: !GIMB Impact of antibiotic exposure on the risk of colorectal cancer. PURPOSE: Gut microbiota has been postulated to serve as a significant promoter of CRC formation, and colonic dysbiosis was previously reported in CRC tissue. Our aim was to evaluate the association between the type and cumulative duration of antibiotic exposure and CRC risk. METHODS: We conducted a nested case-control study using a large population-based database from the UK. Cases were defined as  those with any medical code of CRC. Subjects with known familial CRC syndromes or IBD were excluded from the study. For every case, four eligible controls matched  on age, sex, practice site, and duration of follow-up before index date were selected using incidence-density sampling. Exposure of interest was antibiotic therapy before index date. Adjusted ORs and 95%CIs were estimated using conditional logistic regression analysis. RESULTS: A total of 20,990 cases and 82,054 controls were identified. The adjusted OR for CRC among subjects first exposed to penicillins >10 years prior to index date was 1.11 (95%CI 1.02-1.20).  The risk increased significantly with the number of penicillin exposures up to 1.20 (95%CI 1.11-1.31) for >10 courses. The risk also increased with the average  number of penicillin treatments per-year (exposure intensity) with an OR of 1.04  (95%CI 1.01-1.08) per one additional treatment per year. Exposure to anti-viral or anti-fungal therapy was not associated with CRC risk. CONCLUSIONS: Past exposure to multiple courses of penicillins is related to a modest elevation in CRC risk.
25801839: !GIMB Lewy Bodies: A Spectator or Salient Killer? Lewy bodies (LBs) are characteristic hallmarks of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, their role in the pathology of PD is not established yet. Are they primary events in the neurodegenerative process or only secondary phenomena? Are  they signs of protecting neurons from toxicity or are they toxic per se? How are  they are formed? Are LBs targets for therapeutic strategies? Addressing these questions may be of pivotal importance to unravel the basic mechanisms of neurodegeneration in PD. On the basis of current evidence, we intend to elucidate the possible role of LBs as triggers and/or markers of disease progression in PD. We present evidence for the morphogenesis of brain stem and cortical LBs, the role in neuronal cell death mechanisms, which seem to be correlated with the adhesion of LBs to and finally disruption of their inner neuronal membrane. Taken as such, LBs would be salient killers of nerve cells. However, they may also play a neuroprotective role in the early phases of neuronal pathology (LBs as a spectator), yet harmful to neuronal stability in later stages of LB development.  Generation of LB pathology in the periphery (early subclinical Braak stage) might be due to reactive oxygen species (ROS) due to (chronic) bacteria-induced and/or  otherwise intestinal inflammation, both leading to alpha-synuclein structural changes, oligomerization, seeding and propagation in a prion-like mechanism. If so, LB generation is a secondary process following ROS/inflammation pathology. Therapeutic implication based on LB pathology include drug development to inhibit protein misfolding, templating and transmission or vaccination against LBs, neuron regeneration strategies, anti-inflammatory and anti-biotic drugs as well as nutritional specialities to prevent intestine intoxications. In conclusion, evidence suggests LBs to be secondary hallmarks of PD pathology, induced by ROS/inflammation or other pathological triggers able to modify protein (alpha-synuclein) steric/chemical properties. Therapeutic strategies based on LB  pathologies are devoted to reduce neuron cell death mechanisms in their time course and severity.
25785748: !GIMB Factors associated with the development and remission of allergic diseases in an  epidemiological survey of high school students in Japan. BACKGROUND: Allergic diseases are an important health problem for children and adults. It is important to know how allergic diseases develop and remit from infancy to adolescence. Early intervention is effective in treating allergic diseases. OBJECTIVE: We performed a large-scale questionnaire survey of high school students in Fukui Prefecture, Japan, and analyzed the factors associated with the development and remission of allergic diseases. METHODS: A total of 21,802 students participated in the epidemiologic survey, and the valid response  rate was 89.3% (19,461). We applied an inverse probability weighting method with  propensity scores. RESULTS: The present prevalence rate of allergic rhinitis (AR) was 19.2%. The remission rate of AR was 15.3%. Only children and firstborns had a significantly higher risk of developing symptoms of allergic diseases [only child: AR, 1.37; bronchial asthma (BA), 1.30; food allergy (FA), 1.33 and firstborn: AR, 1.38; BA, 1.10]. Constipation was an associated factor for development of atopic dermatitis (AD) (1.17) and AR (1.17), regular intake of lactic acid bacteria was not an associated factor for development of allergic diseases but was a factor for remission of AD (1.22). Hypohidrosis was an associated factor for development of AD (1.25). High academic performance was an  associated factor for development of AR (1.20) but was a negative factor for development of BA (0.89). The values in parentheses are significant adjusted odds ratios. CONCLUSION: This epidemiologic survey showed that the hygiene hypothesis  and intestinal bacterial flora might influence the development of symptoms and remission of allergic diseases.
25775072: !GIMB Laparoscopic Surgery or Conservative Treatment for Appendiceal Abscess in Adults? A Randomized Controlled Trial. OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized that immediate laparoscopic surgery for appendiceal abscess would result in faster recovery than conservative treatment. BACKGROUND:  On the basis of the retrospective studies, conservative management of appendiceal abscess is recommended as a first line treatment, but some controversy exists. METHODS: Sixty adult patients diagnosed with appendiceal abscess were randomly assigned to either laparoscopic surgery (n = 30) or conservative treatment (n = 30). Hospital stay, recurrences, additional interventions, and complications within 60 days from randomization were recorded. RESULTS: There was no difference in hospital stay: 4 days (interquartile range: 3-5 days) in the laparoscopy group versus 5 days (3-8) in the conservative group, P = 0.105. Patients in the laparoscopy group had 10% risk for bowel resection and 13% risk for incomplete appendectomy. There were significantly fewer patients with unplanned readmissions in the laparoscopy group: 1 (3%) versus 8 (27%), P = 0.026. Additional interventions were required in 2 (7%) patients in the laparoscopy group (percutaneous drainage) and in 9 (30%) patients in the conservative group (surgery), P = 0.042. Recurrent abscesses and failure to respond to conservative  treatment were the main reasons for additional interventions. Open surgery was required in 3 (10%) patients in the laparoscopy group and in 4 (13%) patients in  the conservative group. Postoperative complications occurred in 3 patients in laparoscopic group versus 2 patients in the conservative group. The rate of uneventful recovery was 90% in the laparoscopy group versus 50% in the conservative group, P = 0.002. CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic surgery in experienced hands is safe and feasible first-line treatment for appendiceal abscess. It is associated with fewer readmissions and fewer additional interventions than conservative treatment with comparable hospital stay.
25759970: !GIMB Perianal Sepsis in Hematologic Malignancy: MR Imaging Appearances and Distinction from Cryptoglandular Infection in Immunocompetent Patients. PURPOSE: To use magnetic resonance (MR) imaging to document the appearance of perianal infection in patients with a hematologic malignancy (HM) compared with that in immunocompetent control patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: After an ethical waiver was obtained, 38 patients with an HM were matched by age and sex to 38 control patients with no history of immunocompromise or Crohn disease. Both groups had undergone MR imaging for perianal symptoms and/or systemic sepsis. Two radiologists who were blinded to the diagnosis independently reviewed the MR images and recorded the size and distribution of abscesses and/or fistula tracts, the extent of perianal edema, and the likely diagnosis. Groups were compared by using the Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon, chi(2), or Fisher exact test. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed to estimate the ability of MR imaging to help distinguish patients with an HM from control patients. RESULTS: Patients with an HM had significantly greater perianal edema than did control patients (mean arc angle of anal canal involved, 220 degrees vs 60 degrees ; P <  .001). However, they had significantly lower rates of fistula (15 [39.5%] vs 35 [92.1%] of 38; P < .001). Abscesses were similar in frequency (10 [26.3%] vs 17 [44.7%] of 38; P = .15) and were unrelated to the degree of neutropenia (P = .71) or the use of chemotherapy (P = .10). Surgical treatment was rarely required in patients with an HM, either during the acute illness (four [10.5%] of 38) or thereafter (three [7.9%] of 38). MR imaging had an excellent ability to help discriminate patients with HM from immunocompetent patients (areas under the ROC  curve, 0.91 and 0.97). CONCLUSION: Perianal infection in patients with an HM is more likely to cause diffuse perianal edema and is less likely to cause fistulas  than in immunocompetent patients. MR imaging can help distinguish patients with an HM from those without immunocompromise.
25743457: !GIMB Barrett's oesophagus: can meaningful screening and surveillance guidelines be formulated based on new data and rejigging the old paradigm? Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) and Barrett's oesophagus (BO) have been  considered to be the most important known risk factors for oesophageal adenocarcinoma (OAC). It has been the fastest growing cancer in the Western World and has occurred against a backdrop of progressive reduction in the risk estimate of malignancy associated with BO and no reduction in mortality from OAC using the prevailing screening and surveillance guidelines. The recently published link between high risk HPV and Barrett's dysplasia/cancer may be the 'missing' strong  risk factor responsible for the significant rise of OAC since the 1970's, as has  been the case with head and neck tumours, another viral associated cancer. P53 immunohistochemistry has been proposed as a good molecular marker for predicting  disease progression in BD. Nevertheless, significant negative staining for this mutation in BD remains a major hurdle to widespread routine clinical use as a sole molecular marker. Recent data raises the distinct possibility of at least 2  (probably more) carcinogenic pathways operating in OAC. One is HPV mediated devoid largely of p53 mutations and the other p53 dependent. The joint use of both these markers as part of a molecular panel may represent the best bet yet of detecting the high risk group of progressors to OAC. Patients who are positive for either or both biomarkers i.e p53 or/and transcriptional markers of HPV may warrant more intensive screening. In future, genome wide technology may provide molecular signatures to aid diagnosis and risk stratification in BO.
25741143: !GIMB Diagnosis of ectopic pancreas by endoscopic ultrasound with fine-needle aspiration. AIM: To study the clinical, endoscopic, sonographic, and cytologic features of ectopic pancreas (EP). METHODS: This was a retrospective study performed at an academic referral center including two hospitals. Institutional review board approval was obtained. Patients referred to the University Hospital or Denver Health Medical Center Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Lab for gastroduodenal subepithelial lesions (SEL) with a final diagnosis of EP between January 2009 and December 2013 were identified. Patients in this group were selected for the study if they underwent endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) with fine-needle aspiration (FNA) or deep biopsy. A review of the medical record was performed specifically to review the following information: presenting symptoms, endoscopic and EUS findings, computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging findings, pathology results, procedure-related adverse events, and subsequent treatments after EUS-FNA. EUS with FNA or deep submucosal biopsy was performed in all patients on  an outpatient basais by one of two physicians (Attwell A, Fukami N). Review of all subsequent clinic notes and operative reports was performed in order to determine follow-up and final diagnoses. RESULTS: Between July 2009 and December  2013, 10 patients [3 males, 7 females, median age 52 (26-64) years] underwent EUS for a gastroduodenal SEL and were diagnosed with EP. One patient was symptomatic. Six (60%) lesions were in the antrum, 3 (30%) in the body, and 1 (10%) in the duodenum. A mucosal dimple was noted in 6 (60%). Mean lesion size was 17 (8-25) mm. Gastrointestinal wall involvement: muscularis mucosae, 10%; submucosa, 70%; muscularis propria, 60%; and serosa, 10%. Nine (90%) lesions were hypoechoic and  5 (50%) were homogenous. A duct was seen in 5 (50%). FNA was attempted in 9 (90%) and successful in 8 (80%) patients after 4 (2-6) passes. Cytology showed acini or ducts in 7 of 8 (88%). Superficial biopsies in 7 patients (70%) showed normal gastric mucosa. Deep endoscopic biopsies were taken in 2 patients and diagnostic  in one. One patient (10%) developed pancreatitis after EUS-FNA. Two patients (20%) underwent surgery to relieve symptoms or confirm the diagnosis. The main limitation of the study was the fact that it was retrospective and performed at a single medical center. CONCLUSION: EUS features of EP include antral location, mucosal dimple, location in layers 3-4, and lesional duct, and FNA or biopsy is accurate and effective.
25705750: !GIMB Adding fuel to the fire: the impact of stress on the ageing brain. Both ageing and chronic stress are associated with altered brain plasticity, dysregulation of the immune system, and an increased risk of developing brain disorders; all of which have consequences for cognitive and emotional processing. Here we examine the similarities between behavioural changes during ageing and stress altered behaviours (anxiety, depressive-like behaviour, cognition, and sociability) in rodents and humans. The molecular mechanisms hypothesised to mediate age-related changes in brain function including dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, dysregulation of neurotransmission and neurotrophic factor signalling, increased inflammatory state, genetic and epigenetic changes, oxidative stress, metabolic changes, and changes in the microbiota-gut-brain axis are discussed. Finally, we explore how the already stressed aged brain psychologically and physiologically responds to external stressors.
25672169: !GIMB Importance of microscopic stool examination in patients with diarrhoea. BACKGROUND: Loose motion is a common symptom in patients reporting to our hospital. As it is a small set up where only facility for microscopic stool examination is available, we designed this study to know how much microscopic stool examination can help us in management of patients with diarrhoea. METHODS:  This cross-sectional descriptive study was conducted from January 2010 to April 2012, at Thall Scout Hospital, Hangoo, Khyber Pukhtoon Khwa, Pakistan. All the patients presenting with acute diarrhoea were included in the study. Patients older than 12 years of age were labelled as adults and those 12 years or younger  as child. Stool specimens were collected using proper procedure and were examined microscopically. RESULTS: Of 494 stool specimens examined, 117 (23.68%) were positive for parasites or their ova, 34 (6.88%) had numerous pus and red blood cells and 343 (69.43%) patients had only stool of loose/soft consistency. Of 117  stool specimens positive for parasites, Giardia lamblia was detected in 67 (57.26%) patients, Entamoeba histolytica in 22 (18.80%) patients, H. nana in 10 (8.55%) patients, Tenea saginata in 8(6.84%) patients, hook worm in 6 (5.13%) patients, ascarids in 2 (1.71%) and Trichuris trichura in 2 (1.71%) patients. CONCLUSION: Among the parasitic causes of diarrhoea, giardia is the most common cause in our study with entameoba the second most common cause.
25644306: !GIMB Open-close structural change upon ligand binding and two magnesium ions required  for the catalysis of N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase. Infant gut-associated bifidobacteria possess a metabolic pathway to utilize lacto-N-biose (Gal-beta1,3-GlcNAc) and galacto-N-biose (Gal-beta1,3-GalNAc) from  human milk and glycoconjugates specifically. In this pathway, N-acetylhexosamine  1-kinase (NahK) catalyzes the phosphorylation of GlcNAc or GalNAc at the anomeric C1 position with ATP. Crystal structures of NahK have only been determined in the closed state. In this study, we determined open state structures of NahK in three different forms (apo, ADP complex, and ATP complex). A comparison of the open and closed state structures revealed an induced fit structural change defined by two  rigid domains. ATP binds to the small N-terminal domain, and binding of the N-acetylhexosamine substrate to the large C-terminal domain induces a closing conformational change with a rotation angle of 16 degrees . In the nucleotide binding site, two magnesium ions bridging the alpha-gamma and beta-gamma phosphates were identified. A mutational analysis indicated that a residue coordinating both of the two magnesium ions (Asp228) is essential for catalysis.  The involvement of two magnesium ions in the catalytic machinery is structurally  similar to the catalytic structures of protein kinases and aminoglycoside phosphotransferases, but distinct from the structures of other anomeric kinases or sugar 6-kinases. These findings help to elucidate the possible evolutionary adaptation of substrate specificities and induced fit mechanism.
25614752: !GIMB Acupuncture for visceral pain: neural substrates and potential mechanisms. Visceral pain is the most common form of pain caused by varied diseases and a major reason for patients to seek medical consultation. Despite much advances, the pathophysiological mechanism is still poorly understood comparing with its somatic counterpart and, as a result, the therapeutic efficacy is usually unsatisfactory. Acupuncture has long been used for the management of numerous disorders in particular pain and visceral pain, characterized by the high therapeutic benefits and low adverse effects. Previous findings suggest that acupuncture depresses pain via activation of a number of neurotransmitters or modulators including opioid peptides, serotonin, norepinephrine, and adenosine centrally and peripherally. It endows us, by advancing the understanding of the role of ion channels and gut microbiota in pain process, with novel perspectives  to probe the mechanisms underlying acupuncture analgesia. In this review, after describing the visceral innervation and the relevant afferent pathways, in particular the ion channels in visceral nociception, we propose three principal mechanisms responsible for acupuncture induced benefits on visceral pain. Finally, potential topics are highlighted regarding the future studies in this field.
25602795: !GIMB Pediatric non-Helicobacter pylori atrophic gastritis: a case series. Although autoimmune atrophic gastritis is classically a disease of elderly adults, recent studies have described the disease in younger adults, particularly in those with other autoimmune diseases and iron-deficiency anemia. Atrophic gastritis in pediatrics is a rare and possibly underdiagnosed entity that has been primarily reported as single-case reports. This retrospective study of atrophic gastritis not associated with Helicobacter pylori infection was performed to further expand the knowledge of clinical presentation, pathologic findings, and natural history of this disease in the pediatric population. Twelve patients with a histologic diagnosis of atrophic gastritis were identified, with  an age range of 8 months to 18 years. Seven had other autoimmune diseases and/or  immunodeficiency. Atrophy was confined to the oxyntic mucosa in 10 patients, with intramucosal inflammation in a diffuse or basal-predominant pattern. Active inflammation was present in 7 patients. Pseudopyloric, intestinal, or squamous/mucinous metaplasia was seen at initial biopsy or on follow-up in 8 patients, and enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia was seen in 5. One patient developed an adenocarcinoma during the follow-up period of 10 years. Two false-negative diagnoses were retrospectively identified. In the majority of cases, the possibility of atrophic gastritis was not raised by the submitting physician, and the endoscopic findings were not specific. Therefore, accurate diagnosis requires a high degree of suspicion on the part of the pathologist, and the diagnosis should be considered particularly in patients with a clinical history of other autoimmune diseases or iron-deficiency anemia.
25592616: !GIMB Enteric plexuses of two choline-acetyltransferase transgenic mouse lines: chemical neuroanatomy of the fluorescent protein-expressing nerve cells. We studied cholinergic circuit elements in the enteric nervous system (ENS) of two distinct transgenic mouse lines in which fluorescent protein expression was driven by the choline-acetyltransferase (ChAT) promoter. In the first mouse line, green fluorescent protein was fused to the tau gene. This construct allowed the visualization of the fiber tracts and ganglia, however the nerve cells were poorly resolved. In the second mouse line (ChATcre-YFP), CRE/loxP recombination yielded cytosolic expression of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). In these preparations the morphology of enteric neurons could be well studied. We also determined the neurochemical identity of ENS neurons in muscular and submucous layers using antibodies against YFP, calretinin (CALR), calbindin (CALB), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). Confocal microscopic imaging was used to visualize fluorescently-conjugated secondary antibodies. In ChATcre-YFP preparations, YFP was readily apparent in somatodendritic regions of ENS neurons. In the myenteric plexus, YFP/CALR/VIP staining revealed that 34% of cholinergic cells co-labeled with CALR. Few single-stained CR-positive cells were observed. Neither YFP nor CALR co-localized with VIP. In GFP/CALB/CALR staining, all co-localization combinations were represented. In the submucosal plexus, YFP/CALR/VIP staining revealed discrete neuronal populations. However, in separate preparations, double labeling was observed for YFP/CALR and CALR/VIP. In YFP/CALR/CALB staining, all combinations of double staining and triple labeling were verified. In conclusion, the neurochemical coding of ENS neurons in these mouse lines is consistent with many observations in non-transgenic animals. Thus, they provide useful tools for physiological and pharmacological studies on distinct neurochemical subtypes of ENS neurons.
25592227: !GIMB Structure and sequence analyses of Bacteroides proteins BVU_4064 and BF1687 reveal presence of two novel predominantly-beta domains, predicted to be involved in lipid and cell surface interactions. BACKGROUND: N-terminal domains of BVU_4064 and BF1687 proteins from Bacteroides vulgatus and Bacteroides fragilis respectively are members of the Pfam family PF12985 (DUF3869). Proteins containing a domain from this family can be found in  most Bacteroides species and, in large numbers, in all human gut microbiome samples. Both BVU_4064 and BF1687 proteins have a consensus lipobox motif implying they are anchored to the membrane, but their functions are otherwise unknown. The C-terminal half of BVU_4064 is assigned to protein family PF12986 (DUF3870); the equivalent part of BF1687 was unclassified. RESULTS: Crystal structures of both BVU_4064 and BF1687 proteins, solved at the JCSG center, show  strikingly similar three-dimensional structures. The main difference between the  two is that the two domains in the BVU_4064 protein are connected by a short linker, as opposed to a longer insertion made of 4 helices placed linearly along  with a strand that is added to the C-terminal domain in the BF1687 protein. The N-terminal domain in both proteins, corresponding to the PF12985 (DUF3869) domain is a beta-sandwich with pre-albumin-like fold, found in many proteins belonging to the Transthyretin clan of Pfam. The structures of C-terminal domains of both proteins, corresponding to the PF12986 (DUF3870) domain in BVU_4064 protein and an unclassified domain in the BF1687 protein, show significant structural similarity to bacterial pore-forming toxins. A helix in this domain is in an analogous position to a loop connecting the second and third strands in the toxin structures, where this loop is implicated to play a role in the toxin insertion into the host cell membrane. The same helix also points to the groove between the N- and C-terminal domains that are loosely held together by hydrophobic and hydrogen bond interactions. The presence of several conserved residues in this region together with these structural determinants could make it a functionally important region in these proteins. CONCLUSIONS: Structural analysis of BVU_4064  and BF1687 points to possible roles in mediating multiple interactions on the cell-surface/extracellular matrix. In particular the N-terminal domain could be involved in adhesive interactions, the C-terminal domain and the inter-domain groove in lipid or carbohydrate interactions.
25586058: !GIMB Baseline quantitative hepatitis B core antibody titre alone strongly predicts HBeAg seroconversion across chronic hepatitis B patients treated with peginterferon or nucleos(t)ide analogues. OBJECTIVE: The investigation regarding the clinical significance of quantitative  hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc) during chronic hepatitis B (CHB) treatment is limited. The aim of this study was to determine the performance of anti-HBc as a predictor for hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion in HBeAg-positive CHB patients treated with peginterferon (Peg-IFN) or nucleos(t)ide analogues (NUCs), respectively. DESIGN: This was a retrospective cohort study consisting of 231 and 560 patients enrolled in two phase IV, multicentre, randomised, controlled trials treated with Peg-IFN or NUC-based therapy for up to 2 years, respectively. Quantitative anti-HBc evaluation was conducted for all the available samples in the two trials by using a newly developed double-sandwich anti-HBc immunoassay. RESULTS: At the end of trials, 99 (42.9%) and 137 (24.5%) patients achieved HBeAg seroconversion in the Peg-IFN and NUC cohorts, respectively. We defined 4.4 log10 IU/mL, with a maximum sum of sensitivity and specificity, as the optimal cut-off value of baseline anti-HBc level to predict HBeAg seroconversion for both Peg-IFN and NUC. Patients with baseline anti-HBc >/=4.4 log10 IU/mL and baseline HBV DNA <9 log10 copies/mL had 65.8% (50/76) and  37.1% (52/140) rates of HBeAg seroconversion in the Peg-IFN and NUC cohorts, respectively. In pooled analysis, other than treatment strategy, the baseline anti-HBc level was the best independent predictor for HBeAg seroconversion (OR 2.178; 95% CI 1.577 to 3.009; p<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Baseline anti-HBc titre is a useful predictor of Peg-IFN and NUC therapy efficacy in HBeAg-positive CHB patients, which could be used for optimising the antiviral therapy of CHB.
25574107: !GIMB Long-term follow-up of distal intestinal obstruction syndrome in cystic fibrosis. AIM: To investigate the long-term follow-up of distal intestinal obstruction syndrome (DIOS) in Israeli cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. METHODS: This is a multi-center, comparative, retrospective study in which we reviewed the medical records of all CF patients from three major CF centers in Israel who were treated in the period from 1980 to 2012. Patients diagnosed with DIOS were defined as the study group. The patients were diagnosed with DIOS based on their clinical presentation and typical findings on either abdominal X-ray or computerized tomography scan. For the control group, CF patients with no DIOS were matched to  the patients in the study group for age, sex, and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) mutations. For both groups, the collected data included age, sex, CFTR genotype, weight, height, and body mass index. Clinical data included respiratory function tests in the last five years prior to the study, respiratory function test immediately before and after the DIOS event, number of hospitalizations, sputum culture results, and CF-related conditions diagnosed according to the CF clinical practice guidelines. In the study group, data on the DIOS treatment and tendency for DIOS recurrence were also analyzed. RESULTS: The medical charts for a total of 350 CF patients were reviewed. Of the  350 CF patients, 26 (7.4%) were diagnosed with DIOS. The control group included 31 CF patients with no DIOS diagnosis. The mean follow-up period was 21.6 +/- 8.2 years. The total of DIOS episodes in the follow-up period was 60. The distribution of DIOS episodes was as follows: 6/26 (23.1%) study patients had one episode of DIOS in their lifetime, 7/26 (26.9%) had two episodes, 7/26 (26.9%) had three episodes, and 6/26 (23.1%) had four or more episodes. Compared to the control group, DIOS patients had a significantly higher incidence of meconium ileus in the past (65.4% vs 0%, respectively, P < 0.02), more Aspergillus spp. colonization (34.6% vs 3.2%, respectively, P < 0.02), and a higher number of hospitalizations due to respiratory exacerbations (8.6 vs 6.2 mean total hospitalizations per follow-up period, respectively, P < 0.02). No other significant differences were found between the control and study groups. The conservative treatment of DIOS, which mainly includes hydration and stool softeners, was successful in 82% of the episodes. The survival rate was similar for both groups. CONCLUSION: CF patients with DIOS suffer from recurrent hospitalizations and airway pathogen acquisition. Although recurrence of DIOS is  common, conservative treatment is successful in most patients.
25516674: !GIMB Prevalence, histologic and clinical characteristics of heterotopic gastric mucosa in Chinese patients. AIM: To determine the prevalence, demographic, clinical and histopathologic features of heterotopic gastric mucosa (HGM) in Chinese patients. METHODS: Patients referred to three endoscopy units were enrolled in this study. The macroscopic characteristics of HGM were documented. Biopsies were obtained and observed using hematoxylin and eosin staining. Helicobacter pylori colonization was examined by Whartin-Starry staining. RESULTS: HGM was observed in 420 Chinese patients, yielding a prevalence of 0.4%. The majority of patients had a single patch (300/420; 71.4%), while the remainder had two (84/420; 20%) or multiple patches (36/420; 8.6%). The size of the patches and the distance from the patch to the frontal incisor teeth varied significantly. The large majority of HGM patches were flat (393/420; 93.6%), whereas the remaining patches were slightly elevated. The primary histological characteristic was fundic-type (216/420; 51.4%) within the HGM patch, and antral- (43/420; 10.2%) and transitional-type (65/420; 15.5%) mucosa were also observed. The prevalence of intestinal metaplasia was 3.1% (13/420) and the prevalence of dysplasia was 1.4% (6/420), indicating the necessity for endoscopic follow-up in patients with HGM. Esophageal and extraesophageal complaints were also observed in patients with HGM. Dysphagia and epigastric discomfort (odds ratios: 6.836 and 115.826, respectively; Ps < 0.05) were independent risk factors for HGM. CONCLUSION: Clinical complaints should be considered to improve the detection rate of HMG. The prevalence of intestinal metaplasia and dysplasia also indicates a need for endoscopic follow-up.
25516310: !GIMB Low all-cause mortality despite high cardiovascular risk in elderly Greek-born Australians: attenuating potential of diet? Elderly Greek-born Australians (GA) consistently show lower rates of all-cause and CVD mortality compared with Australian-born. Paradoxically, however, this is  in spite of a higher prevalence of CVD risk factors. This paper reviews the findings from the Food Habits in Later Life (FHILL) study, other studies on Greek migrants to Australia and clinical studies investigating dietary mechanisms which may explain the "morbidity mortality paradox". The FHILL study collected data between 1988 and 1991 on diet, health and psycho-social variables on 818 people aged 70 and over from Sweden, Greece, Australia (Greeks and Anglo-Celts), Japan and were followed up for 5-7 years to determine survival status. The FHILL study  was the first to develop a score which captured the key features of a traditional plant-based Mediterranean diet pattern (MDPS). A higher score improved overall survival in both Greek and non-Greek elderly reducing the risk of death by 50% after 5-7 years. Of the 5 cohorts studied, elderly GA had the lowest risk of death, even though they had the highest rates of obesity and other CVD risk factors (developed in the early years of migration with the introduction of energy dense foods). GA appeared to be "getting away" with these CVD risk factors because of their continued adherence in old age to a Mediterranean diet, especially legumes. We propose that the Mediterranean diet may, in part, be operating to reduce the risk of death and attenuate established CVD risk factors  in GA by beneficially altering the gut microbiome and its metabolites.
25491827: !GIMB In situ synthesis of magnetic CaraPVA IPN nanocomposite hydrogels and controlled  drug release. In this work, the magnetic nanocomposite hydrogels that focused on targeted drug  delivery were synthesized by incorporation of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), kappa-carrageenan (Cara), and magnetite Fe3O4 nanoparticles. The magnetic nanoparticles were obtained in situ in the presence of a mixture of polyvinyl alcohol/kappa-carrageenan (CaraPVA). The produced magnetite-polymers were cross-linked with freezing-thawing technique and subsequent with K(+) solution. The synthesized hydrogels were thoroughly characterized by transmittance electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), and vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM) techniques. The dynamic swelling kinetic models of hydrogels were analyzed according to the first- and second-order kinetic models and were found that the experimental kinetics data followed the second-order model well. Drug loading and release efficiency were evaluated by diclofenac sodium (DS) as the model drug. The in vitro drug release  studies from hydrogels exhibited significant behaviors on the subject of physiological simulated pHs and external magnetic fields. Investigation on the antibacterial activity revealed the ability of drug-loaded hydrogels to inactivate the Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) bacteria. The mucoadhesive properties of the hydrogels were studied and the hydrogels containing kappa-carrageenan showed good mucoadhesiveness in both simulated gastric and intestinal conditions.
25433843: !GIMB Evidence for the existence of Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome  (ME/CFS) with and without abdominal discomfort (irritable bowel) syndrome. BACKGROUND: There is evidence that Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) is accompanied by gastro-intestinal symptoms; and IgA and IgM responses directed against lipopolysaccharides (LPS) of commensal bacteria, indicating bacterial translocation. METHODS: This study was carried out to examine gastro-intestinal symptoms in subjects with ME/CFS versus those with chronic fatigue (CF). The two groups were dissected by dichotomizing those fulfilling and not fulfilling Fukuda's critera. In these groups, we examined the  association between gastro-intestinal symptoms and the IgA and IgM responses directed against commensal bacteria. RESULTS: Using cluster analysis performed on gastro-intestinal symptoms we delineated that the cluster analysis-generated diagnosis of abdominal discomfort syndrome (ADS) was significantly higher in subjects with ME/CFS (59.6%) than in those with CF (17.7%). The diagnosis of ADS  was strongly associated with the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). There is evidence that ME/CFS consists of two subgroups, i.e. ME/CFS with and without ADS. Factor analysis showed four factors, i.e. 1) inflammation-hyperalgesia; 2) fatigue-malaise; 3) gastro-intestinal symptoms/ADS; and 4) neurocognitive symptoms. The IgA and IgM responses to LPS of commensal bacteria were significantly higher in ME/CFS patients with ADS than in those without ADS. CONCLUSIONS: The findings show that ADS is a characteristic of a subset of patients with ME/CFS and that increased bacterial translocation (leaky  gut) is associated with ADS symptoms. This study has defined a pathway phenotype, i.e bacterial translocation, that is related to ME/CFS and ADS/IBS and that may drive systemic inflammatory processes.
25402663: !GIMB Phosphorylation of the kinase domain regulates autophosphorylation of myosin IIIA and its translocation in microvilli. Motor activity of myosin III is regulated by autophosphorylation. To investigate  the role of the kinase activity on the transporter function of myosin IIIA (Myo3A), we identified the phosphorylation sites of kinase domain (KD), which is  responsible for the regulation of kinase activity and thus motor function. Using  mass spectrometry, we identified six phosphorylation sites in the KD, which are highly conserved among class III myosins and Ste20-related misshapen (Msn) kinases. Two predominant sites, Thr(1)(8)(4) and Thr(1)(8)(8), in KD are important for phosphorylation of the KD as well as the motor domain, which regulates the affinity for actin. In the Caco2 cells, the full-length human Myo3A (hMyo3AFull) markedly enlarged the microvilli, although it did not show discrete  localization within the microvilli. On the other hand, hMyo3AFull(T184A) and hMyo3AFull(T188A) both showed clear localization at the microvilli tips. Our results suggest that Myo3A induces large actin bundle formation to form microvilli, and phosphorylation of KD at Thr(1)(8)(4) and Thr(1)(8)(8) is critical for the kinase activity of Myo3A, and regulation of Myo3A translocation  to the tip of microvilli. Retinal extracts potently dephosphorylate both KD and motor domain without IQ motifs (MDIQo), which was inhibited by okadaic acid (OA)  with nanomolar range and by tautomycetin (TMC) with micromolar range. The results suggest that Myo3A phosphatase is protein phosphatase type 2A (PP2A). Supporting  this result, recombinant PP2Ac potently dephosphorylates both KD and MDIQo. We propose that the phosphorylation-dephosphorylation mechanism plays an essential role in mediating the transport and actin bundle formation and stability functions of hMyo3A.
25396737: !GIMB Lactobacillus casei-01 facilitates the ameliorative effects of proanthocyanidins  extracted from lotus seedpod on learning and memory impairment in scopolamine-induced amnesia mice. Learning and memory abilities are associated with alterations in gut function. The two-way proanthocyanidins-microbiota interaction in vivo enhances the physiological activities of proanthocyanidins and promotes the regulation of gut  function. Proanthocyanidins extracted from lotus seedpod (LSPC) have shown the memory-enhancing ability. However, there has been no literature about whether Lactobacillus casei-01 (LC) enhances the ameliorative effects of LSPC on learning and memory abilities. In this study, learning and memory abilities of scopolamine-induced amnesia mice were evaluated by Y-maze test after 20-day administration of LC (10(9) cfu/kg body weight (BW)), LSPC (low dose was 60 mg/kg BW (L-LSPC) and high dose was 90 mg/kg BW (H-LSPC)), or LSPC and LC combinations  (L-LSPC+LC and H-LSPC+LC). Alterations in antioxidant defense ability and oxidative damage of brain, serum and colon, and brain cholinergic system were investigated as the possible mechanisms. As a result, the error times of H-LSPC+LC group were reduced by 41.59% and 68.75% relative to those of H-LSPC and LC groups respectively. LSPC and LC combinations ameliorated scopolamine-induced  memory impairment by improving total antioxidant capacity (TAOC) level, glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD) activities of brain, serum and colon, suppressing malondialdehyde (MDA) level of brain, serum and colon, and inhibiting brain acetylcholinesterase (AchE), myeloperoxidase, total nitric oxide synthase and neural nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activities, and nNOS mRNA level. Moreover, LC facilitated the ameliorative effects of H-LSPC on GSH-Px activity of colon, TAOC level, GSH-Px activity and ratio of T-SOD to MDA of brain and serum, and the inhibitory effects of H-LSPC on serum MDA level, brain nNOS mRNA level and AchE activity. These results indicated that LC promoted the memory-enhancing effect of LSPC in scopolamine-induced amnesia mice.
25389534: !GIMB Characterisation of Drosophila Ubx CPTI000601 and hth CPTI000378 protein trap lines. In Drosophila, protein trap strategies provide powerful approaches for the generation of tagged proteins expressed under endogenous control. Here, we describe expression and functional analysis to evaluate new Ubx and hth protein trap lines generated by the Cambridge Protein Trap project. Both protein traps exhibit spatial and temporal expression patterns consistent with the reported endogenous pattern in the embryo. In imaginal discs, Ubx-YFP is expressed throughout the haltere and 3rd leg imaginal discs, while Hth-YFP is expressed in  the proximal regions of haltere and wing discs but not in the pouch region. The Ubx (CPTI000601) line is semilethal as a homozygote. No T3/A1 to T2 transformations were observed in the embryonic cuticle or the developing midgut.  The homozygous survivors, however, exhibit a weak haltere phenotype with a few wing-like marginal bristles on the haltere capitellum. Although hth (CPTI000378)  is completely lethal as a homozygote, the hth (CPTI000378) /hth (C1) genotype is  viable. Using a hth deletion (Df(3R)BSC479) we show that hth (CPTI000378) /Df(3R)BSC479 adults are phenotypically normal. No transformations were observed  in hth (CPTI000378), hth (CPTI000378) /hth (C1), or hth (CPTI000378) /Df(3R)BSC479 embryonic cuticles. We have successfully characterised the Ubx-YFP  and Hth-YFP protein trap lines demonstrating that the tagged proteins show appropriate expression patterns and produce at least partially functional proteins.
25387415: !GIMB IV. The cognitive implications of obesity and nutrition in childhood. The prevalence of childhood obesity in the United States has tripled since the 1980s and is strongly linked to the early onset of several metabolic diseases. Recent studies indicate that lower cognitive function may be another complication of childhood obesity. This review considers the research to date on the role of obesity and nutrition on childhood cognition and brain health. Although a handful of studies point to a maladaptive relationship between obesity and aspects of cognitive control, remarkably little is known regarding the impact of fat mass on brain development and cognitive function. Further, missing from the literature is the role of nutrition in the obesity-cognition interaction. Nutrition may directly or indirectly influence cognitive performance via several pathways including provision of key substrates for optimal brain health, modulation of gut microbiota, and alterations in systemic energy balance. However, in the absence of malnutrition, the functional benefits of specific nutrient intake on particular cognitive domains are not well characterized. Here, we examine the literature linking childhood obesity and cognition while considering the effects  of nutritional intake. Possible mechanisms for these relationships are discussed  and suggestions are made for future study topics. Although childhood obesity prevalence rates in some developed countries have recently stabilized, significant disparities remain among groups based on sex and socioeconomic status. Given that the elevated prevalence of pediatric overweight and obesity may persist for the foreseeable future, it is crucial to develop a comprehensive  understanding of the influence of obesity and nutrition on cognition and brain health in the pediatric population.
25353827: !GIMB Robust hypothesis tests for detecting statistical evidence of two-dimensional and three-dimensional interactions in single-molecule measurements. Experimental advances have improved the two- (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) spatial resolution that can be extracted from in vivo single-molecule measurements. This enables researchers to quantitatively infer the magnitude and  directionality of forces experienced by biomolecules in their native environment. Situations where such force information is relevant range from mitosis to directed transport of protein cargo along cytoskeletal structures. Models commonly applied to quantify single-molecule dynamics assume that effective forces and velocity in the x,y (or x,y,z) directions are statistically independent, but this assumption is physically unrealistic in many situations. We present a hypothesis testing approach capable of determining if there is evidence of statistical dependence between positional coordinates in experimentally measured trajectories; if the hypothesis of independence between spatial coordinates is rejected, then a new model accounting for 2D (3D) interactions can and should be considered. Our hypothesis testing technique is robust, meaning it  can detect interactions, even if the noise statistics are not well captured by the model. The approach is demonstrated on control simulations and on experimental data (directed transport of intraflagellar transport protein 88 homolog in the primary cilium).
25341271: !GIMB Updates in the pathogenesis and diagnosis of hepatic encephalopathy. In the pathophysiology of hepatic encephalopathy (HE), a serious complication of  liver cirrhosis, different hypotheses, including increased blood ammonia levels,  increased production and absorption of intestinal bacterial products are discussed. Recent studies demonstrated that Helicobacter pylori infection is associated with elevated blood ammonia levels. Inflammatory mediators and cytokines also play important roles along with hyperammonia in the pathogenesis of HE, while recent studies revealed correlations between CRP levels and length of hospital stay. Neuropsychological diagnostic tests, such as Psychometric Hepatic Encephalopathy Score, were especially designed for detecting minimal HE.  Imaging investigations, like Computed Tomography or Magnetic Resonance Imaging, show characteristic aspects in advanced stages of liver disease. Recent studies revealed that Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) can show significant changes mostly in advanced stages of overt HE, but that it is not an appropriate tool in  defining an encephalopathy-related status of patients with cirrhosis.
25339806: !GIMB Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and aging: epidemiology to management. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is common in the elderly, in whom it carries a more substantial burden of hepatic (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma) and extra-hepatic manifestations and complications (cardiovascular disease, extrahepatic neoplasms) than in younger age groups. Therefore, proper identification and management of this condition is  a major task for clinical geriatricians and geriatric hepatologists. In this paper, the epidemiology and pathophysiology of this condition are reviewed, and a full discussion of the link between NAFLD and the aspects that are peculiar to elderly individuals is provided; these aspects include frailty, multimorbidity, polypharmacy and dementia. The proper treatment strategy will have to consider the peculiarities of geriatric patients, so a multidisciplinary approach is mandatory. Non-pharmacological treatment (diet and physical exercise) has to be tailored individually considering the physical limitations of most elderly people and the need for an adequate caloric supply. Similarly, the choice of drug treatment must carefully balance the benefits and risks in terms of adverse events and pharmacological interactions in the common context of both multiple health conditions and polypharmacy. In conclusion, further epidemiological and pathophysiological insight is warranted. More accurate understanding of the molecular mechanisms of geriatric NAFLD will help in identifying the most appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic approach for individual elderly patients.
25336488: !GIMB Sonographic findings in patients with Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever. OBJECTIVES: Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) has been endemic in Turkey since 2002. Some radiologic findings are considered common by clinicians and radiologists. In this regard, we aimed to assess the sonographic findings in patents with CCHF in a pilot study to obtain basic knowledge for planning further controlled studies. METHODS: An observational descriptive study was planned. Patients with a CCHF diagnosis monitored by the infectious diseases department of a tertiary care hospital were included. Sonographic examinations were conducted by 2 radiologists for each patient, and the findings were recorded. RESULTS: Twenty-five patients with CCHF were included. Hepatomegaly (40%), splenomegaly (28%), paraceliac lymphadenopathy (48%), gallbladder wall thickening (36%), increased echogenicity in the renal parenchyma (40%), and fluid/effusion in the perihepatic, perisplenic, pleural, and hepatorenal recesses of the subhepatic space (Morison pouch) as well as between the intestinal loops (52%) were the primary findings. A decrease in the gallbladder wall thickening and limited resorption of intraperitoneal and pleural effusion were noted during follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: Hepatosplenomegaly, paraceliac lymphadenopathy, and gallbladder wall thickening as well as intraperitoneal and pleural effusion were the primary findings in CCHF, and they became prominent on the third day of the disease in some patients. The relationship between sonographic findings and disease severity will be investigated in an upcoming study.
25308451: !GIMB [Analysis of intestinal ameobiasis in patients with diarrhea by adhesin antigen test and direct microscopy]. OBJECTIVE: In this study, we aimed to research the frequency of intestinal amebiasis in patients who applied with diarrhea retrospectively for a year and compare direct microscopic analysis and ELISA adhesin antigen test for Entamoeba  histolytica procedures. METHODS: The fecal matter sample of 259 patients with diarrhea who applied to the Sivas Numune Hospital Microbiology Laboratory between February 2012 and March 2013 were studied. Samples were evaluated with direct microscopic analysis and Entamoeba histolytica adhesin antigen test (E. histolytica II, Techlab, Blacksburg, USA). RESULTS: In the patients who applied to our laboratory with an amebiasis diagnosis, the mean age was detected as 40.12+/-19, and the positivity range of the Entamoeba histolytica adhesin antigen test was detected as 25.1% (n=65). In ELISA adhesin test-positive patients 24.6%  (n=16) trophozoites, cyst, abundant leukocytes and erythrocytes were detected, and in 6 patients (3.1%), ELISA adhesin antigen test was negative. There was no difference between males and females (p>0.05), but between-season difference was  detected (p<0.05). CONCLUSION: Direct microscopic analysis may be inadequate in the differential diagnosis of E. histolytica/ and E. dispar and discrimination of Entamoeba cyst and/or trophozoites from other cellular elements (esp. leukocytes). Furthermore, we thought that the E. histolytica monoclonal ELISA adhesin test is useful for the differential diagnosis of pathogenic E. histolytica and nonpathogenic E. dispar.
25300636: !GIMB Lawsonia intracellularis and equine proliferative enteropathy. Lawsonia intracellularis is the etiologic agent for equine proliferative enteropathy (EPE), which typically affects weanling and yearling horses. In North America, EPE cases often occur between August and January, although cases outside of this time frame have been reported. Clinical signs of EPE are usually nonspecific and include lethargy, pyrexia, anorexia, peripheral edema, weight loss, colic, and diarrhea. Diagnosis is based on the presence of hypoproteinemia  and hypoalbuminemia along with clinical signs and positive commercial serologic and/or molecular testing. Treatment requires the use of antimicrobials with good  intracellular penetration and supportive care to prevent or decrease secondary complications.
25291129: !GIMB Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in patients with chronic pancreatitis. GOALS: To assess the prevalence of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) in chronic pancreatitis (CP), and analyze factors related with SIBO in CP. BACKGROUND: SIBO is to be considered a factor that worsens symptoms and nutritional status in patients with CP. However, the few studies evaluating the rate of SIBO in CP patients used nonuniform and nonstandardized procedures, and reported a wide range of positivity (0% to 92%). Those studies often investigated CP patients with previous resection surgery (cause of SIBO per se). STUDY: CP patients and controls evaluated for SIBO by the H2 glucose breath test with a standard protocol. For CP patients, the relationship between test results, abdominal symptoms, and clinical and biochemical variables was analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 43 CP patients and 43 controls were enrolled. Of the CP patients, 8 had advanced disease (defined by M-ANNHEIM index) and none had undergone previous surgery. The glucose breath test positivity rate was higher in the CP patients than in the controls (21% vs. 14%), albeit without a significant difference (P=0.57). Mean fasting H2 excretion and mean H2 excretion at 120 minutes also had a trend toward higher levels in CP patients. There were no clinical differences between CP patients with or without SIBO, but there were nutritional differences  for lower levels of vitamin D and higher levels of folate in these patients with  SIBO. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that SIBO is not uncommon in uncomplicated CP patients. The lack of a significant difference compared with controls might be due to the study being underpowered. SIBO in CP patients does not seem to be related to peculiar clinical features, but it might affect nutritional status.
25291124: !GIMB Preliminary results on clinical effects of probiotic Lactobacillus salivarius LS01 in children affected by atopic dermatitis. GOALS: The goal of this study was to evaluate the clinical efficacy of an intake  of Lactobacillus salivarius LS01 (DSM 22775) for the treatment of atopic dermatitis (AD) in children. BACKGROUND: AD is an inflammatory and pruritic chronic relapsing skin disorder with multifactorial etiopathology. Some evidence  suggests that probiotics may improve AD by modulating the immune system and the composition of intestinal microbiota. STUDY: A total of 43 patients aged from 0 to 11 years were enrolled in the study (M/F ratio=1:1) and treated with the probiotic strain L. salivarius LS01. Clinical efficacy of probiotic treatment was assessed from baseline by changes in itch index and in the objective SCORAD/SCORAD index. RESULTS: Patients being given probiotic treatment showed a significant improvement in clinical parameters (SCORAD and itch values) from baseline. The reduction in SCORAD and itch index observed after 4 weeks of treatment also persisted after the cessation of probiotic supplementation. CONCLUSIONS: L. salivarius LS01 seems to be able to improve the quality of life of children affected by AD and, as a consequence, it may have promising clinical  and research implications.
25238468: !GIMB [Psoas abscess as a differential diagnosis in emergency department]. BACKGROUND: A psoas (or iliopsoas) abscess is a rare clinical entity with a wide  etiological range. It is defined as a collection of pus that begins and extends through the iliopsoas muscle and can reach up to the inguinal region. METHODS: We performed a retrospective descriptive study by reviewing medical records from the General Surgery department of Reina Sofia's General University Hospital. Information was collected from patients diagnosed with psoas abscess who were admitted to the General Surgery department from 2006 to 2011. RESULTS: Five cases were reported for 6 years: four males (80%) and one female (20%). Average age was 51.6 years (range: 35--75). All were admitted to the hospital through the Emergency Department. Lumbar pain, fever and rash were clinical features in three patients. Two patients initiated with septic shock. Each patient had computed tomography performed, which confirmed the diagnosis. Causes of the abscess were as follows: one perforated colon neoplasm, two left hip osteomyelitis, one Crohn's disease and one primary abscess. Surgery was the treatment in three cases and placement of pigtail drainage was the treatment in two patients. Two patients were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit and ultimately died. CONCLUSION: In our  case series report, it is seen that treatment delay developed to septic shock and death. We should consider this entity in emergency practice in order to carry out timely treatment.
25232265: !GIMB Resolution of acute gastroenteritis symptoms in children and adults treated with  a novel polyphenol-based prebiotic. AIM: To test efficacy and durability of a polyphenol-based prebiotic treatment for acute gastroenteritis in a 300 patient double-blinded clinical study. METHODS: A two-arm randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical study  was conducted at two public health centers in Managua, Nicaragua. Potential subjects who qualified based on inclusion and exclusion criteria were randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms. Two thirds of the subjects (n = 200) received a single titrated 0.5-2 ounce liquid dose of a novel polyphenol-based prebiotic (Aliva(TM)) diluted with 2 to eight ounces of oral rehydration solution (ORS). One third of the subjects (n = 100) were randomized to receive two liquid  ounces of a taste and color-matched placebo diluted in eight ounces of ORS. The outcome variables measured included stool consistency, stomach discomfort, gas and bloating, and heartburn/indigestion. The study subjects ranked their stool consistency and the severity of their subjective symptoms at specified intervals  from immediately prior to treatment, to five days post treatment. All subjects recorded their symptoms in a study diary. The study subjects also recorded the time and consistencies of all stools in their study diary. Stool consistency was  compared to the picture and descriptions on the Bristol Stool Chart, and any stool rated greater than Type 4 was considered unformed. The clinical study team  reviewed the study diaries with subjects during daily follow-up calls and close-out visits, and recorded the data in case report forms. RESULTS: After receiving a single dose, Aliva treated subjects reported shorter median time to their last unformed stool (1 h 50 min) than placebo treated subjects (67 h 50 min.), a statistically significant difference [95%CI: -3178-(-2018), P = 0.000].  Aliva treated subjects also reported shorter median their time to last unformed stool (TTLUS) (1 hrs 50 min) than placebo treated subjects (67 h 50 min), which was also a statistically significant difference (P = 0.000).The percentage of subjects recording TTLUS was greater for those who received Aliva vs placebo at 30 min (P = 0.027), 2 h (P = 0.000), 24 h (P = 0.000), 48 h (P = 0.000), 72 h (P  = 0.000), and 5 d (P = 0.000) post dose. There were 146 study subjects 14 years old or older, which was the criteria set for reliable self-reporting of subjective symptoms. Of those 146 subjects, 142 reported stomach pain and discomfort during screening. From 90 minutes [95%CI: -1.8-(-0.01), P = 0.048] through 5 d [95%CI: -3.4-(-1.9), P = 0.000), the subjects treated with Aliva experienced significantly less stomach pain and discomfort than those who received placebo. Of those same 146 participants, 114 subjects reported gas and bloating during screening. Similarly, subjects who received Aliva experienced significantly less gas and bloating from 2 h [95%CI: -1.7-(-0.39), P = 0.030] through 5 d (95%CI: -2.0-0.42, P = 0.005) compared with the placebo arm. CONCLUSION: In this double-blind, randomized clinical study, subjects with acute  gastroenteritis receiving Aliva prebiotic showed significant and sustained improvement of multiple symptoms vs those receiving placebo.
25211252: !GIMB Prevalence and characteristics of rectal chlamydia and gonorrhea cases among men  who have sex with men after the introduction of nucleic acid amplification test screening at 2 Canadian sexually transmitted infection clinics. We sought to determine the prevalence of rectal chlamydia and gonorrhea after the introduction of nucleic acid amplification tests for screening in men reporting receptive anal intercourse. The rectal chlamydia prevalence was 14.1% (95% confidence interval, 11.9-16.3), and the gonorrhea prevalence was 5.9% (95% confidence interval, 4.4-7.3). Most cases were positive only from the rectum.
25197003: !GIMB Five-year cumulative incidence of invasive anal cancer among HIV-infected patients according to baseline anal cytology results: an inception cohort analysis. OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to estimate the cumulative incidence of, and rates of progression to, invasive anal cancer (IAC) according to baseline anal cytology screening category in an unselected HIV clinical care cohort in the antiretroviral era. METHODS: A retrospective cohort analysis of HIV-infected patients under care at the University of California at San Diego Owen Clinic was  carried out. Patients were eligible for this analysis if they had at least two anal cytohistological results available for longitudinal analysis. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate the cumulative incidence of IAC over time according to baseline cytology category [less than high-grade intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) versus HSIL]. Cox regression analysis was used to adjust for the following covariates: antiretroviral use, level of HIV viraemia, smoking status and infrared photocoagulation (IRC) ablation therapy. RESULTS: Between 2000 and 2012, we followed 2804 HIV-infected patients for a median of 4 years under a clinic protocol requiring baseline anal cytology screening. Incident IAC was diagnosed in 23 patients. Patients with a baseline HSIL anal cytology had an estimated 5-year probability of progression to IAC of 1.7% and an estimated annual progression risk of 1 in 263. None of the examined covariates was significantly associated with IAC incidence when examined in separate unadjusted Cox models. CONCLUSIONS: HIV-infected patients with a baseline HSIL anal cytology had a 5-year cumulative incidence of IAC of 1.65%, with an upper 95% confidence bound of 4.5%. This population-based study provides quantitative risk estimates that may be used for counselling patients regarding management options for abnormal cytology results.
25196096: !GIMB Molecular identification of giardia intestinalis in patients with dyspepsia. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Giardia intestinalis triggers symptoms of functional dyspepsia.  The aim of this study was to distinguish genotypes of G. intestinalis isolated from dyspeptic patients to evaluate their correlation with dyspeptic symptoms. METHODS: In total, 120 dyspeptic subjects were investigated by upper endoscopy, including gastric and duodenal biopsies for histopathological examination, and parasitological examination of their stools and duodenal aspirates was performed. The patients were classified into five groups: group I (G. intestinalis) included 19 patients, group II (Helicobacter pylori) included 36 patients, group III (coeliac disease) included 3 patients, group IV (mixed G. intestinalis and H. pylori infection) included 4 patients, and group V (unexplained aetiology) included 58 patients. Genotyping of G. intestinalis was performed for groups I and IV using PCR-RFLP. The urease test was performed for H. pylori. Serum anti-gliadin, anti-endomysial and anti-transglutaminase antibody estimation was performed for the diagnosis of coeliac disease. RESULTS: Genotype A of G. intestinalis was detected in the stool samples of 68.42% (13/19) and the duodenal aspirates of 42.1% (8/19) of dyspeptic patients harbouring the parasite. Genotype B was detected in 31.58% (6/19) of cases in stool samples and in 3 cases in duodenal aspirates. CONCLUSIONS: H. pylori, G. intestinalis and coeliac disease are common causes of dyspepsia. G. intestinalis genotype A demonstrated a greater association with dyspeptic symptoms.
25194576: !GIMB Evaluation of the diagnostic work-up in children with myocarditis and idiopathic  dilated cardiomyopathy. The underlying etiology of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) in children varies, 14-22% is secondary to myocarditis, and the majority remains idiopathic. Etiology has prognostic value; however, 'a clinical diagnosis of myocarditis' has been frequently used because the gold standard [endomyocardial biopsy (EMB)] is often  not performed. Therefore, a consistent diagnostic approach and interpretation is  needed. In this multicenter study, we evaluated the diagnostic approach and interpretation of the viral results in children with myocarditis and idiopathic DCM. We included 150 children with DCM, of whom 103 were assigned the diagnosis myocarditis (n = 21) or idiopathic DCM (n = 82) by the attending physician. Viral tests were performed in 97/103 patients, in only 34% (n = 35) some of the tests were positive. Of those patients, we evaluated the probability of the assigned diagnosis using the viral test results. We classified viral test results as reflecting definite or probable myocarditis in 14 children and possible or unlikely myocarditis in 21 children. Based on this classification, 23% of patients were misclassified. We found that in children with DCM, the diagnostic approach varied and the interpretation was mainly based on viral results. Since a 'clinical diagnosis of myocarditis' has been frequently used in daily practice because of the lack of EMB results, a uniform protocol is needed. We propose to use viral test results in several steps (blood PCR, serology, PCR and/or cultures of the gastro-intestinal and respiratory tract, and EMB results) to estimate the  probability of myocarditis.
25167923: !GIMB Role of stress, depression, and aging in cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease. Late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder and the most common cause of progressive cognitive dysfunction and dementia. Despite  considerable progress in elucidating the molecular pathology of this disease, we  are not yet close to unraveling its etiopathogenesis. A battery of neurotoxic modifiers may underpin neurocognitive pathology via deleterious heterogeneous pathologic impact in brain regions, including the hippocampus. Three important neurotoxic factors being addressed here include aging, stress, and depression. Unraveling "upstream pathologies" due to these disparate neurotoxic entities, vis-a-vis cognitive impairment involving hippocampal dysfunction, is of paramount importance. Persistent systemic inflammation triggers and sustains neuroinflammation. The latter targets several brain regions including the hippocampus causing upregulation of amyloid beta and neurofibrillary tangles, synaptic and neuronal degeneration, gray matter volume atrophy, and progressive cognitive decline. However, what is the fundamental source of this peripheral inflammation in aging, stress, and depression? This chapter highlights and delineates the inflammatory involvement-i.e., from its inception from gut to systemic inflammation to neuroinflammation. It highlights an upregulated cascade  in which gut-microbiota-related dysbiosis generates lipopolysaccharides (LPS), which enhances inflammation and gut's leakiness, and through a Web of interactions, it induces stress and depression. This may increase neuronal dysfunction and apoptosis, promote learning and memory impairment, and enhance vulnerability to cognitive decline.
25147201: !GIMB Global prevalence of, and risk factors for, uninvestigated dyspepsia: a meta-analysis. OBJECTIVES: Many cross-sectional surveys have reported the prevalence of uninvestigated dyspepsia, but there has been no recent systematic review of data  from all studies to determine its global prevalence and risk factors. DESIGN: MEDLINE, EMBASE and EMBASE Classic were searched (until January 2014) to identify population-based studies that reported the prevalence of uninvestigated dyspepsia in adults (>/= 15 years old); dyspepsia was defined using symptom-based criteria  or questionnaires. The prevalence of dyspepsia was extracted for all studies and  according to the criteria used to define it. Pooled prevalence, according to study location and certain other characteristics, ORs and 95% CIs were calculated. RESULTS: Of the 306 citations evaluated, 103 reported the prevalence  of uninvestigated dyspepsia in 100 separate study populations, containing 312,415 subjects. Overall pooled prevalence in all studies was 20.8% (95% CI 17.8% to 23.9%). The prevalence varied according to country (from 1.8% to 57.0%) and criteria used to define dyspepsia. The greatest prevalence values were found when a broad definition of dyspepsia (29.5%; 95% CI 25.3% to 33.8%) or upper abdominal or epigastric pain or discomfort (20.4%; 95% CI 16.3% to 24.8%) were used. The prevalence was higher in women (OR 1.24; 95% CI 1.13 to 1.36), smokers (OR 1.25;  95% CI 1.12 to 1.40), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) users (OR 1.59; 95% CI 1.27 to 1.99) and Helicobacter pylori-positive individuals (OR 1.18; 95% CI 1.04 to 1.33). CONCLUSIONS: The overall pooled prevalence of uninvestigated dyspepsia was 21%, but varied among countries and according to the criteria used to define its presence. Prevalence is significantly higher in women, smokers, NSAID users and H. pylori-positive individuals, although these associations were modest.
25143343: !GIMB A genomic and clinical prognostic index for hepatitis C-related early-stage cirrhosis that predicts clinical deterioration. OBJECTIVE: The number of patients with HCV-related cirrhosis is increasing, leading to a rising risk of complications and death. Prognostic stratification in patients with early-stage cirrhosis is still challenging. We aimed to develop and validate a clinically useful prognostic index based on genomic and clinical variables to identify patients at high risk of disease progression. DESIGN: We developed a prognostic index, comprised of a 186-gene signature validated in our  previous genome-wide profiling study, bilirubin (>1 mg/dL) and platelet count (<100,000/mm(3)), in an Italian HCV cirrhosis cohort (training cohort, n=216, median follow-up 10 years). The gene signature test was implemented using a digital transcript counting (nCounter) assay specifically developed for clinical  use and the prognostic index was evaluated using archived specimens from an independent cohort of HCV-related cirrhosis in the USA (validation cohort, n=145, median follow-up 8 years). RESULTS: In the training cohort, the prognostic index  was associated with hepatic decompensation (HR=2.71, p=0.003), overall death (HR=6.00, p<0.001), hepatocellular carcinoma (HR=3.31, p=0.001) and progression of Child-Turcotte-Pugh class (HR=6.70, p<0.001). The patients in the validation cohort were stratified into high-risk (16%), intermediate-risk (42%) or low-risk  (42%) groups by the prognostic index. The high-risk group had a significantly increased risk of hepatic decompensation (HR=7.36, p<0.001), overall death (HR=3.57, p=0.002), liver-related death (HR=6.49, p<0.001) and all liver-related  adverse events (HR=4.98, p<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: A genomic and clinical prognostic index readily available for clinical use was successfully validated, warranting further clinical evaluation for prognostic prediction and clinical trial stratification and enrichment for preventive interventions.
25135463: !GIMB 'Bio-load' and bio-type profiles of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis infection in the domestic livestock population endemic for Johne's disease: a survey of 28 years (1985-2013) in India. Bio-load and bio-profile of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis was studied in the domestic livestock population of the country. Of the 23,429 farm and farmer's animals screened, average bio-load was 23.3% (Period of study; 28 years for goats; 13 years for sheep, cattle and buffaloes). Species-wise, bio-load was 20.1, 32.7, 39.3 and 28.3% in goats, sheep, cattle and buffaloes, respectively. Bio-load was significantly lower in time period A (P < 0.001) and B (P < 0.03), compared with period C. Geographical zone-wise, bio-load of MAP was significantly higher (P < 0.05) in Central zone compared with South, West, East and North zones. Bio-load in 11 states ranged from 16.2 to 87.8%. Of 8450, 5643,  8185 and 1151 samples screened by microscopy, culture, indigenous ELISA and IS900 blood PCR, 20.0, 10.6, 35.1 and 26.6% samples were positive, respectively. Bio-load was 32.8 and 31.6% in farm and farmer's goats and sheep, respectively, and 62.1% in farmer's cattle. MAP bio-load was also monitored in four farm units  (three goats and one sheep) for breed improvement and three farm goats units for  experimental purposes at Central Institute for Research on Goats in Mathura district. Of the 8025 goats and 1525 sheep that died from 1988 to 2013, 10.9 and  3.0% deaths were due to JD, respectively. On the basis of JD and suspected JD, 10.0 and 28.4% goats and 2.2 and 40.9% sheep, respectively were culled from the farm units in 25 years. Microscopic examination of 214 tissues (mesenteric lymph  nodes and intestines) of 107 animals, it was observed that bio-load of MAP was high (25.0-60.0%) in farm animals. 'Indian Bison Type' was the dominant biotype,  irrespective of domestic livestock species and the geographical zone.
25118973: !GIMB Cross-sectional study of genital, rectal, and pharyngeal Chlamydia and gonorrhea  in women in rural South Africa. BACKGROUND: Epidemiological data of genital chlamydia and gonorrhea, required to  inform design and implementation of control programs, are limited for rural Africa. There are no data on the prevalence of rectal or pharyngeal infections among African women. METHODS: A cross-sectional study of 604 adult women visiting 25 primary health care facilities in rural South Africa was conducted. Vaginal, anorectal, and oropharyngeal swabs were tested for Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae. RESULTS: Prevalence of genital chlamydia was 16% and that  of gonorrhea was 10%; rectal chlamydial infection was diagnosed in 7.1% and gonococcal in 2.5% of women. One woman had pharyngeal chlamydia. Most women with  genital chlamydia (61%) and gonorrhea (57%) were asymptomatic. Independent risk factors for genital chlamydia were younger age (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 0.96 per year; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.93-0.98), hormonal contraceptive use (aOR, 2.2; 95% CI, 1.3-3.7), pregnancy (aOR, 2.4; 95% CI, 1.3-4.4), and intravaginal cleansing (aOR, 1.7; 95% CI, 1.04-2.8). Intravaginal cleansing was associated with genital gonorrhea (aOR, 1.9; 95% CI, 1.1-3.3). CONCLUSIONS: Genital and rectal, but not pharyngeal, chlamydia and gonorrhea are highly prevalent and frequently asymptomatic in women in rural South Africa. Young women attending health care facilities for antenatal care or family planning should be  prioritized in control efforts.
25110103: !GIMB High risk of failing eradication of Helicobacter pylori in patients with diabetes: a meta-analysis. AIMS: Eradication of Helicobacter pylori (HP) is an effective approach to improve intestinal symptoms and prevent gastric cancer. However, there has been concern that the presence of diabetes reduces the effectiveness of antibiotics. We performed this meta-analysis to investigate the effect of diabetes on the risk of failing eradication in patients with diabetes. METHODS: An electronic literature  search was conducted using Biosis, MEDLINE, Embase, PASCAL, and SciSearch through November 30, 2012. Selected studies had to provide data on the number of individuals who received treatment for HP infection and on the failure of HP eradication in groups with and without diabetes. Two authors independently extracted relevant data. RESULTS: Data were obtained from 8 eligible studies (693 total participants including 273 participants with diabetes). Overall, the pooled risk ratio (RR) of failing HP eradication for diabetic patients compared with non-diabetic participants was 2.19 [95%CI, 1.65-2.90] (P<0.001). Excluding the 2  studies that used a non-standard protocol for HP eradication, individuals with diabetes had a higher risk of failure of eradication compared to those without diabetes (RR=2.31 [95%CI, 1.72-3.11]). CONCLUSIONS: Current meta-analysis confirmed the higher risk of HP eradication failure in individuals with diabetes  compared with those without diabetes, suggesting the necessity of prolonging treatment or developing a new regimen for HP eradication in patients with diabetes.
25101592: !GIMB Immunoglobulin G4-related periaortitis complicated by aortic rupture and aortoduodenal fistula after endovascular AAA repair. PURPOSE: To report a rare and complicated case of immunoglobulin (Ig) G4-related  periaortitis involving both the aortic wall and the retroperitoneum without aneurysmal formation. CASE REPORT: A 79-year-old man with IgG4-related periaortitis suffered aortic rupture despite a normal caliber aorta after 6 months of steroid therapy (20 mg/d). Endovascular repair with an aortic cuff sealed the rupture. Steroid therapy was halted 2 weeks later due to infection. Four months later, a biopsy during esophagogastroduodenoscopy to investigate gastrointestinal bleeding suggested a relapse of IgG4-RD in the duodenum. Subsequent aortoduodenal fistula formation proved fatal. Generally, IgG4-related  periaortitis does not result in such complications due to the absence of aneurysm formation and a thick aortic wall. CONCLUSIONS: Our report highlights a rare case of IgG4-related periaortitis where complications resulted following steroid therapy and surgical intervention, emphasizing the difficulties in dealing with IgG4-related cardiovascular lesions.
25089712: !GIMB Two beta-galactosidases from the human isolate Bifidobacterium breve DSM 20213: molecular cloning and expression, biochemical characterization and synthesis of galacto-oligosaccharides. Two beta-galactosidases, beta-gal I and beta-gal II, from Bifidobacterium breve DSM 20213, which was isolated from the intestine of an infant, were overexpressed in Escherichia coli with co-expression of the chaperones GroEL/GroES, purified to electrophoretic homogeneity and biochemically characterized. Both beta-gal I and  beta-gal II belong to glycoside hydrolase family 2 and are homodimers with native molecular masses of 220 and 211 kDa, respectively. The optimum pH and temperature for hydrolysis of the two substrates o-nitrophenyl-beta-D-galactopyranoside (oNPG) and lactose were determined at pH 7.0 and 50 degrees C for beta-gal I, and at pH 6.5 and 55 degrees C for beta-gal II, respectively. The kcat/Km values for  oNPG and lactose hydrolysis are 722 and 7.4 mM-1s-1 for beta-gal I, and 543 and 25 mM-1s-1 for beta-gal II. Both beta-gal I and beta-gal II are only moderately inhibited by their reaction products D-galactose and D-glucose. Both enzymes were found to be very well suited for the production of galacto-oligosaccharides with  total GOS yields of 33% and 44% of total sugars obtained with beta-gal I and beta-gal II, respectively. The predominant transgalactosylation products are beta-D-Galp-(1-->6)-D-Glc (allolactose) and beta-D-Galp-(1-->3)-D-Lac, accounting together for more than 75% and 65% of the GOS formed by transgalactosylation by beta-gal I and beta-gal II, respectively, indicating that both enzymes have a propensity to synthesize beta-(1-->6) and beta-(1-->3)-linked GOS. The resulting  GOS mixtures contained relatively high fractions of allolactose, which results from the fact that glucose is a far better acceptor for galactosyl transfer than  galactose and lactose, and intramolecular transgalactosylation contributes significantly to the formation of this disaccharide.
25076161: !GIMB Rifaximin suppresses background intestinal 18F-FDG uptake on PET/CT scans. BACKGROUND: Identification of cancer or inflammatory bowel disease in the intestinal tract by PET/computed tomography (CT) imaging can be hampered by physiological uptake of F-fluorodeoxyglucose (F-FDG) in the normal colon. Previous work has localized this F-FDG uptake to the intestinal lumen, predominantly occupied by bacteria. We sought to determine whether pretreatment with an antibiotic could reduce F-FDG uptake in the healthy colon. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty patients undergoing restaging PET/CT for nongastrointestinal lymphoma were randomly selected to receive rifaximin 550 mg twice daily for 2 days before their scan (post-rifaximin). Their PET/CT images were compared with those from their prior study (pre-rifaximin). Cecal maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax) and overall colonic F-FDG uptake were compared between scans. All PET/CT images were blindly scored by a radiologist. The same comparison of sequential scans was also undertaken in 30 patients who did not receive antibiotics. RESULTS: Thirty post-rifaximin scans were compared with 30 pre-rifaximin scans in the same patients. SUVmax in the cecum was significantly lower in the patient's post-rifaximin scans than in their pre-rifaximin scans (P=0.002). The percentage  of scans with greater than grade 1 colonic F-FDG uptake was significantly lower in the post-rifaximin scans than in the pre-rifaximin scans (P<0.05). In contrast, there was no significant difference in the paired sequential scans from control patients, nor a reduction in the percentage of scans with greater than grade 1 colonic F-FDG uptake. CONCLUSION: This pilot study shows that treatment with rifaximin for 2 days before PET/CT scanning can significantly reduce physiological F-FDG uptake in the normal colonic lumen.
24994982: !GIMB Loss of UCHL1 promotes age-related degenerative changes in the enteric nervous system. UCHL1 (ubiquitin carboxyterminal hydrolase 1) is a deubiquitinating enzyme that is particularly abundant in neurons. From studies of a spontaneous mutation arising in a mouse line it is clear that loss of function of UCHL1 generates profound degenerative changes in the central nervous system, and it is likely that a proteolytic deficit contributes to the pathology. Here these effects were  found to be recapitulated in mice in which the Uchl1 gene had been inactivated by homologous recombination. In addition to the previously documented neuropathology associated with loss of UCHL1 function, axonal swellings were detected in the striatum. In agreement with previously reported findings the loss of UCHL1 function was accompanied by perturbations in ubiquitin pools, but glutathione levels were also significantly depleted in the brains of the knockout mice, suggesting that oxidative defense mechanisms may be doubly compromised. To determine if, in addition to its role in the central nervous system, UCHL1 function is also required for homeostasis of the enteric nervous system the gastrointestinal tract was analyzed in UCHL1 knockout mice. The mice displayed functional changes and morphological changes in gut neurons that preceded degenerative changes in the brain. The changes were qualitatively and quantitatively similar to those observed in wild type mice of much greater age, and strongly resemble changes reported for elderly humans. UCHL1 knockout mice should therefore serve as a useful model of gut aging.
24978103: !GIMB Thinking outside the brain for cognitive improvement: Is peripheral immunomodulation on the way? Cognitive impairment is a devastating condition commonly observed with normal aging and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Although  major efforts to prevent or slow down cognitive decline are largely focused within the central nervous system (CNS), it has become clear that signals from the systemic milieu are closely associated with the dysfunctional brain. In particular, the bidirectional crosstalk between the CNS and peripheral immune system plays a decisive role in shaping neuronal survival and function via neuroimmune, neuroendocrinal and bioenergetic mechanisms. Importantly, it is emerging that some neuroprotective and cognition-strengthening drugs may work by  targeting the brain-periphery interactions, which could be intriguingly achieved  without entering the CNS. We describe here how recent advances in dissecting cognitive deficits from a systems-perspective have contributed to a non-neurocentric understanding of its pathogenesis and treatment strategy. We also discuss the therapeutic and diagnostic implications of these exciting progresses and consider some key issues in the clinical translation. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neuroimmunology and Synaptic Function'.
24948202: !GIMB Preventing the progression of chronic kidney disease: two case reports and review of the literature. A variety of therapeutic modalities are available to alter the abnormalities seen in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). A comprehensive plan can now be developed to slow the progression of CKD. Two clinical cases of delay in the need for renal replacement therapy are described. This delay was achieved by using recognized recommendations for optimal diabetes therapy (HbA1c target 7 %), goals for blood pressure levels, reduction of proteinuria, and the proper use of ACEI/ARB therapies. Recent recommendations include BP <140/90 mmHg for patients <60 years old and <150/90 mmHg for older patients unless they have CKD or diabetes. Limits on dietary sodium and protein intake and body weight reduction will decrease proteinuria. Proper treatment for elevated serum phosphorous and parathyroid hormone levels is now appreciated as well as the benefits of therapy  for dyslipidemias and anemia. Concerns regarding unfavorable outcomes with excess ESA therapy have led to hemoglobin goals in the 10-12 g/dL range. Finally, new therapeutic considerations for the treatment of acidosis and hyperuricemia are presented with data available to suggest that increasing serum bicarbonate to >22 mmol/L is beneficial, while serum uric acid therapeutic goals are still uncertain. Also, two as yet insufficiently understood approaches to altering the  course of CKD (FGF-23 level reduction and balancing gut microbiota) are noted.
24943808: !GIMB Prenatal and post-natal exposure to antibiotics and risk of asthma in childhood. BACKGROUND: Evidence on the association between post-natal exposure to antibiotics and the development of asthma is extensive, but inconsistent and even less is known about prenatal exposure. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine the associations between prenatal and post-natal exposure to different antibiotics and the risk of childhood asthma in a population- and register-based  nested case-control study. METHODS: All children who were born in 1996-2004 in Finland and diagnosed with asthma by 2006 were identified from a national health  register. For each case, one matched control was selected. Information on asthma  diagnoses, purchased anti-asthmatic drugs and antibiotics as well as putative confounders was obtained from national health registries. The associations were analysed using conditional logistic regression for children diagnosed at the age  of 3 years or later (n = 6 690 case-control pairs). RESULTS: Maternal use of any  antibiotics during pregnancy was associated with an increased risk of asthma in the offspring [adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 1.31 (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.21-1.42)]. Several maternal specific antibiotics were associated with the risk  of asthma, and the strongest association was observed for cephalosporins [OR = 1.46 (95% CI 1.30-1.64)]. Child's use of antibiotics during the first year of life was associated with an increased risk of asthma [OR = 1.60 (95% CI 1.48-1.73)]. Child's use of cephalosporins [OR = 1.79 (95% CI 1.59-2.01)], sulphonamides and trimethoprim [OR = 1.65 (95% CI 1.34-2.02)], macrolides [OR = 1.61 (95% CI 1.46-1.78)] and amoxicillin [OR = 1.46 (95% CI 1.35-1.58)] was associated with an increased risk of asthma. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE:  Both prenatal and post-natal exposure to antibiotics was associated with an increased risk of asthma. The potential role of adverse effects of antibiotics on the gut microbiota and the development of asthma should be further explored.
24941257: !GIMB Correlation analysis of EV71 detection and case severity in hand, foot, and mouth disease in the Hunan Province of China. An increase in the incidence of hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD) cases has been observed in the Hunan province of mainland China since 2009 with a particularly higher level of severe cases in 2010-2012. Intestinal viruses of the picornaviridae family are responsible for the human syndrome associated with HFMD with enterovirus 71 (EV71) and Coxsackievirus A16 (Cox A16) being the most common causative strains. HFMD cases associated with EV71 are generally more severe with an increased association of morbidity and mortality. In this study, the etiology  surveillance data of HFMD cases in Hunan province from March 2010 to October 2012 were analyzed to determine if there is a statistically relevant linear correlation exists between the detection rate of EV71 in mild cases and the proportion of severe cases among all HFMD patients. As the cases progressed from  mild to severe to fatal, the likelihood of EV71 detection increased (25.78%, 52.20% and 84.18%, respectively). For all cases in the timeframe evaluated in this study, the presence of virus was detected in 63.21% of cases; among cases showing positivity for virus, EV71 infection accounted for 50.14%. These results  provide evidence to support the observed higher morbidity and mortality associated with this outbreak and emphasizes the importance of early detection in order to implement necessary prevention measures to mitigate disease progression.
24929100: !GIMB Prediction of bacterial protein subcellular localization by incorporating various features into Chou's PseAAC and a backward feature selection approach. Information on the subcellular localization of bacterial proteins is essential for protein function prediction, genome annotation and drug design. Here we proposed a novel approach to predict the subcellular localization of bacterial proteins by fusing features from position-specific score matrix (PSSM), Gene Ontology (GO) and PROFEAT. A backward feature selection approach by linear kennel of SVM was then used to rank the integrated feature vectors and extract optimal features. Finally, SVM was applied for predicting protein subcellular locations based on these optimal features. To validate the performance of our method, we employed jackknife cross-validation tests on three low similarity datasets, i.e., M638, Gneg1456 and Gpos523. The overall accuracies of 94.98%, 93.21%, and 94.57%  were achieved for these three datasets, which are higher (from 1.8% to 10.9%) than those by state-of-the-art tools. Comparison results suggest that our method  could serve as a very useful vehicle for expediting the prediction of bacterial protein subcellular localization.
24927234: !GIMB Clinical mechanism of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator potentiator ivacaftor in G551D-mediated cystic fibrosis. RATIONALE: Ivacaftor is a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) potentiator recently approved for patients with CF age 6 and older with the G551D mutation. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate ivacaftor in a postapproval setting and determine mechanism of action and response of clinically relevant markers. METHODS: We conducted a longitudinal cohort study in 2012-2013 in G551D CF patients age 6 and older with no prior exposure to ivacaftor. Study assessments were performed at baseline, 1, 3, and 6 months after ivacaftor initiation. Substudies evaluated mucociliary clearance, beta-adrenergic sweat secretion rate, gastrointestinal pH, and sputum inflammation and microbiology Measurements and Main Results: A total of 151 of 153 subjects were prescribed ivacaftor and 88% completed the study through 6 months. FEV1 % predicted improved from baseline to  6 months (mean absolute change, 6.7%; P < 0.001). Similarly, body mass index improved from baseline to 6 months (mean change, 0.8 kg/m(2); P < 0.001). Sweat chloride decreased from baseline to 6 months (mean change, -53.8 mmol/L; 95% confidence interval, -57.7 to -49.9; P < 0.001), reflecting augmented CFTR function. There was significant improvement in hospitalization rate (P < 0.001) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa burden (P < 0.01). Significant improvements in mucociliary clearance (P < 0.001), gastrointestinal pH (P = 0.001), and microbiome were also observed, providing clinical mechanisms underlying the therapeutic benefit of ivacaftor. CONCLUSIONS: Significant clinical and physiologic improvements were observed on initiation of ivacaftor in a broad patient population, including reduced infection with P. aeruginosa. Biomarker studies substantially improve the understanding of the mechanistic consequences of CFTR modulation on pulmonary and gastrointestinal physiology.
24905110: !GIMB [Gastroenterology in the former GDR (1975-1990) and the changes after German reunification]. This short overview sketches the state of Gastroenterology in the GDR (1975 - 1990) from the point of view of an East-German contemporary witness. The "Society for Gastroenterology/GDR" (GfG) has played a decisive role for the development of the Gastroenterology in the GDR. The society promoted medical education and constitutions of gastroenterological centers, fostered gastroenterological research and controlled the standards for the recognition of Gastroenterology as  a state-accepted medical sub-discipline. An extensive program of scientific and educative events included two-annual meetings of scientific congresses, the "Berka-Talks", endoscopic workshops" and featured special symposia such as for Hepatology, Pancreatology and gastro-intestinal Microbiology. Temporary working groups developed technical and professional legal advice. Although the GfG was a  full member of the respective international organizations (OMGE, ASNEMGE, ESGE),  it was almost impossible building up reliable international contacts in a mutual  interest. Especially, contacts with colleagues representing the "German Society of Digestion and Metabolic Diseases" (DGVS) were impeded. With the political changes of 1989/1990, an association of the two German Societies for Gastroenterology seemed within reach. At a meeting in Halle (Saale) (March, 22nd, 1990), representatives of DGVS and GfG quickly agreed on modalities to merge the  two societies. After the 45th meeting of the DGVS (October 3rd-6th, Essen) more than 600 GDR physicians could join the BRD society under accommodating conditions. The GfG had fulfilled its historical function as a "bridge" during the division of Germany with dignity and was suspended (November, 24nd,1990).
24894854: !GIMB Ertapenem prophylaxis reduces sepsis after transrectal biopsy of the prostate. OBJECTIVE: To prospectively trial ertapenem prophylaxis in patients with known risk factors of sepsis undergoing transrectal biopsy of the prostate. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this prospective audit, patients were identified as having a low- or high-risk of sepsis based on a questionnaire about established risk factors: previous biopsy; recurrent urine infections; receiving ciprofloxacin in the 12 months prior; travel to South-East Asia or South America in the previous 6 months; or diabetes, immune system impairment or receipt of immunosuppressant drugs. All received ciprofloxacin and amoxicillin-clavulanate and high-risk patients additionally received ertapenem. Sepsis requiring hospital admission was recorded. Data was analysed using a two-tailed Fisher's exact test. RESULTS: In all, 80 men were identified as high risk of sepsis and 90 as low risk during the  audit period. Six patients in the low-risk group (6.7%, 95% confidence interval 2.1-11.3) and none in the high-risk group developed sepsis (P = 0.03). Of the six developing sepsis, two grew ciprofloxacin-resistant organisms, two had no growth  and two grew a ciprofloxacin-sensitive organism, although one of these grew extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing Escherichia coli. CONCLUSION: The addition of ertapenem to standard prophylaxis is effective at reducing sepsis after prostate biopsy. Risk stratification is not effective at identifying those  men at low risk of sepsis, as these men still have a high sepsis rate. Ertapenem  prophylaxis for all patients undergoing prostate biopsy is likely to be the most  effective strategy in our population group.
24879374: !GIMB Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in young children: analyzing the performance of the diagnostic tests. OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated the performance of the Tuberculin Skin Test (TST) and Quantiferon-TB Gold in-Tube (QFT) and the possible association of factors which may modify their results in young children (0-6 years) with recent contact  with an index tuberculosis case. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A cross-sectional study including 135 children was conducted in Manaus, Amazonas-Brazil. The TST and QFT  were performed and the tests results were analyzed in relation to the personal characteristics of the children studied and their relationship with the index case. RESULTS: The rates of positivity were 34.8% (TST) and 26.7% (QFT), with 14.1% of indeterminations by the QFT. Concordance between tests was fair (Kappa = 0.35 P<0.001). Both the TST and QFT were associated with the intensity of exposure (Linear OR = 1.286, P = 0.005; Linear OR = 1.161, P = 0.035 respectively) with only the TST being associated with the time of exposure (Linear OR = 1.149, P = 0.009). The presence of intestinal helminths in the TST+  group was associated with negative QFT results (OR = 0.064, P = 0.049). In the TST- group lower levels of ferritin were associated with QFT+ results (Linear OR  = 0.956, P = 0.036). CONCLUSIONS: Concordance between the TST and QFT was lower than expected. The factors associated with the discordant results were intestinal helminths, ferritin levels and exposure time to the index tuberculosis case. In TST+ group, helminths were associated with negative QFT results suggesting impaired cell-mediated immunity. The TST-&QFT+ group had a shorter exposure time  and lower ferritin levels, suggesting that QFT is faster and ferritin may be a potential biomarker of early stages of tuberculosis infection.
24869615: !GIMB CAGS and ACS evidence based reviews in surgery. Is a diverting loop ileostomy and colonic lavage an alternative to colectomy for the treatment of severe Clostridium difficile-associated disease? The term "evidence-based medicine" was first coined by Sackett and colleagues as  "the conscientious, explicit and judicious use of current best evidence in making decisions about the care of individual patients."1 The key to practising evidencebased medicine is applying the best current knowledge to decisions in individual patients. Medical knowledge is continually and rapidly expanding. For  clinicians to practise evidence-based medicine, they must have the skills to read and interpret the medical literature so that they can determine the validity, reliability, credibility and utility of individual articles. These skills are known as critical appraisal skills, and they require some knowledge of biostatistics, clinical epidemiology, decision analysis and economics, and clinical knowledge. Evidence Based Reviews in Surgery (EBRS) is a program jointly sponsored by the Canadian Association of General Surgeons (CAGS) and the American College of Surgeons (ACS). The primary objective of EBRS is to help practising surgeons improve their critical appraisal skills. During the academic year, 8 clinical articles are chosen for review and discussion. They are selected for their clinical relevance to general surgeons and because they cover a spectrum of issues im -port ant to surgeons, including causation or risk factors for disease, natural history or prognosis of disease, how to quantify disease, diagnostic tests, early diagnosis and the effectiveness of treatment. A methodological article guides the reader in critical appraisal of the clinical article. Methodological and clinical reviews of the article are performed by experts in the relevant areas and posted on the EBRS website, where they are archived indefinitely. In addition, a listserv allows participants to discuss the monthly  article. Surgeons who participate in the monthly packages can obtain Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada Maintenance of Certification credits and/or continuing medical education credits for the current article only by reading the monthly articles, participating in the listserv discussion, reading the methodological and clinical reviews and completing the monthly online evaluation and multiple choice questions. We hope readers will find EBRS useful in improving their critical appraisal skills and in keeping abreast of new developments in general surgery. Four reviews are published in condensed versions in the Canadian Journal of Surgery, 4 are published in the Journal of the American College of Surgeons and 4 are published in Diseases of the Colon and Rectum. For further information about EBRS, please refer to the CAGS or ACS websites. Questions and comments can be directed to the program administrator, Marg McKenzie, at mmckenzie@mtsinai.on.ca.
24864468: !GIMB [Tactics for the correction of intestinal microbiocenotic disorders in the combination therapy of patients with chronic liver diseases]. AIM: To evaluate the efficacy of the symbiotic Linex used in the combination therapy of liver cirrhosis (LC). SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Seventy-four patients with LC, including 44 who received additionally the symbiotic Linex and 30 who had conventional therapy, were examined. All the patients underwent clinical and biochemical blood tests, abdominal ultrasonography, fecal test for bacteria, gas  chromatography-mass spectrometry of the blood composition of microbial markers, number connecting test, and quality-of-life assessment (SF-36). RESULTS: The symbiotic-treated patients showed a significant improvement in biochemical parameters (decreases in transaminase activities, bilirubin levels, hepatic protein-synthetic function--there were elevations in the concentrations of total  protein from 74.0 +/- 0.50 to 78.1 +/- 0.80 g/l (p < 0.05) and albumin from 30.6  +/- 1.7 to 35.5 +/- 1.6 g/l (p < 0.05). There were also increases in the count of bifidobacteria from 8.7 +/- 0.1 to 9.1 +/- 0.1 Ig CFU/g (p < 0.05), lactobacilli  from 5.0 +/- 0.2 to 5.2 +/- 0.2 Ig CFU/g (p < 0.05) and in the total count of Escherichia coli from 7.6 +/- 0.3 to 7.9 +/- 0.3 Ig CFU/g (p < 0.05); a tendency  for normalization of microbial markers was revealed by mass spectrometry; the manifestations of hepatic encephalopathy were alleviated (the number connecting test showed a reduction from 51.0 +/- 3.58 to 29.7 +/- 4.10 sec (p < 0.05)), and  the quality of life improved. CONCLUSION: By normalizing enteric microbiocenosis, the symbiotic Linex positively affects the course and prognosis of LC and it is both a symptomatic and pathogenetic agent for the treatment of patients.
24858189: !GIMB Prevalence, morbidity, and mortality patterns of typhoid ileal perforation as seen at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital Enugu Nigeria: an 8-year review. BACKGROUND: Some recent studies have reported a decrease in mortality from typhoid ileal perforation. The present report aims to determine the prevalence, morbidity, and mortality of this disease in patients mostly drawn from a rural area. METHODS: This is a retrospective study of 50 patients treated between January 1999 and December 2007 at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, Nigeria. The variables studied included patient demographics, clinical features, intraoperative findings, complications, and mortality. Statistical analysis was done with SPSS version 13. RESULTS: Of the 50 patients included in the study, 22 were males with the highest rate in patients aged 20 years and younger. Fever was the commonest symptom and at initial presentation, the mean pulse and respiratory rates were significantly higher in the patients who subsequently died than in those who survived (P < 0.05). All the perforations occurred in the ileum; 62 % of the patients had solitary perforations, 28 % had double perforations, and 10 % had three or more. Fifty-eight perforations were treated by simple closure in two layers, 4 patients had ileal resection and anastomosis, and 2 underwent right hemicolectomy. The mean interval between operation and death was 1.7 days. The overall mortality rate was 30 %, but among  those with three or more perforations, mortality was 100 %. CONCLUSIONS: Typhoid  ileal perforation still carries a high mortality especially in rural areas. Those with tachycardia and tachypnea at presentation and those with three or more perforations are at a higher risk of dying from the disease.
24853844: !GIMB Frequent occurrence of fever in patients who have undergone endoscopic submucosal dissection for colorectal tumor, but bacteremia is not a significant cause. BACKGROUND: We examined the incidence of and factors associated with fever, as well as the frequency of bacteremia, in patients who had undergone endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for colorectal tumor. METHOD: A total of 199 patients (120 male and 79 female) were included. The patients were classified into two groups based on the body temperature on the day after ESD treatment: group A, body temperature <37 degrees C; and group B, body temperature >/=37 degrees C. The following factors were analyzed to determine their potential association with post-ESD fever: gender, age, tumor size, form, location, and presence or absence  of intraoperative perforation. In addition, blood samples from 50 patients were obtained for blood culture and 16S rRNA gene analysis by polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: Group A included 106 patients (70 male and 36 female), with a  median age of 63 years. Group B included 93 patients (50 male and 43 female), with a median age of 70 years. The incidence of post-ESD fever in the entire cohort was 46.7%. Univariate analysis based on comparison between groups A and B  showed that the following factors were significantly associated with post-ESD fever: age [mean +/- standard deviation (SD)], 64.5 +/- 9.2 versus 68.5 +/- 10.8  years, P = 0.006; and tumor size (mean +/- SD) 30.6 +/- 10.8 versus 39.1 +/- 16.6 mm, P < 0.001. Logistic regression analysis for post-ESD fever also found that age {odds ratio 1.04 (95% CI [1.01-1.07], P = 0.009)} and lesion size {odds ratio 1.05 (95% CI [1.03-1.08], P = 0.0002)} were closely associated with post-ESD fever. Of the 50 patients who had blood samples cultured and 16S rRNA gene analyzed, bacteria in blood culture and the 16S rRNA gene were not detectable in  any of the samples from the 50 patients. CONCLUSIONS: This study indicated that older patients and patients with large tumors were more likely to develop post-ESD fever, but there was a low probability that bacteremia was the cause of  fever.
24848505: !GIMB Additive effect between IL-13 polymorphism and cesarean section delivery/prenatal antibiotics use on atopic dermatitis: a birth cohort study (COCOA). BACKGROUND: Although cesarean delivery and prenatal exposure to antibiotics are likely to affect the gut microbiome in infancy, their effect on the development of atopic dermatitis (AD) in infancy is unclear. The influence of individual genotypes on these relationships is also unclear. To evaluate with a prospective  birth cohort study whether cesarean section, prenatal exposure to antibiotics, and susceptible genotypes act additively to promote the development of AD in infancy. METHODS: The Cohort for Childhood of Asthma and Allergic Diseases (COCOA) was selected from the general Korean population. A pediatric allergist assessed 412 infants for the presence of AD at 1 year of age. Their cord blood DNA was subjected to interleukin (IL)-13 (rs20541) and cluster-of-differentiation (CD)14 (rs2569190) genotype analysis. RESULTS: The combination of cesarean delivery and prenatal exposure to antibiotics associated significantly and positively with AD (adjusted odds ratio, 5.70; 95% CI, 1.19-27.3). The association between cesarean delivery and AD was significantly modified by parental history of allergic diseases or risk-associated IL-13 (rs20541) and CD14 (rs2569190) genotypes. There was a trend of interaction between IL-13 (rs20541) and delivery mode with respect to the subsequent risk of AD. (P for interaction = 0.039) Infants who were exposed prenatally to antibiotics and were born by cesarean delivery had a lower total microbiota diversity in stool samples at 6 months of age than the control group. As the number of these risk factors increased, the AD risk rose (trend p<0.05). CONCLUSION: Cesarean delivery and prenatal antibiotic exposure may affect the gut microbiota, which may in turn influence the risk of AD in infants. These relationships may be shaped by the genetic predisposition.
24838182: !GIMB Peptidoglycan recognition protein genes and risk of Parkinson's disease. Increased gut permeability, inflammation, and colonic alpha-synuclein pathology are present in early Parkinson's disease (PD) and have been proposed to contribute to PD pathogenesis. Peptidoglycan is a structural component of the bacterial cell wall. Peptidoglycan recognition proteins (PGRPs) maintain healthy  gut microbial flora by regulating the immune response to both commensal and harmful bacteria. We tested the hypothesis that variants in genes that encode PGRPs are associated with PD risk. Participants in two independent case-control studies were genotyped for 30 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the four  PGLYRP genes. Using logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) adjusted for potential confounding variables, we conducted analyses in each study, separately and pooled. One SNP failed the assay, and three had little to no variation. The ORs were similar in both study populations. In pooled analyses, three of seven PGLYRP2 SNPs (rs3813135, rs733731, rs892145), one of five PGLYRP3 SNPs (rs2987763), and six of nine PGLYRP4 SNPs (rs10888557, rs12063091, rs3006440, rs3006448, rs3006458, and rs3014864) were significantly associated with PD risk. Association was strongest  for PGLYRP4 5'untranslated region (UTR) SNP rs10888557 (GG reference, CG OR 0.6 [95%CI 0.4-0.9], CC OR 0.15 [95%CI 0.04-0.6]; log-additive P-trend, 0.0004). Common variants in PGLYRP genes are associated with PD risk in two independent studies. These results require replication, but they are consistent with hypotheses of a causative role for the gut microbiota and gastrointestinal immune response in PD.
24825334: !GIMB Prostate-specific antigen is unlikely to be a suitable biomarker of semen exposure from recent unprotected receptive anal intercourse in men who have sex with men. A biomarker of unprotected receptive anal intercourse could improve validity of sexual behavior measurement. We quantified prostate-specific antigen (PSA) from rectal swabs from men who have sex with men (MSM). One swab was PSA positive. Using current methods, PSA is an inadequate biomarker of recent unprotected receptive anal intercourse in men who have sex with men.
24820967: !GIMB Diseases of captive yellow seahorse Hippocampus kuda Bleeker, pot-bellied seahorse Hippocampus abdominalis Lesson and weedy seadragon Phyllopteryx taeniolatus (Lacepede). Seahorses, pipefish and seadragons are fish of the Family Syngnathidae. From 1998 to 2010, 172 syngnathid cases from the Toronto Zoo were submitted for post-mortem diagnostics and retrospectively examined. Among the submitted species were yellow seahorses Hippocampus kuda Bleeker (n=133), pot-bellied seahorses Hippocampus abdominalis Lesson (n=35) and weedy seadragons Phyllopteryx taeniolatus (Lacepede; n=4). The three most common causes of morbidity and mortality in this  population were bacterial dermatitis, bilaterally symmetrical myopathy and mycobacteriosis, accounting for 24%, 17% and 15% of cases, respectively. Inflammatory processes were the most common diagnoses, present in 117 cases. Seven neoplasms were diagnosed, environmental aetiologies were identified in 46 cases, and two congenital defects were identified.
24815676: !GIMB Reliable prediction of clinical outcome in patients with chronic HCV infection and compensated advanced hepatic fibrosis: a validated model using objective and  readily available clinical parameters. OBJECTIVE: Reliable tools to predict long-term outcome among patients with well compensated advanced liver disease due to chronic HCV infection are lacking. DESIGN: Risk scores for mortality and for cirrhosis-related complications were constructed with Cox regression analysis in a derivation cohort and evaluated in  a validation cohort, both including patients with chronic HCV infection and advanced fibrosis. RESULTS: In the derivation cohort, 100/405 patients died during a median 8.1 (IQR 5.7-11.1) years of follow-up. Multivariate Cox analyses  showed age (HR=1.06, 95% CI 1.04 to 1.09, p<0.001), male sex (HR=1.91, 95% CI 1.10 to 3.29, p=0.021), platelet count (HR=0.91, 95% CI 0.87 to 0.95, p<0.001) and log10 aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase ratio (HR=1.30, 95% CI 1.12 to 1.51, p=0.001) were independently associated with mortality (C statistic=0.78, 95% CI 0.72 to 0.83). In the validation cohort, 58/296 patients with cirrhosis died during a median of 6.6 (IQR 4.4-9.0) years. Among patients with estimated 5-year mortality risks <5%, 5-10% and >10%, the observed 5-year mortality rates in the derivation cohort and validation cohort were 0.9% (95% CI  0.0 to 2.7) and 2.6% (95% CI 0.0 to 6.1), 8.1% (95% CI 1.8 to 14.4) and 8.0% (95% CI 1.3 to 14.7), 21.8% (95% CI 13.2 to 30.4) and 20.9% (95% CI 13.6 to 28.1), respectively (C statistic in validation cohort = 0.76, 95% CI 0.69 to 0.83). The  risk score for cirrhosis-related complications also incorporated HCV genotype (C  statistic = 0.80, 95% CI 0.76 to 0.83 in the derivation cohort; and 0.74, 95% CI  0.68 to 0.79 in the validation cohort). CONCLUSIONS: Prognosis of patients with chronic HCV infection and compensated advanced liver disease can be accurately assessed with risk scores including readily available objective clinical parameters.
24759699: !GIMB Comparison of fecal pyruvate kinase isoform M2 and calprotectin in acute diarrhea in hospitalized children. Fecal concentrations of pyruvate kinase isoform M2 (M2-PK) and calprotectin (FC)  serve as biomarkers of inflammation of gastrointestinal mucosa. The value of M2-PK in discriminating between patients with viral and bacterial acute diarrhea  (AD) is currently unknown. We analyzed M2-PK and FC concentrations in fifty hospitalized children with AD (29 of which were caused by rotavirus and 21 by Salmonella enteritidis) as well as 32 healthy subjects. There was no difference in the areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves plotted for the two tests in differentiating rotaviral from bacterial AD. The sensitivity and specificity of M2-PK at optimal cut-off (20 U/g) were 75.9% and 71.4%, respectively. M2-PK and FC had similar values in distinguishing between children  with AD caused by rotavirus and Salmonella enteritidis. The performance of both tests in hospitalized patients did not meet the needs of everyday clinical practice. Moreover, no advantage of fecal tests over the measurement of CRP was documented.
24753353: !GIMB Gut feelings about smoking and coffee in Parkinson's disease. Strong epidemiologic evidence suggests that smokers and coffee drinkers have a lower risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). The explanation for this finding is still unknown, and the discussion has focused on two main hypotheses. The first suggests that PD patients have premorbid personality traits associated with dislike for coffee-drinking and smoking. The second posits that caffeine and nicotine are neuroprotective. We propose an alternative third hypothesis, in which both cigarette and coffee consumption change the composition of the microbiota in the gut in a way that mitigates intestinal inflammation. This, in turn, would lead to less misfolding of the protein alpha-synuclein in enteric nerves, reducing the risk of PD by minimizing propagation of the protein aggregates to the central nervous system, where they otherwise can induce neurodegeneration.
24747867: !GIMB Peginterferon alfa-2a with or without low-dose ribavirin for treatment-naive patients with hepatitis C virus genotype 2 receiving haemodialysis: a randomised  trial. OBJECTIVE: Data comparing the efficacy and safety of combination therapy with peginterferon plus low-dose ribavirin and peginterferon monotherapy in treatment-naive haemodialysis patients with hepatitis C virus genotype 2 (HCV-2)  infection are limited. DESIGN: In this randomised trial, 172 patients received 24 weeks of peginterferon alfa-2a 135 mug/week plus ribavirin 200 mg/day (n=86) or peginterferon alfa-2a 135 mug/week (n=86). The efficacy and safety endpoints were sustained virological response (SVR) rate and adverse event (AE)-related withdrawal rate. RESULTS: Compared with monotherapy, combination therapy had a greater SVR rate (74% vs 44%, relative risk (RR): 1.68 [95% CI 1.29 to 2.20]; p<0.001). The beneficial effect of combination therapy was more pronounced in patients with baseline viral load >/=800,000 IU/mL than those with baseline viral load <800,000 IU/mL (RR: 3.08 [95% CI 1.80 to 5.29] vs. RR: 1.11 [95% CI 0.83 to  1.45]; interaction p=0.001). Patients receiving combination therapy were more likely to have a haemoglobin level of <8.5 g/dL (70% vs. 8%, risk difference (RD): 62% [95% CI 50% to 73%]; p<0.001) and required a higher dosage [mean: 13,417 vs. 6667 IU/week, p=0.027] of epoetin beta to manage anaemia than those receiving monotherapy. The AE-related withdrawal rates were 6% and 3% in combination therapy and monotherapy groups, respectively (RD: 2% [95% CI -4% to 9%]). CONCLUSIONS: In treatment-naive haemodialysis patients with HCV-2 infection, combination therapy with peginterferon plus low-dose ribavirin achieved a greater SVR rate than peginterferon monotherapy. Most haemodialysis patients can tolerate combination therapy. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrial.gov number, NCT00491244.
24747448: !GIMB To swab or not to swab? A prospective analysis of 341 SICU VRE screens. BACKGROUND: Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE) screening is routine practice in many intensive care units despite the question of its clinical significance. The value of VRE screening at predicting subsequent VRE or other hospital-acquired infection (HAI) is unknown. The purpose of this investigation was to examine the rate of subsequent VRE HAI in patients undergoing VRE screening. METHODS: This study was conducted in a 24-bed surgical intensive care  unit (SICU) at a Level I trauma center. Patients admitted to the SICU between February and August 2011 who had rectal swab for VRE screening within 72 hours were followed prospectively for the development of VRE and other HAIs. Demographics, clinical characteristics, and infection rates were compared between VRE-positive and VRE-negative patients. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) of VRE screening for  predicting subsequent VRE HAI were calculated. RESULTS: A total of 341 patients had VRE screening within 72 hours of SICU admission, with 32 VRE-positive (9%) and 309 VRE-negative (91%) patients. VRE-positive patients had a higher incidence of any HAI (78% vs. 35%, p < 0.001). Eight VRE-positive patients (25%) developed  VRE HAI compared with only 3 VRE-negative patients (1%) (p < 0.001). VRE screening had a 73% sensitivity, 93% specificity, 25% PPV, and 99% NPV for determining subsequent VRE HAI. CONCLUSION: VRE colonization was present in 9% of SICU patients at admission. Negative VRE screen result had a high specificity and NPV for the development of subsequent VRE HAI. Empiric treatment of VRE infection may be unnecessary in VRE-negative patients. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic/epidemiologic study, level III. Therapeutic study, level IV.
24745185: !GIMB [A.V. Zinserling (Tsinzerling) school of infectious pathology: advances and prospects]. The paper analyzes the importance of infectious pathology today and discusses the main achievements of A.V. Zinserling (Tsinzerling) and his collaborators when having studied the pathologic anatomy of infectious diseases, primarily respiratory, intestinal, intrauterine ones. An indication is given to the significance of clinic and morphological comparisons, a problem of mixed infections. There is evidence that A.V. Zinserling's studies have opened the new  area of science tissue microbiology in which some progress has been also achieved in recent years.
24735654: !GIMB The Roots of Autism and ADHD Twin Study in Sweden (RATSS). Neurodevelopmental disorders affect a substantial minority of the general population. Their origins are still largely unknown, but a complex interplay of genetic and environmental factors causing disturbances of the central nervous system's maturation and a variety of higher cognitive skills is presumed. Only limited research of rather small sample size and narrow scope has been conducted  in neurodevelopmental disorders using a twin-differences design. The Roots of Autism and ADHD Twin Study in Sweden (RATSS) is an ongoing project targeting monozygotic twins discordant for categorical or dimensional autistic and inattentive/hyperactive-impulsive phenotypes as well as other neurodevelopmental  disorders, and typically developing twin controls. Included pairs are 9 years of  age or older, and comprehensively assessed for psychopathology, medical history,  neuropsychology, and dysmorphology, as well as structural, functional, and molecular brain imaging. Specimens are collected for induced pluripotent (iPS) and neuroepithelial stem cells, genetic, gut bacteria, protein-/monoamine, and electron microscopy analyses. RATSS's objective is to generate a launch pad for novel surveys to understand the complexity of genotype-environment-phenotype interactions in autism spectrum disorder and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). By October 2013, RATSS had collected data from 55 twin pairs, among them 10 monozygotic pairs discordant for autism spectrum disorder, seven for ADHD, and four for other neurodevelopmental disorders. This article describes the design, recruitment, data collection, measures, collected pairs' characteristics, as well as ongoing and planned analyses in RATSS. Potential gains of the study comprise the identification of environmentally mediated biomarkers, the emergence of candidates for drug development, translational modeling, and new leads for prevention of incapacitating outcomes.
24726430: !GIMB Hypothesis: a role for EBV-induced molecular mimicry in Parkinson's disease. Current concepts regarding the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease support a model whereby environmental factors conspire with a permissive genetic background to initiate the disease. The identity of the responsible environmental trigger has remained elusive. There is incontrovertible evidence that aggregation of the  neuronal protein alpha-synuclein is central to disease pathogenesis. A novel hypothesis of Parkinson's pathogenesis, articulated by Braak and colleagues, implicates a pathogen acting in the olfactory mucosa and gastrointestinal tract as the inciting agent. In this point-of-view article, we hypothesize that alpha-synuclein aggregation in Parkinson's disease is an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced autoimmune phenomenon. Specifically, we have shown evidence for molecular mimicry between the C-terminal region of alpha-synuclein and a repeat region in the latent membrane protein 1 encoded by EBV. We hypothesize that, in genetically-susceptible individuals, anti-EBV latent membrane protein antibodies  targeting the critical repeat region cross react with the homologous epitope on alpha-synuclein and induce its oligomerization. Consistent with the Braak's proposed pattern of spread, we contend that axon terminals in the lamina propria  of the gut are among the initial targets, with subsequent spread of pathology to  the CNS. While at this time, we can only provide evidence from the literature and preliminary findings from our own laboratory, we hope that our hypothesis will stimulate the development of tractable experimental systems that can be exploited to test it. Further support for an EBV-induced immune pathogenesis for Parkinson's disease could have profound therapeutic implications.
24720679: !GIMB Retreatment of HCV with ABT-450/r-ombitasvir and dasabuvir with ribavirin. BACKGROUND: In this phase 3 trial we evaluated the efficacy and safety of the interferon-free combination of ABT-450 with ritonavir (ABT-450/r), ombitasvir (also known as ABT-267), dasabuvir (also known as ABT-333), and ribavirin for the retreatment of HCV in patients who were previously treated with peginterferon-ribavirin. METHODS: We enrolled patients with HCV genotype 1 infection and no cirrhosis who had previously been treated with peginterferon-ribavirin and had a relapse, a partial response, or a null response. Patients were randomly assigned in a 3:1 ratio to receive coformulated  ABT-450/r-ombitasvir (at a once-daily dose of 150 mg of ABT-450, 100 mg of ritonavir, and 25 mg of ombitasvir) and dasabuvir (250 mg twice daily) with ribavirin (1000 or 1200 mg daily) or matching placebos during the 12-week double-blind period. The primary end point was the rate of sustained virologic response 12 weeks after the end of study treatment. The primary efficacy analysis compared this rate among patients assigned to the active regimen with a historical response rate (65%) among previously treated patients with HCV genotype 1 infection and no cirrhosis who had received retreatment with telaprevir and peginterferon-ribavirin. RESULTS: A total of 394 patients received at least one study-drug dose. In the active-regimen group, 286 of 297 patients had a sustained virologic response at post-treatment week 12, for an overall rate of 96.3% (95% confidence interval, 94.2 to 98.4). This rate was noninferior and superior to the historical control rate. Rates were 95.3% among patients with a prior relapse (82 of 86 patients), 100% among patients with a prior partial response (65 of 65 patients), and 95.2% among patients with a prior null response (139 of 146 patients). Pruritus occurred more frequently with the active regimen  (in 13.8% of patients) than with placebo (5.2%, P=0.03). Three patients in the active-regimen group (1.0%) discontinued the study drugs owing to adverse events. Hemoglobin values of grade 2 (8.0 to <10.0 g per deciliter) and grade 3 (6.5 to <8.0 g per deciliter) occurred in 4.7% and 0.3% of patients in the active-regimen group, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Rates of response to a 12-week interferon-free  combination regimen were more than 95% among previously treated patients with HCV genotype 1 infection, including patients with a prior null response. (Funded by AbbVie; SAPPHIRE-II ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01715415.).
24717821: !GIMB Dietary cyclic dipeptides, apoptosis and psychiatric disorders: a hypothesis. Cyclic dipeptides from food and intestinal yeast cyclic dipeptides may play a role in causing psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. From cancer research, cyclic dipeptides such as cyclo (proline-phenylalanine) have been found to activate the pathways of apoptosis and to cause programmed cell death. Activation of such pathways is also thought to be important in causing the neurodevelopmental abnormalities seen in disorders such as schizophrenia and autistic disorder, and also may be important in Alzheimer's. Cyclic dipeptides are found in foods such as malt and cocoa and beer. The intestinal yeast Candida  albicans also synthesizes cyclic dipeptides. These dipeptides may be activating apoptosis pathways throughout fetal development and postnatal development, leading to some of the changes seen in brain in schizophrenia and in other psychiatric disorders. These compounds should be researched further to see if they play a role in causing these brain changes. In addition, these cyclic dipeptides are considered within the larger context of research on amino acids and other cyclic dipeptides in neurotransmission and neurophysiology. A better understanding of the role of these cyclic dipeptides in psychiatric disorders could lead to strategies for prevention and treatment of these disorders.
24716676: !GIMB Prevalence and predictors of Lymphogranuloma venereum in a high risk population attending a STD outpatients clinic in Italy. BACKGROUND: We evaluated LGV prevalence and predictors in a high risk population  attending a STI Outpatients Clinic in the North of Italy. METHODS: A total of 108 patients (99 MSM and 9 women), with a history of unsafe anal sexual intercourses, were enrolled. Anorectal swabs and urine samples were tested for Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) DNA detection by Versant CT/GC DNA 1.0 Assay (Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Terrytown, USA). RFLP analysis was used for CT molecular typing. RESULTS: L2 CT genotype was identified in 13/108 (12%) rectal swabs. All LGV cases were from MSM, declaring high-risk sexual behaviour and complaining anorectal symptoms. Patients first attending the STI Outpatient Clinic received a significant earlier LGV diagnosis than those first seeking care from general practitioners or gastroenterologists (P = 0.0046). LGV prevalence and characteristics found in our population are in agreement with international reports. Statistical analysis showed that LGV positive patients were older (P = 0.0008) and presented more STIs (P = 0.0023) than LGV negative ones, in particular due to syphilis (P < 0.001), HIV (P < 0.001) and HBV (P = 0.001).Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that HIV and syphilis infections are strong risk factors for LGV presence (respectively, P = 0.001 and  P = 0.010). CONCLUSIONS: Even if our results do not provide sufficient evidence to recommend routine screening of anorectal swabs in high-risk population, they strongly suggest to perform CT NAAT tests and genotyping on rectal specimens in presence of ulcerative proctitis in HIV and/or syphilis-positive MSM. In this context, CT DNA detection by Versant CT/GC DNA 1.0 Assay, followed by RFLP analysis for molecular typing demonstrated to be an excellent diagnostic algorithm for LGV identification.
24688254: !GIMB The correlation of routine tear function tests and conjunctival impression cytology in dry eye syndrome. PURPOSE: To establish the strength of the association between routine tear function tests and conjunctival impression cytology (CIC) and to determine whether they simulate the morphological and cytological changes that occur on the ocular surface in dry eye. What are the sensitivity, specificity and positive predictive values of these tests when CIC is considered the gold standard? METHODS: The tear film profile included tear film break up time (TBUT), Schirmer's-1, Rose Bengal scores (RBS), and impression cytology. CIC samples were obtained from the inferior bulbar conjunctiva and stained with periodic acid-Schiff and counter stained with hematoxylin and eosin. RESULTS: The mean Schirmer's value was 11.66 +/- 5.90 in patients and 17.17 +/- 2.97 in controls (p < 0.001). The mean TBUT in participants was 8.88 +/- 3.54 and 13.53 +/- 2.12 in controls (p < 0.001). Patients had a mean goblet cell density (GCD) of 490 +/- 213, while the value for controls was 1,462 +/- 661 (p < 0.001). Abnormal CIC was observed in 46.7% cases of dry eye and in 32.8% of controls. The correlation coefficient (L) for Schirmer's was 0.2 and 0.24 for participants and controls, respectively, while TBUT values were 0.26 and 0.38, RBS were 0.5 and 0.5, and GCD was 0.8 and 0.6 in cases and controls, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: GCD, RBS, and TBUT were better predictors of morphological and cytological changes in the conjunctiva than Schirmer's in dry eye syndrome. The sensitivity of tear function tests in diagnosing dry eye was TBUT > Schirmer's > RBS, and the specificity was  Schirmer's > TBUT > RBS in decreasing order when CIC was considered the gold standard.
24680821: !GIMB Crystal structure of glycoside hydrolase family 127 beta-l-arabinofuranosidase from Bifidobacterium longum. Enzymes acting on beta-linked arabinofuranosides have been unknown until recently, in spite of wide distribution of beta-l-arabinofuranosyl oligosaccharides in plant cells. Recently, a beta-l-arabinofuranosidase from the  glycoside hydrolase family 127 (HypBA1) was discovered in the newly characterized degradation system of hydroxyproline-linked beta-l-arabinooligosaccharides in the bacterium Bifidobacterium longum. Here, we report the crystal structure of HypBA1 in the ligand-free and beta-l-arabinofuranose complex forms. The structure of HypBA1 consists of a catalytic barrel domain and two additional beta-sandwich domains, with one beta-sandwich domain involved in the formation of a dimer. Interestingly, there is an unprecedented metal-binding motif with Zn(2+) coordinated by glutamate and three cysteines in the active site. The glutamate residue is located far from the anomeric carbon of the beta-l-arabinofuranose ligand, but one cysteine residue is appropriately located for nucleophilic attack for glycosidic bond cleavage. The residues around the active site are highly conserved among GH127 members. Based on biochemical experiments and quantum mechanical calculations, a possible reaction mechanism involving cysteine as the  nucleophile is proposed.
24647023: !GIMB Metronidazole therapy for treating dientamoebiasis in children is not associated  with better clinical outcomes: a randomized, double-blinded and placebo-controlled clinical trial. BACKGROUND: There is a paucity of evidence documenting the pathogenicity of Dientamoeba fragilis, an intestinal protozoan common in children. As case reports on successful treatment are numerous, many authors advocate treatment, despite no placebo-controlled trials being available. Metronidazole is often used for treatment, though eradication rates are relatively low (60%-80%). In the present  study we determined the clinical and microbiological efficacy of metronidazole in Danish children. METHODS: In this parallel placebo-controlled double-blinded trial, children aged 3-12 years with >4 weeks of gastrointestinal symptoms were allocated using block randomization in a 1:1 ratio to a 10-day course of oral metronidazole or placebo. Primary outcome was change in level of gastrointestinal symptoms, measured on a visual-analog-scale (VAS), and secondary outcome was eradication of D. fragilis infection. Participants, caregivers, investigators, and sponsor were all blinded to group assignment. The trial was registered with clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01314976) prior to start. RESULTS: Of 96 participants, 48  were allocated to the metronidazole and placebo group each. Mean VAS change from  pre- to post-treatment did not differ significantly (P = .8) between the metronidazole (-1.8 CI, [-2.5, -1.1]) and the placebo group (-1.6 CI, [-2.3, -.9]). Eradication of D. fragilis was significantly greater in the metronidazole  group, although it declined rapidly from 62.5% 2 weeks after end of treatment to  24.9% 8 weeks after end of treatment. CONCLUSIONS: These findings do not provide  evidence to support routine metronidazole treatment of D. fragilis positive children with chronic gastrointestinal symptoms. Study funded by Statens Serum Institut. CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION: Trial was registered with clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01314976).
24639668: !GIMB Neuro-immune abnormalities in autism and their relationship with the environment: a variable insult model for autism. Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous condition affecting an individual's ability to communicate and socialize and often presents with repetitive movements or behaviors. It tends to be severe with less than 10% achieving independent living with a marked variation in the progression of the condition. To date, the literature supports a multifactorial model with the largest, most detailed twin study demonstrating strong environmental contribution to the development of the condition. Here, we present a brief review of the neurological, immunological, and autonomic abnormalities in ASD focusing on the causative roles of environmental agents and abnormal gut microbiota. We present a working hypothesis attempting to bring together the influence of environment on the abnormal neurological, immunological, and neuroimmunological functions and we explain in brief how such pathophysiology can lead to, and/or exacerbate ASD symptomatology. At present, there is a lack of consistent findings relating to the neurobiology of autism. Whilst we postulate such variable findings may reflect the marked heterogeneity in clinical presentation and as such the variable findings may be of pathophysiological relevance, more research into the  neurobiology of autism is necessary before establishing a working hypothesis. Both the literature review and hypothesis presented here explore possible neurobiological explanations with an emphasis of environmental etiologies and are presented with this bias.
24632770: !GIMB GastroPanel(R) test for non-invasive diagnosis of atrophic gastritis in patients  with dyspepsia. AIM: Atrophic gastritis (AG), first step in the cascade leading to gastric adenocarcinoma, is related to Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. Currently, the gold standard for the diagnosis of AG is esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) with histological examination of the biopsy specimens. However, since the latter are taken in random order and the distribution of AG is often patchy, histology is only representative of mucosal status. Considering this limitation, a test named GastroPanel(R), that measures the blood concentrations of pepsinogen I and II, gastrin-17 and H. pylori antibodies, has been developed as a potential non-invasive biopsy. Aim of this study has been to assess the accuracy of GastroPanel(R) in patients with AG. METHODS: Forty-seven dyspeptic patients (24 males, mean age 52.2+/-9.3 years), in follow-up for antral or diffuse AG, were enrolled. All underwent at least two EGDs with random biopsies and blood collection for GastroPanel(R) parameters examination. RESULTS: Of the 47 patients, 16 (34.1%) had histological diagnosis of antral and 31 (65.9%) multifocal AG; 17 (36.2%) patients had mild and 30 (63.8%) had moderate-severe AG. H. pylori was detected in 39 (82.9%) and intestinal metaplasia was found in all patients. GastroPanel(R) showed 82.9% sensitivity for the diagnosis of AG and 53.8% for the diagnosis of H. pylori infection. The prediction of advanced atrophy was not sufficiently accurate, neither in patients with antral nor in those with multifocal AG. CONCLUSION: GastroPanel(R) can be useful for detecting patients with AG. However, it does not reflect the severity of atrophy.
24627606: !GIMB Antiviral therapy in cytomegalovirus-positive ulcerative colitis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. AIM: To evaluate the impact of antiviral treatment on cytomegalovirus (CMV)-positive ulcerative colitis patients. METHODS: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis (MA) of comparative cohort and case-control studies published between January 1966 and March 2013. Studies focusing on colectomy series and studies including only less than 3 patients in the treated or non-treated arm were excluded. The primary outcome was colectomy within 30 d of diagnosis. Secondary outcomes included colectomy during the follow-up period Subgroup analyses by method of detection of CMV, study design, risk of bias and country of origin were performed. Quality of studies was evaluated according to modified New-Castle Ottawa Scale. RESULTS: After full-text review, nine studies with a total of 176 patients were included in our MA. All the included studies were of low to moderate quality. Patients who have received antiviral treatment had a higher risk of 30-d colectomy (OR = 2.40; 95%CI: 1.05-5.50; I(2) = 37.2%).  A subgroup analysis including only patients in whom CMV diagnosis was based did not demonstrate a significant difference between the groups (OR = 3.41; 95%CI: 0.39-29.83; I(2) = 56.9%). Analysis of long-term colectomy rates was possible for 6 studies including 110 patients. No statistically significant difference was found between the treated and untreated groups (OR = 1.71; 95%CI: 0.71-4.13; 6 studies, I(2) = 0%). Analysis of mortality rate was not possible due to a very limited number of cases. Stratification of the outcomes by disease severity was not possible. CONCLUSION: No positive association between antiviral treatment and a favorable outcome was demonstrated. These findings should be interpreted cautiously due to primary studies' quality and potential biases.
24608416: !GIMB Dental caries, prevalqence and risk factors in patients with Crohn's disease. OBJECTIVE: The present study tested the hypothesis that patients with Crohn's disease (CD) have a higher prevalence and risk for caries compared to people without CD. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Patients with CD were divided into groups; 71 patients (50.7 +/- 13.9 years) who had gone through resective intestinal surgery  and 79 patients (42.0 +/- 14.4 years) who had not. The patients were compared to  75 controls (48.6 +/- 13.4 years) regarding DMF-T and DMF-S, Lactobacilli (LB), Streptococcus mutans (SM), salivary flow and dental plaque. Statistical methods including ANOVA or Chi-square test for calculation of demographic differences between groups, analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) to compare the clinical variable  and Post hoc analyses were done with Fischers Least Significant Difference test or Chi-square. Non-parametric Spearman's correlation matrix coefficient was estimated between clinical variables and disease duration. RESULTS: CD patients who had been subjected to resective surgery had a higher DMF-S score (50.7 versus 36.5; p = 0.01) compared to the control group after adjusting for age, gender and smoking. These patients had higher counts of SM (1.5 versus 0.9; p = 0.04) and LB (10000.0 versus 1000.0; p = 0.01), and more dental plaque (53.7 versus 22.6; p =  0.001). CD patients reported a more frequent consumption of sweetened drinks between meals compared to controls (p = 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The present study shows that patients with CD who had undergone resective surgery had a higher DMFs score, and higher salivary counts of Lactobacilli and Streptococcus mutans compared to the control group.
24590688: !GIMB Enhancement of functional connectivity, working memory and inhibitory control on  multi-modal brain MR imaging with Rifaximin in Cirrhosis: implications for the gut-liver-brain axis. Minimal hepatic encephalopathy (MHE) impairs daily functioning in cirrhosis, but  its functional brain impact is not completely understood. To evaluate the effect  of rifaximin, a gut-specific antibiotic, on the gut-liver-brain axis in MHE. HYPOTHESIS: Rifaximin will reduce endotoxemia, enhance cognition, increase activation during working memory(N-back) and reduce activation needed for inhibitory control tasks. METHODS: Cirrhotics with MHE underwent baseline endotoxin and cognitive testing, then underwent fMRI, diffusion tensor imaging and MR spectroscopy(MRS). On fMRI, two tasks; N-back (outcome: correct responses) and inhibitory control tests(outcomes: lure inhibition) were performed. All procedures were repeated after 8 weeks of rifaximin. RESULTS were compared before/after rifaximin. RESULTS: 20 MHE patients (59.7 years) were included; sixteen completed pre/post-rifaximin scanning with 92% medication compliance. Pre-rifaximin patients had cognitive impairment. At trial-end, there was a significantly higher correct 2-back responses, ICT lure inhibitions and reduced endotoxemia(p = 0.002). This was accompanied by significantly higher activation from baseline in subcortical structures (thalamus, caudate, insula and hippocampus) and left parietal operculum (LPO) during N-back, decrease in fronto-parietal activation required for inhibiting lures, including LPO during ICT compared to baseline values. Connectivity studies in N-back showed significant shifts in linkages after therapy in fronto-parietal regions with a reduction in fractional anisotropy (FA) but not mean diffusivity (MD), and no change in MRS metabolites at the end of the trial. A significant improvement in cognition including working memory and inhibitory control, and fractional anisotropy without effect on MD or MRS, through modulation of fronto-parietal and subcortical activation and connectivity was seen after open-label rifaximin therapy in MHE.
24582872: !GIMB Insights into drug discovery from natural medicines using reverse pharmacokinetics. Natural medicines (NMs) are indispensable sources for the development of modern drugs. However, the targets for most natural compounds are unknown and the current pharmacokinetic evaluation systems developed for target-defined drugs may not be directly applicable to NM-based drug discovery, which is a major hindrance in bringing natural compounds to the clinic. Here, we propose the concept of 'reverse pharmacokinetics' and discuss how a 'reverse pharmacokinetics' perspective could help clarify key questions in modern drug discovery from NMs with validated clinical benefits, thereby strengthening the translational potential. Reverse pharmacokinetics can provide physiologically relevant clues to the target identification and mechanistic study of NMs, which may also innovate drug discovery for complex diseases. We anticipate that an evolving deep understanding of the novel mode of action of natural compounds with a reverse pharmacokinetic insight may improve discovery of both single ingredient and multiple-component modern drugs from NMs.
24560918: !GIMB Binding of von Willebrand factor and plasma proteins to the eggshell of Schistosoma mansoni. Schistosoma mansoni eggs have to cross the endothelium and intestinal wall to leave the host and continue the life cycle. Mechanisms involved in this essential step are largely unknown. Here we describe direct binding to the S. mansoni eggshell of von Willebrand factor and other plasma proteins involved in haemostasis. Using deletion-mutants, we demonstrated that it is the A1 domain of  von Willebrand factor that binds to the eggshell. Our results suggest that binding of plasma proteins to the eggshell promotes binding to the endothelium, initiating the passage of the egg through the blood-vessel wall to be excreted in the end.
24558013: !GIMB Medical treatment for botulism. BACKGROUND: Botulism is an acute paralytic illness caused by a neurotoxin produced by Clostridium botulinum. Supportive care, including intensive care, is  key but the role of other medical treatments is unclear. This is an update of a review first published in 2011. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of medical treatments on mortality, duration of hospitalization, mechanical ventilation, tube or parenteral feeding and risk of adverse events in botulism. SEARCH METHODS: On 30 March 2013, we searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Specialized Register (30 March 2013), CENTRAL (2013, Issue 3) in The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE (January 1966 to March 2013) and EMBASE (January 1980 to March 2013). We reviewed bibliographies and contacted authors and experts. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized and quasi-randomized controlled trials examining the medical treatment of any of the four major types of botulism (infant intestinal botulism, food-borne botulism, wound botulism and adult intestinal toxemia). Potential medical treatments included equine serum trivalent botulism antitoxin, human-derived botulinum immune globulin, plasma exchange, 3,4-diaminopyridine and guanidine. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently selected studies, assessed risk of bias and extracted data onto data extraction forms.Our  primary outcome was in-hospital death from any cause occurring within four weeks. Secondary outcomes were death occurring within 12 weeks, duration of hospitalization, mechanical ventilation, tube or parenteral feeding and risk of adverse events. MAIN RESULTS: A single randomized controlled trial met the inclusion criteria. We found no additional trials when we updated the searches in 2013. This trial evaluated human-derived botulinum immune globulin (BIG) for the  treatment of infant botulism and included 59 treatment participants as well as 63 control participants. The control group received a control immune globulin which  did not have an effect on botulinum toxin. In this trial there was some violation of intention-to-treat principles, and possibly some between-treatment group imbalances among those participants admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and mechanically ventilated, but overall we judged the risk of bias to be low. There  were no deaths in either group, making any treatment effect on mortality inestimable. There was a significant benefit in the treatment group on mean duration of hospitalization (BIG: 2.60 weeks, 95% CI 1.95 to 3.25; control: 5.70  weeks, 95% CI 4.40 to 7.00; mean difference (MD) 3.10 weeks, 95% CI 1.68 to 4.52), mechanical ventilation (BIG: 1.80 weeks, 95% CI 1.20 to 2.40; control: 4.40 weeks, 95% CI 3.00 to 5.80; MD 2.60 weeks, 95% CI 1.14 to 4.06), and tube or parenteral feeding (BIG: 3.60 weeks, 95% CI 1.70 to 5.50; control: 10.00 weeks, 95% CI 6.85 to 13.15; MD 6.40 weeks, 95% CI 2.80 to 10.00) but not on risk of adverse events or complications (BIG: 63.08%; control: 68.75%; risk ratio 0.92, 95% CI 0.72 to 1.18; absolute risk reduction 0.06, 95% CI 0.22 to -0.11). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence supporting the use of human-derived botulinum immune globulin (BIG) in infant intestinal botulism. A single randomized controlled trial demonstrated significant decreases in the duration of hospitalization, mechanical ventilation and tube or parenteral feeding with BIG treatment. This evidence was of moderate quality for effects on duration of mechanical ventilation but was otherwise of high quality. Our search did not reveal any evidence examining the use of other medical treatments including serum trivalent botulism antitoxin.
24550220: !GIMB Gut microbiota metabolites of dietary lignans and risk of type 2 diabetes: a prospective investigation in two cohorts of U.S. women. OBJECTIVE: To examine urinary levels of enterolactone and enterodiol, intestinal  microbial metabolites of dietary lignans, in relation to type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Urinary concentrations of the lignan metabolites were assayed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry among 1,107 T2D and 1,107 control subjects in a nested case-control study conducted in participants from the Nurses' Health Study (NHS) and NHSII. Subjects were free of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer at urine sample collection in 1995-2001. Incident self-reported T2D cases identified through 2008 were confirmed with a validated questionnaire. RESULTS: In both cohorts, T2D subjects  had significantly lower concentrations of both enterolactone and enterodiol than  control subjects. After multivariate adjustment for lifestyle and dietary risk factors of T2D, urinary concentrations of enterolactone were significantly associated with a lower risk of T2D (pooled odds ratio [OR] comparing the extreme quartiles 0.62 [95% CI 0.44, 0.88], P for trend = 0.003). Higher urinary concentrations of enterodiol were also marginally significantly associated with a lower T2D risk (pooled OR comparing extreme quartiles 0.67 [95% CI 0.48, 0.96], P for trend = 0.08). When concentrations of both metabolites were combined to reflect total lignan intake, the OR was 0.70 (95% CI 0.53, 0.92) for each SD increment of total lignan metabolites. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that lignan metabolites, especially enterolactone, are associated with a lower risk of T2D in U.S. women. Further studies are needed to replicate these findings and to  explore potential mechanisms underlying the observed association.
24525507: !GIMB GNAS sequencing identifies IPMN-specific mutations in a subgroup of diminutive pancreatic cysts referred to as "incipient IPMNs". Incipient intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs) are poorly described subcentimeter pancreatic cysts with papillae and mucin similar to IPMNs. They are larger than pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia but do not meet the cutoff size  for IPMNs (>/= 1 cm). GNAS codon 201 mutations are hallmark genetic alterations of IPMNs. Hence, we sought to determine the GNAS status of incipient IPMNs to better classify these lesions. Incipient IPMNs from 3 institutions were histologically reassessed, manually microdissected, and the genomic DNA was extracted. Using a sensitive digital ligation technique, the mutational status of KRAS at codon 12 and GNAS at codon 201 was determined. We included 21 incipient IPMNs from 7 male and 12 female patients with a median age of 63 years (range, 40 to 76 y). Most patients underwent surgery for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (N = 8) or ampullary adenocarcinoma (N = 3). The median incipient IPMN size was 4 mm (range, 2 to 7 mm), and a majority had gastric-foveolar (N = 11) or intestinal (N = 5) differentiation. The maximum dysplasia observed was intermediate, and most of the lesions had intermediate-grade dysplasia. Mutational analysis revealed KRAS codon 12 mutations in all 21 incipient IPMNs, whereas 7 lesions (33%) in 7 individual patients harbored GNAS codon 201 mutations. The presence of GNAS 201 mutations in incipient IPMNs suggests that a fraction of these cysts are in fact  small IPMNs. Morphologically, incipient IPMNs do not appear to be high-risk lesions. Additional studies in a larger cohort are needed to define the relationship of incipient IPMNs to larger IPMNs and, more importantly, to determine their clinical significance.
24516700: !GIMB The simple predictors of pseudomembranous colitis in patients with hospital-acquired diarrhea: a prospective observational study. BACKGROUND/AIMS: As the incidence rate of and mortality from pseudomembranous colitis (PMC) are increasing worldwide, it is important to study the simple predictive risk factors for PMC among patients with hospital-acquired diarrhea (HAD). This study focused on identifying the clinical risk factors that can easily predict PMC. METHODS: The presumed HAD patients were prospectively recruited at the Hallym University Kangdong Sacred Heart Hospital. RESULTS: Age of 70 and older (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 1.76; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.12 to 0.75), use of proton pump inhibitors (adjusted OR, 4.07; 95% CI, 2.512 to 6.57), use of cephalosporins (adjusted OR, 2.99; 95% CI, 1.82 to 4.94), and underlying cancer (adjusted OR, 1.72; 95% CI, 1.04 to 2.82) were independent risk factors for PMC in the multivariate logistic regression analysis. The prevalence  of PMC was very low in the patients with HAD who exhibited no risk factors. CONCLUSIONS: The risk factors for PMC in patients with HAD included cephalosporin use, proton pump inhibitor use, old age, and cancer. Considering the strongly negative predictive values of these risk factors, endoscopic evaluation can be delayed in patients with HAD without risk of developing PMC.
24507139: !GIMB Ecotoxicity of pristine graphene to marine organisms. The ecotoxicity of pristine graphene nanoparticles (GNC1, PGMF) in model marine organisms was investigated. PGMF resulted more toxic than GNC1 to the bioluminescent bacterium Vibrio fischeri and the unicellular alga Dunaliella tertiolecta on the basis of EC50 values (end-points: inhibition of bioluminescence and growth, respectively). No acute toxicity was demonstrated with respect to the crustacean Artemia salina although light microscope images showed the presence of PGMF and GNC1 aggregates into the gut; a 48-h exposure experiment revealed an altered pattern of oxidative stress biomarkers, resulting  in a significant increase of catalase activities in both PGMF and GNC1 1mg/L treated A. salina and a significant increase of glutathione peroxidase activities in PGMF (0.1 and 1mg/L) treated A. salina. Increased levels of lipid peroxidation of membranes was also observed in PGMF 1mg/L exposed A. salina.
24490749: !GIMB Prevalence of malnutrition and associated risk factors among adult visceral leishmaniasis patients in Northwest Ethiopia: a cross sectional study. BACKGROUND: Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) causes considerable morbidity and mortality in Ethiopia. Data on the prevalence and associated risk factors on malnutrition among VL patients in Ethiopia are scarce. This study aimed to assess the prevalence of malnutrition and its associated risk factor among VL patients in Northwest Ethiopia. METHODS: An institution-based cross-sectional study was conducted from June to September 2012 at four leishmaniasis treatment sites in Northwest Ethiopia. Four hundred and three adult VL patients were enrolled in the study. Malnutrition was defined as a body mass index (BMI) </= 18.5 kg/m2. The data collected from the VL patients included sex, age, residence, occupation, weight, height, laboratory results (HIV, hemoglobin, intestinal parasites). Multivariate logistic regression model was used to determine the strength of association between malnutrition and associated risk factors. RESULTS: Among 403  adult VL patients 385 (95.5%) were malnourished. Twenty eight percent (n = 113),  30.3% (n = 122), and 37.2% (n = 150) were mildly, moderately and severely malnourished, respectively. The prevalence of intestinal parasitic infection was  47.6% (n = 192) and it was associated with malnutrition (P = 0.01). The prevalence of VL-HIV co-infection was 10.4% (n = 42). Hook worm, Giardia intestinalis and Ascaris lumbircoides were the leading prevalent intestinal parasites. Factors such as age, sex, residence, occupation, HIV status and anemia were not associated with severe malnutrition. CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of malnutrition in VL patients was very high and it was associated with intestinal parasitic infections. Therefore, screening of severely malnourished VL patients for intestinal parasitic infections during admission is recommended.
24488235: !GIMB Evaluating the diagnoses of gastric antral lesions using magnifying endoscopy with narrow-band imaging in a Chinese population. AIM: To evaluate the accuracy of diagnosing gastric antral lesions in routine clinical practice using magnifying endoscopy with narrow-band imaging (M-NBI) as  a real-time diagnosing technique. METHODS: Consecutive patients undergoing upper  endoscopy were selected for the study. In each patient, the mucosa of the gastric antrum was observed by M-NBI, and the gastric microstructure was categorized into five types (A-E). Based on these patterns, histological types were predicted in a real-time manner. The accuracy of these predictions was evaluated based on histological findings. Inter-observer agreement was also assessed. RESULTS: A total of 207 sites in 90 patients were examined by M-NBI. Compared with type A gastric microstructure, types B and C gastric microstructure showed a significantly higher degree of inflammation (P < 0.001). The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of types B + C microstructure as a predictor of gastric  inflammation were 85.4, 81.7 and 83.1 %, respectively. Similarly, the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of type D microstructure as a predictor of  gastric intestinal metaplasia were 71.8, 95.2 and 90.8 %, respectively, and those of type E microstructure as a predictor of early gastric cancer were 80.0, 98.9 and 97.6 %, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of type B alone, type C alone and types B + C combined for the detection of Helicobacter pylori infection were 52.2 and 87.0 %, 22.8 and 92.2 %, 75.0 and 79.1 %, respectively. The kappa value for the inter-observer agreement was 0.715 (95 % confidence interval 0.655-0.895). CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, M-NBI can significantly improve the accuracy of the prediction of histopathology of gastric antral lesions in vivo, implying the possibility of using M-NBI as an effective diagnosis technique.
24475294: !GIMB Gene polymorphisms of micrornas in Helicobacter pylori-induced high risk atrophic gastritis and gastric cancer. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are known for their function as translational regulators of tumor suppressor or oncogenes. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in miRNAs related genes have been shown to affect the regulatory capacity of miRNAs and were linked with gastric cancer (GC) and premalignant gastric conditions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate potential associations between miRNA-related gene polymorphisms (miR-27a, miR-146a, miR-196a-2, miR-492 and miR-608) and the presence of GC or high risk atrophic gastritis (HRAG) in European population. METHODS: Gene polymorphisms were analyzed in 995 subjects (controls: n = 351; GC: n = 363; HRAG: n = 281) of  European descent. MiR-27a T>C (rs895819), miR-146a G>C (rs2910164), miR-196a-2 C>T (rs11614913), miR-492 G>C (rs2289030) and miR-608 C>G (rs4919510) SNPs were genotyped by RT-PCR. RESULTS: Overall, SNPs of miRNAs were not associated with the presence of GC or HRAG. We observed a tendency for miR-196a-2 CT genotype to  be associated with higher risk of GC when compared to CC genotype, however, the difference did not reach the adjusted P-value (odds ratio (OR) - 1.46, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.03-2.07, P = 0.032). MiR-608 GG genotype was more frequent in GC when compared to controls (OR -2.34, 95% CI 1.08-5.04), but significance remained marginal (P = 0.029). A similar tendency was observed in a  recessive model for miR-608, where CC + CG vs GG genotype comparison showed a tendency for increased risk of GC with OR of 2.44 (95% CI 1.14-5.22, P = 0.021).  The genotypes and alleles of miR-27a, miR-146a, miR-196a-2, miR-492 and miR-608 SNPs had similar distribution between histological subtypes of GC and were not linked with the presence of diffuse or intestinal-type GC. CONCLUSIONS: Gene polymorphisms of miR-27a, miR-146a, miR-196a-2, miR-492, miR-492a and miR-608 were not associated with the presence of HRAG, GC or different histological subtypes of GC in European subjects.
24417229: !GIMB New insights into the epidemiology of childhood atopic dermatitis. There is a growing desire to explain the worldwide rise in the prevalence of atopic dermatitis (AD). Trend data on the burden of AD suggest that the picture in the developing world may soon resemble that of wealthier nations, where AD affects over 20% of children. This, combined with significant variations in prevalence within countries, emphasizes the importance of environmental factors.  Many hypotheses have been explored, from the modulation of immune priming by hygiene, gut microbiota diversity, and exposure to endotoxins through farm animals to the effects of pollution, climate, and diet. The discovery of the filaggrin skin barrier gene and its importance in AD development and severity has brought the focus on gene-environment interactions and the identification of environmental factors that impact on skin barrier function. This article reviews  our current understanding of the epidemiology of AD, with an emphasis on the findings reported in the international literature over the last 5 years.
24392178: !GIMB The burden of parasitic zoonoses in Nepal: a systematic review. BACKGROUND: Parasitic zoonoses (PZs) pose a significant but often neglected threat to public health, especially in developing countries. In order to obtain a better understanding of their health impact, summary measures of population health may be calculated, such as the Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY). However, the data required to calculate such measures are often not readily available for these diseases, which may lead to a vicious circle of under-recognition and under-funding. METHODOLOGY: We examined the burden of PZs in Nepal through a systematic review of online and offline data sources. PZs were classified qualitatively according to endemicity, and where possible a quantitative burden assessment was conducted in terms of the annual number of incident cases, deaths and DALYs. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Between 2000 and 2012, the  highest annual burden was imposed by neurocysticercosis and congenital toxoplasmosis (14,268 DALYs [95% Credibility Interval (CrI): 5450-27,694] and 9255 DALYs [95% CrI: 6135-13,292], respectively), followed by cystic echinococcosis (251 DALYs [95% CrI: 105-458]). Nepal is probably endemic for trichinellosis, toxocarosis, diphyllobothriosis, foodborne trematodosis, taeniosis, and zoonotic intestinal helminthic and protozoal infections, but insufficient data were available to quantify their health impact. Sporadic cases  of alveolar echinococcosis, angiostrongylosis, capillariosis, dirofilariosis, gnathostomosis, sparganosis and cutaneous leishmaniosis may occur. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: In settings with limited surveillance capacity, it is possible to quantify the health impact of PZs and other neglected diseases, thereby interrupting the vicious circle of neglect. In Nepal, we found that several PZs are endemic and are imposing a significant burden to public health, higher than that of malaria, and comparable to that of HIV/AIDS. However, several critical data gaps remain. Enhanced surveillance for the endemic PZs identified in this study would enable additional burden estimates, and a more complete picture of the impact of these diseases.
24352892: !GIMB Alpha-synuclein in the appendiceal mucosa of neurologically intact subjects. Parkinson's disease is characterized by the pathological aggregation of Alpha-synuclein. The dual-hit hypothesis proposed by Braak implicates the enteric nervous system as an initial site of alpha-synuclein aggregation with subsequent  spread to the central nervous system. Regional variations in the spatial pattern  or levels of alpha-synuclein along the enteric nervous system could have implications for identifying sites of onset of this pathogenic cascade. We performed immunohistochemical staining for alpha-synuclein on gastrointestinal tissue from patients with no history of neurological disease using the established LB509 antibody and a new clone, MJFR1, characterized for immunohistochemistry here. We demonstrate that the vermiform appendix is particularly enriched in alpha-synuclein-containing axonal varicosities, concentrated in its mucosal plexus rather than the classical submucosal and myenteric plexuses. Unexpectedly, intralysosomal accumulations of alpha-synuclein were detected within mucosal macrophages of the appendix. The abundance and accumulation of alpha-synuclein in the vermiform appendix implicate it as a candidate anatomical locus for the initiation of enteric alpha-synuclein aggregation and permits the generation of testable hypotheses for Parkinson's disease pathogenesis.
24333791: !GIMB Cognitive decline, dietary factors and gut-brain interactions. Cognitive decline in elderly people often derives from the interaction between aging-related changes and age-related diseases and covers a large spectrum of clinical manifestations, from intact cognition through mild cognitive impairment  and dementia. Epidemiological evidence supports the hypothesis that modifiable lifestyle-related factors are associated with cognitive decline, opening new avenues for prevention. Diet in particular has become the object of intense research in relation to cognitive aging and neurodegenerative disease. We reviewed the most recent findings in this rapidly expanding field. Some nutrients, such as vitamins and fatty acids, have been studied longer than others, but strong scientific evidence of an association is lacking even for these compounds. Specific dietary patterns, like the Mediterranean diet, may be more beneficial than a high consumption of single nutrients or specific food items. A strong link between vascular risk factors and dementia has been shown, and the association of diet with several vascular and metabolic diseases is well  known. Other plausible mechanisms underlying the relationship between diet and cognitive decline, such as inflammation and oxidative stress, have been established. In addition to the traditional etiological pathways, new hypotheses, such as the role of the intestinal microbiome in cognitive function, have been suggested and warrant further investigation.
24325727: !GIMB Ultrasound presentation of abdominal tuberculosis in a German tertiary care center. OBJECTIVE: Abdominal tuberculosis (TB) is a relatively rare disease in most of Europe and the typical clinical and sonographic findings in this setting have not been studied. We aimed to define sonographic findings that should alert an examiner to the possibility of abdominal TB in a low endemic region. METHODS: Case records of 17 patients with proven (n = 11) or highly likely (n = 6) abdominal TB detected in the gastrointestinal ultrasound unit at a German tertiary care center in 2003-2013 were analyzed retrospectively. Findings were compared with reported series from high-prevalence regions. RESULTS: While 76% of patients had an immigrant background, only 35% had a condition associated with immunosuppression. Lymphadenopathy was present in all cases of abdominal TB, while it was absent in 28% of patients from a control group with proven abdominal sarcoidosis. Moreover, retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy was significantly more common in TB. Other findings in patients with abdominal TB in descending order of frequency were ascites, altered hepatic texture, splenomegaly, splenic lesions, peritoneal thickening, intestinal wall lesions, hepatic lesions and hepatomegaly. 76% of abdominal TB patients had 2 or more pathological findings. CONCLUSIONS: Multiple pathological intra-abdominal findings including lymphadenopathy should alert the examiner to the possibility of abdominal TB.
24273218: !GIMB Whole soy, but not purified daidzein, had a favorable effect on improvement of cardiovascular risks: a 6-month randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled  trial in equol-producing postmenopausal women. SCOPE: Equol is produced by the intestinal bacteria from isoflavone daidzein. Studies have reported the health benefits of soy can only present or more pronounced in equol producers. This 6-month randomized controlled trial examined  the effect of whole soy (soy flour) and purified daidzein on cardiovascular biomarkers and carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) in prehypertensive postmenopausal women who were equol producers. METHODS AND RESULTS: Two hundred seventy eligible women were randomized to either one of the three treatments: 40  g soy flour (whole soy group), 40 g low-fat milk powder + 63 mg daidzein (daidzein group), or 40 g low-fat milk powder (placebo group) daily each for 6 months. Fasting venous samples were obtained at baseline and end of trial for testing glucose, lipids, high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), and free fatty acid. Changes in common CIMT were also assessed. Serum LDL-C decreased by 7.95% (95% CI: -15.09 approximately -0.81%) and 6.32% (95% CI: -13.45 approximately 0.08%), and serum hs-CRP decreased by 0.164 (95% CI: -0.309 approximately -0.019) and 0.054 (95% CI: -0.199 approximately 0.012) in the whole soy group compared with daidzein and milk placebo groups, respectively. No significant change in CIMT was found. CONCLUSION: Whole soy, but not purified daidzein, had a beneficial effect on reduction of LDL-C and hs-CRP among prehypertensive equol-producing postmenopausal women.
24269697: !GIMB TLR4 polymorphisms associated with developing gastric pre-cancer lesions in a Chinese Han population. Helicobacter pylori infection is a risk factor for gastric cancer. In addition, toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and  activation of innate immunity. This study investigated the association of TLR4 polymorphisms with a risk of intestinal metaplasia (IM) and intraepithelial neoplasia (IN) in a Chinese Han population. This study analyzed TLR4 gene polymorphisms in 333 patients (IM, 193 cases; IN, 140 cases) and 312 atypia-free  controls in a Chinese Han population using a Taqman allelic discrimination assay. The TLR4 single nucleotide polymorphisms +896A/G and +1196C/T were not associated with the risk of IM or IN. However, the single-locus analysis showed that the C allele of TLR4+2856T/C had significantly reduced risk of IM and IN [adjusted odds ratio (OR)=0.42; 95%CI=0.29-0.62 and OR=0.62; 95%CI=0.41-0.93, respectively] compared with the wild-type homozygote (TT). The frequencies of TLR4+2856T/C TC and T carrier were significantly lower in patients with Sydney's slight IM and low grade IN (P<0.01 and P=0.01, respectively), while the TC genotype showed a lower risk of moderate IM compared to healthy controls (P=0.045). In addition, the data revealed that H. pylori infection, heavy alcohol consumption and high salt uptake were associated with a higher susceptibility for developing this neoplasm. TLR4 rs10759932 TC and C carriers were associated with a lower risk in  developing precancerous lesions in the stomach in a Chinese Han population.
24268527: !GIMB ABO histo-blood group might modulate predisposition to Crohn's disease and affect disease behavior. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: ABO encodes a glycosyltranferase which determines the major  human histo-blood group. The FUT2 fucosyltransferase allows expression of ABO antigens on the gastrointestinal mucosa and in bodily secretions (secretor phenotype). A nonsense allele in FUT2 represents a susceptibility variant for Crohn's disease, and both the secretor and ABO blood group status affect the composition of the gut microbiota. Thus, we evaluated if variants in ABO might represent good candidates as Crohn's disease susceptibility loci. METHODS: We recruited two case-control cohorts, from Italy (n=1301) and Belgium (n=2331). Subjects were genotyped for one SNP in FUT2 and two variants in ABO. RESULTS: No  effect on Crohn's disease risk was detected for ABO variants, whereas an association was observed between the FUT2 polymorphism and Crohn's disease susceptibility in the Belgian sample, but not in the Italian cohort. The effect of histo-blood groups was evaluated using group O as the reference. Most non-O groups had odds ratios (ORs) higher than 1 in both cohorts, and combined analysis of the two samples indicated a predisposing effect for the A and B groups (OR=1.17, 95% CI: 1.02-1.32 and OR=1.33, 95% CI: 1.09-1.58, respectively). In Crohn's disease patients, the non-O blood group and the non-secretor status were  associated with higher risk of developing a stricturing or penetrating disease. CONCLUSIONS: ABO histo-blood group might confer susceptibility to Crohn's disease and modulate disease severity.
24259284: !GIMB A CagA-independent cluster of antigens related to the risk of noncardia gastric cancer: associations between Helicobacter pylori antibodies and gastric adenocarcinoma explored by multiplex serology. Because of the differences in bacterial epitopes and host characteristics, infections with Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) induce different immune responses. We explored the possibility that certain antibody response patterns are more closely linked to gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) than others. In a Swedish population-based case-control study, serum samples were obtained from 268 cases and 222 controls, aged 40-79 years and frequency-matched according to age and sex. We measured antibodies against 17 H. pylori proteins using multiplex serology. Associations were estimated with multivariably adjusted logistic regression models, using odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) as measures of relative risk. Associations were essentially confined to non-cardia GAC but did not differ significantly between intestinal and diffuse subtypes. Point estimates for all antibodies were above unity, 15 significant with top three being CagA (OR = 9.2), GroEL (6.6), HyuA (3.6). ORs were substantially attenuated in individuals with chronic atrophic gastritis. Principal component analysis identified two significant factors: a CagA-dominant factor (antibodies against CagA, VacA and Omp as prominent markers), and a non-CagA factor (antibodies against NapA and Catalase as prominent markers). Both factors showed  dose-dependent associations with non-cardia GAC risk (CagA-dominant factor, highest vs. lowest quartiles, OR = 16.2 [95% CI 4.8-54.9]; non-CagA factor OR = 5.3 [95% CI 2.1-13.3]). Overall, our results confirm that serum antibodies against different H. pylori proteins are associated with the presence of non-cardia GAC. Although strongest association is detected by antibodies against  CagA and covarying proteins, a pattern of antibodies unrelated to CagA is also significantly linked to the risk of non-cardia GAC.
24162593: !GIMB HBsAg seroclearance after nucleoside analogue therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis B: clinical outcomes and durability. OBJECTIVE: Little is known about the long-term clinical outcome and durability of HBsAg seroclearance following nucleos(t)ide analogue (NUC) therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). DESIGN: During a median follow-up period of 6 years (33 567 patient-years) of 5409 CHB patients who were initially treated with lamivudine or entecavir, a total of 110 achieved HBsAg seroclearance (0.33% annual seroclearance rate) and were included in this study. RESULTS: Baseline alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level >5 times of upper limit of normal was associated with higher probability of HBsAg seroclearance (HR 1.80, p<0.01), while HBeAg positivity (HR 0.46, p<0.01), high HBV DNA level (log(10) IU/mL; HR 0.61, p<0.01), and cirrhosis (HR 0.48, p<0.01) were inversely associated with the probability of HBsAg seroclearance by multivariable analysis. During follow-up for 287 patient-years after HBsAg seroclearance, only two patients with baseline  cirrhosis developed hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or died (0.7% annual risk), which was of a significantly lower rate compared with propensity score-matched patients without HBsAg seroclearance (HR 0.09, p<0.01). HBsAg reversion and/or HBV DNA reversion occurred in 18 patients, most of which were transient with extremely low serum levels of HBsAg (0.05-1.00 IU/mL) and HBV DNA (17-1818 IU/mL). None required retreatment. The cumulative probability of anti-HBs seroconversion (detection of anti-HBs) at 4 years was 67.4% by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Selection for lamivudine-resistance HBV mutants during treatment was not associated with composite reversion (p=0.66). CONCLUSIONS: HBsAg seroclearance achieved after NUC treatment was associated with favourable clinical outcomes and was durable in most cases during long-term follow-up.
24131637: !GIMB Reduced fibrosis in recurrent HCV with tacrolimus, azathioprine and steroids versus tacrolimus: randomised trial long term outcomes. OBJECTIVE: Early results of a randomised trial showed reduced fibrosis due to recurrent HCV hepatitis with tacrolimus triple therapy (TT) versus monotherapy (MT) following transplantation for HCV cirrhosis. We evaluated the clinical outcomes after a median 8 years of follow-up, including differences in fibrosis assessed by collagen proportionate area (CPA). DESIGN: 103 consecutive liver transplant recipients with HCV cirrhosis receiving cadaveric grafts were randomised to tacrolimus MT (n=54) or TT (n=49) with daily tacrolimus (0.1 mg/kg  divided dose), azathioprine (1 mg/kg) and prednisolone (20 mg), the last tailing  off to zero by 6 months. Both groups had serial transjugular biopsies with hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) measurement. Time to reach Ishak stage 4  was the predetermined endpoint. CPA was measured in all biopsies. Factors associated with HCV recurrence were evaluated. Clinical decompensation was the first occurrence of ascites/hydrothorax, variceal bleeding or encephalopathy. RESULTS: No significant preoperative, peri-operative or postoperative differences between groups were found. During 96 months median follow-up, stage 4 fibrosis was reached in 19 MT/11 TT with slower fibrosis progression in TT (p=0.009). CPA  at last biopsy was 12% in MT and 8% in TT patients (p=0.004). 14 MT/ three TT patients reached HVPG>/=10 mm Hg (p=0.002); 10 MT/three TT patients, decompensated. Multivariately, allocated MT (p=0.047, OR 3.23, 95% CI 1.01 to 10.3) was independently associated with decompensation: 14 MT/ seven TT died, and five MT/ four TT were retransplanted. CONCLUSIONS: Long term immunosuppression with tacrolimus, azathioprine and short term prednisolone in HCV cirrhosis recipients resulted in slower progression to severe fibrosis assessed by Ishak stage and CPA, less portal hypertension and decompensation, compared with tacrolimus alone. ISRCTN94834276--Randomised study for immunosuppression regimen  in liver transplantation.
24072741: !GIMB Epidemiology and risk factors for bloodstream infections in a home parenteral nutrition program. BACKGROUND: An increasing number of patients with intestinal failure are receiving home parenteral nutrition (HPN). Associated complications include bloodstream infections (BSIs), but data on rates and risk factors for HPN-related BSIs are scarce. METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted of patients enrolled in the regional HPN program between 2001 and 2008. Demographic information and data on indication for HPN, duration of PN therapy, type and date of insertion of central venous access device, and blood culture results were recorded. RESULTS: In total, 155 patients (165 courses of HPN) were included for  a total of 45,876 catheter days. The mean patient age was 49 years, and 105 (64%) patients were female. A total of 105 organisms were cultured from 93 distinct episodes of BSIs. The rate of BSI was found to be 2.0 per 1000 catheter days, but excluding BSIs with a single positive culture of coagulase-negative staphylococcus and diphtheroid bacilli, the rate of infection was 1.4 per 1000 catheter days. Male sex and underlying malignancy were significant predictors of  BSI, with hazard ratios of 1.69 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.14-2.60; P = .009) and 2.38 (95% CI, 1.53-3.50; P < .001). CONCLUSION: In a large heterogeneous group of HPN patients, the BSI rate ranged between 1.4 and 2.0 infections per 1000 catheter days. Isolated organisms were similar to those found in hospitalized patients. Male sex and underlying malignancy were significant risk factors for BSI. These high-risk patients are likely to benefit from interventions aimed at reducing BSIs.
23886849: !GIMB Towards improved diagnosis of neglected zoonotic trematodes using a One Health approach. Reaching the goal of control, elimination and eradication of the Neglected Tropical Disease in a foreseeable future provides significant challenges at the ground level especially regarding helminthiasis. Helminths are still mainly diagnoses by egg identification in stool, methods with low sensitivity and for most species low specificity. Cross-sectoral collaboration with regard to zoonoses is almost non-existing and cross-validation by inter-laboratory evaluation of diagnostic tests is not a common practice. The aim of this review was to elucidate the dilemma of helminth diagnosis using zoonotic trematodes as examples. Much progress has been made improving the diagnostic sensitivity of Opisthorchis and Clonorchis using DNA-based techniques but the specificity of these tests is still a challenge due to the many most common but neglected intestinal trematodes. The burden of these diseases and ways to control them remains to be elucidated. Although efficacious drugs are available, the effectiveness of mass drug administration remains to be assessed. The importance  of animal reservoirs and ways to control the diseases in animals are yet unknown. Diagnostic challenges regarding Schistosoma japonicum and Schistosoma mekongi include the many light infections and the persisting influx from the animal reservoirs. The sensitivity of the faecal based techniques suited morbidity control but will be insufficient for elimination of the helminths. More accurate  diagnostic tools are required and new algorithms for detection and progression of helminth elimination will be needed. Standardized inter-laboratory test validation, inter-sectoral collaboration and establishment of an international One Health diagnostic platform, sharing best practices on diagnosis of helminth zoonoses, could all significantly contribute to control and elimination of these  diseases.
23692360: !GIMB Helicobacter pylori infection and normal colorectal mucosa-adenomatous polyp-adenocarcinoma sequence: a meta-analysis of 27 case-control studies. AIM: The study aimed to determine whether Helicobacter pylori infection is associated with colorectal adenocarcinoma and to quantify the extent of the risk. METHOD: A literature search was performed to identify studies published between 1995 and 2012 for relevant risk estimates. Fixed and random effect meta-analytical techniques were conducted for colorectal adenocarcinoma and adenomatous polyp. RESULTS: Twenty-seven case-controlled studies involving 3450 adenocarcinoma patients, 1304 adenomatous polyp patients and more than 4000 controls were included. Helicobacter pylori was associated with an increased risk of colorectal adenocarcinoma and adenomatous polyp [odds ratio (OR) 1.24, 95% CI  1.12-1.37, P = 0.66; OR 1.87, 95% CI 1.53-2.28, P = 0.81]. There was a significant association between the CagA-positive strain and adenocarcinoma risk  (OR 1.22, 95% CI 1.08-1.37, P = 0.05). In addition, there was an increased risk of tubular adenoma and villous adenoma formation (OR 3.06, 95% CI 1.98-4.73, P =  0.14; OR 2.05, 95% CI 0.84-4.97, P = 0.86). CONCLUSION: The meta-analysis suggests a promoting effect of Helicobacter pylori on the risk of adenocarcinoma. It also suggests that Helicobacter infection might have its influence at the start of the adenomatous polyp disease sequence.
23666246: !GIMB Paravalvular abscess of the mitral valve with fistula to the left ventricle and detachment of the coronary sinus in a young woman. Infective endocarditis (IE) of the mitral valve (MV) manifesting paravalvular abscess (PA) is challenging. A 30-year-old woman presented with PA fistulating to the left ventricle, detachment of the coronary sinus and systemic embolization. During a course of fever of unknown origin, the patient received laparoscopic surgery under the diagnosis of strangulating intestinal obstruction due to colitis. Following abdominal surgery, abscess having blood flow within it from the left ventricle was pointed out at the left ventriculo-atrial junction by transthoracic echocardiography. Emergency surgery was performed under the diagnosis of PA of MV. Abscess debridement followed by reconstruction of the mitral annulus and coronary sinus with fresh autologous pericardium and mitral valve replacement (MVR) using a mechanical prosthetic valve were successfully performed. Timely and accurate diagnosis followed by the early surgical intervention with aggressive debridement of abscess and reconstruction with autologous pericardium should improve the outcome of this high-risk disease.
23665990: !GIMB Randomised clinical trial comparing sequential and concomitant therapies for Helicobacter pylori eradication in routine clinical practice. OBJECTIVES: No trial has compared non-bismuth quadruple 'sequential' and 'concomitant' regimens in settings with increasing clarithromycin rates. The study aims to compare the effectiveness and safety of these therapies for Helicobacter pylori treatment. DESIGN: Prospective randomised clinical trial in 11 Spanish hospitals. Patients naive to eradication therapy with non-investigated/functional dyspepsia or peptic ulcer disease were included. Randomised (1:1) to sequential (omeprazole (20 mg/12 h) and amoxicillin (1 g/12 h) for 5 days, followed by 5 days of omeprazole (20 mg/12 h), clarithromycin (500 mg/12 h) and metronidazole (500 mg/12 h)), or concomitant treatment (same drugs taken concomitantly for 10 days). Eradication was confirmed with (13)C-urea breath test or histology 4 weeks after treatment. Adverse events (AEs) and compliance were evaluated with questionnaires and residual medication count. RESULTS: 338 consecutive patients were randomised. Mean age was 47 years, 60% were women, 22% smokers and 20% had peptic ulcer. Concomitant and sequential eradication rates were, respectively, 87% vs 81% by intention-to-treat (p=0.15) and 91% vs 86% (p=0.131) per protocol. Respective compliances were 83% vs 82%. Treatment-emergent AEs were reported in 59% of patients (no differences found between treatments). AEs were mostly mild (60%), and average length was 6.1 days, causing discontinuation only in 12 patients. Multivariate analysis: 'concomitant' treatment showed an OR of 1.5 towards better eradication rate in a borderline significance CI (95% CI 0.9 to 2.8). CONCLUSIONS: Concomitant therapy led to a non-statistically significant advantage (5%) over sequential therapy, coming closer to 90% cure rates. Both therapies showed an acceptable safety profile. ClincialTrials.gov: NCT01273441.
23580779: !GIMB Improved survival of gastric cancer with tumour Epstein-Barr virus positivity: an international pooled analysis. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: About 9% of gastric carcinomas have Epstein-Barr virus  (EBV) in the tumour cells, but it is unclear whether viral presence influences clinical progression. We therefore examined a large multicentre case series for the association of tumour EBV status with survival after gastric cancer diagnosis, accounting for surgical stage and other prognostic factors. METHODS: We combined individual-level data on 4599 gastric cancer patients diagnosed between 1976 and 2010 from 13 studies in Asia (n=8), Europe (n=3), and Latin America (n=2). EBV positivity of tumours was assessed by in situ hybridisation. Mortality HRs for EBV positivity were estimated by Cox regression models stratified by study, adjusted for distributions of sex (71% male), age (mean 58 years), stage (52% tumour-node-metastasis stages III or IV), tumour histology (49% poorly differentiated, 57% Lauren intestinal-type), anatomic subsite (70% non-cardia) and year of diagnosis. Variations by study and continent were assessed using study-specific HRs for EBV positivity. RESULTS: During median 3.0  years follow-up, 49% of patients died. Stage was strongly predictive of mortality, with unadjusted HRs (vs stage I) of 3.1 for stage II, 8.1 for stage III and 13.2 for stage IV. Tumour EBV positivity was 8.2% overall and inversely associated with stage (adjusted OR: 0.79 per unit change). Adjusted for stage and other confounders, EBV positivity was associated with lower mortality (HR, 0.72;  95% CI 0.61 to 0.86), with low heterogeneity among the study populations (p=0.2). The association did not significantly vary across patient or tumour characteristics. There was no significant variation among the three continent-specific HRs (p=0.4). CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that tumour EBV positivity is an additional prognostic indicator in gastric cancer. Further studies are warranted to identify the mechanisms underlying this protective association.
23053897: !GIMB Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in gastroparesis. OBJECTIVE: To determine symptoms of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO)  in gastroparesis patients. METHODS: Patients undergoing LBT (lactulose breath test) for evaluation of SIBO were included. LBT was considered positive on the basis of three conventional criteria: (1) hydrogen level increase >20 ppm above baseline by 90 min (H2@90min); (2) dual hydrogen peaks (>10 ppm increase over baseline before second peak >20 ppm (DPHBT); and (3) breath methane increase of >20 ppm above baseline by 90 min. Results of gastric emptying scintigraphy (GES)  were recorded. Patients completed the Patient Assessment of Upper Gastrointestinal Disorders-Symptom Severity Index. RESULTS: Of 740 patients who underwent LBT from December 2009 to August 2011, 471 underwent GES, with 201 having delayed GES. Of patients with delayed GES who underwent LBT 87 % were female, 23 % diabetic, 49 % used gastric acid suppressants, 29 % used opiate analgesics, 35 % used pro-motility medications, and 27 % had a history of gastrointestinal surgery. Overall, 79 (39 %) patients with gastroparesis had evidence of SIBO by LBT: 30 (15 %) had positive H2@90min, 53 (26 %) positive DPHBT, and 6 (3 %) positive breath methane test. In gastroparesis patients with positive H2@90min, there was increased severity of bloating (3.80 +/- 0.20 vs 3.29 +/- 0.12; P = 0.02), early satiety (3.57 +/- 0.27 vs 3.05 +/- 0.13; P = 0.045), and postprandial fullness (4.20 +/- 0.18 vs 3.52 +/- 0.12; P < 0.01) compared with negative H2@90min patients. No significant difference in symptom severity was seen between positive and negative DPHBT gastroparesis patients. CONCLUSION: In our cohort, 39 % of gastroparesis patients tested positive for SIBO by LBT. Positive H2@90min testing by LBT was associated with increased symptoms of bloating and excessive fullness during and after meals.
