26578392: !Alzheimer Early inflammation-associated factors blunt sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1-mediated lipogenesis in high-fat diet-fed APP /PSEN1dE9 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients have increased an incidence of Type 2 diabetes  (T2D), however the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. Since AD is considered a multifactorial disease, that affects both the central nerves system  and periphery, and the dysregulation of hepatic lipid and glucose metabolism play critical roles in T2D, we therefore aim to explore the influence of AD genotype on the liver during the progress of high-fat diet (HFD)-induced T2D. 14-week-old  female APPSWE /PSEN1dE9 (AD) mice and age-, gender-matched wild type controls C57BL/6J (WT) mice were fed a HFD (45% kcal fat content) or a standard chow diet  (Chow, 12% kcal fat content) for 22 weeks. The effects of diet and genotype were  analyzed. Mouse primary hepatocytes were used to decipher the underlying mechanisms. HFD induced significantly higher body weight gain, more severe hyperglycemia, glucose intolerance as well as hepatic insulin resistance in AD mice than in WT mice. However, AD mice showed reduced HFD-induced hepatic steatosis, and SREBP-1-mediated lipogenic signaling was activated by HFD in WT mice but not in AD mice. Additionally, 14-week-old AD mice exhibited higher expression of NF-kappaB p65, p-JNK and p-p38MAPK, as well as higher hepatic and serum contents of IL-6 and TNFalpha. In mouse primary hepatocyte cultures, IL-6 and TNFalpha inhibited high glucose plus insulin-induced activation of SREBP-1-mediated lipogenic signaling and biosynthesis of NEFA and TG. Early inflammation-associated factors most likely diminish HFD-induced hepatic lipid deposition by inhibiting SREBP-1-mediated de novo lipogenesis, thus driving substrate flux to glucose production for hyperglycemia and hepatic insulin resistance in T2D development. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
26575203: !Alzheimer Big Data and Adverse Drug Reaction Detection. Big Data holds the promise of fundamentally transforming the manner in which adverse drug reactions can be identified and evaluated. This commentary discusses new data sources that are envisioned to form a Big Data enabled pharmacovigilance system and the role of these data in powering the future of adverse drug reactions detection. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
26574544: !Alzheimer Proteolytic processing of Neuregulin 1 type III by three intramembrane cleaving proteases. Numerous membrane-bound proteins undergo regulated intramembrane proteolysis (RIP). RIP is initiated by shedding and the remaining stubs are further processed by intramembrane cleaving proteases (I-CLiPs). Neuregulin 1 type III (NRG1 type III) is a major physiological substrate of beta-secretase (beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1; BACE1). BACE1-mediated cleavage is required to allow signaling of NRG1  type III. Due to the hairpin nature of NRG1 type III two membrane-bound stubs with a type 1 and a type 2 orientation are generated by proteolytic processing. We demonstrate that these stubs are substrates for three I-CLiPs. The type 1 oriented stub is further cleaved by gamma-secretase at an epsilon-like site 5 amino acids N-terminal to the C-terminal membrane anchor and at a gamma-like site in the middle of the transmembrane domain. The epsilon-cleavage site is only 1 amino acid N-terminal to a V/L substitution associated with schizophrenia. The mutation reduces generation of the NRG1 type III beta-peptide as well as reverses signaling. Moreover, it affects the cleavage precision of gamma-secretase at the  gamma-site similar to certain Alzheimer's disease associated mutations within the Amyloid precursor protein. The type 2 oriented membrane-retained stub of NRG1 type III is further processed by signal peptide peptidase-like proteases SPPL2a and SPPL2b. Expression of catalytically inactive aspartate mutations as well as treatment with (Z-LL)2 ketone inhibits formation of a N-terminal ICD and the corresponding secreted C-peptide. Thus, NRG1 type III is the first protein substrate, which is not only cleaved by multiple sheddases but also processed by  three different I-CLiPs.
26567748: !Alzheimer Metabolic Control of Glia-Mediated Neuroinflammation. to a variety of insults, which have crucial implications for reactive gliosis. These glial cells are CNS cell types serving not only as the source, but also as  targets of proinflammatory mediators. Undoubtedly, these cell types efficiently work towards the disposal of tissue debris and promotion of wound healing and tissue repair. However, they also synthesize and release numerous inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and chemokines, which can be detrimental to neurons, axons, myelin, and the glia themselves. While an acute insult is typically transient and unlikely to be detrimental to neuronal survival, chronic neuroinflammation is a long-standing and often self-perpetuating response, which  persists long after the initial injury or insult. It can serve as a point of origin for diverse neurological disorders including neurodegeneration. Accumulating evidence demonstrates the contribution of metabolic dysfunction and  mitochondrial failure to the pathogenesis of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative conditions are also characterized as metabolic syndromes, defined by impaired glucose utilization and energy metabolism, increased oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stresses, and autophagy defects. Furthermore, neuroinflammatory conditions are assumed to be accompanied  by an alteration in glial energy metabolism. Here, we comprehensively review the  metabolic hallmarks of glia-mediated neuroinflammation and how this metabolism orchestrates the neuroinflammatory response and pathophysiology of diverse neurological disorders. The central nervous system (CNS) shows dynamic immune and inflammatory responses  to a variety of insults, which have crucial implications for reactive gliosis. These glial cells are CNS cell types serving not only as the source, but also as  targets of proinflammatory mediators. Undoubtedly, these cell types efficiently work towards the disposal of tissue debris and promotion of wound healing and tissue repair. However, they also synthesize and release numerous inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and chemokines, which can be detrimental to neurons, axons, myelin, and the glia themselves. While an acute insult is typically transient and unlikely to be detrimental to neuronal survival, chronic neuroinflammation is a long-standing and often self-perpetuating response, which  persists long after the initial injury or insult. It can serve as a point of origin for diverse neurological disorders including neurodegeneration. Accumulating evidence demonstrates the contribution of metabolic dysfunction and  mitochondrial failure to the pathogenesis of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative conditions are also characterized as metabolic syndromes, defined by impaired glucose utilization and energy metabolism, increased oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stresses, and autophagy defects. Furthermore, neuroinflammatory conditions are assumed to be accompanied  by an alteration in glial energy metabolism. Here, we comprehensively review the  metabolic hallmarks of glia-mediated neuroinflammation and how this metabolism orchestrates the neuroinflammatory response and pathophysiology of diverse neurological disorders.
26560688: !Alzheimer A new role for an old drug: Ambroxol triggers lysosomal exocytosis via pH-dependent Ca release from acidic Ca stores. Ambroxol (Ax) is a frequently prescribed drug used to facilitate mucociliary clearance, but its mode of action is yet poorly understood. Here we show by X-ray spectroscopy that Ax accumulates in lamellar bodies (LBs), the surfactant storing, secretory lysosomes of type II pneumocytes. Using lyso- and acidotropic  substances in combination with fluorescence imaging we confirm that these vesicles belong to the class of acidic Ca2+ stores. Ax lead to a significant neutralization of LB pH, followed by intracellular Ca2+ release, and to a dose-dependent surfactant exocytosis. Ax-induced Ca2+ release was significantly reduced and slowed down by pretreatment of the cells with bafilomycin A1 (Baf A1), an inhibitor of the vesicular H+ ATPase. These results could be nearly reproduced with NH3/NH4+. The findings suggest that Ax accumulates within LBs and severely affects their H+ and Ca2+ homeostasis. This is further supported by an Ax-induced change of nanostructural assembly of surfactant layers. We conclude that Ax profoundly affects LBs presumably by disordering lipid bilayers and by acting as a weak base. The pH change triggers - at least in part - Ca2+ release from stores and secretion of surfactant from type II cells. This novel mechanism  of Ax as a lysosomal secretagogue may also play a role for its recently discussed use for lysosomal storage and other degenerative diseases.
26560048: !Alzheimer Discovery of a marine-derived bis-indole alkaloid fascaplysin, as a new class of  potent P-glycoprotein inducer and establishment of its structure-activity relationship. The screening of IIIM natural products repository for P-gp modulatory activity in P-gp over-expressing human adenocarcinoma LS-180 cells led to the identification  of 7 natural products viz. withaferin, podophyllotoxin, 3-demethylcolchicine, agnuside, reserpine, seseberecine and fascaplysin as P-gp inducers. Fascaplysin (6a), a marine-derived bis-indole alkaloid, was the most potent among all of them, showing induction of P-gp with EC50 value of 25 nM. P-gp induction is one of the recently targeted strategy to increase amyloid-beta clearance from Alzheimer brains. Thus, we pursued a medicinal chemistry of fascaplysin to establish its structure-activity relationship for P-gp induction activity. Four series of analogs viz. substituted quaternary fascaplysin analogs, D-ring opened  quaternary analogs, D-ring opened non-quaternary analogs, and beta-carbolinium analogs were synthesized and screened for P-gp induction activity. Among the total of 48 analogs screened, only quaternary nitrogen containing analogs 6a-g and 10a, 10h-l displayed promising P-gp induction activity; whereas non-planar non-quaternary analogs 9a-m, 13a-n, 15a-h were devoid of this activity. The P-gp  induction activity of best compounds was then confirmed by western-blot analysis, which indicated that fascaplysin (6a) along with 4,5-difluoro analog of fascaplysin 6f and D-ring opened analog 10j displayed 4-8 fold increase in P-gp expression in LS-180 cells at 1 muM. Additionally, compounds 6a and 6f also showed inhibition of acetylcholinestease (AChE), an enzyme responsible for neuronal loss in Alzheimer's disease. Thus, fascaplysin and its analogs showing promising P-gp induction along with AChE inhibition at 1 muM, with good safety window (LS-180: IC50 > 10 muM, hGF: 4 muM), clearly indicates their promise for development as an anti-Alzheimer agent.
26548612: !Alzheimer Bioorthogonal Labeling of Ghrelin Receptor to Facilitate Studies of Ligand-Dependent Conformational Dynamics. Ghrelin receptor (GhrR) is a promising drug target because of its central role in energy homeostasis. GhrR, known for high constitutive activity, is thought to display multi-state conformations during activation and signaling. We used genetically encoded unnatural amino acids and bioorthogonal labeling reactions to engineer multiple fluorescent donor-acceptor pairs to probe ligand-directed structural changes in GhrR. We demonstrate how conformational dynamics of a G-protein-coupled receptor can be measured in reconstituted systems.
26547631: !Alzheimer Tonically active NMDA receptors - a signalling mechanism critical for interneuronal excitability in the CA1 stratum radiatum. In contrast to tonic extrasynaptic GABAA receptor-mediated signalling, the physiological significance of tonic extrasynaptic NMDA receptor-mediated (NMDAR)  signalling remains uncertain. In this study we used reversible open-channel blockers of NMDARs, memantine and phencyclidine (PCP), as tools to examine tonic  NMDAR-mediated signalling in rat hippocampal slices. Memantine in concentrations  up to 10 muM had no effect on synaptically evoked NMDAR-mediated responses in pyramidal neurons or GABAergic interneurons. On the other hand, 10 muM memantine  reduced tonic NMDAR-mediated currents in GABAergic interneurons by approximately  50%. These tonic NMDAR-mediated currents in interneurons contributed significantly to the excitability of the interneurons since 10 muM memantine reduced the disynaptic IPSC in pyramidal cells by about 50%. Moreover, 10 muM memantine, but also PCP in concentrations </= 1 muM, increased the magnitude of the population spike, likely because of disinhibition. The relatively higher impact of tonic NMDAR-mediated signalling in interneurons was at least partly explained by the expression of GluN2D-containing NMDARs, which was not observed in mature pyramidal cells. Our results are consistent with the idea that low doses of readily reversible NMDA receptor open-channel blockers preferentially inhibits tonically active extrasynaptic NMDARs, and they suggest that tonically active NMDARs contribute more prominently to the intrinsic excitation in GABAergic interneurons than in pyramidal cells. We propose that this specific difference between interneurons and pyramidal cells can explain the disinhibition caused by the Alzheimer's disease medication memantine. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
26544103: !Alzheimer Oxidative damage and the pathogenesis of menopause related disturbances and diseases. The postmenopausal phase of life is frequently associated in women with subjective symptoms (e.g. vasomotor) and real diseases (atherosclerosis with coronary ischemia, osteoporosis, Alzheimer-type neurodegeneration, urogenital dystrophy), which together determine the post-menopausal syndrome. Observations that oxidative damage by reactive oxygen/nitrogen species in experimental models  can contribute to the pathogenesis of these disturbances stimulated research on the relationships between menopause, its endocrine deficiency, oxidative balance  and the "wellness" in postmenopausal life. The connection among these events is probably due to the loss of protective actions exerted by estrogens during the fertile life. Most recent studies have revealed that estrogens exert an antioxidant action not by direct chemical neutralization of reactants as it was expected until recently but by modulating the expression of antioxidant enzymes that control levels of biological reducing agents. Also nutritional antioxidants  apparently act by a similar mechanism. From this perspective it is conceivable that a cumulative control of body oxidant challenges and biological defenses could help in monitoring between "normal" and "pathological" menopause. However,  as clinical studies failed to confirm this scenario in vivo, we have decided to review the existing literature to understand the causes of this discrepancy and whether this was due to methodologic reasons or to real failure of the basic hypothesis.
26527844: !Alzheimer SPReM: Sparse Projection Regression Model For High-dimensional Linear Regression. The aim of this paper is to develop a sparse projection regression modeling (SPReM) framework to perform multivariate regression modeling with a large number of responses and a multivariate covariate of interest. We propose two novel heritability ratios to simultaneously perform dimension reduction, response selection, estimation, and testing, while explicitly accounting for correlations  among multivariate responses. Our SPReM is devised to specifically address the low statistical power issue of many standard statistical approaches, such as the  Hotelling's T 2 test statistic or a mass univariate analysis, for high-dimensional data. We formulate the estimation problem of SPREM as a novel sparse unit rank projection (SURP) problem and propose a fast optimization algorithm for SURP. Furthermore, we extend SURP to the sparse multi-rank projection (SMURP) by adopting a sequential SURP approximation. Theoretically, we have systematically investigated the convergence properties of SURP and the convergence rate of SURP estimates. Our simulation results and real data analysis have shown that SPReM out-performs other state-of-the-art methods.
26527417: !Alzheimer The ileal bile acid transporter inhibitor A4250 decreases serum bile acids by interrupting the enterohepatic circulation. BACKGROUND: Reabsorption of bile acids from the intestine by ileal bile acid transporter is pivotal for the enterohepatic circulation of BAs and sterol homoeostasis. AIM: To assess tolerability and study, bile acid metabolism in a phase 1 trial with the selective ileal bile acid transporter inhibitor A4250. METHODS: A randomised double-blind, single-ascending dose (SAD) and multiple-ascending-dose study consisting of five cohorts comprising 40 individuals with a single administration of A4250 (0.1, 0.3, 1, 3, or 10 mg) or placebo and three cohorts comprising 24 individuals with a 1-week administration  of A4250 (1 or 3 mg once daily or 1.5 mg twice daily) or placebo. For the multiple-ascending-dose study, bile acids were measured by HPLC-MS in plasma and  faeces, and fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF19) and 7alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one (C4) were measured in plasma. RESULTS: No serious adverse events occurred and all participants finished the trial per protocol. At the end of the multiple-ascending-dose study, plasma total bile acids and FGF19 decreased by 47% and 76%, respectively, at 3 mg/day (P < 0.01), and by 15% and 16%, respectively, at 1.5 mg twice daily (P < 0.05). Plasma C4 and faecal bile acids increased at all dose regimens, by 555%, 664%, 292% and 338%, 421%, 420%, respectively (P < 0.01-0.05). The primary bile acids cholic and chenodeoxycholic acids constituted the majority of faecal bile acids in the A4250-treated groups. CONCLUSIONS: A4250 is well tolerated. By blocking ileal bile acid transporter in the terminal ileum, it highly efficiently interrupts the enterohepatic circulation of BAs, and should be of benefit to patients with cholestatic liver diseases. Clinical Trial registration EudraCT 2013-001175-21.
26526912: !Alzheimer A novel approach for LC-MS/MS-based chiral metabolomics fingerprinting and chiral metabolomics extraction using a pair of enantiomers of chiral derivatization reagents. Chiral metabolites are found in a wide variety of living organisms and some of them are understood to be physiologically active compounds and biomarkers. However, the overall analysis of chiral metabolomics is quite difficult due to the high number of metabolites, the significant diversity in their physicochemical properties, and concentration range from metabolite-to-metabolite. To solve this difficulty, we developed a novel approach for chiral metabolomics fingerprinting and chiral metabolomics extraction, which  is based on the labeling of a pair of enantiomers of chiral derivatization reagents (i.e., DMT-(S,R)-Pro-OSu and DMT-3(S,R)-Apy) and precursor ion scan chromatography of the derivatives. The multivariate statistics is also required for this strategy. The proposed procedures were evaluated by the detection of a diagnostic marker (i.e., d-lactic acid) using the saliva of diabetic patients. This method was used for the determination of biomarker candidates of chiral amines and carboxyls in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain homogenates. As the results, l-phenylalanine (L-Phe) and l-lactic acid (L-LA) were identified as the  decreased and increased biomarker candidates in the AD brain, respectively. Therefore, the proposed approach seems to be helpful for the determination of non-target chiral metabolomics possessing amines and carboxyls.
26510982: !Alzheimer Neuroprotection of (+)-2-(1-Hydroxyl-4-Oxocyclohexyl) Ethyl Caffeate Against Hydrogen Peroxide and Lipopolysaccharide Induced Injury via Modulating Arachidonic Acid Network and p38-MAPK Signaling. Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are highly relevant to the pathological processes of various neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD). (+)-2-(1-hydroxyl-4-oxocyclohexyl) ethyl caffeate (HOEC), a novel 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, was isolated from the whole plant of Incarvillea mairei var granditlora (Wehrhahn) Grierson. In this study, we investigated the protective effect of HOEC on hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) -induced cytotoxicity and neuroinflammation in vitro and in vivo. MTT assay, LDH release assay, morphological observation and Hoechst 33342/PI dual staining followed by EIA, immunofluorescence staining and Western Blotting analysis were performed to elucidate the neuroprotective effect of HOEC. Treatment with HOEC at various concentrations prior to H2O2 exposure significantly enhanced cell viability, decreased LDH release, prevented cell morphologic changes and apoptosis. Instead of PGE2 reduction, HOEC markedly inhibited the production of LTB4 and suppressed the macrophage-mediated neurotoxicity. Western blotting and immunofluorescence staining showed that HOEC  inhibited H2O2-induced p38 phosphorylation and NF-kappaB activation. Neuroprotective effect of HOEC was abolished by a p38 inhibitor. Further in vivo  studies of LPS-induced neuroinflammation confirmed the anti-inflammatory effects  of HOEC. These findings that HOEC protects SH-SY5Y cells from H2O2 and LPS-induced injury via arachidonic acid network modulation followed by p38 MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling, might make HOEC be considered as a therapeutic candidate for prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases involving oxidative stress or/and inflammation.
26510981: !Alzheimer The ATP-Binding Cassette Transporter-2 (ABCA2) Overexpression Modulates Sphingosine Levels and Transcription of the Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP) Gene. The ATP-binding cassette transporter-2 (ABCA2) is a member of a family of multipass transmembrane proteins that use the energy of ATP hydrolysis to transport substrates across membrane bilayers. ABCA2 has also been genetically linked with Alzheimer's disease but the molecular mechanisms are unknown. In this report, we hypothesized that ABCA2 modulation of sphingolipid metabolism activates a signaling pathway that regulates amyloid precursor protein transcription. We found that ABCA2 overexpression in N2a cells was associated with increased mass of the sphingolipid sphingosine, derived from the catabolism  of ceramide. ABCA2 overexpression increased in vitro alkaline and acid ceramidase activity. Sphingosine is a physiological inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC) activity. Pharmacological inhibition of ceramidase activity or activation PKC activity with 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) or diacylglycerol (DAG) decreased endogenous APP mRNA levels in ABCA2 overexpressing cells. Treatment with PMA also decreased the expression of a transfected human APP promoter reporter construct,  while treatment with a general PKC inhibitor, GF109203x, increased APP promoter activity. In N2a cells, chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that a repressive complex forms at the AP-1 site in the human APP promoter, consisting of c-jun, c-jun dimerization protein 2 (JDP2) and HDAC3 and this complex was reduced in ABCA2 overexpressing cells. Activation of the human APP promoter in A2 cells was directed by the upstream stimulatory factors USF-1 and USF-2 that bound to an E-box element in vivo. These findings indicate that ABCA2 overexpression modulates sphingosine levels and regulates transcription of the endogenous APP gene.
26502816: !Alzheimer Lipid-based Diets Improve Muscarinic Neurotransmission in the Hippocampus of Transgenic APPswe/PS1dE9 Mice. accumulation of beta-amyloid fragments resulting in formation of amyloid plaques  that starts at the age of 4-5 months. Buildup of beta-amyloid fragments is accompanied by impairment of muscarinic transmission that becomes detectable at this age, well before the appearance of cognitive deficits that manifest around the age of 12 months. We have recently demonstrated that long-term feeding of trangenic mice with specific isocaloric fish oil-based diets improves specific behavioral parameters. Now we report on the influence of short-term feeding (3 weeks) of three isocaloric diets supplemented with Fortasyn (containing fish oil  and ingredients supporting membrane renewal), the plant sterol stigmasterol together with fish oil, and stigmasterol alone on markers of cholinergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus of 5-month-old transgenic mice and their wild-type littermates. Transgenic mice fed normal diet demostrated increase in ChAT activity and attenuation of carbachol-stimulated GTP-gamma35S binding compared to wild-type mice. None of the tested diets compared to control diet influenced the activities of ChAT, AChE, BuChE, muscarinic receptor density or carbachol-stimulated GTP-gamma35S binding in wild-type mice. In contrast, all experimental diets increased the potency of carbachol in stimulating GTP-gamma35S binding in trangenic mice to the level found in wild-type animals. Only the Fortasyn diet increased markers of cholinergic synapses in transgenic mice. Our data demonstrate that even short-term feeding of transgenic mice with chow containing specific lipid-based dietary supplements can influence markers of cholinergic synapses and rectify impaired muscarinic signal transduction that develops in transgenic mice. Transgenic APPswe/PS1dE9 mice modelling Alzheimer's disease demonstrate ongoing accumulation of beta-amyloid fragments resulting in formation of amyloid plaques  that starts at the age of 4-5 months. Buildup of beta-amyloid fragments is accompanied by impairment of muscarinic transmission that becomes detectable at this age, well before the appearance of cognitive deficits that manifest around the age of 12 months. We have recently demonstrated that long-term feeding of trangenic mice with specific isocaloric fish oil-based diets improves specific behavioral parameters. Now we report on the influence of short-term feeding (3 weeks) of three isocaloric diets supplemented with Fortasyn (containing fish oil  and ingredients supporting membrane renewal), the plant sterol stigmasterol together with fish oil, and stigmasterol alone on markers of cholinergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus of 5-month-old transgenic mice and their wild-type littermates. Transgenic mice fed normal diet demostrated increase in ChAT activity and attenuation of carbachol-stimulated GTP-gamma35S binding compared to wild-type mice. None of the tested diets compared to control diet influenced the activities of ChAT, AChE, BuChE, muscarinic receptor density or carbachol-stimulated GTP-gamma35S binding in wild-type mice. In contrast, all experimental diets increased the potency of carbachol in stimulating GTP-gamma35S binding in trangenic mice to the level found in wild-type animals. Only the Fortasyn diet increased markers of cholinergic synapses in transgenic mice. Our data demonstrate that even short-term feeding of transgenic mice with chow containing specific lipid-based dietary supplements can influence markers of cholinergic synapses and rectify impaired muscarinic signal transduction that develops in transgenic mice.
26497928: !Alzheimer Review of endocrine disorders associated with environmental toxicants and possible involved mechanisms. Endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDC) are released into environment from different sources. They are mainly used in packaging industries, pesticides and food constituents. Clinical evidence, experimental models, and epidemiological studies suggest that EDC have major risks for human by targeting different organs and systems in the body. Multiple mechanisms are involved in targeting the normal system, through estrogen receptors, nuclear receptors and steroidal receptors activation. In this review, different methods by which xenobiotics stimulate signaling pathways and genetic mutation or DNA methylation have been discussed. These methods help to understand the results of xenobiotic action on the endocrine system. Endocrine disturbances in the human body result in breast cancer, ovarian problems, thyroid eruptions, testicular carcinoma, Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia, nerve damage and obesity. EDC characterize a wide class of compounds such as organochlorinated pesticides, industrial wastes, plastics and plasticizers, fuels and numerous other elements that exist in the environment or are in high use during daily life. The interactions and mechanism of toxicity  in relation to human general health problems, especially endocrine disturbances with particular reference to reproductive problems, diabetes, and breast, testicular and ovarian cancers should be deeply investigated. There should also be a focus on public awareness of these EDC risks and their use in routine life.  Therefore, the aim of this review is to summarize all evidence regarding different physiological disruptions in the body and possible involved mechanisms, to prove the association between endocrine disruptions and human diseases.
26490886: !Alzheimer Indoor second-hand smoking could mediate the associations of foods and adult happiness: Scottish Health Survey, 2012. of second-hand smoking is less understood. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine if second-hand smoking might mediate the associations of food consumption and subjective happiness in a country-wide and population-based  setting. Data was retrieved from the Scottish Health Survey, 2012. Information on demographics, frequency of consuming certain foods and subjective happiness was obtained by household interview. Chi-square test and survey-weighted logistic regression modelling were performed. Of the included Scottish adults aged 16-99 (n = 4815), 15.4 % (n = 677) reported that they were unhappy. It was observed that eating lots of potatoes, some meat, some oily fish and some pastries were inversely associated with unhappiness. People who consumed vegetables and fruits  on the day before the health interview were also found to be less unhappy, compared to their counterparts. However, the protective effect from fruits disappeared after additionally adjusting for indoor second-hand smoking while the protective effects from other foods mentioned above have also been lessened. In addition, cumulatively people who consumed more "happy foods" (mentioned above) were more likely to report subjective happiness, compared to those who did not consume any of those. For future research, longitudinally monitoring on the associations among food, household environment and psychological well-being and both the short-term and long-term effects would be suggested. For policy implications, Removal of indoor second-hand smoking to retain the protective effects from happy foods on well-being should be encouraged. There has been literature on the relationship of food and happiness, but the role of second-hand smoking is less understood. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine if second-hand smoking might mediate the associations of food consumption and subjective happiness in a country-wide and population-based  setting. Data was retrieved from the Scottish Health Survey, 2012. Information on demographics, frequency of consuming certain foods and subjective happiness was obtained by household interview. Chi-square test and survey-weighted logistic regression modelling were performed. Of the included Scottish adults aged 16-99 (n = 4815), 15.4 % (n = 677) reported that they were unhappy. It was observed that eating lots of potatoes, some meat, some oily fish and some pastries were inversely associated with unhappiness. People who consumed vegetables and fruits  on the day before the health interview were also found to be less unhappy, compared to their counterparts. However, the protective effect from fruits disappeared after additionally adjusting for indoor second-hand smoking while the protective effects from other foods mentioned above have also been lessened. In addition, cumulatively people who consumed more "happy foods" (mentioned above) were more likely to report subjective happiness, compared to those who did not consume any of those. For future research, longitudinally monitoring on the associations among food, household environment and psychological well-being and both the short-term and long-term effects would be suggested. For policy implications, Removal of indoor second-hand smoking to retain the protective effects from happy foods on well-being should be encouraged.
26489065: !Alzheimer A reversed-phase compatible thin-layer chromatography autography for the detection of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. A dual readout autographic assay to detect acetylcholinesterase inhibitors present in complex matrices adsorbed on reversed-phase or normal-phase thin-layer chromatography plates is described. Enzyme gel entrapment with an amphiphilic copolymer was used for assay development. The effects of substrate and enzyme concentrations, pH, incubation time, and incubation temperature on the sensitivity and the detection limit of the assay were evaluated. Experimental design and response surface methodology were used to optimize conditions with a minimum number of experiments. The assay allowed the detection of 0.01% w/w of physostigmine in both a spiked Sonchus oleraceus L. extract chromatographed on normal phase and a spiked Pimenta racemosa (Mill.) J.W. Moore leaf essential oil  chromatographed on reversed phase. Finally, the reversed-phase thin-layer chromatography assay was applied to reveal the presence of an inhibitor in the Cymbopogon citratus (DC.) Stapf essential oil. The developed assay is able to detect acetylcholinesterase inhibitors present in complex matrixes that were chromatographed in normal phase or reversed-phase thin-layer chromatography. The  detection limit for physostigmine on both normal and reversed phase was of 1x10(-4) mug. The results can be read by a change in color and/or a change in fluorescence.
26487858: !Alzheimer Protective effects of components of the Chinese herb grassleaf sweetflag rhizome  on PC12 cells incubated with amyloid-beta42. The major ingredients of grassleaf sweetflag rhizome are beta-asarone and eugenol, which can cross the blood-brain barrier and protect neurons. This study  aimed to observe the neuroprotective effects and mechanisms of beta-asarone and eugenol, components of the Chinese herb grassleaf sweetflag rhizome, on PC12 cells. First, PC12 cells were cultured with different concentrations (between 1 x 10(-10) M and 1 x 10(-5) M) of beta-asarone and eugenol. Survival rates of PC12 cells were not significantly affected. Second, PC12 cells incubated with amyloid-beta42, which reduced cell survival, were cultured under the same conditions (1 x 10(-6) M beta-asarone and eugenol). The survival rates of PC12 cells significantly increased, while expression levels of the mRNAs for the pro-apoptotic protein Bax decreased, and those for the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl mRNA increased. In addition, the combination of beta-asarone with eugenol achieved better results than either component alone. Our experimental findings indicate that both beta-asarone and eugenol protect PC12 cells through inhibiting apoptosis, and that the combination of the two is better than either alone.
26483131: !Alzheimer Increased health service use for allergy in adults: Northumbrian hospital episodes, 2010-2015. BACKGROUND: Little is known on the health service use due to allergy. Therefore,  the aim of the present study was to investigate the hospital episode rates in allergy by sex and across age groups in order to understand whether and how the health service use for allergy might have changed in recent years in North-East of England. METHODS: Hospital episode data in mid-2010 to mid-2015 covering 5 full calendar years was extracted from Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, which is serving nearly half of a million population and free from central government control. Hospital episode rates were calculated from all admissions divided by annual and area-specific population size for each sex and age group, presented with per 100,000 person-years using Microsoft Excel. RESULTS: Health service use for allergy in adults for both men and women has increased, with large increases in young adults aged 40-49 (both male and female), 50-59 (female) and 60-69 (male). In children, there were decreases in those aged 0-9 but increases in those aged 10-19. Emergency admissions due to allergy were only minimal. Higher admissions were observed in spring and autumn than in summer and  winter. CONCLUSION: Allergy admissions have increased in adults. For future research, local health policy could benefit from annual clinical records on health service use due to allergy. For clinical practice, in addition to increasing and improving the role of health and nursing professionals to reduce burden and rehabilitation, public awareness, attitude and knowledge should be continuously raised and improved as well. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
26477928: !Alzheimer Exercise as a Polypill for Chronic Diseases. Exercise may be described as a polypill to prevent and/or treat almost every chronic disease, with obvious benefits such as its low cost and practical lack of adverse effects. Implementing physical activity interventions in public health is therefore a goal at the medical, social, and economic levels. This chapter describes the importance of health promotion through physical activity and discusses the impacts of exercise on the most prevalent chronic diseases, namely  metabolic syndrome-related disorders, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and Alzheimer's disease. For each of these chronic conditions, we discuss the epidemiological evidence supporting a beneficial role of exercise, provide guidelines for exercise prescription, and describe the biological mechanisms whereby exercise exerts its modulatory effects.
26468457: !Alzheimer The effects of Crocus sativus (saffron) and its constituents on nervous system: A review. Saffron or Crocus sativus L. (C. sativus) has been widely used as a medicinal plant to promote human health, especially in Asia. The main components of saffron are crocin, picrocrocin and safranal. The median lethal doses (LD50) of C. sativus are 200 mg/ml and 20.7 g/kg in vitro and in animal studies, respectively. Saffron has been suggested to be effective in the treatment of a wide range of disorders including coronary artery diseases, hypertension, stomach disorders, dysmenorrhea and learning and memory impairments. In addition, different studies  have indicated that saffron has anti-inflammatory, anti-atherosclerotic, antigenotoxic and cytotoxic activities. Antitussive effects of stigmas and petals of C. sativus and its components, safranal and crocin have also been demonstrated. The anticonvulsant and anti-Alzheimer properties of saffron extract were shown in human and animal studies. The ef fi cacy of C. sativus in the treatment of mild to moderate depression was also reported in clinical trial. Administration of C. sativus and its constituents increased glutamate and dopamine levels in the brain in a dose-dependent manner. It also interacts with the opioid system to reduce withdrawal syndrome. Therefore, in the present article, the effects of C. sativus and its constituents on the nervous system and the possible underlying mechanisms are reviewed. Our literature review showed that C. sativus and its components can be considered as promising agents in the treatment of nervous system disorders.
26454161: !Alzheimer BACE1 modulates gating of KCNQ1 (Kv7.1) and cardiac delayed rectifier KCNQ1/KCNE1 (I). KCNQ1 (Kv7.1) proteins form a homotetrameric channel, which produces a voltage-dependent K+ current. Co-assembly of KCNQ1 with the auxiliary beta-subunit KCNE1 strongly up-regulates this current. In cardiac myocytes, KCNQ1/E1 complexes are thought to give rise to the delayed rectifier current IKs, which contributes to cardiac action potential repolarization. We report here that the type I membrane protein BACE1 (beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1), which is best known for its detrimental role in Alzheimer's disease, but is also, as reported here, present in cardiac myocytes, serves as a novel interaction partner of KCNQ1. Using HEK293T cells as heterologous expression system to study the electrophysiological effects of BACE1 and KCNE1 on KCNQ1 in different combinations, our main findings were the following: (1) BACE1 slowed the inactivation of KCNQ1 current producing an increased initial response to depolarizing voltage steps. (2) Activation kinetics of KCNQ1/E1 currents were significantly slowed in the presence of co-expressed BACE1. (3) BACE1 impaired reconstituted cardiac IKs when cardiac action potentials were used as voltage commands, but interestingly augmented the IKs of ATP-deprived cells, suggesting that the effect of BACE1 depends on the metabolic state of the cell. (4) The electrophysiological effects of BACE1 on KCNQ1 reported here were independent of  its enzymatic activity, as they were preserved when the proteolytically inactive  variant BACE1 D289N was co-transfected in lieu of BACE1 or when BACE1-expressing  cells were treated with the BACE1-inhibiting compound C3. (5) Co-immunoprecipitation and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) supported our hypothesis that BACE1 modifies the biophysical properties of IKs by physically interacting with KCNQ1 in a beta-subunit-like fashion. Strongly underscoring the functional significance of this interaction, we detected BACE1 in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes and murine cardiac tissue and observed decreased IKs in atrial cardiomyocytes of BACE1-deficient mice.
26453763: !Alzheimer Lycopene attenuates Abeta1-42 secretion and its toxicity in human cell and Caenorhabditis elegans models of Alzheimer disease. Growing evidence suggests concentration of lycopene was reduced in plasma of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Lycopene, a member of the carotenoid family, has been identified as an antioxidant to attenuate oxidative damage and has neuroprotective role in several AD models. However, whether lycopene is involved in the pathogenesis of AD and molecular underpinnings are elusive. In this study, we found that lycopene can significantly delay paralysis in the Abeta1-42-transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans strain GMC101. Lycopene treatment reduced Abeta1-42 secretion in SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing the Swedish mutant form of human beta-amyloid precursor protein (APPsw). Next, we found lycopene can down-regulate expression level of beta-amyloid precursor protein(APP) in APPsw cells. Moreover, lycopene treatment can not change endogenous reactive oxygen species level and apoptosis in APPsw cells. However, lycopene treatment protected against H2O2-induced oxidative stress and copper-induced damage in APPsw cells. Collectively, our data support that elevated lycopene contributes to the lower pathogenesis of AD. Our findings suggest that increasing lycopene in neurons may  be a novel approach to attenuate onset and development of AD.
26442698: !Alzheimer Myeloid Cells in Alzheimer's Disease: Culprits, Victims or Innocent Bystanders? Several recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in patients with neurodegenerative disorders have shed new light on the brain immune system, suggesting that it plays a pivotal role in disease pathogenesis. Mononuclear phagocytes are blatantly involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD) of the central nervous system (CNS), but the specific functions of resident microglia, perivascular or meningeal macrophages, and circulating myeloid cells have not yet been fully resolved. Next-generation sequencing, high-throughput immune profiling technologies, and novel genetic tools have recently revolutionized the characterization of innate immune responses during AD. These studies advocate selective and non-redundant roles for myeloid subsets, which could be a target for novel disease-modifying therapies in AD.
26439962: !Alzheimer Alzheimer's disease vaccine development: A new strategy focusing on immune modulation. Despite significant advances in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) vaccines effective in animal models, these prototypes have been clinically unsuccessful; apparently the result of using immunogens modified to prevent inflammation. Hence, a new paradigm is needed that uses entire AD-associated immunogens, a notion supported by recent successful passive immunotherapy results, with adjuvants that induce Th2-only while inhibiting without abrogating  Th1 immunity. Here, we discuss the obstacles to AD vaccine development and Th2-adjuvants that by acting on dendritic and T cells, would elicit regardless of the antigen a safe and effective antibody response, while preventing damaging neuroinflammation and ameliorating immunosenescence.
26438097: !Alzheimer Butylidenephthalide antagonizes cromakalim-induced systolic pressure reduction in conscious normotensive rats. BACKGROUND: Butylidenephthalide (Bdph), a main constituent of Ligusticum chuanxiong Hort., was reported to have selective antianginal effect without changing blood pressure in conscious rat. Recently, we have observed that Bdph antagonized cromakalim, an ATP-dependent K(+) channel opener, in guinea-pig trachea. Thus, we were interested in investigating whether Bdph at the dose without changing blood pressure antagonized cromakalim-induced systolic pressure  reduction in conscious rats. METHODS: Systolic arterial pressures of conscious rats were determined by using the indirect tail-cuff method. RESULTS: Bdph (30 mg/kg, i.p.) did not affect baseline systolic pressure in conscious normotensive  and spontaneous hypertensive rats. Bdph (30 mg/kg, i.p.) also did not affect log  dose-response curves of prazosin, clonidine and Bay K 8644, a Ca(2+) channel activator, in normotensive rats. However, Bdph (30 mg/kg, i.p.) similar to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 0.4 mg/kg, i.p.), a K(+) channel blocker, non-parallelly but surmountably, and partially similar to glibenclamide (GBC, 10 mg/kg, i.v.), an ATP-sensitive K(+) channel blocker, surmountably but not parallelly rightward  shifted the log dose-systolic pressure reduction curve of cromakalim, an ATP-sensitive K(+) channel opener, in normotensive rats, respectively. DISCUSSION: The antagonistic effect of Bdph against cromakalim was similar to that of 4-AP, a K+ channel blocker of Kv1 family, and partially similar to that of GBC, an ATP-sensitive K+ channel blocker. Thus, Bdph may be a kind of K+ channel blockers, which have been reviewed to have a potential clinical use for Alzheimer disease. Indeed, Bdph has also been reported to reverse the deficits of inhibitory avoidance performance and improve memory in rats. Recently, 4-AP was reported to treat Episodic ataxia type 2 (EA2) which is a form of hereditary neurological disorder. Consistently, Bdph was recently reported to have antihyperglycemic activity in mice, since GBC is a powerful oral hypoglycemic drug. CONCLUSIONS: Bdph similar to 4-AP and partially similar to GBC may block Kv1 family and ATP-sensitive K(+) channels in conscious normotensive rats.
26435014: !Alzheimer The perspective of caffeine and caffeine derived compounds in therapy. Caffeine (1,3,7-trimethylxanthine) is a plant secondary metabolite with a significant impact on multiple processes and regulatory pathways in the body. Though major part of the population meets caffeine via coffee, tea or chocolate,  it has also an important role in pharmacology and it is used as a supplementary substance in medicaments. Currently, the ability of caffeine to ameliorate some neurodegenerative disorders is proved in some studies. This review describes basic data about caffeine including toxicity, pharmacokinetics, biological mechanism of the action, and metabolism. Beside this, promising applications of caffeine, new medicaments and derivatives are discussed. Relevant papers and inventions are depicted in the manuscript. Caffeine is a pharmacologically promising substance that deserves big consideration in the current research and development. The compound has several reasons to be an object of scientific interest and to be used for pharmacology purposes. Despite an extensive research  for a long time, no significantly negative effects on human health were proved hence caffeine can be considered as a completely safe compound. The recent data about amelioration of neurodegenerative and other disorders are promising and deserving more work on the issue. ARTICLE HIGHLIGHTS: Caffeine is a purine alkaloid from plants and it has a broad use in current pharmacology. Caffeine is  a competitive antagonist of neurotransmitter adenosine on adenosine receptors. The substance is added as a supplementary to drugs and food.Besides interfering on adenosine receptors, caffeine interacts with acetylcholinesterase, monoamine oxidase, phosphodiesterase, ryanodine receptors and others.Current research is devoted to the role of caffeine in neurodegenerative diseases and immunity alteration. New chemical compounds based on caffeine moiety are prepared (Tab. 4, Fig. 6, Ref. 149).
26432480: !Alzheimer Bone marrow-derived macrophages and the CNS: An update on the use of experimental chimeric mouse models and bone marrow transplantation in neurological disorders. The central nervous system (CNS) is a very unique system with multiple features that differentiate it from systemic tissues. One of the most captivating aspects  of its distinctive nature is the presence of the blood brain barrier (BBB), which seals it from the periphery. Therefore, to preserve tissue homeostasis, the CNS has to rely heavily on resident cells such as microglia. These pivotal cells of the mononuclear lineage have important and dichotomous roles according to various neurological disorders. However, certain insults can overwhelm microglia as well  as compromising the integrity of the BBB, thus allowing the infiltration of bone  marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). The use of myeloablation and bone marrow transplantation allowed the generation of chimeric mice to study resident microglia and infiltrated BMDM separately. This breakthrough completely revolutionized the way we captured these 2 types of mononuclear phagocytic cells. We now realize that microglia and BMDM exhibit distinct features and appear to perform different tasks. Since these cells are central in several pathologies, it is crucial to use chimeric mice to analyze their functions and mechanisms to possibly harness them for therapeutic purpose. This review will shed light on the advent of this methodology and how it allowed deciphering the ontology of microglia and its maintenance during adulthood. We will also compare the different strategies used to perform myeloablation. Finally, we will discuss the  landmark studies that used chimeric mice to characterize the roles of microglia and BMDM in several neurological disorders.
26427704: !Alzheimer Efficient passage of human pluripotent stem cells on spider silk matrices under xeno-free conditions. regenerative medicine and pharmaceutical development. Such applications require cell culture methods and reagents that are chemically defined, xeno-free, scalable, and low-cost. Herein, we describe non-mechanical passaging of hPSCs on  spider silk films under chemically defined and xeno-free conditions. The cells were dissociated into single cells or small aggregates using Accutase or enzyme-free dissociation buffer and then passaged to spider silk films, where they expanded in monolayers until they covered the surface. Cells cultured over 10 passages on spider silk film remained karyotypically normal and pluripotent. In conclusion, a novel method for passaging dissociated hPSCs under conditions that are compatible with clinical applications is presented. The method is cost-efficient and may be useful for both research and clinical applications. Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) hold great promise for applications in regenerative medicine and pharmaceutical development. Such applications require cell culture methods and reagents that are chemically defined, xeno-free, scalable, and low-cost. Herein, we describe non-mechanical passaging of hPSCs on  spider silk films under chemically defined and xeno-free conditions. The cells were dissociated into single cells or small aggregates using Accutase or enzyme-free dissociation buffer and then passaged to spider silk films, where they expanded in monolayers until they covered the surface. Cells cultured over 10 passages on spider silk film remained karyotypically normal and pluripotent. In conclusion, a novel method for passaging dissociated hPSCs under conditions that are compatible with clinical applications is presented. The method is cost-efficient and may be useful for both research and clinical applications.
26426026: !Alzheimer Redox Status and Neuro Inflammation Indexes in Cerebellum and Motor Cortex of Wistar Rats Supplemented with Natural Sources of Omega-3 Fatty Acids and Astaxanthin: Fish Oil, Krill Oil, and Algal Biomass. Health authorities worldwide have consistently recommended the regular consumption of marine fishes and seafood to preserve memory, sustain cognitive functions, and prevent neurodegenerative processes in humans. Shrimp, crabs, lobster, and salmon are of particular interest in the human diet due to their substantial provision of omega-3 fatty acids (n-3/PUFAs) and the antioxidant carotenoid astaxanthin (ASTA). However, the optimal ratio between these nutraceuticals in natural sources is apparently the key factor for maximum protection against most neuro-motor disorders. Therefore, we aimed here to investigate the effects of a long-term supplementation with (n-3)/PUFAs-rich fish oil, ASTA-rich algal biomass, the combination of them, or krill oil (a natural combination of both nutrients) on baseline redox balance and neuro-inflammation indexes in cerebellum and motor cortex of Wistar rats. Significant changes in redox metabolism were only observed upon ASTA supplementation, which reinforce its antioxidant properties with a putative mitochondrial-centered action in rat brain. Krill oil imposed mild astrocyte activation in motor cortex of Wistar rats, although no redox or inflammatory index was concomitantly altered. In summary, there is no experimental evidence that krill oil, fish oil, oralgal biomass (minor variation), drastically change the baseline oxidative conditions or the neuro-inflammatory scenario in neuromotor-associated rat brain regions.
26420648: !Alzheimer Comparative genomic analysis of human Chlamydia pneumoniae isolates from respiratory, brain and cardiac tissues. Chlamydia pneumoniae is an obligate intracellular bacterium implicated in a wide  range of human diseases including atherosclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. Efforts to understand the relationships between C. pneumoniae detected in these diseases have been hindered by the availability of sequence data for non-respiratory strains. In this study, we sequenced the whole genomes for C. pneumoniae isolates from atherosclerosis and Alzheimer's disease, and compared these to previously published C. pneumoniae genomes. Phylogenetic analyses of these new C. pneumoniae strains indicate two sub-groups within human C. pneumoniae, and suggest that both recombination and mutation events have driven the evolution of human C. pneumoniae. Further fine-detailed analyses of these new C. pneumoniae sequences show several genetically variable loci. This suggests that similar strains of C. pneumoniae are found in the brain, lungs and cardiovascular system and that only minor genetic differences may contribute to the adaptation of particular strains in human disease.
26418600: !Alzheimer [Effetti perfusionali cerebrali dopo trattamento di 1 anno con rivastigmina nella malattia di Alzheimer: un caso clinico]. RIASSUNTO. Viene descritto il caso di una donna di 74 anni con probabile malattia di Alzheimer che presenta una buona risposta clinica alla rivastigmina associata  a rilevante miglioramento di perfusione cerebrale dopo 1 anno di trattamento. La  tomografia a emissione di fotone singolo (SPECT) mostra un significativo miglioramento nella captazione corticale del tracciante delle regioni temporo-parietali e frontali rispetto all'esame eseguito prima del trattamento.
26413119: !Alzheimer Ginkgolide C Suppresses Adipogenesis in 3T3-L1 Adipocytes via the AMPK Signaling  Pathway. Ginkgolide C, isolated from Ginkgo biloba leaves, is a flavone reported to have multiple biological functions, from decreased platelet aggregation to ameliorating Alzheimer disease. The study aim was to evaluate the antiadipogenic  effect of ginkgolide C in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Ginkgolide C was used to treat differentiated 3T3-L1 cells. Cell supernatant was collected to assay glycerol release, and cells were lysed to measure protein and gene expression related to adipogenesis and lipolysis by western blot and real-time PCR, respectively. Ginkgolide C significantly suppressed lipid accumulation in differentiated adipocytes. It also decreased adipogenesis-related transcription factor expression, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein. Furthermore, ginkgolide C enhanced adipose triglyceride lipase and hormone-sensitive lipase production for lipolysis and increased phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), resulting in decreased activity of acetyl-CoA carboxylase for fatty acid synthesis. In coculture with an AMPK inhibitor (compound C), ginkgolide C also improved activation of sirtuin 1 and phosphorylation of AMPK in differentiated 3T3-L1 cells. The results suggest that ginkgolide C is an effective flavone for increasing lipolysis and inhibiting adipogenesis in adipocytes through the activated AMPK pathway.
26400689: !Alzheimer Mentoring and supervising clinical pharmacist students at patients' bedside: which benefits? RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: Hospital clinical pharmacists are involved in teaching students during professional internship. Organization between the unit care and the pharmacy place is complicated. This study evaluated the effectiveness of two pharmaceutical teams: an experienced pharmacist in the pharmacy place, reachable by phone (team 1) or an experienced pharmacist in the ward, near patients and students (team 2). METHODS: Pharmaceutical interventions  were collected during two successive time periods, each of 6 months in a 15-bed unit (neurology). During the first time period, prescriptions were analyzed by the student (resident) in the ward and experienced pharmacist in the pharmacy place. During the second time period, prescriptions were analyzed by both experienced pharmacist and the resident in the ward. We compared the number, the  type, the approval of pharmaceutical interventions and the medication reconciliation activities. Proportions were compared by a chisquared test (or Fisher exact test) as well as the quantitative value was calculated by a Student  test. RESULTS: 'Mentoring and supervising' students in the ward increased significantly the number of pharmaceutical interventions (PI; 104 interventions for 1408 analyzed prescriptions (7.4%) by the students in the ward and 317 interventions for 1391 (22.8%) by both the experienced pharmacist and the students in the ward (P = 0.002). Furthermore, specific interventions from medication reconciliation were significantly increased by the presence of experienced pharmacist in the ward (0.96% vs. 8.83% P = 0.018). CONCLUSION: Effectiveness of clinical pharmacists can be improved by the presence of experienced pharmacist at patients' bedside, near students.
26400108: !Alzheimer Methylene Blue Inhibits Caspases by Oxidation of the Catalytic Cysteine. Methylene blue, currently in phase 3 clinical trials against Alzheimer Disease, disaggregates the Tau protein of neurofibrillary tangles by oxidizing specific cysteine residues. Here, we investigated if methylene blue can inhibit caspases via the oxidation of their active site cysteine. Methylene blue, and derivatives, azure A and azure B competitively inhibited recombinant Caspase-6 (Casp6), and inhibited Casp6 activity in transfected human colon carcinoma cells and in serum-deprived primary human neuron cultures. Methylene blue also inhibited recombinant Casp1 and Casp3. Furthermore, methylene blue inhibited Casp3 activity in an acute mouse model of liver toxicity. Mass spectrometry confirmed methylene  blue and azure B oxidation of the catalytic Cys163 cysteine of Casp6. Together, these results show a novel inhibitory mechanism of caspases via sulfenation of the active site cysteine. These results indicate that methylene blue or its derivatives could (1) have an additional effect against Alzheimer Disease by inhibiting brain caspase activity, (2) be used as a drug to prevent caspase activation in other conditions, and (3) predispose chronically treated individuals to cancer via the inhibition of caspases.
26398935: !Alzheimer Impaired APP activity and altered Tau splicing in embryonic stem cell-derived astrocytes obtained from an APPsw transgenic minipig. Animal models of familial juvenile onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) often fail to produce diverse pathological features of the disease by modification of single gene mutations that are responsible for the disease. They can hence be poor models for testing and development of novel drugs. Here, we analyze in vitro-produced stem cells and their derivatives from a large mammalian model of the disease created by overexpression of a single mutant human gene (APPsw). We produced hemizygous and homozygous radial glial-like cells following culture and  differentiation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) isolated from embryos obtained from mated hemizygous minipigs. These cells were confirmed to co-express varying  neural markers, including NES, GFAP and BLBP, typical of type one radial glial cells (RGs) from the subgranular zone. These cells had altered expression of CCND1 and NOTCH1 and decreased expression of several ribosomal RNA genes. We found that these cells were able to differentiate into astrocytes upon directed differentiation. The astrocytes produced had decreased alpha- and beta-secretase  activity, increased gamma-secretase activity and altered splicing of tau. This indicates novel aspects of early onset mechanisms related to cell renewal and function in familial AD astrocytes. These outcomes also highlight that radial glia could be a potentially useful population of cells for drug discovery, and that altered APP expression and altered tau phosphorylation can be detected in an in vitro model of the disease. Finally, it might be possible to use large mammal  models to model familial AD by insertion of only a single mutation.
26398393: !Alzheimer Berberine and neurodegeneration: A review of literature. The excessive production of reactive oxygen species in nervous tissues is considered one of the major risk factors of neurodegenerative diseases. During the last two decades, much attention has been paid to the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity of natural products and compounds isolated from natural products which are often characterized by high efficacy and low adverse effects. Berberine is an isoquinoline alkaloid, widely present in different medicinal herbs, especially in the genus Berberis. It is mainly used as antidiarrhoeal, antibacterial, antifungal, and antiprotozoal agent. However, current research has focused on its beneficial role in neurodegenerative diseases, mainly due to its powerful antioxidant effect. The therapeutic potential of Berberine in different neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer, Parkinson and Huntington disease has been brought to evidence by numerous studies. However, a limited number of reviews focus on the beneficial role of Berberine against neurodegeneration. The main objective of this review is to discuss the role of oxidative stress in neurodegeneration and the potential role  of antioxidant compounds, in particular Berberine which is analyzed in its chemical structure, source, bioavailability, therapeutic potential, with special  attention to its mechanism of action at a molecular level.
26398384: !Alzheimer Effects of simvastatin on malondialdehyde level and esterase activity in plasma and tissue of normolipidemic rats. BACKGROUND: We investigated the possible non-lipid effects of simvastatin (SIMV)  on paraoxonase 1 (PON1) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) activity, as well as on malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in normolipidemic rats. METHODS: Two experimental groups of Wistar rats (10mg/kg/day of SIMV) and two control groups (saline) underwent a 21-day treatment period (TP). On the 22nd day one experimental and one control group of rats were sacrificed. Remaining groups of animals were sacrificied on the 32nd day of the study (10-day after-treatment period (AT)). Blood samples and slices of liver, heart, kidney, and brain tissue were obtained  for the measurement of PON1 and BuChE activity and levels of MDA. Data were analyzed by means of t-test for independent samples. p values</=0.05 were considered as statistically significant. RESULTS: SIMV caused a significant decrease of serum and liver PON1 activity (18-24%, p</=0.05) and MDA concentrations in the plasma, heart, liver, kidney, and brain (9-40%, p</=0.05),  while plasma and liver BuChE activity increased by 29% (p</=0.05) and 18%, respectively. All effects of SIMV were largely diminished following AT. The exception was MDA, which remained significantly decreased in plasma and all tissues analyzed. CONCLUSION: SIMV significantly decreased PON1 activity and MDA  levels and increased BuChE activity. We suggest that the decrease of MDA levels is a beneficial therapeutic effect of SIMV, for example in cardiovascular disorders, while the increase of BuChE activity, especially in brain, may be a potential adverse effect in patients with Alzheimer disease.
26397759: !Alzheimer Withania somnifera (L.) Dunal root extract alleviates formalin-induced nociception in mice: involvement of the opioidergic system. perspectives in the treatment of inflammation and pain. We aimed to evaluate the  antinociceptive property of a WSE in the formalin test and to investigate the involvement of several neurotransmitter systems in this effect. The time spent licking the formalin-injected paw was recorded in CD1 mice after pretreatment with increasing doses of WSE. Also, c-Fos spinal cord expression and the effects  of different compounds were investigated under these experimental conditions. Finally, the efficacy of WSE was analyzed following an injection of glutamate. WSE reduced the antinociceptive response during the tonic but not the acute phase of the formalin test and decreased formalin-induced c-Fos expression in spinal neurons. These effects were antagonized by the opioid antagonist naltrexone, whereas GABA, cannabinoid, delta-opioid, and nitric oxide compounds were ineffective. The administration of WSE also reduced nociception and c-Fos expression induced by glutamate injection. These results showed that WSE is effective in assays of chemical-induced nociception, indicating that this plant has potential valuable properties for the treatment of specific painful conditions. The antinocicetive effects of WSE in the formalin test appeared to be specifically mediated by the opioidergic system, although the involvement of the  glutamatergic system cannot be excluded. Withania somnifera (L.) Dunal extracts (WSEs) may possess therapeutic perspectives in the treatment of inflammation and pain. We aimed to evaluate the  antinociceptive property of a WSE in the formalin test and to investigate the involvement of several neurotransmitter systems in this effect. The time spent licking the formalin-injected paw was recorded in CD1 mice after pretreatment with increasing doses of WSE. Also, c-Fos spinal cord expression and the effects  of different compounds were investigated under these experimental conditions. Finally, the efficacy of WSE was analyzed following an injection of glutamate. WSE reduced the antinociceptive response during the tonic but not the acute phase of the formalin test and decreased formalin-induced c-Fos expression in spinal neurons. These effects were antagonized by the opioid antagonist naltrexone, whereas GABA, cannabinoid, delta-opioid, and nitric oxide compounds were ineffective. The administration of WSE also reduced nociception and c-Fos expression induced by glutamate injection. These results showed that WSE is effective in assays of chemical-induced nociception, indicating that this plant has potential valuable properties for the treatment of specific painful conditions. The antinocicetive effects of WSE in the formalin test appeared to be specifically mediated by the opioidergic system, although the involvement of the  glutamatergic system cannot be excluded.
26390057: !Alzheimer Trans-ancestry genome-wide association study identifies 12 genetic loci influencing blood pressure and implicates a role for DNA methylation. We carried out a trans-ancestry genome-wide association and replication study of  blood pressure phenotypes among up to 320,251 individuals of East Asian, European and South Asian ancestry. We find genetic variants at 12 new loci to be associated with blood pressure (P = 3.9 x 10(-11) to 5.0 x 10(-21)). The sentinel blood pressure SNPs are enriched for association with DNA methylation at multiple nearby CpG sites, suggesting that, at some of the loci identified, DNA methylation may lie on the regulatory pathway linking sequence variation to blood pressure. The sentinel SNPs at the 12 new loci point to genes involved in vascular smooth muscle (IGFBP3, KCNK3, PDE3A and PRDM6) and renal (ARHGAP24, OSR1, SLC22A7 and TBX2) function. The new and known genetic variants predict increased left ventricular mass, circulating levels of NT-proBNP, and cardiovascular and all-cause mortality (P = 0.04 to 8.6 x 10(-6)). Our results provide new evidence for the role of DNA methylation in blood pressure regulation.
26388873: !Alzheimer The Cellular Prion Protein: A Player in Immunological Quiescence. Despite intensive studies since the 1990s, the physiological role of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) remains elusive. Here, we present a novel concept suggesting that PrP(C) contributes to immunological quiescence in addition to cell protection. PrP(C) is highly expressed in diverse organs that by multiple means are particularly protected from inflammation, such as the brain, eye, placenta, pregnant uterus, and testes, while at the same time it is expressed in  most cells of the lymphoreticular system. In this paradigm, PrP(C) serves two principal roles: to modulate the inflammatory potential of immune cells and to protect vulnerable parenchymal cells against noxious insults generated through inflammation. Here, we review studies of PrP(C) physiology in view of this concept.
26377309: !Alzheimer Fermentation and Alternative Respiration Compensate for NADH Dehydrogenase Deficiency in a Prokaryotic Model of DJ-1 Associated Parkinsonism. YajL is the closest prokaryotic homolog of Parkinsonism-associated DJ-1, a protein of undefined function involved in the oxidative stress response. We reported recently that YajL and DJ-1 protect cells against oxidative stress-induced protein aggregation by acting as covalent chaperones for the thiol proteome, including the NuoG subunit of NADH dehydrogenase 1, and that NADH dehydrogenase 1 activity is negligible in the yajL mutant. We report here that this mutant compensates for low NADH dehydrogenase activity by utilizing NADH-independent alternative dehydrogenases, including pyruvate oxidase PoxB and  D-aminoacid dehydrogenase DadA, and mixed acid aerobic fermentations characterized by acetate, lactate, succinate and ethanol excretion. The yajL mutant has a low adenylate energy charge favouring glycolytic flux, and a high NADH/NAD ratio favouring fermentations over pyruvate dehydrogenase and the Krebs  cycle. DNA array analysis showed upregulation of genes involved in glycolytic and pentose phosphate pathways and alternative respiratory pathways. Moreover, the yajL mutant preferentially catabolized pyruvate-forming amino acids over Krebs cycle-related ones, and thus the yajL mutant utilizes pyruvate-centred respiro-fermentative metabolism to compensate for the NADH dehydrogenase 1 defect, and constitutes an interesting model for studying eukaryotic respiratory  complex 1 deficiencies, especially those associated with Alzheimer and Parkinson's diseases.
26375798: !Alzheimer Gardening is beneficial for adult mental health: Scottish Health Survey, 2012-2013. BACKGROUND: Gardening has been reported as being beneficial for mental well-being for vulnerable populations since 2000. However, little is known concerning its role in the general population. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship of gardening and mental health in adults in a countrywide and population-based setting. METHODS: Data was retrieved from and analysed in the Scottish Health Survey, 2012-2013. Information on demographics, lifestyle factors, gardening engagement, and adult mental health by General Health Questionnaire was obtained by household interview. Statistical analyses including chi-square test, t-test and survey-weighted logistic and multi-nominal  regression modelling were performed. RESULTS: Of 9709 Scottish adults aged 16-99, 5 531 (57.0%) people did not do any gardening or building work in the last four weeks. A total of 888 (9.2%) people reported poor self-rated health. Gardening was associated with adult mental health in people both with or without heart conditions including ability to concentrate, feeling playing a useful part in things, feeling capable of making decisions, thinking of self as worthless, feeling reasonably happy, etc. CONCLUSION: General adults with or without heart conditions could benefit from engaging with gardening or building work. Future public health programmes promoting such activity should be encouraged in order to optimise adult mental health.
26372824: !Alzheimer Extragastric Diseases and Helicobacter pylori. The extragastric manifestations of Helicobacter pylori infection still remain a very strong topic throughout the H. pylori world. Indeed, H. pylori may interfere with many biological processes, both inside and outside of the stomach, possibly  influencing or determining the occurrence of many diseases outside of the stomach. While its role in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura and sideropenic anemia has already been recognized, emerging evidence suggests that H. pylori may increase the risk of acute coronary syndrome, contribute to insulin resistance and be associated with neurodegenerative, respiratory, and other miscellaneous disorders previously associated with other conditions. Different pathogenic mechanisms have been hypothesized, including the induction of a low-grade inflammatory state and the occurrence of molecular mimicry mechanisms. This review summarizes the results of the most relevant studies published on this topic in the last year.
26369811: !Alzheimer Carbazole Scaffold in Medicinal Chemistry and Natural Products: A Review from 2010-2015. benzene rings fused onto a 5-membered pyrrole ring. Obtained from natural sources or by synthetic routes, this scaffold has gained much interest due to its wide range of biological activity upon modifications, including antibacterial, antimalarial, anticancer, and anti-Alzheimer properties. This review reports a survey of the literature on carbazole-containing molecules and their medicinal activities from 2010 through 2015. In particular, we focus on their in vitro and  in vivo activities and summarize structure-activity relationships (SAR), mechanisms of action, and/or cytotoxicity/selectivity findings when available to  provide future guidance for the development of clinically useful agents from this template. 9H-carbazole is an aromatic molecule that is tricyclic in nature, with two benzene rings fused onto a 5-membered pyrrole ring. Obtained from natural sources or by synthetic routes, this scaffold has gained much interest due to its wide range of biological activity upon modifications, including antibacterial, antimalarial, anticancer, and anti-Alzheimer properties. This review reports a survey of the literature on carbazole-containing molecules and their medicinal activities from 2010 through 2015. In particular, we focus on their in vitro and  in vivo activities and summarize structure-activity relationships (SAR), mechanisms of action, and/or cytotoxicity/selectivity findings when available to  provide future guidance for the development of clinically useful agents from this template.
26367073: !Alzheimer COPD-Related Mortality and Co-morbidities in Northeastern Italy, 2008-2012: A Multiple Causes of Death Analysis. INTRODUCTION: Analysis of COPD mortality based only on the underlying cause of death (UCOD) derived from death certificates underestimates disease burden. We analyzed the burden of COPD, as well as the pattern of reporting COPD and its co-morbidities in death certificates, using multiple-cause of death (MCOD) records. METHODS: All 220,281 death certificates of decedents aged >/=40 years in the Veneto region (northeastern Italy) were analyzed through 2008-2012. The UCOD  was selected by the Automated Classification of Medical Entities software. COPD was defined by ICD-10 codes J40-J44 and J47 based either on the UCOD or on any mention of COPD in death certificates (MCOD). Annual age-standardized COPD death  rates were computed for 40-85 year-old subjects. RESULTS: COPD was mentioned in 7.9% (and selected as the UCOD in 2.7%) of death certificates. In about half of these, COPD was mentioned in Part II only. After circulatory and neoplastic diseases, the most frequent chronic diseases reported in certificates with any mention of COPD were diabetes (15.2%) and dementia/Alzheimer (8.9%). Between 2008 and 2012, age-standardized death rates (/100,000/year) decreased from 39.8 to 34.0 in males and from 12.7 to 11.3 in females in the UCOD analyses. These trends were confirmed, although figures were three times greater, in the MCOD analyses.  CONCLUSIONS: MCOD analysis should be adopted to fully evaluate the burden of COPD-related mortality. Our findings support a decreasing trend in COPD-related mortality in northeastern Italy between 2008 and 2012, in line with other recent  studies in Europe and beyond.
26362768: !Alzheimer Synthesis of New Harmine Isoxazoles and Evaluation of their Potential Anti-Alzheimer, Anti-Inflammatory, and Anticancer Activities. molecule, a new series of isoxazole derivatives has been prepared, conducted with complete regiospecificity, by 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction using various arylnitrile oxides. Harmine and its derivatives were characterized by 1H NMR, 13C NMR and HRMS. The evaluation of the anti-acetylcholinesterase (AChE), anti-5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), anti-xanthine oxidase (XOD) and anticancer activities of harmine 1 and all its structural analogues was studied in vitro against the AChE, 5-LOX and XOD enzymes, HTC-116, MCF7 and OVCAR-3 cancer cell lines, respectively. The prepared derivatives were shown to be inactive against XOD enzyme (0-38.3+/-1.9% at 100 microM). It has been found that compound 2 had the best anti-AChE, activity (IC50=1.9+/-1.5 microM). Derivatives 3a, 3b and 3d showed moderate cytotoxic activity (IC50=5.0+/-0.3 microM (3a) and IC50=6.3+/-0.4 microM (3b) against HCT 116 cell line, IC50=5.0+/-1.0 microM (3d) against MCF7 cell line). Harmine 1 was extracted from the seeds of Peganum harmala. From this natural molecule, a new series of isoxazole derivatives has been prepared, conducted with complete regiospecificity, by 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction using various arylnitrile oxides. Harmine and its derivatives were characterized by 1H NMR, 13C NMR and HRMS. The evaluation of the anti-acetylcholinesterase (AChE), anti-5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), anti-xanthine oxidase (XOD) and anticancer activities of harmine 1 and all its structural analogues was studied in vitro against the AChE, 5-LOX and XOD enzymes, HTC-116, MCF7 and OVCAR-3 cancer cell lines, respectively. The prepared derivatives were shown to be inactive against XOD enzyme (0-38.3+/-1.9% at 100 microM). It has been found that compound 2 had the best anti-AChE, activity (IC50=1.9+/-1.5 microM). Derivatives 3a, 3b and 3d showed moderate cytotoxic activity (IC50=5.0+/-0.3 microM (3a) and IC50=6.3+/-0.4 microM (3b) against HCT 116 cell line, IC50=5.0+/-1.0 microM (3d) against MCF7 cell line).
26354853: !Alzheimer Hydrolysis of plasmalogen by phospholipase A from Streptomyces albidoflavus for early detection of dementia and arteriosclerosis. to develop an assay that would help determine PlsEtn concentrations in human serum as an indicator of Alzheimer-type dementia and of arteriosclerosis. RESULTS: Phospholipase A1s, SaPLA1 and SvPLA1 from, respectively, Streptomyces albidoflavus NA297 and S. avermitilis JCM5070-but not phospholipase B from Streptomyces sp. NA684, PLA2-Nagase from S. avermitilis, PLA2IIL from S. violaceoruber nor LIPOMOD 699L (porcine phospholipase)-hydrolyzed choline plasmalogen (PlsCho) and PlsEtn (PlsCho preferred over PlsEtn). Using a combination of SaPLA1, lysoplasmalogen-specific phospholipase D (LyPls-PLD), with amine oxidase, an end-point assay was developed for measuring serum PlsEtn concentration. The standard curve, generated using various amounts of PlsEtn in this assay, was linear between 0 and 0.2 mM. PlsEtn concentrations in forty-seven serum samples, determined independently by this enzyme-based assay and 125I-HPLC  method, exhibited a linear relationship, indicating that the assay is suitable for fast and accurate measurement of serum PlsEtn concentration. CONCLUSIONS: An  assay, developed using SaPLA1, LyPls-PLD, and AOX, selectively measured PlsEtn levels in blood samples. This assay could be a useful diagnostic tool for early stage detection of diseases such as Alzheimer-type dementia and arteriosclerosis. OBJECTIVES: To obtain an ethanolamine plasmalogen (PlsEtn)-hydrolyzing enzyme and to develop an assay that would help determine PlsEtn concentrations in human serum as an indicator of Alzheimer-type dementia and of arteriosclerosis. RESULTS: Phospholipase A1s, SaPLA1 and SvPLA1 from, respectively, Streptomyces albidoflavus NA297 and S. avermitilis JCM5070-but not phospholipase B from Streptomyces sp. NA684, PLA2-Nagase from S. avermitilis, PLA2IIL from S. violaceoruber nor LIPOMOD 699L (porcine phospholipase)-hydrolyzed choline plasmalogen (PlsCho) and PlsEtn (PlsCho preferred over PlsEtn). Using a combination of SaPLA1, lysoplasmalogen-specific phospholipase D (LyPls-PLD), with amine oxidase, an end-point assay was developed for measuring serum PlsEtn concentration. The standard curve, generated using various amounts of PlsEtn in this assay, was linear between 0 and 0.2 mM. PlsEtn concentrations in forty-seven serum samples, determined independently by this enzyme-based assay and 125I-HPLC  method, exhibited a linear relationship, indicating that the assay is suitable for fast and accurate measurement of serum PlsEtn concentration. CONCLUSIONS: An  assay, developed using SaPLA1, LyPls-PLD, and AOX, selectively measured PlsEtn levels in blood samples. This assay could be a useful diagnostic tool for early stage detection of diseases such as Alzheimer-type dementia and arteriosclerosis.
26346361: !Alzheimer Exogenous alpha-synuclein induces toll-like receptor 4 dependent inflammatory responses in astrocytes. BACKGROUND: The pathological hallmarks of Parkinson's disease are intracellular inclusions composed mainly of misfolded alpha-synuclein (alphaSYN). Under physiological conditions alphaSYN is mostly localized in synapses. In addition, a portion of alphaSYN is secreted to the extracellular space, where it may be sequestered by neighboring cells and could induce inflammatory responses. The mechanisms of alphaSYN internalization and signal transduction are not unequivocally clarified. In this work we investigated in primary mouse astrocytes the involvement of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in the induction of inflammatory responses upon exposure to purified human alphaSYN produced in bacteria. RESULTS: The mRNA induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines, inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2 was significantly reduced in TLR4 knockout astrocytes. The alphaSYN-mediated activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinases and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase tended to be diminished, and nuclear translocation of the p65 subunit of nuclear factor kappaB was abolished in TLR4 knockout astrocytes. In contrast, the uptake of exogenous alphaSYN was unaffected by TLR4 knockout. CONCLUSIONS: Extracellular alphaSYN can activate pro-inflammatory TLR4 pathways in astrocytes, whereas alphaSYN uptake is independent of TLR4.
26344557: !Alzheimer Postmortem memantine concentration in a non-intoxication case, and the possibility of postmortem redistribution: A case report. In this case study, we measured the concentration of memantine in the heart blood, peripheral blood, urine, liver, thigh muscle, and subcutaneous fat of a 64-year-old woman who was prescribed memantine for early-onset Alzheimer's disease. She died in hospital after an altercation with her husband. Cause of death was clearly not drug intoxication or overdose, so we investigated the postmortem redistribution (PMR) of memantine in the various tissues and blood ratios of the postmortem samples. Memantine concentrations detected were 1.31mug/mL in the peripheral blood, 3.95mug/mL in central blood, 2.09mug/mL in the urine, 25.54mug/g in the liver, 1.16mug/g in the thigh muscle and 2.13mug/g in the subcutaneous fat. In all samples, the concentrations were higher than the  accepted therapeutic range (which is approximately 0.09-0.15mug/mL). The central  blood to peripheral blood (C/P) memantine ratio was 3.01 while the liver to peripheral blood (L/P) ratio was 19.5. It is documented that a C/P ratio exceeding 2 and L/P ratio exceeding 20 highlight a propensity for significant PMR. Although this is a single case study, our data suggest that memantine exhibits PMR. Additionally, a lowered pH was found in peripheral blood (pH 6.2) and central blood (pH 6.1). This postmortem reduction in blood pH may also promote the PMR of memantine. Because there is very little available postmortem toxicological data on memantine, our case study will serve as a foundation to assist in future forensic investigations.
26331911: !Alzheimer A Long Journey from Childhood to Senility: The 23rd HUPO BPP Workshop: 16-17 April 2015, Sao Paulo, Brazil. The HUPO Brain Proteome Project (HUPO BPP) held its 23rd workshop in Sao Paulo, Brazil, April 16-17, 2015. The focus of the spring workshop was on strategies and predictive therapies concerning neurodegenerative diseases.
26330682: !Alzheimer The Jeremiah Metzger Lecture: Inflammation, Immune Modulators, and Chronic Disease. Chronic inflammation is a risk factor for many different diseases. It is clear that inflammation is associated with degenerative brain diseases, obesity, metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer. Throughout the  past 100 years, changes in the causes of death in the US have been dramatic. The  most recent data indicate that cardiovascular disease and cancer are now responsible for 63% of mortality in the US population. Although progression of these diseases is related to diet, lifestyle, and genetic factors, a common but often unrecognized link is the presence of underlying chronic inflammation. As of 2014, 83.6 million people were living with some form of cardiovascular disease, 29.1 million people have been diagnosed with diabetes, 14 million people carried  the diagnosis of cancer, and 5.2 million people were living with Alzheimer disease. These diseases are a huge burden on our health care system and all have  been associated with chronic inflammation.
26322610: !Alzheimer The solid-state emmissive chalcone (2E)-1-(5-chlorothiophen-2-yl)-3-[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl]prop-2-en-1-one. Orange rectangular blocks suitable for X-ray diffraction analysis were obtained for the previously reported [Ahmad & Bano (2011). Int. J. ChemTech Res. 3, 1470-1478] title chalcone, C15H14ClNOS. This solid-emissive chalcone exhibits a planar structure and the bond parameters are compared with related compounds already described in the literature. The determination of the structure of this chalcone is quite relevant because it will play an important role in theoretical  calculations to investigate potential two-photon absorption processes and could also be useful for studying the interaction of such compounds with a biological target.
26321143: !Alzheimer Pattern of Functional TTX-Resistant Sodium Channels Reveals a Developmental Stage of Human iPSC- and ESC-Derived Nociceptors. Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) offer the opportunity to generate neuronal cells, including nociceptors. Using a chemical-based approach, we generated nociceptive sensory neurons from HUES6 embryonic stem cells and retrovirally reprogrammed induced hPSCs derived from fibroblasts. The nociceptive neurons expressed respective markers and showed tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTXs) and -resistant (TTXr) voltage-gated sodium currents in patch-clamp experiments. In contrast to their counterparts from rodent dorsal root ganglia, TTXr currents of  hPSC-derived nociceptors unexpectedly displayed a significantly more hyperpolarized voltage dependence of activation and fast inactivation. This apparent discrepancy is most likely due to a substantial expression of the developmentally important sodium channel NAV1.5. In view of the obstacles to recapitulate neuropathic pain in animal models, our data advance hPSC-derived nociceptors as a better model to study developmental and pathogenetic processes in human nociceptive neurons and to develop more specific small molecules to attenuate pain.
26315944: !Alzheimer Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors mediate donepezil-induced oligodendrocyte differentiation. Oligodendrocytes are the myelin-forming cells of the central nervous system (CNS). Failure of myelin development and oligodendrocyte loss results in serious  human disorders, including multiple sclerosis. Here, we show that donepezil, an acetlycholinesterase inhibitor developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, can stimulate oligodendrocyte differentiation and maturation of neural stem cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitor cells without affecting proliferation or cell viability. Transcripts for essential myelin-associated genes, such as PLP, MAG, MBP, CNPase, and MOG, in addition to transcription factors that regulate oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination, were rapidly increased after treatment with donepezil. Furthermore, luciferase assays  confirmed that both MAG and MBP promoters display increased activity upon donepezil-induced oligodendrocytes differentiation, suggesting that donepezil increases myelin gene expression mainly through enhanced transcription. We also found that the increase in the number of oligodendrocytes observed following donepezil treatment was significantly inhibited by the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) antagonist mecamylamine, but not by the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist scopolamine. Moreover, donepezil-induced myelin-related gene  expression was suppressed by mecamylamine at both the mRNA and protein level. These results suggest that donepezil stimulates oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelin-related gene expression via nAChRs in neural stem cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. We show that donepezil, a drug for the treatment of Alzheimer disease, can stimulate oligodendrocyte differentiation and maturation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Transcripts for essential myelin-associated genes, such as PLP, MAG, MBP, CNPase and MOG in addition to transcripton factors that regulate oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination were rapidly increased after treatment with donepezil. These effects  were partly dependent on nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR).
26312549: !Alzheimer AUTEN-67, an autophagy-enhancing drug candidate with potent antiaging and neuroprotective effects. Autophagy is a major molecular mechanism that eliminates cellular damage in eukaryotic organisms. Basal levels of autophagy are required for maintaining cellular homeostasis and functioning. Defects in the autophagic process are implicated in the development of various age-dependent pathologies including cancer and neurodegenerative diseases, as well as in accelerated aging. Genetic activation of autophagy has been shown to retard the accumulation of damaged cytoplasmic constituents, delay the incidence of age-dependent diseases and extend life span in genetic models. This implies that autophagy serves as a therapeutic target in treating such pathologies. Although several autophagy-inducing chemical agents have been identified, the majority of them operate upstream of the core autophagic process, thereby exerting undesired side  effects. Here, we screened a small-molecule library for specific inhibitors of MTMR14, a myotubularin-related phosphatase antagonizing the formation of autophagic membrane structures, and isolated AUTEN-67 (autophagy enhancer-67) that significantly increases autophagic flux in cell lines and in vivo models. AUTEN-67 promotes longevity and protects neurons from undergoing stress-induced cell death. It also restores nesting behavior in a murine model of Alzheimer disease, without apparent side effects. Thus, AUTEN-67 is a potent drug candidate for treating autophagy-related diseases.
26303081: !Alzheimer Noncoding RNAs and the control of signalling via nuclear receptor regulation in health and disease. Nuclear receptors belong to a superfamily of proteins that play central roles in  human biology, orchestrating a large variety of biological functions in both health and disease. Understanding the interactions and regulatory pathways of NRs will allow development of potential therapeutic interventions for a multitude of  disease processes. Non-coding RNAs have recently been discovered to have significant interactions with NR signalling pathways via a variety of biological  connections. This review summarises the known interactions between ncRNAs and the NR superfamily in health, embryogenesis and a plethora of human diseases.
26296892: !Alzheimer Differential Recognition Preferences of the Three Src Homology 3 (SH3) Domains from the Adaptor CD2-associated Protein (CD2AP) and Direct Association with Ras and Rab Interactor 3 (RIN3). CD2AP is an adaptor protein involved in membrane trafficking, with essential roles in maintaining podocyte function within the kidney glomerulus. CD2AP contains three Src homology 3 (SH3) domains that mediate multiple protein-protein interactions. However, a detailed comparison of the molecular binding preferences of each SH3 remained unexplored, as well as the discovery of novel interactors. Thus, we studied the binding properties of each SH3 domain to the known interactor Casitas B-lineage lymphoma protein (c-CBL), conducted a peptide array  screen based on the recognition motif PxPxPR and identified 40 known or novel candidate binding proteins, such as RIN3, a RAB5-activating guanine nucleotide exchange factor. CD2AP SH3 domains 1 and 2 generally bound with similar characteristics and specificities, whereas the SH3-3 domain bound more weakly to  most peptide ligands tested yet recognized an unusually extended sequence in ALG-2-interacting protein X (ALIX). RIN3 peptide scanning arrays revealed two CD2AP binding sites, recognized by all three SH3 domains, but SH3-3 appeared non-functional in precipitation experiments. RIN3 recruited CD2AP to RAB5a-positive early endosomes via these interaction sites. Permutation arrays and isothermal titration calorimetry data showed that the preferred binding motif is Px(P/A)xPR. Two high-resolution crystal structures (1.65 and 1.11 A) of CD2AP  SH3-1 and SH3-2 solved in complex with RIN3 epitopes 1 and 2, respectively, indicated that another extended motif is relevant in epitope 2. In conclusion, we have discovered novel interaction candidates for CD2AP and characterized subtle yet significant differences in the recognition preferences of its three SH3 domains for c-CBL, ALIX, and RIN3.
26291160: !Alzheimer The Sorting Receptor SorCS1 Regulates Trafficking of Neurexin and AMPA Receptors. The formation, function, and plasticity of synapses require dynamic changes in synaptic receptor composition. Here, we identify the sorting receptor SorCS1 as a key regulator of synaptic receptor trafficking. Four independent proteomic analyses identify the synaptic adhesion molecule neurexin and the AMPA glutamate  receptor (AMPAR) as major proteins sorted by SorCS1. SorCS1 localizes to early and recycling endosomes and regulates neurexin and AMPAR surface trafficking. Surface proteome analysis of SorCS1-deficient neurons shows decreased surface levels of these, and additional, receptors. Quantitative in vivo analysis of SorCS1-knockout synaptic proteomes identifies SorCS1 as a global trafficking regulator and reveals decreased levels of receptors regulating adhesion and neurotransmission, including neurexins and AMPARs. Consequently, glutamatergic transmission at SorCS1-deficient synapses is reduced due to impaired AMPAR surface expression. SORCS1 mutations have been associated with autism and Alzheimer disease, suggesting that perturbed receptor trafficking contributes to  synaptic-composition and -function defects underlying synaptopathies.
26289578: !Alzheimer An overview of peptide and peptoid foldamers in medicinal chemistry. INTRODUCTION: Foldamers are artificial self-organizing systems with various critical properties: i) a stable and designable secondary structure; ii) a larger molecular surface as compared with ordinary organic drug molecules; iii) appropriate control of the orientation of the side-chain functional groups; iv) resistance against proteolytic degradation, which leads to potentially increased  oral bioavailability and a longer serum half-life relative to ordinary alpha-peptides; and v) the lower conformational freedom may result in increased receptor binding in comparison with the natural analogs. AREAS COVERED: This article covers the general properties and types of foldamers. This includes highlighted examples of medicinal chemical applications, including antibacterial  and cargo molecules, anti-Alzheimer compounds and protein-protein interaction modifiers. EXPERT OPINION: Various new foldamers have been created with a range of structures and biological applications. Membrane-acting antibacterial foldamers have been introduced. A general property of these structures is their amphiphilic nature. The amphiphilicity can be stationary or induced by the membrane binding. Cell-penetrating foldamers have been described which serve as cargo molecules, and foldamers have been used as autophagy inducers. Anti-Alzheimer compounds too have been created and the greatest breakthrough was  attained via the modification of protein-protein interactions. This can serve as  the chemical and pharmaceutical basis for the relevance of foldamers in the future.
26265215: !Alzheimer Nanomolar aluminum induces expression of the inflammatory systemic biomarker C-reactive protein (CRP) in human brain microvessel endothelial cells (hBMECs). C-reactive protein (CRP; also known as pentraxin 1, PTX1), a 224 amino acid soluble serum protein organized into a novel pentameric ring-shaped structure, is a highly sensitive pathogenic biomarker for systemic inflammation. High CRP levels are found in practically every known inflammatory state, and elevated CRP  levels indicate an increased risk for several common age-related human degenerative disorders, including cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). While the majority of CRP is synthesized in the liver for secretion into the systemic circulation, it has recently been discovered that an appreciable amount of CRP is synthesized in highly specialized endothelial cells that line the vasculature of the brain and central nervous system (CNS). These highly specialized cells, the major cell type lining the human CNS vasculature, are known as human brain microvessel endothelial cells (hBMECs). In  the current pilot study we examined (i) CRP levels in human serum obtained from AD and age-matched control patients; and (ii) analyzed the effects of nanomolar aluminum sulfate on CRP expression in primary hBMECs. The three major findings in this short communication are: (i) that CRP is up-regulated in AD serum; (ii) that CRP serum levels increased in parallel with AD progression; and (iii) for the first time show that nanomolar aluminum potently up-regulates CRP expression in hBMECs to many times its 'basal abundance'. The results suggest that aluminum-induced CRP may in part contribute to a pathophysiological state associated with a chronic systemic inflammation of the human vasculature.
26264026: !Alzheimer The Role of nAChR and Calcium Signaling in Pancreatic Cancer Initiation and Progression. Pancreatic cancer shows a strong correlation with smoking and the current therapeutic strategies have been relatively ineffective in improving the survival of patients. Efforts have been made over the past many years to understand the molecular events that drive the initiation and progression of pancreatic cancer,  especially in the context of smoking. It has become clear that components of tobacco smoke not only initiate these cancers, especially pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (PDACs) through their mutagenic properties, but can also promote  the growth and metastasis of these tumors by stimulating cell proliferation, angiogenesis, invasion and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Studies in cell culture systems, animal models and human samples have shown that nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) activation enhances these tumor-promoting events by channeling signaling through multiple pathways. In this context, signaling through calcium channels appear to facilitate pancreatic cancer growth by itself  or downstream of nAChRs. This review article highlights the role of nAChR downstream signaling events and calcium signaling in the growth, metastasis as well as drug resistance of pancreatic cancer.
26262991: !Alzheimer Antidiabetic Effect of Galantamine: Novel Effect for a Known Centrally Acting Drug. The cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway is one of the putative biochemical pathways that link diabetes with Alzheimer disease. Hence, we aimed to verify the potential antidiabetic effect of galantamine, unveil the possible mechanisms and  evaluate its interaction with vildagliptin. The n5-STZ rat model was adopted and  the diabetic animals were treated with galantamine and/or vildagliptin for 4 weeks. Galantamine lowered the n5-STZ-induced elevation in body weight, food/water intake, serum levels of glucose, fructosamine, and ALT/AST, as well as AChE in the tested organs. Moreover, it modulated successfully the lipid profile  assessed in serum, liver, and muscle, and increased serum insulin level, as well  as % beta-cell function, in a pattern similar to that of vildagliptin. Additionally, galantamine confirmed its antioxidant (Nrf2, TAC, MDA), anti-inflammatory (NF-kappaB, TNF-alpha, visfatin, adiponectin) and anti-apoptotic (caspase-3, cytochrome c) capabilities by altering the n5-STZ effect on all the aforementioned parameters. On the molecular level, galantamine/vildagliptin have improved the insulin (p-insulin receptor, p-Akt, GLUT4/GLUT2) and Wnt/beta-catenin (p-GSK-3beta, beta-catenin) signaling pathways. On almost all parameters, the galantamine effects surpassed that of vildagliptin, while the combination regimen showed the best effects. The present results clearly proved that galantamine modulated glucose/lipid profile possibly through  its anti-oxidant, -apoptotic, -inflammatory and -cholinesterase properties. These effects could be attributed partly to the enhancement of insulin and Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathways. Galantamine can be strongly considered as a  potential antidiabetic agent and as an add-on therapy with other oral antidiabetics.
26259518: !Alzheimer Impairment of autophagosome-lysosome fusion in the buff mutant mice with the VPS33A(D251E) mutation. The HOPS (homotypic fusion and protein sorting) complex functions in endocytic and autophagic pathways in both lower eukaryotes and mammalian cells through its  involvement in fusion events between endosomes and lysosomes or autophagosomes and lysosomes. However, the differential molecular mechanisms underlying these fusion processes are largely unknown. Buff (bf) is a mouse mutant that carries an Asp251-to-Glu point mutation (D251E) in the VPS33A protein, a tethering protein and a core subunit of the HOPS complex. Bf mice showed impaired spontaneous locomotor activity, motor learning, and autophagic activity. Although the gross anatomy of the brain was apparently normal, the number of Purkinje cells was significantly reduced. Furthermore, we found that fusion between autophagosomes and lysosomes was defective in bf cells without compromising the endocytic pathway. The direct association of mutant VPS33A(D251E) with the autophagic SNARE complex, STX17 (syntaxin 17)-VAMP8-SNAP29, was enhanced. In addition, the VPS33A(D251E) mutation enhanced interactions with other HOPS subunits, namely VPS41, VPS39, VPS18, and VPS11, except for VPS16. Reduction of the interactions between VPS33A(Y440D) and several other HOPS subunits led to decreased association with STX17. These results suggest that the VPS33A(D251E) mutation plays dual roles by increasing the HOPS complex assembly and its association with the autophagic SNARE complex, which selectively affects the autophagosome-lysosome fusion that impairs basal autophagic activity and induces  Purkinje cell loss.
26257034: !Alzheimer An overview of peptide and peptoid foldamers in medicinal chemistry. INTRODUCTION: Foldamers are artificial self-organizing systems with various critical properties: i) a stable and designable secondary structure; ii) a larger molecular surface as compared with ordinary organic drug molecules; iii) appropriate control of the orientation of the side-chain functional groups; iv) resistance against proteolytic degradation, which leads to potentially increased  oral bioavailability and a longer serum half-life relative to ordinary alpha-peptides; and v) the lower conformational freedom may result in increased receptor binding in comparison with the natural analogs. Areas covered: This article covers the general properties and types of foldamers. This includes highlighted examples of medicinal chemical applications, including antibacterial  and cargo molecules, anti-Alzheimer compounds and protein-protein interaction modifiers. Expert opinion: Various new foldamers have been created with a range of structures and biological applications. Membrane-acting antibacterial foldamers have been introduced. A general property of these structures is their amphiphilic nature. The amphiphilicity can be stationary or induced by the membrane binding. Cell-penetrating foldamers have been described which serve as cargo molecules, and foldamers have been used as autophagy inducers. Anti-Alzheimer compounds too have been created and the greatest breakthrough was  attained via the modification of protein-protein interactions. This can serve as  the chemical and pharmaceutical basis for the relevance of foldamers in the future.
26249687: !Alzheimer The soluble Y115E-Y117E variant of human glutaminyl cyclase is a valid target for X-ray and NMR screening of inhibitors against Alzheimer disease. Recent developments in molecular pathology and genetics have allowed the identification of human glutaminyl cyclase (hQC) among the abnormal proteins involved in many neurodegenerative disorders. Difficulties in obtaining large quantities of pure protein may limit the use of crystallographic screening for drug development on this target. Site-directed mutagenesis experiments have led to the identification of some solvent-exposed residues that are absolutely critical to achieve increased solubility and to avoid precipitation of the enzyme in inclusion bodies when expressed in Escherichia coli. The designed variant Y115E-Y117E has been found to be able to provide large amounts of monodisperse, pure hQC from an E. coli expression system. To validate the use of the artificial construct as a target for large-scale X-ray and NMR screening campaigns in the search for new inhibitors of hQC, the X-ray crystal structures of the hQC Y115E-Y117E variant and of its adduct with the inhibitor PBD-150 were determined.
26221675: !Alzheimer A Riemannian Framework for Intrinsic Comparison of Closed Genus-Zero Shapes. We present a framework for intrinsic comparison of surface metric structures and  curvatures. This work parallels the work of Kurtek et al. on parameterization-invariant comparison of genus zero shapes. Here, instead of comparing the embedding of spherically parameterized surfaces in space, we focus  on the first fundamental form. To ensure that the distance on spherical metric tensor fields is invariant to parameterization, we apply the conjugation-invariant metric arising from the L2 norm on symmetric positive definite matrices. As a reparameterization changes the metric tensor by a congruent Jacobian transform, this metric perfectly suits our purpose. The result is an intrinsic comparison of shape metric structure that does not depend on the  specifics of a spherical mapping. Further, when restricted to tensors of fixed volume form, the manifold of metric tensor fields and its quotient of the group of unitary diffeomorphisms becomes a proper metric manifold that is geodesically  complete. Exploiting this fact, and augmenting the metric with analogous metrics  on curvatures, we derive a complete Riemannian framework for shape comparison and reconstruction. A by-product of our framework is a near-isometric and curvature-preserving mapping between surfaces. The correspondence is optimized using the fast spherical fluid algorithm. We validate our framework using several subcortical boundary surface models from the ADNI dataset.
26218331: !Alzheimer TRPM7 and its role in neurodegenerative diseases. Calcium (Ca(2+)) and magnesium (Mg(2+)) ions have been shown to play an important role in regulating various neuronal functions. In the present review we focus on  the emerging role of transient potential melastatin-7 (TRPM7) channel in not only regulating Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) homeostasis necessary for biological functions, but  also how alterations in TRPM7 function/expression could induce neurodegeneration. Although eight TRPM channels have been identified, the channel properties, mode of activation, and physiological responses of various TRPM channels are quite distinct. Among the known 8 TRPM channels only TRPM6 and TRPM7 channels are highly permeable to both Ca(2+) and Mg(2+); however here we will only focus on TRPM7 as unlike TRPM6, TRPM7 channels are abundantly expressed in neuronal cells. Importantly, the discrepancy in TRPM7 channel function and expression leads to various neuronal diseases such as Alzheimer disease (AD) and Parkinson disease (PD). Further, it is emerging as a key factor in anoxic neuronal death and in other neurodegenerative disorders. Thus, by understanding the precise involvement of the TRPM7 channels in different neurodegenerative diseases and by understanding the factors that regulate TRPM7 channels, we could uncover new strategies in the future that could evolve as new drug therapeutic targets for effective treatment of these neurodegenerative diseases.
26216268: !Alzheimer Organophosphorus Inhibition and Characterization of Recombinant Guinea Pig Acetylcholinesterase. Organophosphorus (OP) pesticides and nerve agents have been designed to inhibit the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine by covalently binding to the active site serine of acetylcholinesterase while Alzheimer drugs and prophylactics, such as tacrine, are characterized by reversible binding. Historically, the guinea pig has been believed to be the best non-primate model for OP toxicology and medical countermeasure development because, similarly to humans, guinea pigs have low amounts of circulating OP metabolizing carboxylesterase. To explore the hypothesis that guinea pigs are the appropriate  responder species for OP toxicology and medical countermeasure development, guinea pig acetylcholinesterase (gpAChE) was cloned into pENTR/D-TOPO, recombined into pT-Rex-DEST30 and expressed in Human Embryonic Kidney 293 cells. Recombinant gpAChE was purified to a specific activity of 800 U/mg using size exclusion and immobilized nickel affinity chromatography, with purity confirmed by gel electrophoresis. Ellman's assay was used to enzymatically characterize gpAChE, identifying a K(M) of 154+/-18.7 micromol L(-1) and a k(cat) of 4.79x10(4)+/-5.26x10(2) /sec. Apparent gpAChE IC50's for diisopropylfluorophosphate, dicrotophos, paraoxon, and an Alzheimer's drug, tacrine, were found to be 10.1+/-1.98, 337+/-108, 1.02+/-0.29 and 0.30+/-0.01 micromol L(-1), respectively. Apparent gpAChE inhibition constants for diisopropylfluorophosphate, dicrotophos, paraoxon, and tacrine were found to be 8.40+/-0.60, 4.50+/-0.30, 0.29+/-0.01 and 0.42+/-0.07 micromol L(-1), respectively. Lineweaver-Burk plots confirmed tacrine as a mixed inhibitor and paraoxon, dicrotophos and diisopropylfluorophosphate as irreversible non-competitive inhibitors. gpAChE bimolecular rate constants for diisopropylfluorophosphate, dicrotophos and paraoxon were found to be 1.44+/-0.33x10(4), 1.56+/-0.12x10(3) and 4.57+/- 0.23x10(5) L micromol(-1) min(-1), respectively. Although the blood levels of OP metabolizing carboxylesterases in the guinea pig are similar to the low levels in human blood, the gpAChE is different in its enzymology. Therefore, medical countermeasures against OP intoxication should be tested for efficacy with the recombinant form of gpAChE prior to initiating animal studies.
26215835: !Alzheimer Kdm6b and Pmepa1 as Targets of Bioelectrically and Behaviorally Induced Activin A Signaling. multiple neurotrophic and protective effects in the brain. Activin also modulates cognitive functions and affective behavior and is a presumed target of antidepressant therapy. Despite its important role in the injured and intact brain, the mechanisms underlying activin effects in the CNS are still largely unknown. Our goal was to identify the first target genes of activin signaling in  the hippocampus in vivo. Electroconvulsive seizures, a rodent model of electroconvulsive therapy in humans, were applied to C57BL/6J mice to elicit a strong increase in activin A signaling. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments with hippocampal lysates subsequently revealed that binding of SMAD2/3, the intracellular effectors of activin signaling, was significantly enriched at the Pmepa1 gene, which encodes a negative feedback regulator of TGF-beta signaling in cancer cells, and at the Kdm6b gene, which encodes an epigenetic regulator promoting transcriptional plasticity. Underlining the significance of these findings, activin treatment also induced PMEPA1 and KDM6B expression in human forebrain neurons generated from embryonic stem cells suggesting interspecies conservation of activin effects in mammalian neurons. Importantly, physiological  stimuli such as provided by environmental enrichment proved already sufficient to engender a rapid and significant induction of activin signaling concomitant with  an upregulation of Pmepa1 and Kdm6b expression. Taken together, our study identified the first target genes of activin signaling in the brain. With the induction of Kdm6b expression, activin is likely to gain impact on a presumed epigenetic regulator of activity-dependent neuronal plasticity. The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family member activin A exerts multiple neurotrophic and protective effects in the brain. Activin also modulates cognitive functions and affective behavior and is a presumed target of antidepressant therapy. Despite its important role in the injured and intact brain, the mechanisms underlying activin effects in the CNS are still largely unknown. Our goal was to identify the first target genes of activin signaling in  the hippocampus in vivo. Electroconvulsive seizures, a rodent model of electroconvulsive therapy in humans, were applied to C57BL/6J mice to elicit a strong increase in activin A signaling. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments with hippocampal lysates subsequently revealed that binding of SMAD2/3, the intracellular effectors of activin signaling, was significantly enriched at the Pmepa1 gene, which encodes a negative feedback regulator of TGF-beta signaling in cancer cells, and at the Kdm6b gene, which encodes an epigenetic regulator promoting transcriptional plasticity. Underlining the significance of these findings, activin treatment also induced PMEPA1 and KDM6B expression in human forebrain neurons generated from embryonic stem cells suggesting interspecies conservation of activin effects in mammalian neurons. Importantly, physiological  stimuli such as provided by environmental enrichment proved already sufficient to engender a rapid and significant induction of activin signaling concomitant with  an upregulation of Pmepa1 and Kdm6b expression. Taken together, our study identified the first target genes of activin signaling in the brain. With the induction of Kdm6b expression, activin is likely to gain impact on a presumed epigenetic regulator of activity-dependent neuronal plasticity.
26214710: !Alzheimer Role of the cell cycle re-initiation in DNA damage response of postmitotic cells  and its implication in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. aging. Resuming of the cell cycle by neurons induced by DNA damage may lead to their apoptosis, which contributes to the degeneration of neuronal tissue. Cell cycle and DNA replication proteins are frequently found in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. Oxidative stress, which is considered to play an important role in aging and pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases, can  induce DNA damage and stimulate cell cycle re-entry by neuronal cells. DNA damage activated ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM), ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related (ATR), breast cancer 1 (BRCA1), E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) and other proteins, which regulate cell cycle, DNA damage repair and apoptosis. Since the E2F complexes associate with histone modifying enzymes, histone modifications, including its acetylation and methylation, are required for cell cycle re-entry and may a regulatory role in DNA repair or apoptosis. Aberrant cell cycle regulation was shown to play a role in age-related macular degeneration (AMD), in which retinal cells are affected and inclusion body myositis which is characterized by the muscle cells dysfunction. There is evidence to suggest that cytostatic chemotherapy could decrease dementia in Alzheimer disease and multiple myeloma, supporting the use of cell cycle inhibitors in the therapy of degenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative diseases are often associated with both normal and premature aging. Resuming of the cell cycle by neurons induced by DNA damage may lead to their apoptosis, which contributes to the degeneration of neuronal tissue. Cell cycle and DNA replication proteins are frequently found in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. Oxidative stress, which is considered to play an important role in aging and pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases, can  induce DNA damage and stimulate cell cycle re-entry by neuronal cells. DNA damage activated ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM), ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related (ATR), breast cancer 1 (BRCA1), E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) and other proteins, which regulate cell cycle, DNA damage repair and apoptosis. Since the E2F complexes associate with histone modifying enzymes, histone modifications, including its acetylation and methylation, are required for cell cycle re-entry and may a regulatory role in DNA repair or apoptosis. Aberrant cell cycle regulation was shown to play a role in age-related macular degeneration (AMD), in which retinal cells are affected and inclusion body myositis which is characterized by the muscle cells dysfunction. There is evidence to suggest that cytostatic chemotherapy could decrease dementia in Alzheimer disease and multiple myeloma, supporting the use of cell cycle inhibitors in the therapy of degenerative diseases.
26209890: !Alzheimer Neuro-peptide treatment with Cerebrolysin improves the survival of neural stem cell grafts in an APP transgenic model of Alzheimer disease. Neural stem cells (NSCs) have been considered as potential therapy in Alzheimer's disease (AD) but their use is hampered by the poor survival of grafted cells. Supply of neurotrophic factors to the grafted cells has been proposed as a way to augment survival of the stem cells. In this context, we investigated the utility  of Cerebrolysin (CBL), a peptidergic mixture with neurotrophic-like properties, as an adjunct to stem cell therapy in an APP transgenic (tg) model of AD. We grafted murine NSCs into the hippocampus of non-tg and APP tg that were treated systemically with CBL and analyzed after 1, 3, 6 and 9months post grafting. Compared to vehicle-treated non-tg mice, in the vehicle-treated APP tg mice there was considerable reduction in the survival of the grafted NSCs. Whereas, CBL treatment enhanced the survival of NSCs in both non-tg and APP tg with the majority of the surviving NSCs remaining as neuroblasts. The NSCs of the CBL treated mice displayed reduced numbers of caspase-3 and TUNEL positive cells and  increased brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and furin immunoreactivity. These results suggest that CBL might protect grafted NSCs and as such be a potential adjuvant therapy when combined with grafting.
26195563: !Alzheimer Pregnancy outcome for fetuses with increased nuchal translucency but normal karyotype. OBJECTIVE: To investigate pregnancy outcome for fetuses with nuchal translucency  (NT) >/=3.5 mm but normal karyotype in the Stockholm (Sweden) area. METHODS: A retrospective population-based cohort study. From 2006 to 2012, fetal NT was measured in 55123 singleton pregnancies. There were 341 pregnancies with NT thickness >/=3.5 mm; 139 had a normal karyotype, 164 had an abnormal karyotype and 38 were removed from the study. Pregnancy outcome was defined as adverse (termination of pregnancy [TOP], miscarriage [MC], intrauterine fetal death [IUFD], or delivery of a child with structural defects or genetic disorders), or  favourable (delivery of a child without any structural defects or genetic disorders diagnosed before discharge). RESULTS: Of the 139 high NT pregnancies with normal karyotype, 110 (79.2%) resulted in live births, one (0.7%) IUFD, 23 (16.5%) TOP and five (3.6%) MC. The risk of an adverse pregnancy outcome increased with increasing NT. Structural fetal defects were found in 28 (19.5%) of pregnancies undergoing second trimester ultrasound screening, of which seven resulted in live births and 21 were terminated. The most common structural defect was cardiac defects. CONCLUSIONS: Adverse pregnancy outcome increased with increasing NT, even with normal karyotype, however, the prognosis is good if the  second trimester ultrasound screening is normal.
26195099: !Alzheimer The Role of Nutrition and Physical Activity in Cholesterol and Aging. Cholesterol is a precursor of several substances with important biologic activities; however, it is common to associate this molecule only with bad outcomes. This article reviews the cholesterol metabolism, its functions in the human body, its pathogenicity, and its elimination. The modifications in biochemical paths of cholesterol in aging are highlighted. Finally, the role of diet, physical activity, and exercise in cholesterol management is discussed.
26192069: !Alzheimer Synthesis and Evaluation of Chroman-4-One Linked to N-Benzyl Pyridinium Derivatives as New Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors. A novel series of chroman-4-one derivatives containing the N-benzyl pyridinium moiety were designed, synthesized, and evaluated for their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activities. Among the various synthesized compounds, (E)-1-(2,3-dibromobenzyl)-4-((7-ethoxy-4-oxochroman-3-ylidene)methyl)pyridinium bromide (8l) depicted the most potent anti-AChE activity (IC50 = 0.048 muM). In addition, the molecular modeling study allowed us to detect possible binding modes that are in full compliance with the observed results through in vitro experiments.
26177386: !Alzheimer RNA Binds to Tau Fibrils and Sustains Template-Assisted Growth. Tau fibrils are the main proteinacious components of neurofibrillary lesions in Alzheimer disease. Although RNA molecules are sequestered into these lesions, their relationship to Tau fibrils is only poorly understood. Such understanding,  however, is important, as short fibrils can transfer between neurons and nonproteinacious factors including RNA could play a defining role in modulating the latter process. Here, we used sedimentation assays combined with electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), fluorescence, and absorbance spectroscopy to determine the effects of RNA on Tau fibril structure and growth. We observe that, in the presence of RNA, three-repeat (3R) and four-repeat (4R) Tau form fibrils with parallel, in-register arrangement of beta-strands and exhibit an asymmetric  seeding barrier in which 4R Tau grows onto 3R Tau seeds but not vice versa. These structural features are similar to those previously observed for heparin-induced  fibrils, indicating that basic conformational properties are conserved, despite their being molecular differences of the nucleating agents. Furthermore, RNA sustains template-assisted growth and binds to the fibril surface and can be exchanged by heparin. These findings suggest that, in addition to mediating fibrillization, cofactors decorating the surface of Tau fibrils may modulate biological interactions and thereby influence the spreading of Tau pathology in the human brain.
26166611: !Alzheimer The Innate Immunity in Alzheimer Disease- Relevance to Pathogenesis and Therapy. The genetic, cellular, and molecular changes associated with Alzheimer disease provide evidence of immune and inflammatory processes involvement in its pathogenesis. These are supported by epidemiological studies, which show some benefit of long-term use of NSAID. The hypothesis that AD is in fact an immunologically mediated and even inflammatory pathological process may be in fact scientifically intriguing. There are several obstacles that suggest the need for more complex view, in the process of targeting inflammation and immunity in AD. In our previous studies we proposed a reliable methodology to assess innate immunity in Alzheimer patients and controls. The methodology is based on the phenomenon of human leukocytes being resistant to viral infection. The unspecific character of the resistance, dependent on interferons and tumor necrosis factor,  and occurrence in cells ex vivo indicate that an in vivo mechanism of innate immunity may be involved. The above mentioned resistance could be estimated in a  test based on peripheral blood leukocytes infection by vesicular stomachs virus.
26164000: !Alzheimer Green tea polyphenols and their potential role in health and disease. There is a growing body of evidence that plant polyphenols such as resveratrol, anthocyanins, catechins, and terpenes like taxol are effectively used in the treatment of chronic conditions including cancer, Alzheimer, Parkinsonism, diabetes, aging, etc. The link between oxidative stress and inflammation is well  accepted. Thus, the mechanism of action of these natural products is partly believed to be through their significant antioxidant properties. The main constituent of green tea, with clinical significance, is epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG). It has been associated with antitumor, anti-Alzheimer, and anti-aging properties, improve redox status at the tissue level possibly preventing system level structural damage. This review focuses on EGCG and its potential therapeutic role in health and disease.
26163986: !Alzheimer Herpes simplex virus type 2 infection induces AD-like neurodegeneration markers in human neuroblastoma cells. Herpes simplex virus (HSV) types 1 and 2 are neurotropic viruses that establish lifelong latent infections in neurons. Mounting evidence suggests that HSV-1 infection is involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The relationships between other herpesvirus infections and events associated with neurodegeneration have not, however, been extensively studied. The present work reports that HSV-2 infection leads to the strong accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau and the amyloid-beta peptides Abeta40 and Abeta42 (all major pathological hallmarks of AD) in human SK-N-MC neuroblastoma cells. Infection is also associated with a marked reduction in the amount of Abeta40 secreted and in the proteolytic fragments of the amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) (secreted APPalpha and the alpha-C-terminal fragment). These results indicate that HSV-2 infection inhibits the nonamyloidogenic pathway of APP processing and impairs Abeta secretion in these cells. In addition, HSV-2 induces the accumulation of intracellular autophagic compartments containing Abeta due to a failure in the late stages of autophagy. To our knowledge, this is the first report to show that HSV-2 infection strongly alters the tau phosphorylation state, APP processing, and autophagic process in human neuroblastoma cells, leading to the appearance of AD-like neurodegeneration markers.
26159707: !Alzheimer From the periphery to the brain: Lipocalin-2, a friend or foe? Lipocalin-2 (LCN2) is an acute-phase protein that, by binding to iron-loaded siderophores, acts as a potent bacteriostatic agent in the iron-depletion strategy of the immune system to control pathogens. The recent identification of  a mammalian siderophore also suggests a physiological role for LCN2 in iron homeostasis, specifically in iron delivery to cells via a transferrin-independent mechanism. LCN2 participates, as well, in a variety of cellular processes, including cell proliferation, cell differentiation and apoptosis, and has been mostly found up-regulated in various tissues and under inflammatory states, being its expression regulated by several inducers. In the central nervous system less  is known about the processes involving LCN2, namely by which cells it is produced/secreted, and its impact on cell proliferation and death, or in neuronal plasticity and behaviour. Importantly, LCN2 recently emerged as a potential clinical biomarker in multiple sclerosis and in ageing-related cognitive decline. Still, there are conflicting views on the role of LCN2 in pathophysiological processes, with some studies pointing to its neurodeleterious effects, while others indicate neuroprotection. Herein, these various perspectives are reviewed  and a comprehensive and cohesive view of the general function of LCN2, particularly in the brain, is provided.
26159205: !Alzheimer Insulin Modulates In Vitro Secretion of Cytokines and Cytotoxins by Human Glial Cells. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia worldwide. Type 2 diabetes (T2D) has been implicated as a risk factor for AD. Since T2D is a peripheral inflammatory condition, and AD brains exhibit exacerbated neuroinflammation, we hypothesized that inflammatory mechanisms could contribute  to the observed link between T2D and AD. Abnormal peripheral and brain insulin concentrations have been reported in both T2D and AD. The neurotrophic role of insulin has been described; however, this hormone can also regulate inflammatory  responses in the periphery. Therefore we used in vitro human cell culture systems to elucidate the possible effects of insulin on neuroinflammation. We show that human astrocytes and microglia express both isoforms of the insulin receptor as well as the insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 receptor. They also express insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-1 and IRS-2, which are required for propagation  of insulin/IGF- 1 signaling. We show that at low nanomolar concentrations, insulin could be pro-inflammatory by upregulating secretion of interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 from stimulated human astrocytes and secretion of IL-8 from stimulated human microglia. This effect dissipates at higher insulin concentrations. In contrast, insulin at a broader concentration range (10 pM - 1 muM) reduces the toxicity of stimulated human microglia and THP-1 monocytic cells towards SH-SY5Y  neuronal cells. These data show that insulin may regulate the inflammatory status of glial cells by modulating their select functions, which in turn can influence  the survival of neurons contributing to the observed link between T2D and AD.
26158767: !Alzheimer LiSiCA: A Software for Ligand-Based Virtual Screening and Its Application for the Discovery of Butyrylcholinesterase Inhibitors. We developed LiSiCA (ligand similarity using clique algorithm)--ligand-based virtual screening software that uses a fast maximum clique algorithm to find two- and three-dimensional similarities between pairs of molecules and applied it to the discovery of novel potent butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors. LiSiCA, which runs in parallel on multiple processor cores, was successfully tested on the Database of Useful Decoys-Enhanced, to evaluate its ability to discriminate active molecules from decoys. We then applied LiSiCA for the discovery of novel inhibitors of human butyrylcholinesterase, a promising anti-Alzheimer target, using a known inhibitor as the reference compound. We demonstrated that LiSiCA is capable of finding potent nanomolar inhibitors, whose scaffolds differed from the reference compound, thus proving its ability for scaffold hopping and usefulness  in drug discovery.
26158758: !Alzheimer Synthesis of stable isotope-labeled epothilone D using a degradation-reconstruction approach. The stabilization of microtubules using epothilones represents a novel mechanism  of action to treat Alzheimer's disease. Epothilone D is one such microtubule-stabilizing drug that has been investigated by Bristol-Myers Squibb.  An important step in the development process was the synthesis of a stable isotope-labeled analog for use in bioanalytical assays to accurately quantify the concentration of the drug in biological samples. A novel synthetic route to stable isotope-labeled epothilone D is described. The synthetic route was based on a strategy to degrade epothilone B and then use that key intermediate to reconstruct stable isotope-labeled epothilone D. Epothilone B was treated with potassium osmate and sodium periodate. The thiazole moiety in epothilone B was efficiently cleaved to give (1S,3S,7S,10R,11S,12S,16R)-3-acetyl-7,11-dihydroxy-8,8,10,12,16-pentamethyl-4,17- dioxabicyclo[14.1.0]heptadecane-5,9-dione. The epoxide in the macrocyclic ring of that intermediate was cleanly removed by treatment with tungsten hexachloride and n-butyllithium to give the corresponding olefin (4S,7R,8S,9S,16S,Z)-16-acetyl-4,8-dihydroxy-5,5,7,9,13-pentamethyloxacyclohexadec -13-ene-2,6-dione. Bis(triethylsilyl) protection produced (4S,7R,8S,9S,16S,Z)-16-acetyl-5,5,7,9,13-pentamethyl-4,8-bis(triethylsilyloxy)-ox acyclohexadec-13-ene-2,6-dione. This intermediate was coupled to a stable isotope-labeled thiazole using a Wittig reaction as the key step to provide (13)C5, (15)N-labeled epothilone D. In summary, the synthesis was completed in nine total steps, only six of which involved isotopically labeled reagents. A total of 168 mg of (13)C5, (15)N-labeled epothilone D was prepared in an 8% overall yield from (13)C2, (15)N-labeled thioacetamide and (13)C3-labeled ethyl bromopyruvate.
26151013: !Alzheimer Cinnamon from the selection of traditional applications to its novel effects on the inhibition of angiogenesis in cancer cells and prevention of Alzheimer's disease, and a series of functions such as antioxidant, anticholesterol, antidiabetes, antibacterial, antifungal, nematicidal, acaracidal, and repellent activities. The purpose of this article is to use search engines such as PubMed and Scifinder to locate scholarly articles and reports pertaining to Cinnamon ( rou gui), its novel effects, preparation, analysis, and use in the prevention and treatment of  serious illnesses, such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, Alzheimer's disease, and cancer. Cinnamon has been used traditionally in food preparations and as an herbal medicine to treat a variety of ailments and their symptoms. Cinnamon is known to have antioxidant, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and other therapeutic properties. New studies reaffirm the importance of cinnamon as  a spice but also suggest that it may be a natural remedy to treat serious diseases such as type 2 diabetes, chronic digestion problems, cardiovascular diseases, and even cancer and Alzheimer's disease. This article presents a comprehensive analysis of the botanical, chemical, and pharmacological aspects of cinnamon.
26145695: !Alzheimer [Training can be fun!]. Serious games are becoming ever more innovative and increasingly popular within the healthcare profession. Developed as a remote training tool, they support health professionals in a fun way, enabling them to update their knowledge and aptitude. This article looks at a serious game developed for nursing homes.
26141124: !Alzheimer Inhibition of Protein Phosphatase 2A: Focus on the Glutamatergic System. Neurobiol. 2014 Dec;50(3):852-65) highlighted the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in Okadaic acid (OKA)-induced neurotoxicity. In this review,  the authors underline a wide range of pathological signaling pathways involved in OKA-induced neurotoxicity; however, the role of glutamate was only briefly described. We believe that the hyperactivation of the glutamatergic system is a key pathophysiological player in OKA-induced neurotoxicity and deserves serious attention. In this commentary, we propose an integrative model linking glutamate  and PP2A and put forward some unanswered questions. In a recent review published in Molecular Neurobiology, Kamat and colleagues (Mol Neurobiol. 2014 Dec;50(3):852-65) highlighted the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in Okadaic acid (OKA)-induced neurotoxicity. In this review,  the authors underline a wide range of pathological signaling pathways involved in OKA-induced neurotoxicity; however, the role of glutamate was only briefly described. We believe that the hyperactivation of the glutamatergic system is a key pathophysiological player in OKA-induced neurotoxicity and deserves serious attention. In this commentary, we propose an integrative model linking glutamate  and PP2A and put forward some unanswered questions.
26138814: !Alzheimer The aromatic stacking interactions between proteins and their macromolecular ligands. Aromatic stacking interactions arise from the attractive force between the pi-electron clouds in the neighboring aromatic groups. The aromatic stacking is common between proteins and small molecules. The stacking interactions at the interfaces of proteins and other macromolecules are relatively rare. However it contributes to a significant portion of the stabilizing forces. In the proteinprotein complexes, aromatic interactions are involved in the protein oligomerization, such as dimer, trimer and tetramer formation. Also, aromatic residues can bind to nanoparticles through stacking interactions which offer them stronger affinity than other residues. These interactions play crucial roles in proteinnanoparticle conjugation. In the protein-nucleotide complexes, the specific recognitions are realized through stacking interactions between aromatic residues and the bases in the nucleotides. Many nucleoproteins use aromatic stacking to recognize binding site on DNA or RNA. Stacking interactions are involved in the process of mismatch repair, strand separation, deadenylation, degradation and RNA cap binding. They are proved to be important for the stability of complexes. The aromatic stacking is also the underlying reasons of many fatal diseases such as Alzheimer, cancer and cardiovascular diseases. The chemicals that can block the stacking interactions could have potential pharmaceutical values. In this review, we summarize recent finding regarding the  functions of aromatic stacking interactions in the protein-macromolecule complexes. Our aim is to understand the mechanisms underlying the stacking-mediated complex formation and facilitate the development of drugs and other bio-products.
26131930: !Alzheimer Directional dominance on stature and cognition in diverse human populations. Homozygosity has long been associated with rare, often devastating, Mendelian disorders, and Darwin was one of the first to recognize that inbreeding reduces evolutionary fitness. However, the effect of the more distant parental relatedness that is common in modern human populations is less well understood. Genomic data now allow us to investigate the effects of homozygosity on traits of public health importance by observing contiguous homozygous segments (runs of homozygosity), which are inferred to be homozygous along their complete length. Given the low levels of genome-wide homozygosity prevalent in most human populations, information is required on very large numbers of people to provide sufficient power. Here we use runs of homozygosity to study 16 health-related quantitative traits in 354,224 individuals from 102 cohorts, and find statistically significant associations between summed runs of homozygosity and four complex traits: height, forced expiratory lung volume in one second, general cognitive ability and educational attainment (P < 1 x 10(-300), 2.1 x 10(-6), 2.5 x 10(-10) and 1.8 x 10(-10), respectively). In each case, increased homozygosity  was associated with decreased trait value, equivalent to the offspring of first cousins being 1.2 cm shorter and having 10 months' less education. Similar effect sizes were found across four continental groups and populations with different degrees of genome-wide homozygosity, providing evidence that homozygosity, rather than confounding, directly contributes to phenotypic variance. Contrary to earlier reports in substantially smaller samples, no evidence was seen of an influence of genome-wide homozygosity on blood pressure and low density lipoprotein cholesterol, or ten other cardio-metabolic traits. Since directional  dominance is predicted for traits under directional evolutionary selection, this  study provides evidence that increased stature and cognitive function have been positively selected in human evolution, whereas many important risk factors for late-onset complex diseases may not have been.
26125436: !Alzheimer Gene-based vaccines and immunotherapeutic strategies against neurodegenerative diseases: Potential utility and limitations. There has been a recent expansion of vaccination and immunotherapeutic strategies from controlling infectious diseases to the targeting of non-infectious conditions including neurodegenerative disorders. In addition to conventional vaccine and immunotherapeutic modalities, gene-based methods that express antigens for presentation to the immune system by either live viral vectors or non-viral naked DNA plasmids have been developed and evaluated. This mini-review/commentary summarizes the advantages and disadvantages, as well as the research findings to date, of both of these gene-based vaccination approaches in terms of how they can be targeted against appropriate antigens within the Alzheimer and Parkinson disease pathogenesis processes as well as potentially against targets in other neurodegenerative diseases. Most recently, the novel utilization of these viral vector and naked DNA gene-based technologies includes  the delivery of immunoglobulin genes from established biologically active monoclonal antibodies. This modified passive immunotherapeutic strategy has recently been applied to deliver passive antibody immunotherapy against the pathologically relevant amyloid beta protein in Alzheimer disease. The advantages and disadvantages of this technological application of gene-based immune interventions, as well as research findings to date are also summarized. In sum,  it is suggested that further evaluation of gene based vaccines and immunotherapies against neurodegenerative diseases are warranted to determine their potential clinical utility.
26119316: !Alzheimer [Bone and Nutrition. A prospect of calcium sensing receptor]. Following the discovery of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) in 1993, its pivotal role in disorders of calcium homeostasis was demonstrated. Compelling evidence suggests that the CaSR plays multiple roles extending well beyond not only regulating the level of extracellular Ca(2+), but also controlling diverse and crucial roles in human physiology and pathophysiology. This review covers current knowledge of the role of the CaSR in disorders of calcium homeostasis (familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia, neonatal severe hyperparathyroidism, autosomal dominant hypocalcemia, primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism, hypercalcemia of malignancy) as well as unrelated diseases such as breast and colorectal cancer, Alzheimer's disease and pancreatitis. In addition, it examines the use or potential use of CaSR agonists or antagonists in the management of disorders as diverse as hyperparathyroidism and Alzheimer's disease.
26111662: !Alzheimer Opposite effects of two estrogen receptors on tau phosphorylation through disparate effects on the miR-218/PTPA pathway. The two estrogen receptors (ERs), ERalpha and ERbeta, mediate the diverse biological functions of estradiol. Opposite effects of ERalpha and ERbeta have been found in estrogen-induced cancer cell proliferation and differentiation as well as in memory-related tasks. However, whether these opposite effects are implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unclear. Here, we find that ERalpha and ERbeta play contrasting roles in regulating tau phosphorylation, which is a pathological hallmark of AD. ERalpha increases the expression of miR-218 to suppress the protein levels of its specific target, protein tyrosine phosphatase alpha (PTPalpha). The downregulation of PTPalpha results in the abnormal tyrosine hyperphosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (resulting in activation) and protein phosphatase 2A (resulting in inactivation), the major tau kinase and phosphatase. Suppressing the increased expression of miR-218 inhibits the ERalpha-induced tau hyperphosphorylation as well as the PTPalpha decline. In contrast, ERbeta inhibits tau phosphorylation by limiting miR-218 levels and restoring the miR-218 levels antagonized the attenuation of tau phosphorylation by ERbeta. These data reveal for the first time opposing roles for ERalpha and ERbeta in AD pathogenesis and suggest potential therapeutic targets for AD.
26111032: !Alzheimer KDM1 histone lysine demethylases as targets for treatments of oncological and neurodegenerative disease. Histone methylation and demethylation are important processes associated with the regulation of gene transcription, and alterations in histone methylation status have been linked to a large number of human diseases. Initially thought to be an  irreversible process, histone methylation is now known to be reversed by two families of proteins containing over 30 members that act to remove methyl groups  from specific lysine residues present in the tails of histone H3 and histone H4.  A rapidly growing number of reports have implicated the FAD-dependent lysine specific demethylase (KDM1) family in cancer, and several small-molecule inhibitors are in development for the treatment of cancer. An additional role has emerged for KDM1 in brain function, offering additional opportunities for the development of novel therapeutic strategies in neurodegenerative disease. A decade after the identification of KDM1A as a histone demethylase, the first selective inhibitors have now reached the clinic.
26101165: !Alzheimer Being human: The role of pluripotent stem cells in regenerative medicine and humanizing Alzheimer's disease models. Human pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) have the capacity to revolutionize medicine by allowing the generation of functional cell types such as neurons for cell replacement therapy. However, the more immediate impact of PSCs on treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) will be through improved human AD model systems for mechanistic studies and therapeutic screening. This review will first briefly discuss different types of PSCs and genome-editing techniques that can be used to modify PSCs for disease modeling or for personalized medicine. This will be followed by a more in depth analysis of current AD iPSC models and a discussion of the need for more complex multicellular models, including cell types such as microglia. It will finish with a discussion on current clinical trials using PSC-derived cells and the long-term potential of such strategies for treating AD.
26100639: !Alzheimer Insulin Resistance Prevents AMPK-induced Tau Dephosphorylation through Akt-mediated Increase in AMPKSer-485 Phosphorylation. Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a cluster of cardiovascular risk factors including obesity, diabetes, and dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance (IR) is the central feature of MetS. Recent studies suggest that MetS is a risk factor for Alzheimer  disease (AD). AMP-activated kinase (AMPK) is an evolutionarily conserved fuel-sensing enzyme and a key player in regulating energy metabolism. In this report, we examined the role of IR on the regulation of AMPK phosphorylation and  AMPK-mediated Tau phosphorylation. We found that AMPK(Ser-485), but not AMPK(Thr-172), phosphorylation is increased in the cortex of db/db and high fat diet-fed obese mice, two mouse models of IR. In vitro, treatment of human cortical stem cell line (HK-5320) and primary mouse embryonic cortical neurons with the AMPK activator, 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide 1-beta-D-ribofuranoside (AICAR), induced AMPK phosphorylation at both Thr-172 and Ser-485. AMPK activation also triggered Tau dephosphorylation. When IR was mimicked in vitro by chronically treating the cells with insulin, AICAR specifically induced AMPK(Ser-485), but not AMPK(Thr-172), hyperphosphorylation whereas AICAR-induced  Tau dephosphorylation was inhibited. IR also resulted in the overactivation of Akt by AICAR treatment; however, preventing Akt overactivation during IR prevented AMPK(Ser-485) hyperphosphorylation and restored AMPK-mediated Tau dephosphorylation. Transfection of AMPK(S485A) mutant caused similar results. Therefore, our results suggest the following mechanism for the adverse effect of  IR on AD pathology: IR --> chronic overactivation of Akt --> AMPK(Ser-485) hyperphosphorylation --> inhibition of AMPK-mediated Tau dephosphorylation. Together, our results show for the first time a possible contribution of IR-induced AMPK(Ser-485) phosphorylation to the increased risk of AD in obesity and diabetes.
26084734: !Alzheimer Recent data on Mediterranean diet, cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes and life expectancy. Benefits of dietary moderation when on a Mediterranean diet type (MD) have been known for well over half a century. In the past, there has been a vigorous renewal of interest in preventive potential of MD. This review is unique, by focusing on the very recent confirmatory data on the MD, all published within the first half of 2014. Benefits of MD in preventing and reducing cardiovascular disorders (CVD), known before, have been strongly confirmed. While there is little doubt regarding potential benefit of MD for obesity, diabetes type II, metabolic syndrome and fatty liver, critical evaluation has to be aimed at reported benefits of MD in such widely metabolic diverse disorders as cancer, pulmonary disease and cognition defects, including Alzheimer disease (Ref. 20). Text in PDF www.elis.sk.
26083892: !Alzheimer Aristides Leao: a birth centennial homage with comments on his spreading depression. The year of 2014 is the birth centenary of Aristides Azevedo Pacheco Leao (1914-1993), and also marks seventy years of the publication of his discovery of  the novel electrophysiological phenomenon, named by him "spreading depression" (SD), soon designated "Leao's wave" or "Leao's spreading depression". This was a  remarkable scientific milestone, and the author must be celebrated for this achievement, as the studies he triggered proceeded worldwide, with new concepts,  as spreading depolarization, until the present days. Robust experimental and clinical evidence emerged to suggest that these and related electrophysiological  phenomena are involved in the mechanisms of migraine aura, acute cerebrovascular  diseases, traumatic brain injury, transient global amnesia, epileptic seizures, and their pathophysiological characteristics come to offer new therapeutic perspectives. He was a remarkable and complex personality, and the authors remit  the readers to a paper where his personal life is contemplated.
26082680: !Alzheimer Chatting with the neighbors: crosstalk between Rho-kinase (ROCK) and other signaling pathways for treatment of neurological disorders. ROCK inhibition has been largely applied as a strategy to treat neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) and promising results have been obtained in the recent years. However, the underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms are not fully understood and different models have been proposed for neurodegenerative disorders. Here, we aim to review the current knowledge obtained for NDDs identifying common mechanisms as well as disease-specific models. In addition to  the role of ROCK in different cell types such as neurons and microglia, we focus  on the molecular signaling-pathways which mediate the beneficial effects of ROCK. Besides canonical ROCK signaling, modulation of neighboring pathways by non-canonical ROCK-crosstalk is a recurrent pattern in many NDD-model systems and has been suggested to mediate beneficial effects of ROCK-inhibition.
26071842: !Alzheimer MAP2c prevents arachidonic acid-induced fibril formation of tau: Role of chaperone activity and phosphorylation. Tau has long been associated with Alzheimer's disease, where it forms neurofibrillary tangles. Here we show for the first time by electron microscopy that MAP2c prevents arachidonic acid-induced in vitro aggregation of tau. However, phosphorylated MAP2c failed to prevent the same. Previously we reported  that MAP2c possesses chaperone-like activity while tau does not (Sarkar et al., 2004, Eur J Biochem., 271(8), 1488-96). Here we demonstrate that phosphorylation  severely impaired the chaperone activity of MAP2c, implying a crucial role of chaperone in preventing tau fibrillation. Additionally, the ability of MAP2c to induce microtubule polymerization was abolished completely upon phosphorylation.  As tau and MAP2c possess highly homologous C-termini, we speculated that the N-terminus of MAP2c might account for its chaperone activity. Nevertheless, experiments showed that N-terminus of MAP2c alone is inactive as a chaperone. Our preliminary findings suggest that MAP2c/MAP2 could be one of the regulators maintaining tau homeostasis in the cell.
26068914: !Alzheimer MRJF4, a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor, induces p21 mediated autophagy in PC3 prostate cancer cells. Autophagy is a cellular defense mechanism which occurs through degradation and recycling of cytoplasmic constituents and represents a caspase&mdash;independent  alternative to cell death by apoptosis. It is generally accepted that the suppression of autophagy in many cancer cells is directly correlated to malignancy; hence, the control of autophagy genes could represent a target for cancer therapy. The inhibition of cell proliferation through autophagy activation could be an important mechanism for many anti&mdash;tumor drugs. Here we report the effects of a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor MRJF4 (racemic mixture) and  of its two enantiomers [(+)&mdash;MRJF4 and (&mdash;)&mdash;MRJF4] on the morphological and molecular mechanisms causing death and migration of PC3 prostatic cancer cells. In particular, we investigated the occurrence of the autophagic process, both at morphological and molecular levels (LC3 expression),  and its relationship with p21, a key molecule which regulates cell cycle and autophagy cell death. Moreover, pERK/Nf&mdash;kB driven intracellular signaling,  the expression of MMP9 protein &mdash; a key component of cell migration &mdash;  invasion, and metastasis were assayed. Our results showed that the anti&mdash;proliferative effects of MRJF4 due to autophagy occurrence, documented by LC3 increase and ultrastructural modifications, and the reduction of invasiveness seem to be mediated by the down&mdash;regulation of pERK/NF&mdash;kB signaling pathway, along with p21 up&mdash;regulation.
26061736: !Alzheimer Computational Paradigm to Elucidate the Effects of Arts-Based Approaches and Interventions: Individual and Collective Emerging Behaviors in Artwork Construction. Art therapy, as well as other arts-based therapies and interventions, is used to  reduce pain, stress, depression, breathlessness and other symptoms in a wide variety of serious and chronic diseases, such as cancer, Alzheimer and schizophrenia. Arts-based approaches are also known to contribute to one's well-being and quality of life. However, much research is required, since the mechanisms by which these non-pharmacological treatments exert their therapeutic  and psychosocial effects are not adequately understood. A typical clinical setting utilizing the arts consists of the creation work itself, such as the artwork, as well as the therapist and the patient, all of which constitute a rich and dynamic environment of occurrences. The underlying complex, simultaneous and  interwoven processes of this setting are often considered intractable to human observers, and as a consequence are usually interpreted subjectively and described verbally, which affect their subsequent analyses and understanding. We  introduce a computational research method for elucidating and analyzing emergent  expressive and social behaviors, aiming to understand how arts-based approaches operate. Our methodology, which centers on the visual language of Statecharts and tools for its execution, enables rigorous qualitative and quantitative tracking,  analysis and documentation of the underlying creation and interaction processes.  Also, it enables one to carry out exploratory, hypotheses-generating and knowledge discovery investigations, which are empirical-based. Furthermore, we illustrate our method's use in a proof-of-principle study, applying it to a real-world artwork investigation with human participants. We explore individual and collective emergent behaviors impacted by diverse drawing tasks, yielding significant gender and age hypotheses, which may account for variation factors in response to art use. We also discuss how to gear our research method to systematic and mechanistic investigations, as we wish to provide a broad empirical evidence for the uptake of arts-based approaches, also aiming to ameliorate their use in clinical settings.
26056033: !Alzheimer An introduction to the roles of purinergic signalling in neurodegeneration, neuroprotection and neuroregeneration. Purinergic signalling appears to play important roles in neurodegeneration, neuroprotection and neuroregeneration. Initially there is a brief summary of the  background of purinergic signalling, including release of purines and pyrimidines from neural and non-neural cells and their ectoenzymatic degradation, and the current characterisation of P1 (adenosine), and P2X (ion channel) and P2Y (G protein-coupled) nucleotide receptor subtypes. There is also coverage of the localization and roles of purinoceptors in the healthy central nervous system. The focus is then on the roles of purinergic signalling in trauma, ischaemia, stroke and in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and  Huntington's diseases, as well as multiple sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Neuroprotective mechanisms involving purinergic signalling are considered and its involvement in neuroregeneration, including the role of adult  neural stem/progenitor cells. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Purines-Neurodegeneration'.
26052025: !Alzheimer Update in Outpatient General Internal Medicine: Practice-changing Evidence Published in 2014. The practice of outpatient general internal medicine requires a diverse and evolving knowledge base. General internists must identify practice-changing shifts in the literature and reflect on their impact. Accordingly, we conducted a review of practice-changing articles published in outpatient general internal medicine in 2014. To identify high-quality, clinically relevant publications, we  reviewed all titles and abstracts published in the following primary data sources in 2014: New England Journal of Medicine, Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), Annals of Internal Medicine, JAMA Internal Medicine, and the  Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. All 2014 primary data summaries from Journal Watch-General Internal Medicine and ACP JournalWise also were reviewed. The authors used a modified Delphi method to reach consensus on inclusion of 8 articles using the following criteria: clinical relevance to outpatient internal  medicine, potential for practice change, and strength of evidence. Clusters of important articles around one clinical question were considered as a single-candidate series. The article merits were debated until consensus was reached on the final 8, spanning a variety of topics commonly encountered in outpatient general internal medicine.
26041917: !Alzheimer The Chromatin Remodeling Protein Bptf Promotes Posterior Neuroectodermal Fate by  Enhancing Smad2-Activated wnt8a Expression. During vertebrate embryogenesis, the neuroectoderm is induced from dorsal ectoderm and then partitioned into anterior and posterior neuroectodermal domains by posteriorizing signals, such as Wnt and fibroblast growth factor. However, little is known about epigenetic regulation of posteriorizing gene expression. Here, we report a requirement of the chromatin remodeling protein Bptf for neuroectodermal posteriorization in zebrafish embryos. Knockdown of bptf leads to an expansion of the anterior neuroectoderm at the expense of the posterior ectoderm. Bptf functionally and physically interacts with p-Smad2, which is activated by non-Nodal TGF-beta signaling, to promote the expression of wnt8a, a  critical gene for neural posteriorization. Bptf and Smad2 directly bind to and activate the wnt8a promoter through recruiting NURF remodeling complex. When bptf function or TGF-beta signal transduction is inhibited, the nucleosome density on  the wnt8a promoter is increased. We propose that Bptf and TGF-beta/Smad2 mediate  nucleosome remodeling to regulate wnt8a expression and hence neural posteriorization.
26040959: !Alzheimer Next generation transcriptomics and genomics elucidate biological complexity of microglia in health and disease. Genome-wide expression profiling technology has resulted in detailed transcriptome data for a wide range of tissues, conditions and diseases. In neuroscience, expression datasets were mostly generated using whole brain tissue  samples, resulting in data from a mixture of cell types, including glial cells and neurons. Over the past few years, a rapidly increasing number of expression profiling studies using isolated microglial cell populations have been reported.  In these studies, the microglia transcriptome was compared to other cell types, such as other brain cells and peripheral tissue macrophages, and related to aging and neurodegenerative conditions. A commonality found in many of these studies was that microglia possess distinct gene expression signatures. This repertoire of selectively-expressed microglial genes highlight functions beyond immune responses, such as synaptic modulation and neurotrophic support, and open up avenues to explore as-yet-unexpected roles. These data provide improved understanding of disease pathology, and complement not only the aforementioned whole brain tissue transcriptome studies, but also genome- and epigenome-wide association studies. In this review, insights obtained from isolated microglia transcriptome studies are presented, and compared to studies using other genome-wide approaches. The relation of microglia to other tissue macrophages and glial cell populations, as well as the role of microglia in the aging brain and in neurodegenerative conditions, will be discussed. Many more of these types of studies are expected in the near future, hopefully leading to the identification  of novel genes and targets for neurodegenerative conditions. GLIA 2015.
26040724: !Alzheimer Microparticles Containing Curcumin Solid Dispersion: Stability, Bioavailability and Anti-Inflammatory Activity. spray-dried ternary solid dispersions containing Gelucire(R)50/13-Aerosil(R) and  quantifying the resulting in vivo oral bioavailability and anti-inflammatory activity. The solid dispersion containing 40% of curcumin was characterised by calorimetry, infrared spectroscopy and X-ray powder diffraction. The solubility and dissolution rate of curcumin in aqueous HCl or phosphate buffer improved up to 3600- and 7.3-fold, respectively. Accelerated stability test demonstrated that the solid dispersion was stable for 9 months. The pharmacokinetic study showed a  5.5-fold increase in curcumin in rat blood plasma when compared to unprocessed curcumin. The solid dispersion also provided enhanced anti-inflammatory activity  in rat paw oedema. Finally, the solid dispersion proposed here is a promising way to enhance curcumin bioavailability at an industrial pharmaceutical perspective,  since its preparation applies the spray drying, which is an easy to scale up technique. The findings herein stimulate further in vivo evaluations and clinical tests as a cancer and Alzheimer chemoprevention agent. This work aimed at improving the solubility of curcumin by the preparation of spray-dried ternary solid dispersions containing Gelucire(R)50/13-Aerosil(R) and  quantifying the resulting in vivo oral bioavailability and anti-inflammatory activity. The solid dispersion containing 40% of curcumin was characterised by calorimetry, infrared spectroscopy and X-ray powder diffraction. The solubility and dissolution rate of curcumin in aqueous HCl or phosphate buffer improved up to 3600- and 7.3-fold, respectively. Accelerated stability test demonstrated that the solid dispersion was stable for 9 months. The pharmacokinetic study showed a  5.5-fold increase in curcumin in rat blood plasma when compared to unprocessed curcumin. The solid dispersion also provided enhanced anti-inflammatory activity  in rat paw oedema. Finally, the solid dispersion proposed here is a promising way to enhance curcumin bioavailability at an industrial pharmaceutical perspective,  since its preparation applies the spray drying, which is an easy to scale up technique. The findings herein stimulate further in vivo evaluations and clinical tests as a cancer and Alzheimer chemoprevention agent.
26039159: !Alzheimer Amyloids or prions? That is the question. Despite major efforts devoted to understanding the phenomenon of prion transmissibility, it is still poorly understood how this property is encoded in the amino acid sequence. In recent years, experimental data on yeast prion domains allow to start at least partially decrypting the sequence requirements of prion formation. These experiments illustrate the need for intrinsically disordered sequence regions enriched with a particularly high proportion of glutamine and asparagine. Bioinformatic analysis suggests that these regions strike a balance between sufficient amyloid nucleation propensity on the one hand and disorder on the other, which ensures availability of the amyloid prone regions but entropically prevents unwanted nucleation and facilitates brittleness required for propagation.
26037109: !Alzheimer Mexico City normal weight children exposed to high concentrations of ambient PM2.5 show high blood leptin and endothelin-1, vitamin D deficiency, and food reward hormone dysregulation versus low pollution controls. Relevance for obesity and Alzheimer disease. Millions of Mexico, US and across the world children are overweight and obese. Exposure to fossil-fuel combustion sources increases the risk for obesity and diabetes, while long-term exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) and ozone (O3) above US EPA standards is associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Mexico City Metropolitan Area children are chronically exposed to PM2.5 and O3 concentrations above the standards and exhibit systemic, brain and intrathecal inflammation, cognitive deficits, and Alzheimer disease neuropathology. We investigated adipokines, food reward hormones, endothelial dysfunction, vitamin D and apolipoprotein E (APOE) relationships in 80 healthy, normal weight 11.1+/-3.2 year olds matched by age, gender, BMI and SES, low (n: 26) versus high (n:54) PM2.5 exposures. Mexico City children had higher leptin and endothelin-1 (p<0.01 and p<0.000), and decreases in glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP 1), ghrelin, and glucagon (<0.02) versus controls. BMI and leptin relationships were significantly different in low versus high PM2.5 exposed children. Mexico City APOE 4 versus 3 children had higher glucose (p=0.009). Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D<30 ng/mL was documented in 87% of Mexico City children. Leptin is strongly positively associated to PM 2.5 cumulative exposures. Residing in a high PM2.5 and O3 environment is associated with 12h fasting hyperleptinemia, altered appetite-regulating peptides, vitamin D deficiency, and  increases in ET-1 in clinically healthy children. These changes could signal the  future trajectory of urban children towards the development of insulin resistance, obesity, type II diabetes, premature cardiovascular disease, addiction-like behavior, cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. Increased  efforts should be made to decrease pediatric PM2.5 exposures, to deliver health interventions prior to the development of obesity and to identify and mitigate environmental factors influencing obesity and Alzheimer disease.
26033527: !Alzheimer Diversified Structural Basis of a Conserved Molecular Mechanism for pH-Dependent  Dimerization in Spider Silk N-Terminal Domains. Conversion of spider silk proteins from soluble dope to insoluble fibers involves pH-dependent dimerization of the N-terminal domain (NT). This conversion is tightly regulated to prevent premature precipitation and enable rapid silk formation at the end of the duct. Three glutamic acid residues that mediate this  process in the NT from Euprosthenops australis major ampullate spidroin 1 are well conserved among spidroins. However, NTs of minor ampullate spidroins from several species, including Araneus ventricosus ((Av)MiSp NT), lack one of the glutamic acids. Here we investigate the pH-dependent structural changes of (Av)MiSp NT, revealing that it uses the same mechanism but involves a non-conserved glutamic acid residue instead. Homology modeling of the structures  of other MiSp NTs suggests that these harbor different compensatory residues. This indicates that, despite sequence variations, the molecular mechanism underlying pH-dependent dimerization of NT is conserved among different silk types.
26032409: !Alzheimer Atomic Structure of GRK5 Reveals Distinct Structural Features Novel for G Protein-coupled Receptor Kinases. G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) are members of the protein kinase A, G, and C families (AGC) and play a central role in mediating G protein-coupled receptor phosphorylation and desensitization. One member of the family, GRK5, has been implicated in several human pathologies, including heart failure, hypertension, cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer disease. To gain mechanistic insight into GRK5 function, we determined a crystal structure of full-length human GRK5 at 1.8 A resolution. GRK5 in complex with the ATP analog 5'-adenylyl beta,gamma-imidodiphosphate or the nucleoside sangivamycin crystallized as a monomer. The C-terminal tail (C-tail) of AGC kinase domains is a highly conserved feature that is divided into three segments as follows: the C-lobe tether, the active-site tether (AST), and the N-lobe tether (NLT). This domain is fully resolved in GRK5 and reveals novel interactions with the nucleotide and N-lobe. Similar to other AGC kinases, the GRK5 AST is an integral part of the nucleotide-binding pocket, a feature not observed in other GRKs. The AST also mediates contact between the kinase N- and C-lobes facilitating closure of the kinase domain. The GRK5 NLT is largely displaced from its previously observed position in other GRKs. Moreover, although the autophosphorylation sites in the NLT are >20 A away from the catalytic cleft, they are capable of rapid cis-autophosphorylation suggesting high mobility of this region. In summary, we provide a snapshot of GRK5 in a partially closed state, where structural elements of the kinase domain C-tail are aligned to form novel interactions to the nucleotide and N-lobe not previously observed in other GRKs.
26027681: !Alzheimer An update on human stem cell-based therapy in Parkinson`s disease. after Alzheimer`s disease and it is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Current pharmacological treatments for PD are only symptomatic and unfortunately there is still no cure for this disorder. Stem cell technology has become an attractive option to investigate and treat PD. Indeed, transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic cells into PD brains have provided proof of concept that cell replacement therapy can be beneficial for some patients, greatly improving their  motor symptoms. However, ethical and practical aspects of tissue availability limit its widespread clinical use. Hence, the need of alternative cell sources based on the use of different types of stem cells. Stem cell-based therapies can  be beneficial by acting through several mechanisms such as cell replacement, trophic actions and modulation of inflammation. Here we review recent and current remarkable clinical studies involving stem cell-based therapy for PD and provide  an overview of the different types of stem cells available nowadays, their main properties and how they are developing as a possible therapy for PD treatment. Parkinson `s disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer`s disease and it is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Current pharmacological treatments for PD are only symptomatic and unfortunately there is still no cure for this disorder. Stem cell technology has become an attractive option to investigate and treat PD. Indeed, transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic cells into PD brains have provided proof of concept that cell replacement therapy can be beneficial for some patients, greatly improving their  motor symptoms. However, ethical and practical aspects of tissue availability limit its widespread clinical use. Hence, the need of alternative cell sources based on the use of different types of stem cells. Stem cell-based therapies can  be beneficial by acting through several mechanisms such as cell replacement, trophic actions and modulation of inflammation. Here we review recent and current remarkable clinical studies involving stem cell-based therapy for PD and provide  an overview of the different types of stem cells available nowadays, their main properties and how they are developing as a possible therapy for PD treatment.
26025363: !Alzheimer Cellular FLICE-like Inhibitory Protein (c-FLIP) and PS1-associated Protein (PSAP) Mediate Presenilin 1-induced gamma-Secretase-dependent and -independent Apoptosis, Respectively. Presenilin 1 (PS1) has been implicated in apoptosis; however, its mechanism remains elusive. We report that PS1-induced apoptosis was associated with cellular FLICE-like inhibitory protein (c-FLIP) turnover and that gamma-secretase inhibitor blocked c-FLIP turnover and also partially blocked PS1-induced apoptosis. A complete inhibition of PS1-induced apoptosis was achieved by knockdown of PS1-associated protein (PSAP), a mitochondrial proapoptotic protein  that forms a complex with Bax upon induction of apoptosis, in the presence of gamma-secretase inhibitor. PS1-induced apoptosis was partially inhibited by knockdown of caspase-8, Fas-associated protein with death domain (FADD), or Bid.  However, knockdown of Bax or overexpression of Bcl-2 resulted in complete inhibition of PS1-induced apoptosis. These data suggest that PS1 induces apoptosis through two pathways: the gamma-secretase-dependent pathway mediated by turnover of c-FLIP and the gamma-secretase-independent pathway mediated by PSAP-Bax complex formation. These two pathways converge on Bax to activate mitochondria-dependent apoptosis. These findings provide new insight into the mechanisms by which PS1 is involved in apoptosis and the mechanism by which PS1 exerts its pathogenic effects. In addition, our results suggest that PS2 induces  apoptosis through a pathway that is different from that of PS1.
26018232: !Alzheimer An update on human stem cell-based therapy in Parkinson`s disease. after Alzheimer`s disease and it is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Current pharmacological treatments for PD are only symptomatic and unfortunately there is still no cure for this disorder. Stem cell technology has become an attractive option to investigate and treat PD. Indeed, transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic cells into PD brains have provided proof of concept that cell replacement therapy can be beneficial for some patients, greatly improving their  motor symptoms. However, ethical and practical aspects of tissue availability limit its widespread clinical use. Hence, the need of alternative cell sources based on the use of different types of stem cells. Stem cell-based therapies can  be beneficial by acting through several mechanisms such as cell replacement, trophic actions and modulation of inflammation. Here we review recent and current remarkable clinical studies involving stem cell-based therapy for PD and provide  an overview of the different types of stem cells available nowadays, their main properties and how they are developing as a possible therapy for PD treatment. Parkinson `s disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer`s disease and it is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Current pharmacological treatments for PD are only symptomatic and unfortunately there is still no cure for this disorder. Stem cell technology has become an attractive option to investigate and treat PD. Indeed, transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic cells into PD brains have provided proof of concept that cell replacement therapy can be beneficial for some patients, greatly improving their  motor symptoms. However, ethical and practical aspects of tissue availability limit its widespread clinical use. Hence, the need of alternative cell sources based on the use of different types of stem cells. Stem cell-based therapies can  be beneficial by acting through several mechanisms such as cell replacement, trophic actions and modulation of inflammation. Here we review recent and current remarkable clinical studies involving stem cell-based therapy for PD and provide  an overview of the different types of stem cells available nowadays, their main properties and how they are developing as a possible therapy for PD treatment.
26015450: !Alzheimer Long-Term Reduction of High Blood Pressure by Angiotensin II DNA Vaccine in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats. Recent research on vaccination has extended its scope from infectious diseases to chronic diseases, including Alzheimer disease, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. The aim of this study was to design DNA vaccines for high blood pressure and eventually develop human vaccine therapy to treat hypertension. Plasmid vector encoding hepatitis B core-angiotensin II (Ang II) fusion protein was injected into spontaneously hypertensive rats using needleless injection system. Anti-Ang  II antibody was successfully produced in hepatitis B core-Ang II group, and antibody response against Ang II was sustained for at least 6 months. Systolic blood pressure was consistently lower in hepatitis B core-Ang II group after immunization, whereas blood pressure reduction was continued for at least 6 months. Perivascular fibrosis in heart tissue was also significantly decreased in hepatitis B core-Ang II group. Survival rate was significantly improved in hepatitis B core-Ang II group. This study demonstrated that Ang II DNA vaccine to spontaneously hypertensive rats significantly lowered high blood pressure for at  least 6 months. In addition, Ang II DNA vaccines induced an adequate humoral immune response while avoiding the activation of self-reactive T cells, assessed  by ELISPOT assay. Future development of DNA vaccine to treat hypertension may provide a new therapeutic option to treat hypertension.
26013033: !Alzheimer A base-independent repair mechanism for DNA glycosylase--no discrimination within the active site. The ubiquitous occurrence of DNA damages renders its repair machinery a crucial requirement for the genomic stability and the survival of living organisms. Deficiencies in DNA repair can lead to carcinogenesis, Alzheimer, or Diabetes II, where increased amounts of oxidized DNA bases have been found in patients. Despite the highest mutation frequency among oxidized DNA bases, the base-excision repair process of oxidized and ring-opened guanine, FapydG (2,6-diamino-4-hydroxy-5-formamidopyrimidine), remained unclear since it is difficult to study experimentally. We use newly-developed linear-scaling quantum-chemical methods (QM) allowing us to include up to 700 QM-atoms and achieving size convergence. Instead of the widely assumed base-protonated pathway we find a ribose-protonated repair mechanism which explains experimental observations and shows strong evidence for a base-independent repair process. Our results also imply that discrimination must occur during recognition, prior to the binding within the active site.
26003084: !Alzheimer Anti-inflammatory effects of glaucocalyxin B in microglia cells. Over-activated microglia is involved in various kinds of neurodegenerative process including Parkinson, Alzheimer and HIV dementia. Suppression of microglial over activation has emerged as a novel strategy for treatment of neuroinflammation-based neurodegeneration. In the current study, anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects of the ent-kauranoid diterpenoids,  which were isolated from the aerial parts of Rabdosia japonica (Burm. f.) var. glaucocalyx (Maxim.) Hara, were investigated in cultured microglia cells. Glaucocalyxin B (GLB), one of five ent-kauranoid diterpenoids, significantly decreased the generation of nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated microglia cells. In addition, GLB inhibited activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in LPS-activated microglia cells. Furthermore, GLB strongly induced the expression of heme oxygenase (HO)-1 in BV-2 microglia cells. Finally, GLB exhibited neuroprotective effect by preventing over-activated microglia induced neurotoxicity in a microglia/neuron co-culture model. Taken together, the present study demonstrated that the GLB possesses anti-nueroinflammatory activity, and might serve as a potential therapeutic agent for treating neuroinflammatory diseases.
25997382: !Alzheimer The role of dietary coconut for the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease: potential mechanisms of action. Coconut, Cocos nucifera L., is a tree that is cultivated to provide a large number of products, although it is mainly grown for its nutritional and medicinal values. Coconut oil, derived from the coconut fruit, has been recognised historically as containing high levels of saturated fat; however, closer scrutiny suggests that coconut should be regarded more favourably. Unlike most other dietary fats that are high in long-chain fatty acids, coconut oil comprises medium-chain fatty acids (MCFA). MCFA are unique in that they are easily absorbed and metabolised by the liver, and can be converted to ketones. Ketone bodies are  an important alternative energy source in the brain, and may be beneficial to people developing or already with memory impairment, as in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Coconut is classified as a highly nutritious 'functional food'. It is rich  in dietary fibre, vitamins and minerals; however, notably, evidence is mounting to support the concept that coconut may be beneficial in the treatment of obesity, dyslipidaemia, elevated LDL, insulin resistance and hypertension - these are the risk factors for CVD and type 2 diabetes, and also for AD. In addition, phenolic compounds and hormones (cytokinins) found in coconut may assist in preventing the aggregation of amyloid-beta peptide, potentially inhibiting a key  step in the pathogenesis of AD. The purpose of the present review was to explore  the literature related to coconut, outlining the known mechanistic physiology, and to discuss the potential role of coconut supplementation as a therapeutic option in the prevention and management of AD.
25991443: !Alzheimer Immune attack: the role of inflammation in Alzheimer disease. The past two decades of research into the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD)  have been driven largely by the amyloid hypothesis; the neuroinflammation that is associated with AD has been assumed to be merely a response to pathophysiological events. However, new data from preclinical and clinical studies have established  that immune system-mediated actions in fact contribute to and drive AD pathogenesis. These insights have suggested both novel and well-defined potential therapeutic targets for AD, including microglia and several cytokines. In addition, as inflammation in AD primarily concerns the innate immune system - unlike in 'typical' neuroinflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis and encephalitides - the concept of neuroinflammation in AD may need refinement.
25988171: !Alzheimer Mediation of organismal aging and somatic proteostasis by the germline. Experimental interventions that reduce reproduction cause an extension in lifespan. In invertebrates, such as Caenorhabditis elegans, the aging of the soma is regulated by signals from the germline. Indeed, ablation of germ cells significantly extends lifespan. Notably, germline-deficient animals exhibit heightened resistance to proteotoxic stress. This phenotype correlates with increased potential of intracellular clearance mechanisms such as the proteasome  and autophagy in somatic tissues. Here we review the molecular mechanisms by which signals from the germline regulate lifespan in C. elegans with special emphasis on clearance mechanisms.
25985800: !Alzheimer Presenilin 1 is necessary for neuronal, but not glial, EGFR expression and neuroprotection via gamma-secretase-independent transcriptional mechanisms. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) plays pivotal roles in cell proliferation, differentiation, and tissue development, while EGFs protect neurons from toxic insults by binding EGFR and stimulating survival signaling. Furthermore, recent evidence implicates this receptor in neurometabolic disorders like Alzheimer disease and aging. Here we show that absence of presenilin 1 (PS1) results in dramatic decrease (>95%) of neuronal EGFR and that PS1-null (PS1(-/-)) brains have reduced amounts of this receptor. PS1(-/-) cortical neurons contain little EGFR and show no epidermal growth factor-induced survival signaling or protection against excitotoxicity, but exogenous EGFR rescues both functions even in absence of PS1. EGFR mRNA is greatly reduced (>95%) in PS1(-/-) neurons, and PS1(-/-) brains contain decreased amounts of this mRNA, although PS1 affects the  stability of neither EGFR nor its mRNA. Exogenous PS1 increases neuronal EGFR mRNA, while down-regulation of PS1 decreases this mRNA. These effects are neuron  specific, as PS1 affects the EGFR of neither glial nor fibroblast cells. In addition, PS1 controls EGFR through novel mechanisms shared with neither gamma-secretase nor PS2. Our data reveal that PS1 functions as a positive transcriptional regulator of neuronal EGFR controlling its expression in a cell-specific manner. Severe downregulation of EGFR may contribute to developmental abnormalities and lethal phenotype found in PS1, but not PS2, null  mice. Furthermore, PS1 may affect neuroprotection and Alzheimer disease by controlling survival signaling of neuronal EGFR.
25984755: !Alzheimer Pyrimethamine Derivatives: Insight into Binding Mechanism and Improved Enhancement of Mutant beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase Activity. In order to identify structural features of pyrimethamine (5-(4-chlorophenyl)-6-ethylpyrimidine-2,4-diamine) that contribute to its inhibitory activity (IC50 value) and chaperoning efficacy toward beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase, derivatives of the compound were synthesized that differ at the positions bearing the amino, ethyl, and chloro groups. Whereas the  amino groups proved to be critical to its inhibitory activity, a variety of substitutions at the chloro position only increased its IC50 by 2-3-fold. Replacing the ethyl group at the 6-position with butyl or methyl groups increased IC50 more than 10-fold. Surprisingly, despite its higher IC50, a derivative lacking the chlorine atom in the para-position was found to enhance enzyme activity in live patient cells a further 25% at concentrations >100 muM, while showing less toxicity. These findings demonstrate the importance of the phenyl group in modulating the chaperoning efficacy and toxicity profile of the derivatives.
25983190: !Alzheimer Quantitative analysis of isomeric (l-alpha-, l-beta-, d-alpha-, d-beta-) aspartyl residues in proteins from elderly donors. Homochirality is essential for life. For a long time, it was considered that d-amino acids were excluded from living systems. In the past 30 years, however, d-amino acids have been found in living organisms in the form of free amino acids, peptides and proteins, owing to advances in the analysis of optical isomers of amino acids. Free d-amino acids and d-amino-acid-containing peptides have been shown to have important physiological functions. The amount of d-aspartate (Asp) residues in protein spontaneously increases in metabolically inert tissues such as the eye and brain during aging, and may be related to cataract formation and the development of Alzheimer disease, suggesting that d-Asp might be a molecular marker of aging and age-related disorders. The presence of d-Asp in living organisms is thought to result from the isomerization of l-Asp residues in some proteins. Furthermore, the isomerization of Asp does not occur uniformly but only at specific sites. Therefore, it is necessary to determine the sites of isomeric Asp in these proteins in order to elucidate the mechanism of spontaneous Asp isomerization during aging. Herein, we summarize the localization and mechanism of d-amino acids in proteins of living tissues, and the effects of d-amino acid formation in proteins. Furthermore, we describe methods for the analysis of protein-bound d-amino acids including a conventional  enantioseparation method based on HPLC and a new convenient method based on LC-MS that can identify the specific sites of d-Asp in proteins.
25982958: !Alzheimer An autopsy case of fatal repellent air freshener poisoning. We describe a first fatal case of repellent air freshener ingestion. A 79-year-old Japanese man with Alzheimer-type senile dementia orally ingested repellent air freshener containing three surfactants: polyoxyethylene 9-lauryl ether, polyoxyethylene (40) hydrogenated castor oil, and lauric acid amidopropyl  amine oxide (weight ratio of 1.3%). About 1h after the collapse, he was in cardiopulmonary arrest and subsequently died 10h after his arrival. The forensic  autopsy performed 5.5h after death revealed the 380ml of stomach contents with a  strong mint perfume identical to that of the repellent air freshener and the findings of acute death. Toxicologically, 9.1mug/ml and 558.2mug/ml of polyoxyethylene 9-lauryl ether were detected from the serum and stomach contents  taken at autopsy. Generally, ingestion of anionic or non-ionic surfactants have been considered as safe. However, because the patient suffered from cardiac insufficiency with a low dose of repellent air freshener ingestion, medical staff members must evaluate the elderly patient for cardiac and circulatory problems regardless of the ingested dose. Not only medical and nursing staff members, but  also families who are obliged to care for elderly persons must be vigilant to prevent accidental ingestion of toxic substances generally used in the household.
25977458: !Alzheimer Analysis of Five Gene Sets in Chimpanzees Suggests Decoupling between the Action  of Selection on Protein-Coding and on Noncoding Elements. We set out to investigate potential differences and similarities between the selective forces acting upon the coding and noncoding regions of five different sets of genes defined according to functional and evolutionary criteria: 1) two reference gene sets presenting accelerated and slow rates of protein evolution (the Complement and Actin pathways); 2) a set of genes with evidence of accelerated evolution in at least one of their introns; and 3) two gene sets related to neurological function (Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases). To that  effect, we combine human-chimpanzee divergence patterns with polymorphism data obtained from target resequencing 20 central chimpanzees, our closest relatives with largest long-term effective population size. By using the distribution of fitness effect-alpha extension of the McDonald-Kreitman test, we reproduce inferences of rates of evolution previously based only on divergence data on both coding and intronic sequences and also obtain inferences for other classes of genomic elements (untranslated regions, promoters, and conserved noncoding sequences). Our results suggest that 1) the distribution of fitness effect-alpha  method successfully helps distinguishing different scenarios of accelerated divergence (adaptation or relaxed selective constraints) and 2) the adaptive history of coding and noncoding sequences within the gene sets analyzed is decoupled.
25975497: !Alzheimer In vitro cholinesterase inhibitory and antioxidant effect of selected coniferous  tree species. OBJECTIVE: To explore cholinesterase inhibitory and antioxidant effect of six coniferous trees (Abies bornmulleriana, Picea pungens, Juniperus communis, Cedrus libani, Taxus baccata, and Cupressus sempervirens var. horizantalis). METHODS: Acetone (Ace), ethyl acetate (EtOAc), and ethanol (EtOH) extracts prepared from the needles and shoots of the six coniferous trees were screened for their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitory activity  at 100 mug/mL. Antioxidant activity of the extracts was tested using 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and N,N-dimethyl-p-phenylendiamine (DMPD) radical scavenging, metal-chelation capacity, ferric-(FRAP) and phosphomolibdenum-reducing antioxidant power (PRAP) assays. All of the assays were performed in ELISA microplate reader. Total phenol and flavonoid amounts in  the extracts were determined spectrophotometrically. RESULTS: Among thirty-six extracts in total, the shoot-Ace extract of Cupressus sempervirens var. horizantalis exerted the highest inhibition against AChE [(54.84+/-2.51)%], while the needle-Ace extract of Cedrus libani was the most effective in inhibiting BChE [(67.54+/-0.30)%]. The highest DPPH radical scavenging effect, FRAP and PRAP was  observed in the shoot-Ace and EtOAc extracts from Taxus baccata, whereas all the  extracts showed a variable degree of scavenging effect against DPMD radical. The  shoot-EtOAc extract of Cedrus libani had the highest metal-chelation capacity [(58.04+/-0.70)%]. The shoot extracts of Taxus baccata were determined to have the richest total phenol content, which may contribute to its marked antioxidant  activity. CONCLUSIONS: The conifer species screened in this study may contain cholinesterase-inhibiting and antioxidant properties, which might be useful against Alzheimer's disease.
25971966: !Alzheimer Interaction of alpha-Lipoic Acid with the Human Na+/Multivitamin Transporter (hSMVT). The human Na(+)/multivitamin transporter (hSMVT) has been suggested to transport  alpha-lipoic acid (LA), a potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent used in  therapeutic applications, e.g. in the treatment of diabetic neuropathy and Alzheimer disease. However, the molecular basis of the cellular delivery of LA and in particular the stereospecificity of the transport process are not well understood. Here, we expressed recombinant hSMVT in Pichia pastoris and used affinity chromatography to purify the detergent-solubilized protein followed by reconstitution of hSMVT in lipid bilayers. Using a combined approach encompassing radiolabeled LA transport and equilibrium binding studies in conjunction with the stabilized R-(+)- and S-(-)-enantiomers and the R,S-(+/-) racemic mixture of LA or lipoamide, we identified the biologically active form of LA, R-LA, to be the physiological substrate of hSMVT. Interaction of R-LA with hSMVT is strictly dependent on Na(+). Under equilibrium conditions, hSMVT can simultaneously bind ~2 molecules of R-LA in a biphasic binding isotherm with dissociation constants (Kd) of 0.9 and 7.4 mum. Transport of R-LA in the oocyte and reconstituted system is exclusively dependent on Na(+) and exhibits an affinity of ~3 mum. Measuring transport with known amounts of protein in proteoliposomes containing hSMVT in outside-out orientation yielded a catalytic turnover number (kcat) of about 1 s(-1), a value that is well in agreement with other Na(+)-coupled transporters. Our data suggest that hSMVT-mediated transport is highly specific for R-LA at our tested concentration range, a finding with wide ramifications for the use of LA in therapeutic applications.
25962668: !Alzheimer Micelle-Enhanced Bioorthogonal Labeling of Genetically Encoded Azido Groups on the Lipid-Embedded Surface of a GPCR. Genetically encoded p-azido-phenylalanine (azF) residues in G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) can be targeted with dibenzocyclooctyne-modified (DIBO-modified) fluorescent probes by means of strain-promoted [3+2] azide-alkyne cycloaddition (SpAAC). Here we show that azF residues situated on the transmembrane surfaces of detergent-solubilized receptors exhibit up to 1000-fold rate enhancement relative to azF residues on water-exposed surfaces. We show that the amphipathic moment of the labeling reagent, consisting of hydrophobic DIBO coupled to hydrophilic Alexa dye, results in strong partitioning of the DIBO group into the hydrocarbon core of the detergent micelle and consequently high local reactant concentrations. The observed rate constant for the micelleenhanced SpAAC is comparable with those of the fastest bioorthogonal labeling reactions known. Targeting hydrophobic regions of membrane proteins by use of micelle-enhanced SpAAC should expand the utility of bioorthogonal labeling strategies.
25961058: !Alzheimer Immunomodulatory effects mediated by serotonin. Serotonin (5-HT) induces concentration-dependent metabolic effects in diverse cell types, including neurons, entherochromaffin cells, adipocytes, pancreatic beta-cells, fibroblasts, smooth muscle cells, epithelial cells, and leukocytes. Three classes of genes regulating 5-HT function are constitutively expressed or induced in these cells: (a) membrane proteins that regulate the response to 5-HT, such as SERT, 5HTR-GPCR, and the 5HT3-ion channels; (b) downstream signaling transduction proteins; and (c) enzymes controlling 5-HT metabolism, such as IDO and MAO, which can generate biologically active catabolites, including melatonin, kynurenines, and kynurenamines. This review covers the clinical and experimental  mechanisms involved in 5-HT-induced immunomodulation. These mechanisms are cell-specific and depend on the expression of serotonergic components in immune cells. Consequently, 5-HT can modulate several immunological events, such as chemotaxis, leukocyte activation, proliferation, cytokine secretion, anergy, and  apoptosis. The effects of 5-HT on immune cells may be relevant in the clinical outcome of pathologies with an inflammatory component. Major depression, fibromyalgia, Alzheimer disease, psoriasis, arthritis, allergies, and asthma are  all associated with changes in the serotonergic system associated with leukocytes. Thus, pharmacological regulation of the serotonergic system may modulate immune function and provide therapeutic alternatives for these diseases.
25959626: !Alzheimer Wnt co-receptor LRP5/6 overexpression confers protection against hydrogen peroxide-induced neurotoxicity and reduces tau phosphorylation in SH-SY5Y cells. Emerging studies have suggested the involvement of dysregulated Wnt/beta-catenin  cascade in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, genetic variations in Wnt co-receptor low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) 6 causing reduced Wnt signaling has been linked to late-onset AD. Here, we hypothesized that overexpression of Wnt co-receptors LRP5 and LRP6 would serve as an effective new approach in reducing neurotoxicity induced by oxidative stress and decreasing tau phosphorylation in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. Our results showed that overexpression of LRP5 and LRP6 in SH-SY5Y cells activates Wnt signaling and downstream proliferation genes, whereas knockdown of the co-receptors represses Wnt signaling and the transcription of proliferative markers. We further demonstrated that overexpression of LRP5 and LRP6 protects SH-SY5Y from cell death caused by hydrogen peroxide-induced oxidative stress, inhibits GSK3beta activity and subsequently reduces tau phosphorylation. Together, our findings suggest that rescuing LRP5/6-mediated Wnt signaling improves neuronal cell survival and reduces tau phosphorylation, which support the hypothesis that Wnt signaling might be an attractive therapeutic strategy for managing AD.
25957402: !Alzheimer DAP12 Stabilizes the C-terminal Fragment of the Triggering Receptor Expressed on  Myeloid Cells-2 (TREM2) and Protects against LPS-induced Pro-inflammatory Response. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a DAP12-associated receptor expressed in microglia, macrophages, and other myeloid-derived cells. Previous studies have suggested that TREM2/DAP12 signaling pathway reduces inflammatory responses and promotes phagocytosis of apoptotic neurons. Recently,  TREM2 has been identified as a risk gene for Alzheimer disease (AD). Here, we show that DAP12 stabilizes the C-terminal fragment of TREM2 (TREM2-CTF), a substrate for gamma-secretase. Co-expression of DAP12 with TREM2 selectively increased the level of TREM2-CTF with little effects on that of full-length TREM2. The interaction between DAP12 and TREM2 is essential for TREM2-CTF stabilization as a mutant form of DAP12 with disrupted interaction with TREM2 failed to exhibit such an effect. Silencing of either Trem2 or Dap12 gene significantly exacerbated pro-inflammatory responses induced by lipopolysaccharides (LPS). Importantly, overexpression of either full-length TREM2 or TREM2-CTF reduced LPS-induced inflammatory responses. Taken together, our results support a role of DAP12 in stabilizing TREM2-CTF, thereby protecting  against excessive pro-inflammatory responses.
25950934: !Alzheimer An ultrasensitive electrochemical immunosensor for apolipoprotein E4 based on fractal nanostructures and enzyme amplification. Human apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) is a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and can greatly increase the morbidity. In this work, an ultrasensitive sandwich-type electrochemical immunosensor for the quantitative detection of APOE4 was designed based on fractal gold (FracAu) nanostructures and enzyme amplification. The FracAu nanostructures were directly electrodeposited by hydrogen tetrachloroaurate (HAuCl4) on polyelectrolytes modified indium tin oxide (ITO) electrode. The sensing performances of the modified interface were investigated by cyclic voltammetry (CV). After functionalization with HRP-labeled APOE4 antibody, the human APOE4 could be detected quantitatively by current response. The current response has a linear relationship with the logarithm of human APOE4 concentrations in a range from 1.0 to 10,000.0 ng/mL, with a detection limit of 0.3 ng/mL. The fabricated APOE4 electrochemical immunosensor exhibits strong specificity, high sensitivity, low detection limit and wide linear range. The detection of human APOE4 provides a strong support for the prevention of AD and early-stage warning for those susceptible populations.
25940071: !Alzheimer Cerebral nitric oxide represses choroid plexus NFkappaB-dependent gateway activity for leukocyte trafficking. Chronic neuroinflammation is evident in brain aging and neurodegenerative disorders and is often associated with excessive nitric oxide (NO) production within the central nervous system (CNS). Under such conditions, increased NO levels are observed at the choroid plexus (CP), an epithelial layer that forms the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier (BCSFB) and serves as a selective gateway for leukocyte entry to the CNS in homeostasis and following injury. Here, we hypothesized that elevated cerebral NO levels interfere with CP gateway activity. We found that induction of leukocyte trafficking determinants by the CP and sequential leukocyte entry to the CSF are dependent on the CP epithelial NFkappaB/p65 signaling pathway, which was inhibited upon exposure to NO. Examining the CP in 5XFAD transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD-Tg) revealed impaired ability to mount an NFkappaB/p65-dependent response. Systemic administration of an NO scavenger in AD-Tg mice alleviated NFkappaB/p65 suppression at the CP and augmented its gateway activity. Together, our findings  identify cerebral NO as a negative regulator of CP gateway activity for immune cell trafficking to the CNS.
25938869: !Alzheimer A Novel Tetradentate Ruthenium(II) Complex Containing Tris(2- Pyridylmethyl)amine (tpa) As An Inhibitor Of Beta-amyloid Fibrillation. We report herein the synthesis and application of a novel tetradentate ruthenium(II) complex 1 containing a tris(2-pyridylmethyl)amine (tpa) ligand as an inhibitor of beta-amyloid fibrillogenesis. [Ru(tpa)(bt)]ClO(4) 1 (bt =2-acetylbenzo[b]thiophene-3-olate) showed significant inhibition of Abeta(1-40)  peptide aggregation in vitro, which was confirmed by a Thioflavin T assay and transmission electron microscopy imaging.
25930988: !Alzheimer Proteomic analysis of host brain components that bind to infectious particles in  Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Transmissible encephalopathies (TSEs), such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and scrapie, are caused by infectious agents that provoke strain-specific patterns of disease. Misfolded host prion protein (PrP-res amyloid) is believed to be the causal infectious agent. However, particles that are stripped of PrP retain both high infectivity and viral proteins not detectable in uninfected mouse controls. We here detail host proteins bound with FU-CJD agent infectious brain particles by proteomic analysis. More than 98 proteins were differentially  regulated, and 56 FU-CJD exclusive proteins were revealed after PrP, GFAP, C1q, ApoE, and other late pathologic response proteins were removed. Stripped FU-CJD particles revealed HSC70 (144x the uninfected control), cyclophilin B, an FU-CJD  exclusive protein required by many viruses, and early endosome-membrane pathways  known to facilitate viral processing, replication, and spread. Synaptosomal elements including synapsin-2 (at 33x) and AP180 (a major FU-CJD exclusive protein) paralleled the known ultrastructural location of 25 nm virus-like TSE particles and infectivity in synapses. Proteins without apparent viral or neurodegenerative links (copine-3), and others involved in viral-induced protein  misfolding and aggregation, were also identified. Human sCJD brain particles contained 146 exclusive proteins, and heat shock, synaptic, and viral pathways were again prominent, in addition to Alzheimer, Parkinson, and Huntington aggregation proteins. Host proteins that bind TSE infectious particles can prevent host immune recognition and contribute to prolonged cross-species transmissions (the species barrier). Our infectious particle strategy, which reduces background sequences by >99%, emphasizes host targets for new therapeutic initiatives. Such therapies can simultaneously subvert common pathways of neurodegeneration.
25926691: !Alzheimer Physiological and Pathophysiological roles for Phospholipase D. Individual members of the mammalian Phospholipase D (PLD) superfamily undertake roles that extend from generating the second messenger signaling lipid phosphatidic acid through hydrolysis of the membrane phospholipid phosphatidylcholine, to functioning as an endonuclease to generate small RNAs and facilitating membrane vesicle trafficking through seemingly non-enzymatic mechanisms. With recent advances in genome-wide association studies, RNAi screens, next-generation sequencing approaches, and phenotypic analyses of knockout mice, roles for PLD family members are being uncovered in autoimmune, infectious neurodegenerative, and cardiovascular disease, as well as in cancer. Some of these disease settings pose opportunities for small molecule inhibitory therapeutics, which are currently in development.
25918421: !Alzheimer Structural basis of human gamma-secretase assembly. The four-component intramembrane protease gamma-secretase is intricately linked to the development of Alzheimer's disease. Despite recent structural advances, the transmembrane segments (TMs) of gamma-secretase remain to be specifically assigned. Here we report a 3D structure of human gamma-secretase at 4.32-A resolution, determined by single-particle, electron cryomicroscopy in the presence of digitonin and with a T4 lysozyme fused to the amino terminus of presenilin 1 (PS1). The overall structure of this human gamma-secretase is very similar to that of wild-type gamma-secretase determined in the presence of amphipols. The 20 TMs are unambiguously assigned to the four components, revealing principles of subunit assembly. Within the transmembrane region, PS1 is centrally located, with its amino-terminal fragment (NTF) packing against Pen-2 and its carboxyl-terminal fragment (CTF) interacting with Aph-1. The only TM of nicastrin associates with Aph-1 at the thick end of the TM horseshoe, and the extracellular domain of nicastrin directly binds Pen-2 at the thin end. TM6 and TM7 in PS1, which harbor the catalytic aspartate residues, are located on the convex side of the TM horseshoe. This structure serves as an important framework  for understanding the function and mechanism of gamma-secretase.
25918405: !Alzheimer Hydration water mobility is enhanced around tau amyloid fibers. The paired helical filaments (PHF) formed by the intrinsically disordered human protein tau are one of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer disease. PHF are fibers of amyloid nature that are composed of a rigid core and an unstructured fuzzy coat. The mechanisms of fiber formation, in particular the role that hydration water might play, remain poorly understood. We combined protein deuteration, neutron scattering, and all-atom molecular dynamics simulations to study the dynamics of hydration water at the surface of fibers formed by the full-length human protein htau40. In comparison with monomeric tau, hydration water on the surface of tau fibers is more mobile, as evidenced by an increased fraction of translationally diffusing water molecules, a higher diffusion coefficient, and increased mean-squared displacements in neutron scattering experiments. Fibers formed by the hexapeptide (306)VQIVYK(311) were taken as a model for the tau fiber core and studied by molecular dynamics simulations, revealing that hydration water dynamics around the core domain is significantly reduced after fiber formation. Thus, an increase in water dynamics around the fuzzy coat is proposed to be at the origin of the experimentally observed increase in hydration water dynamics around the entire tau fiber. The observed increase in hydration water dynamics is suggested to promote fiber formation through entropic effects. Detection of the enhanced hydration water mobility around tau fibers is conjectured to potentially contribute to the early diagnosis of Alzheimer patients by diffusion MRI.
25915614: !Alzheimer Heterocyclic Curcumin Derivatives of Pharmacological Interest: Recent Progress. Curcumin, a natural yellow polyphenol, is isolated from the herb Curcuma longa L. (turmeric), a member of the ginger family. It has been extensively studied due to their multiple pharmacological properties. Nevertheless, curcumin has disadvantages such as poor water solubility, poor bioavailability and rapid metabolism, which has prompted the search for analogues that overcome these shortcomings while maintaining or improving their good pharmacological properties. Among the main curcumin analogues that have been developed, the heterocyclic curcuminoids show a high interest. In this review, we describe recent progress in the synthesis and pharmacological properties of new heterocyclic curcumin derivatives. The most recent developments in anti-cancer, anti-Alzheimer, anti-bacterial and anti-oxidants heterocyclic curcumin derivatives are covered.
25915600: !Alzheimer Understanding multicellular function and disease with human tissue-specific networks. Tissue and cell-type identity lie at the core of human physiology and disease. Understanding the genetic underpinnings of complex tissues and individual cell lineages is crucial for developing improved diagnostics and therapeutics. We present genome-wide functional interaction networks for 144 human tissues and cell types developed using a data-driven Bayesian methodology that integrates thousands of diverse experiments spanning tissue and disease states. Tissue-specific networks predict lineage-specific responses to perturbation, identify the changing functional roles of genes across tissues and illuminate relationships among diseases. We introduce NetWAS, which combines genes with nominally significant genome-wide association study (GWAS) P values and tissue-specific networks to identify disease-gene associations more accurately than GWAS alone. Our webserver, GIANT, provides an interface to human tissue networks through multi-gene queries, network visualization, analysis tools including NetWAS and downloadable networks. GIANT enables systematic exploration  of the landscape of interacting genes that shape specialized cellular functions across more than a hundred human tissues and cell types.
25915564: !Alzheimer Deubiquitinating enzymes regulate PARK2-mediated mitophagy. The selective degradation of mitochondria by the process of autophagy, termed mitophagy, is one of the major mechanisms of mitochondrial quality control. The best-studied mitophagy pathway is the one mediated by PINK1 and PARK2/Parkin. From recent studies it has become clear that ubiquitin-ligation plays a pivotal role and most of the focus has been on the role of ubiquitination of mitochondrial proteins in mitophagy. Even though ubiquitination is a reversible process, very little is known about the role of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) in mitophagy. Here, we report that 2 mitochondrial DUBs, USP30 and USP35, regulate PARK2-mediated mitophagy. We show that USP30 and USP35 can delay PARK2-mediated mitophagy using a quantitative mitophagy assay. Furthermore, we show that USP30 delays mitophagy by delaying PARK2 recruitment to the mitochondria during mitophagy. USP35 does not delay PARK2 recruitment, suggesting that it regulates mitophagy through an alternative mechanism. Interestingly, USP35 only associates with polarized mitochondria, and rapidly translocates to the cytosol during CCCP-induced mitophagy. It is clear that PARK2-mediated mitophagy is regulated at many steps in this important quality control pathway. Taken together, these findings demonstrate an important role of mitochondrial-associated DUBs in mitophagy. Because defects in mitochondria quality control are implicated in many neurodegenerative disorders, our study provides clear rationales for the design and development of drugs for the therapeutic treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases.
25912737: !Alzheimer Sequence-dependent abnormal aggregation of human Tau fragment in an inducible cell model. A pathological hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD) is the accumulation of misfolded hyperphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein Tau within neurons,  forming neurofibrillary tangles and leading to synaptic dysfunction and neuronal  death. Here we study sequence-dependent abnormal aggregation of human fragment Tau244-372 in an inducible cell model. As evidenced by confocal laser scanning microscopy, Western blot, and immunogold electron microscopy, fibril-forming motifs are essential and sufficient for abnormal aggregation of Tau244-372 in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells induced by Congo red: when its two fibril-forming segments PHF6 and PHF6* are deleted, Tau244-372 does lose its ability to form fibrils in SH-SY5Y cells, and the replacement of PHF6 and PHF6* with an unrelated amyloidogenic sequence IFQINS from human lysozyme does rescue the fibril-forming  ability of Tau244-372 in SH-SY5Y cells. By contrast, insertion of a non-fibril forming peptide GGGGGG does not drive the disabled Tau244-372 to misfold in SH-SY5Y cells. Furthermore, as revealed by quantum dots based probes combined with annexin V staining, annexin V-FITC apoptosis detection assay, and immunofluorescence, fibril-forming motifs are essential and sufficient for early  apoptosis of living SH-SY5Y cells induced by abnormal aggregation of Tau244-372.  Our results suggest that fibril-forming motifs could be the determinants of Tau protein tending to misfold in living cells, thereby inducing neuronal apoptosis and causing the initiation and development of AD.
25908520: !Alzheimer [The testicular microtubule-associated protein Tau: Where, when during spermatogenesis?] The Tau protein (Tubulin Associated Unit) is a phosphoprotein of the microtubule-associated protein family (MAPs). Its role is the regulation of the microtubule polymerization. The Tau protein is naturally present in brain, heart, muscle, lung, kidney, pancreas and liver. An expression of Tau protein and RNA messengers was also highlighted in the testis that is an organ rich in microtubules. The role of microtubules is essential in the stabilization of the cellular shape and in cell divisions. In the testis, Tau protein could be involved in the division process of the spermatogenesis by acting on the microtubular dynamics in the arrangement of the spermatozoon polarity. This review synthesizes the current knowledge, the localization and the main functions of the Tau protein focused on the testis. The localization and the potential roles of the Tau protein during the spermatogenesis are discussed by emphasizing  the link with the microtubular structures of seminiferous tubules.
25904163: !Alzheimer Prohibitin 2: At a communications crossroads. Prohibitins (PHBs) are a highly conserved class of proteins first discovered as inhibitors of cellular proliferation. Since then PHBs have been found to have a significant role in transcription, nuclear signaling, mitochondrial structural integrity, cell division, and cellular membrane metabolism, placing these proteins among the key regulators of pathologies such as cancer, neuromuscular degeneration, and other metabolic diseases. The human genome encodes two PHB proteins, prohibitin 1 (PHB1) and prohibitin 2 (PHB2), which function not only as a heterodimeric complex, but also independently. While many previous reviews have focused on the better characterized prohibitin, PHB1, this review focuses on PHB2 and new data concerning its cellular functions both in complex with PHB1 and independent of PHB1.
25889712: !Alzheimer Anticholinesterase and antioxidant investigations of crude extracts, subsequent fractions, saponins and flavonoids of atriplex laciniata L.: potential effectiveness in Alzheimer's and other neurological disorders. BACKGROUND: Atriplex laciniata L. was investigated for phenolic, flavonoid contents, antioxidant, anticholinesterase activities, in an attempt to explore its effectiveness in Alzheimer's and other neurological disorders. Plant crude methanolic extract (Al.MeF), subsequent fractions; n-hexane (Al.HxF), chloroform  (Al.CfF), ethyl acetate (Al.EaF), aqueous (Al.WtF), Saponins (Al.SPF) and Flavonoids (Al.FLVF) were investigated for DPPH, ABTS and H2O2 free radical scavenging activities. Further these extracts were subjected to acetylcholinesterase (AChE) & butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitory activities  using Ellman's assay. Phenolic and Flavonoid contents were determined and expressed in mg Gallic acid GAE/g and Rutin RTE/g of samples respectively. RESULTS: In DPPH free radicals scavenging assay, Al.FLVF, Al.SPF and Al.MeF showed highest activity causing 89.41 +/- 0.55, 83.37 +/- 0.34 and 83.37 +/- 0.34% inhibition of free radicals respectively at 1 mg/mL concentration. IC50 for these fractions were 33, 83 and 82 mug/mL respectively. Similarly, plant extracts showed high ABTS scavenging potential, i.e. Al.FLVF (90.34 +/- 0.55), Al.CfF (83.42 +/- 0.57), Al.MeF (81.49 +/- 0.60) with IC50 of 30, 190 and 70 mug/ml respectively. further, H2O2 percent scavenging was highly appraised in Al.FLVF (91.29 +/- 0.53, IC50 75), Al.SPF (85.35 +/- 0.61, IC50 70) and Al.EaF (83.48 +/- 0.67, IC50 270 mug/mL). All fractions exhibited concentration dependent AChE inhibitory activity as; Al.FLVF, 88.31 +/- 0.57 (IC50 70 mug/mL), Al.SPF, 84.36 +/- 0.64 (IC50 90 mug/mL), Al.MeF, 78.65 +/- 0.70 (IC50 280 mug/mL), Al.EaF, 77.45 +/- 0.46 (IC50 270 mug/mL) and Al.WtF 72.44 +/- 0.58 (IC50 263 mug/mL) at 1 mg/mL. Likewise the percent BChE inhibitory activity was most obvious in Al.FLVF  85.46 +/- 0.62 (IC50 100 mug/mL), Al.CfF 83.49 +/- 0.46 (IC50 160 mug/mL), Al.MeF 82.68 +/- 0.60 (IC50 220 mug/mL) and Al.SPF 80.37 +/- 0.54 (IC50 120 mug/mL). CONCLUSIONS: These results stipulate that A. laciniata is enriched with phenolic  and flavonoid contents that possess significant antioxidant and anticholinestrase effects. This provide pharmacological basis for the presence of compounds that may be effective in Alzheimer's and other neurological disorders.
25885958: !Alzheimer Toward spinning artificial spider silk. Spider silk is strong and extensible but still biodegradable and well tolerated when implanted, making it the ultimate biomaterial. Shortcomings that arise in replicating spider silk are due to the use of recombinant spider silk proteins (spidroins) that lack native domains, the use of denaturing conditions under purification and spinning and the fact that the understanding of how spiders control silk formation is incomplete. Recent progress has unraveled the molecular mechanisms of the spidroin N- and C-terminal nonrepetitive domains (NTs and CTs)  and revealed the pH and ion gradients in spiders' silk glands, clarifying how spidroin solubility is maintained and how silk is formed in a fraction of a second. Protons and CO2, generated by carbonic anhydrase, affect the stability and structures of the NT and CT in different ways. These insights should allow the design of conditions and devices for the spinning of recombinant spidroins into native-like silk.
25879769: !Alzheimer Access to 2-(Het)aryl and 2-Styryl Benzoxazoles via Palladium-Catalyzed Aminocarbonylation of Aryl and Vinyl Bromides. A sequential one-pot procedure for the synthesis of either 2-(hetero)aryl or 2-styryl benzoxazoles is reported, starting from aryl and vinyl bromides, respectively, involving an initial aminocarbonylation with 2-aminophenols as nucleophiles followed by an acid mediated ring closure to generate the heterocycle. The methodology displays a broad substrate scope in moderate to excellent yields and can be exploited for (13)C-isotope labeling. Finally, this carbonylative protocol was applied to the synthesis of a potential Alzheimer's plaque binder and a selective PPAR antagonist including site-specific labeling with (13)C-carbon monoxide.
25877296: !Alzheimer Pharmacological and neuroprotective profile of an essential oil derived from leaves of Aloysia citrodora Palau. OBJECTIVES: The Jordanian 'Melissa', (Aloysia citrodora) has been poorly studied  both pharmacologically and in the clinic. Essential oils (EO) derived from leaves of A. citrodora were obtained by hydrodistillation, analysed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and were investigated for a range of neurobiological and pharmacological properties, as a basis for potential future use in drug discovery. METHODS: A selection of central nervous system (CNS) receptor-binding profiles was carried out. Antioxidant activity and ferrous iron-chelating assays were adopted, and the neuroprotective properties of A. citrodora EO assessed using hydrogen peroxide-induced and beta-amyloid-induced neurotoxicity with the CAD (Cath.-a-differentiated) neuroblastoma cell line. KEY  FINDINGS: The major chemical components detected in the A. citrodora EOs, derived from dried and fresh leaves, included limonene, geranial, neral, 1, 8-cineole, curcumene, spathulenol and caryophyllene oxide, respectively. A. citrodora leaf EO inhibited [(3) H] nicotine binding to well washed rat forebrain membranes, and increased iron-chelation in vitro. A. citrodora EO displays effective antioxidant, radical-scavenging activities and significant protective properties  vs both hydrogen peroxide- and beta-amyloid-induced neurotoxicity. CONCLUSIONS: A. citrodora EO displays a range of pharmacological properties worthy of further  investigation to isolate the compounds responsible for the observed neuroactivities, to further analyse their mode of action and determine their clinical potential in neurodegenerative diseases.
25870785: !Alzheimer Mining disease genes using integrated protein-protein interaction and gene-gene co-regulation information. In humans, despite the rapid increase in disease-associated gene discovery, a large proportion of disease-associated genes are still unknown. Many network-based approaches have been used to prioritize disease genes. Many networks, such as the protein-protein interaction (PPI), KEGG, and gene co-expression networks, have been used. Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) have been successfully applied for the determination of genes associated  with several diseases. In this study, we constructed an eQTL-based gene-gene co-regulation network (GGCRN) and used it to mine for disease genes. We adopted the random walk with restart (RWR) algorithm to mine for genes associated with Alzheimer disease. Compared to the Human Protein Reference Database (HPRD) PPI network alone, the integrated HPRD PPI and GGCRN networks provided faster convergence and revealed new disease-related genes. Therefore, using the RWR algorithm for integrated PPI and GGCRN is an effective method for disease-associated gene mining.
25864199: !Alzheimer Isoform-selective Genetic Inhibition of Constitutive Cytosolic Hsp70 Activity Promotes Client Tau Degradation Using an Altered Co-chaperone Complement. The constitutively expressed heat shock protein 70 kDa (Hsc70) is a major chaperone protein responsible for maintaining proteostasis, yet how its structure translates into functional decisions regarding client fate is still unclear. We previously showed that Hsc70 preserved aberrant Tau, but it remained unknown if selective inhibition of the activity of this Hsp70 isoform could facilitate Tau clearance. Using single point mutations in the nucleotide binding domain, we assessed the effect of several mutations on the functions of human Hsc70. Biochemical characterization revealed that one mutation abolished both Hsc70 ATPase and refolding activities. This variant resembled the ADP-bound conformer at all times yet remained able to interact with cofactors, nucleotides, and substrates appropriately, resembling a dominant negative Hsc70 (DN-Hsc70). We then assessed the effects of this DN-Hsc70 on its client Tau. DN-Hsc70 potently facilitated Tau clearance via the proteasome in cells and brain tissue, in contrast to wild type Hsc70 that stabilized Tau. Thus, DN-Hsc70 mimics the action of small molecule pan Hsp70 inhibitors with regard to Tau metabolism. This shift  in Hsc70 function by a single point mutation was the result of a change in the chaperome associated with Hsc70 such that DN-Hsc70 associated more with Hsp90 and DnaJ proteins, whereas wild type Hsc70 was more associated with other Hsp70 isoforms. Thus, isoform-selective targeting of Hsc70 could be a viable therapeutic strategy for tauopathies and possibly lead to new insights in chaperone complex biology.
25857346: !Alzheimer Antioxidant and anticholinesterase investigations of Rumex hastatus D. Don: potential effectiveness in oxidative stress and neurological disorders. BACKGROUND: Rumex species are traditionally used for the treatment of neurological disorders including headache, migraine, depression, paralysis etc. Several species have been scientifically validated for antioxidant and anticholinestrase potentials. This study aims to investigate Rumex hastatus D. Don crude methanolic extract, subsequent fractions, saponins and flavonoids for acetylcholinestrase, butyrylcholinestrase inhibition and diverse antioxidant activities to validate its folkloric uses in neurological disorders. Rumex hastatus crude methanolic extract (Rh. Cr), subsequent fractions; n-hexane (Rh. Hex), chloroform (Rh. Chf), ethyl acetate (Rh. EtAc), aqueous fraction (Rh. Aq),  crude saponins (Rh. Sp) and flavonoids (Rh. Fl) were investigated against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) at various concentrations (125, 250, 500, 1000 mug/mL) using Ellman's spectrophotometric analysis. Antioxidant potentials of Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl were evaluated using DPPH,  H2O2 and ABTS free radical scavenging assays at 62.5, 125, 250, 500, 1000 mug/mL. RESULTS: All the test samples showed concentration dependent cholinesterase inhibition and radicals scavenging activity. The AChE inhibition potential of Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl were most prominent i.e., 81.67 +/- 0.88 and 91.62 +/- 1.67 at highest concentration with IC50 135 and 20 mug/mL respectively. All the subsequent fractions exhibited moderate to high AChE inhibition i.e., Rh. Cr, Rh. Hex, Rh. Chf, Rh. EtAc and Rh. Aq showed IC50 218, 1420, 75, 115 and 1210 mug/mL  respectively. Similarly, against BChE various plant extracts i.e., Rh. Sp, Rh. Fl, Rh. Cr, Rh. Hex, Rh. Chf, Rh. EtAc and Rh. Aq resulted IC50 165, 175, 265, 890, 92, 115 and 220 mug/mL respectively. In DPPH free radical scavenging assay,  Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl showed comparable results with the positive control i.e., 63.34 +/- 0.98 and 76.93 +/- 1.13% scavenging at 1 mg/mL concentration (IC50 312 and 104 mug/mL) respectively. The percent ABTS radical scavenging potential exhibited by Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl (1000 mug/mL) were 82.58 +/- 0.52 and 88.25 +/- 0.67 with IC50 18 and 9 mug/mL respectively. Similarly in H2O2 scavenging assay, the Rh. Sp and Rh. Fl exhibited IC50 175 and 275 mug/mL respectively. CONCLUSION: The strong anticholinesterase and antioxidant activities of Rh. Sp, Rh. Fl and various fractions of R. hastatus support the purported ethnomedicinal uses and recommend  R. hastatus as a possible remedy for the treatment of AD and neurodegenerative disorders.
25855658: !Alzheimer Cytokine refacing effect reduces granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor susceptibility to antibody neutralization. Crohn's Disease (CD) afflicts over half a million Americans with an annual economic impact exceeding $10 billion. Granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating  factor (GM-CSF) can increase patient immune responses against intestinal microbes that promote CD and has been effective for some patients in clinical trials. We have made important progress toward developing GM-CSF variants that could be more effective CD therapeutics by virtue of being less prone to neutralization by the  endogenous GM-CSF autoantibodies that are highly expressed in CD patients. Yeast  display engineering revealed mutations that increase GM-CSF variant binding affinity by up to approximately 3-fold toward both GM-CSF receptor alpha and beta subunits in surface plasmon resonance experiments. Increased binding affinity did not reduce GM-CSF half-maximum effective concentration (EC50) values in conventional in vitro human leukocyte proliferation assays. Affinity-enhancing mutations did, however, promote a 'refacing effect' that imparted all five evaluated GM-CSF variants with increased in vitro bioactivity in the presence of  GM-CSF-neutralizing polyclonal antisera. The most improved variant, H15L/R23L, was 6-fold more active than wild-type GM-CSF. Incorporation of additional known affinity-increasing mutations could augment the refacing effect and concomitant bioactivity improvements described here.
25840008: !Alzheimer Neurodegenerative diseases: expanding the prion concept. The prion paradigm has emerged as a unifying molecular principle for the pathogenesis of many age-related neurodegenerative diseases. This paradigm holds  that a fundamental cause of specific disorders is the misfolding and seeded aggregation of certain proteins. The concept arose from the discovery that devastating brain diseases called spongiform encephalopathies are transmissible to new hosts by agents consisting solely of a misfolded protein, now known as the prion protein. Accordingly, "prion" was defined as a "proteinaceous infectious particle." As the concept has expanded to include other diseases, many of which are not infectious by any conventional definition, the designation of prions as infectious agents has become problematic. We propose to define prions as "proteinaceous nucleating particles" to highlight the molecular action of the agents, lessen unwarranted apprehension about the transmissibility of noninfectious proteopathies, and promote the wider acceptance of this revolutionary paradigm by the biomedical community.
25831610: !Alzheimer [What is new in 2014 for the specialist in hospital internal medicine? The point  of view of university hospital chief residents]. The year 2014 was rich in significant advances in all areas of internal medicine. Many of them have an impact on our daily practice and on the way we manage one problem or another. From the use of the ultrasound for the diagnosis of pneumonia to the choice of the site of venous access and the type of line, and the increasing complexity of choosing an oral anticoagulant agent, this selection offers to the readers a brief overview of the major advances. The chief residents in the Service of internal medicine of the Lausanne University hospital are pleased to share their readings.
25831608: !Alzheimer [2014 update in general internal medicine]. This article comments 9 original publications from year 2014 of interest for the  primary care physician in the outpatient setting. The impact of diet such as nut  consumption on health outcomes and mortality is developped, and the importance of dietary changes while taking statins is reminded. Red flags in low back pain and  their predictive value are re-evaluated. An association between benzodiazepine use and Alzheimer dementia seems probable. New treatments for alcohol abuse, restless legs syndrome and type 2 diabetes are discussed. Finally, beta-bloquers' effects on respiratory function in asthmatic patients are beeing reexamined.
25833944: !Alzheimer The N-terminal Set-beta Protein Isoform Induces Neuronal Death. Set-beta protein plays different roles in neurons, but the diversity of Set-beta  neuronal isoforms and their functions have not been characterized. The expression and subcellular localization of Set-beta are altered in Alzheimer disease, cleavage of Set-beta leads to neuronal death after stroke, and the full-length Set-beta regulates retinal ganglion cell (RGC) and hippocampal neuron axon growth and regeneration in a subcellular localization-dependent manner. Here we used various biochemical approaches to investigate Set-beta isoforms and their role in the CNS, using the same type of neurons, RGCs, across studies. We found multiple  alternatively spliced isoforms expressed from the Set locus in purified RGCs. Set transcripts containing the Set-beta-specific exon were the most highly expressed  isoforms. We also identified a novel, alternatively spliced Set-beta transcript lacking the nuclear localization signal and demonstrated that the full-length ( approximately 39-kDa) Set-beta is localized predominantly in the nucleus, whereas a shorter ( approximately 25-kDa) Set-beta isoform is localized predominantly in  the cytoplasm. Finally, we show that an N-terminal Set-beta cleavage product can  induce neuronal death.
25826665: !Alzheimer Structural determinants for alternative splicing regulation of the MAPT pre-mRNA. Alternative splicing at the MAPT gene exon 10 yields similar levels of the 3R and 4R tau protein isoforms. (1) The presence of mutations, particularly in exon 10 and intron 10-11, changes the quantity of tau isoforms. Domination each of the isoform yields tau protein aggregation and frontotemporal dementia and Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17). Here, we report for the first time the secondary structure of the 194/195 nucleotide region for the wild type (WT) and 10 mutants of the MAPT gene pre-mRNA determined using both chemical and  microarray mapping. Thermodynamic analyses indicate that single nucleotide mutations in the splicing regulatory element (SRE) that form a hairpin affect its stability by up to 4 and 7 kcal/mol. Moreover, binding the regulatory hairpin of  small molecule ligands (neomycin, kanamycin, tobramycin and mitoxantrone) enhance its stability depending on the nature of the ligands and the RNA mutations. Experiments using the cos-7 cell line indicate that the presence of ligands and modified antisense oligonucleotides affect the quantity of 3R and 4R isoforms. This finding correlates with the thermodynamic stability of the regulatory hairpin. An alternative splicing regulation mechanism for exon 10 is postulated based on our experimental data and on published data.
25823906: !Alzheimer Personality and alcohol consumption: Pooled analysis of 72,949 adults from eight  cohort studies. BACKGROUND: The role of personality as a determinant of alcohol consumption has long been debated, but prospective evidence is scarce. METHODS: We performed individual participant meta-analysis to examine the association between the Five-Factor Model personality traits (extraversion, neuroticism, agreeableness, conscientiousness, and openness to experience) and alcohol consumption using data from eight cohort studies sampled from the USA, UK, Germany, and Australia (total n=72,949; mean age=50 years, 54% female). Alcohol consumption was categorized into abstinence, moderate consumption, and heavy consumption. RESULTS: After adjustment for age, sex, and race, higher extraversion (odds ratio for 1 standard deviation's increase in the score; 95% confidence interval: 1.14; 1.01-1.29) and  lower conscientiousness (0.89; 0.79-1.00) were associated with increased risk of  transitioning from moderate to heavy alcohol consumption over time, and also with heavy alcohol consumption. Lower extraversion (0.91; 0.85-0.98), higher agreeableness (1.09; 1.02-1.15), and lower openness (0.90; 0.86-0.95) were associated with increased odds of transitioning from moderate consumption to abstinence as well as with alcohol abstinence. CONCLUSION: Findings from this individual-participant meta-analysis suggest that high and increasing alcohol consumption is more common among extraverts and those low on conscientiousness whereas high agreeableness and low openness to experience may increase odds of reducing alcohol consumption and preferring abstinence.
25820388: !Alzheimer 9H-Carbazole Derivatives Containing the N-Benzyl-1,2,3-triazole Moiety as New Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors. A series of triazole-containing carbazole derivatives were designed as new anti-acetylcholinesterase (AChE) agents. The target compounds 6a-q were simply prepared via a one-pot three-component click reaction of N-propargyl-9H-carbazole, sodium azide, and an appropriate benzyl halide. The in  vitro anti-cholinesterase assay showed that the unsubstituted benzyl derivative 6p along with the 2-F, 2-Me, 3-Me, 3-MeO, and 3-F analogs (6a, 6c, and 6g-i) had  significant anti-AChE activity (IC50s </= 3.8 muM). Among them, the 2-methylbenzyl derivative 6c with an IC50 value of 1.9 muM was the most active compound. The SAR studies revealed that small halogen atoms such as the fluorine  atom or electron-donating groups such as methyl or methoxy at the ortho or meta positions of the benzyl pendent group could be tolerated or improved the anti-AChE activity.
25809810: !Alzheimer Tailored nutritional guidance for home-dwelling AD families: the Feasibility of and Elements Promoting Positive Changes in Diet (NuAD-Trial). OBJECTIVES: To describe the process and feasibility of our randomised, controlled intervention study (NuAD trial) that positively affected the nutrition and quality of life, and prevented falls of home-dwelling persons with Alzheimer disease (AD). DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS: This qualitative study comprised 40  persons with AD and spousal caregivers of our trial. Our intervention during one  year involved tailored nutritional guidance for these couples. The nutritionist's field notes (about 100 pages) and the participant feedback questionnaires (N = 28) served to analyse the feasibility of intervention, factors promoting the application of intervention and challenges hindering it. Thematic content analysis served to analyse our data with the grounded theory approach. RESULTS: We identified several positive elements promoting better nutrition: positive attitudes on nutrition to participants including a participant-centred approach,  positive feedback, findings of food diaries and practical suggestions. Home visits by the nutritionist were convenient and participants felt that someone cares. Group meetings which included protein-rich snacks strengthened the nutritional message by enabling discussions and socialising. The oral nutritional supplements (ONS) helped participants to regain their energy and to motivate them to exercise and make changes in their diets. Obstacles to making changes in diets included participants' false ideas about nutrition, especially with regard to weight gain. Health problems and functional limitations hampered food management, and some families had inveterate eating habits. The positive feedback from participants indicated the feasibility of our tailored nutritional guidance. CONCLUSIONS: Assessment-based, tailored nutritional guidance implemented with a personal and positive approach may inspire and empower AD families to make positive changes in their diets, leading them to improved nutrition and quality of life.
25801844: !Alzheimer Palmitoylethanolamide Regulates Production of Pro-Angiogenic Mediators in a Model of beta Amyloid-Induced Astrogliosis In Vitro. Abeta-induced astrogliosis can worsen the eziopathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD) by the release of proinflammatory and pro-oxidant mediators. Activated glial cells may release also pro-angiogenic molecules. The role of angiogenesis in AD is still controversial: although angiogenesis brings oxygen and nutrients to injured tissue, it may also exacerbate reactive gliosis. Moreover, by altering blood-brain barrier permeability pro-angiogenic mediators promote passage of inflammatory/immune-competent cells into the brain, thereby exacerbating gliosis. The release of proangiogenic factors during astrogliosis may thus be a key-step in controlling AD progression. The endogenous fatty acid amide, palmitoylethanolamide (PEA), is a pleiotropic mediator exerting anti-inflammatory, antinociceptive and antiangiogenic effects in several in vitro and in vivo models of chronic-degenerative disease. In this study, we investigated the effects of PEA in AD angiogenesis and neuroinflammation by using conditioned medium from untreated and Abeta-treated C6 rat astroglioma cells and  HUVEC human endothelial cells. PEA (10<sup>-8</sup>-10<sup>-6</sup> M) concentration-dependently reduced expression of pro-inflammatory and pro-angiogenic markers in Abeta (1 mug/mL)-stimulated C6 cells. Moreover, culture medium from PEA-treated C6 cells reduced HUVEC cell proliferation as compared to  cells treated with conditioned medium from Abeta-treated C6 cells. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed that PEA treatment inhibited nuclear levels  of mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (the main pro-angiogenic pathway) and cytoplasmic vascular endothelial growth factor in HUVEC cells receiving C6 conditioned medium. Finally, the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha inhibitor GW6471, added to Abeta-treated C6 cells blocked all PEA effects in this model, suggesting that PEA acts through a proliferator-activated receptor alpha-dependent mechanism on astroglial cells. Collectively, these data support the potential therapeutic utility of PEA in AD.
25791048: !Alzheimer [Judgment capacity from the legal viewpoint - especially the evaluation by a notary public]. The issue of the capacity of judgement or the lack thereof and the validity of legal actions performed in such conditions will become more and more important considering the longer life expectancy and the increasing number of people with diseases like dementia. This paper will discuss the capacity of judgement from a  legal point of view. According to article 16 of the swiss civil code a person is  capable of judgement within the meaning of the law if he or she does not lack the capacity to act rationally by virtue of being under age or because of a mental disability, mental disorder, intoxication or similar circumstances. Therefore, the incapacity of judgement requires the existence of one of the aforementioned conditions (objective aspect) which have to result in the lack of capacity to act rationally (subjective aspect). The capacity of judgement is relative and must always be evaluated within a given context, i. e. the capacity of judgement has to be confirmed or refuted for a specific transaction at a specific time. By law, the capacity of judgement is assumed (statutory presumption) and the opposite has to be proven. As part of a notarial procedure the capacity of judgement has to be verified by the notary public, although only in a brief and limited manner. If the capacity of judgement is disputed, only the competent civil judge has the power to render a legally binding judgement.
25790165: !Alzheimer The GABAA receptor is an FMRP target with therapeutic potential in fragile X syndrome. Previous research indicates that the GABAAergic system is involved in the pathophysiology of the fragile X syndrome, a frequent form of inherited intellectual disability and associated with autism spectrum disorder. However, the molecular mechanism underlying GABAAergic deficits has remained largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate reduced mRNA expression of GABAA receptor subunits  in the cortex and cerebellum of young Fmr1 knockout mice. In addition, we show that the previously reported underexpression of specific subunits of the GABAA receptor can be corrected in YAC transgenic rescue mice, containing the full-length human FMR1 gene in an Fmr1 knockout background. Moreover, we demonstrate that FMRP directly binds several GABAA receptor mRNAs. Finally, positive allosteric modulation of GABAA receptors with the neurosteroid ganaxolone can modulate specific behaviors in Fmr1 knockout mice, emphasizing the therapeutic potential of the receptor.
25776136: !Alzheimer PEG-PEI/siROCK2 Protects Against Abeta42-Induced Neurotoxicity in Primary Neuron  Cells for Alzheimer Disease. Gene therapy that targets the ROCK2 gene has yielded promising results in the treatment of AD. Our previous study indicated that PEG-PEI/siROCK2 could effectively suppress ROCK2 mRNA expression and showed a promising prospect for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. However, the ability of PEG-PEI/siROCK2 to  reduce Abeta-induced cytotoxicity is unknown. To investigate the effect of PEG-PEI/siROCK2 against Abeta42-induced neurotoxicity, primary cultured cortical  neurons were pretreated with PEG-PEI/siROCK2 for 24 h and then treated with 5 muM Abeta42 for 24 h. We found that PEG-PEI/siROCK2 increased the cell viability and  reduced the number of apoptotic cells induced by Abeta42, as measured using an MTT assay and Annexin V/PI staining. A further study revealed that PEG-PEI/siROCK2 can activate p-Akt, and treatment with the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 attenuated the neuroprotective effects. These results suggest that PEG-PEI/siROCK2 prevents Abeta42-induced neurotoxicity and that the activation of PI3K/Akt pathway is involved in neuroprotection. Taken together, these findings shed light on the role of PEG-PEI/siROCK2 as a potential therapeutic agent for AD.
25776008: !Alzheimer Coriander (Coriandrum sativum L.) and its bioactive constituents. Coriander (Coriandrum sativum L.), a member of the Apiaceae family, is among most widely used medicinal plant, possessing nutritional as well as medicinal properties. Thus, the aim of this updated review is to highlight the importance of coriander as a potential source of bioactive constituents and to summarize their biological activities as well as their different applications from data obtained in recent literature, with critical analysis on the gaps and potential for future investigations. A literature review was carried out by searching on the electronic databases including PubMed, Scopus, ScienceDirect, and Google Scholar for studies focusing on the biological and pharmacological activities of  coriander seed and herb bioactive constituents. All recent English-language articles published between 2000 and 2014 were searched using the terms 'C. sativum', 'medicinal plant', 'bioactive constituents', and 'biological activities'. Subsequently, coriander seed and herb essential oils have been actively investigated for their chemical composition and biological activities including antimicrobial, antioxidant, hypoglycemic, hypolipidemic, anxiolytic, analgesic, anti-inflammatory, anti-convulsant and anti-cancer activities, among others. Although coriander has been reported to possess a wide range of traditional medicinal uses, no report is available in its effectiveness use in reactive airway diseases such as asthma and bronchiolitis. In brief, the information presented herein will be helpful to create more interest towards this medicinal species by defining novel pharmacological and clinical applications and hence, may be useful in developing new drug formulations in the future or by employing coriander bioactive constituents in combination with conventional drugs to enhance the treatment of diseases such as Alzheimer and cancer.
25772995: !Alzheimer Alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex-dependent succinylation of proteins in  neurons and neuronal cell lines. Reversible post-translation modifications of proteins are common in all cells and appear to regulate many processes. Nevertheless, the enzyme(s) responsible for the alterations and the significance of the modification are largely unknown. Succinylation of proteins occurs and causes large changes in the structure of proteins; however, the source of the succinyl groups, the targets, and the consequences of these modifications on other proteins remain unknown. These studies focused on succinylation of mitochondrial proteins. The results demonstrate that the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) can serve  as a trans-succinylase that mediates succinylation in an alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent manner. Inhibition of KGDHC reduced succinylation of both cytosolic and mitochondrial proteins in cultured neurons and in a neuronal cell line. Purified KGDHC can succinylate multiple proteins including other enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid cycle leading to modification of their activity. Inhibition of KGDHC also modifies acetylation by modifying the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. The much greater effectiveness of KGDHC than succinyl-CoA  suggests that the catalysis owing to the E2k succinyltransferase is important. Succinylation appears to be a major signaling system and it can be mediated by KGDHC. Reversible post-translation modifications of proteins are common and may regulate many processes. Succinylation of proteins occurs and causes large changes in the structure of proteins. However, the source of the succinyl groups, the targets, and the consequences of these modifications on other proteins remains unknown. The results demonstrate that the mitochondrial alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) can succinylate multiple mitochondrial proteins and alter their function. Succinylation appears to be a major signaling system and it can be mediated by KGDHC.
25771972: !Alzheimer alpha2-Adrenoceptors in the treatment of major neuropsychiatric disorders. Presynaptic autoreceptors mediate a retrograde transfer of information by a negative feedback mechanism mediated by the transmitter of the neuron, and fulfill an autoregulatory function in neurotransmission in the peripheral and central nervous system (CNS). Starting with norepinephrine (NE), it was later reported that an autoreceptor-mediated negative feedback mechanism exists for other neurotransmitters, including dopamine (DA), serotonin, acetylcholine, histamine, GABA, and glutamate. This feedback mechanism regulates calcium-dependent transmitter release and synthesis through terminal presynaptic  autoreceptors, while the firing rate of the neuron is regulated through somatodendritic autoreceptors.
25767272: !Alzheimer Deletion of Myeloid GSK3alpha Attenuates Atherosclerosis and Promotes an M2 Macrophage Phenotype. OBJECTIVE: Glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3alpha/beta has been implicated in the  pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus, cancer, Alzheimer, and atherosclerosis. The tissue- and homolog-specific functions of GSK3alpha and beta in atherosclerosis are unknown. This study examines the effect of hepatocyte or myeloid cell deletion of GSK3alpha or GSK3beta on atherosclerosis in low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)(-/-) mice. APPROACH AND RESULTS: We ablated GSK3alpha or GSK3beta expression in hepatic or myeloid cells of LDLR(-/-) mice, and mice were fed a high-fat diet for 10 weeks. GSK3alpha or GSK3beta deficiency in hepatic or myeloid cells did not affect metabolic parameters, including plasma lipid levels. Hepatic deletion of GSK3alpha or GSK3beta did not affect the development of atherosclerosis or hepatic lipid content. Myeloid deletion of GSK3alpha, but not  of GSK3beta, reduced atherosclerotic lesion volume and lesion complexity. Mice lacking GSK3alpha in myeloid cells had a less inflammatory and more anti-inflammatory plasma cytokine profile. Macrophages within atherosclerotic lesions of myeloid GSK3alpha-deficient mice, but not of GSK3beta-deficient mice,  displayed reduced expression of markers associated with M1 macrophage polarization and enhanced expression of the M2 markers. Finally, bone marrow-derived macrophages were isolated and differentiated into classical M1 macrophages or alternative M2 macrophages in vitro. GSK3alpha deletion, but not GSK3beta deletion, attenuated the expression of genes associated with M1 polarization while promoting the expression of genes associated with M2 polarization by modulating STAT3 and STAT6 activation. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings  suggest that deletion of myeloid GSK3alpha attenuates the progression of atherosclerosis by promoting an M2 macrophage phenotype.
25767117: !Alzheimer Amyloid precursor protein enhances Nav1.6 sodium channel cell surface expression. Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is commonly associated with Alzheimer disease, but its physiological function remains unknown. Nav1.6 is a key determinant of neuronal excitability in vivo. Because mouse models of gain of function and loss  of function of APP and Nav1.6 share some similar phenotypes, we hypothesized that APP might be a candidate molecule for sodium channel modulation. Here we report that APP colocalized and interacted with Nav1.6 in mouse cortical neurons. Knocking down APP decreased Nav1.6 sodium channel currents and cell surface expression. APP-induced increases in Nav1.6 cell surface expression were Go protein-dependent, enhanced by a constitutively active Go protein mutant, and blocked by a dominant negative Go protein mutant. APP also regulated JNK activity in a Go protein-dependent manner. JNK inhibition attenuated increases in cell surface expression of Nav1.6 sodium channels induced by overexpression of APP. JNK, in turn, phosphorylated APP. Nav1.6 sodium channel surface expression was increased by T668E and decreased by T668A, mutations of APP695 mimicking and preventing Thr-668 phosphorylation, respectively. Phosphorylation of APP695 at Thr-668 enhanced its interaction with Nav1.6. Therefore, we show that APP enhances Nav1.6 sodium channel cell surface expression through a Go-coupled JNK pathway.
25764435: !Alzheimer Galanthamine, an anti-cholinesterase drug, effects plant growth and development in Artemisia tridentata Nutt. via modulation of auxin and neurotransmitter signaling. Galanthamine is a naturally occurring acetylcholinesterase (AchE) inhibitor that  has been well established as a drug for treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer disease, but the role of the compound in plant metabolism is not known. The current study was designed to investigate whether galanthamine could redirect morphogenesis of Artemisia tridentata Nutt. cultures by altering concentration of endogenous neurosignaling molecules acetylcholine (Ach), auxin (IAA), melatonin (Mel), and serotonin (5HT). Exposure of axenic A. tridentata cultures to 10 microM galanthamine decreased the concentration of endogenous Ach, IAA, MEL, and  AchE, and altered plant growth in a manner reminiscent of 2-4D toxicity. Galanthamine itself demonstrated IAA activity in an oat coleoptile elongation bioassay, 20 microM galanthamine showed no significant difference compared with 5 muM IAA or 5 muM 1-Naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Metabolomic analysis detected between 20,921 to 27,891 compounds in A. tridentata plantlets and showed greater  commonality between control and 5 microM treatments. Furthermore, metabolomic analysis putatively identified coumarins scopoletin/isoscopoletin, and scopolin in A. tridentata leaf extracts and these metabolites linearly increased in response to galanthamine treatments. Overall, these data indicate that galanthamine is an allelopathic phytochemical and support the hypothesis that neurologically active compounds in plants help ensure plant survival and adaptation to environmental challenges.
25762608: !Alzheimer [NMR study of human biological fluids for detection of pathologies]. The paper deals with the NMR spectra obtained using preparations of five different human biological body fluids. Characteristic metabolite signals of blood, urine, tears, saliva, and sweat spectra have been determined and classified. The biological body fluid samples were used for search and identification of biomarkers of cardiovascular disease. Absolute functional biomarkers for diseases such as coronary heart disease (CHD) have not been recognized even in the case acute myocardial infarction. A hypothesis explaining  reasons of lack of such markers has been formulated. The results of comparative analysis of blood and urine samples from humans and some laboratory animals are given. Identify and analyze signals of metabolites of pathogenic microflora and their dynamics in the urine from patients with urogenital diseases have been determined and analyzed and characteristic biomarkers have been recognized.
25761244: !Alzheimer A heme oxygenase-1 transducer model of degenerative and developmental brain disorders. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is a 32 kDa protein which catalyzes the breakdown of heme to free iron, carbon monoxide and biliverdin. The Hmox1 promoter contains numerous consensus sequences that render the gene exquisitely sensitive to induction by diverse pro-oxidant and inflammatory stimuli. In "stressed" astroglia, HO-1 hyperactivity promotes mitochondrial iron sequestration and macroautophagy and may thereby contribute to the pathological iron deposition and bioenergetic failure documented in Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease and certain neurodevelopmental conditions. Glial HO-1 expression may also impact neuroplasticity and cell survival by modulating brain sterol metabolism and the proteasomal degradation of neurotoxic proteins. The glial HO-1 response may represent a pivotal transducer of noxious environmental and endogenous stressors  into patterns of neural damage and repair characteristic of many human degenerative and developmental CNS disorders.
25760599: !Alzheimer Interaction of the amyloid precursor protein-like protein 1 (APLP1) E2 domain with heparan sulfate involves two distinct binding modes. Beyond the pathology of Alzheimer's disease, the members of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) family are essential for neuronal development and cell homeostasis  in mammals. APP and its paralogues APP-like protein 1 (APLP1) and APP-like protein 2 (APLP2) contain the highly conserved heparan sulfate (HS) binding domain E2, which effects various (patho)physiological functions. Here, two crystal structures of the E2 domain of APLP1 are presented in the apo form and in complex with a heparin dodecasaccharide at 2.5 A resolution. The apo structure of APLP1 E2 revealed an unfolded and hence flexible N-terminal helix alphaA. The (APLP1 E2)2-(heparin)2 complex structure revealed two distinct binding modes, with APLP1 E2 explicitly recognizing the heparin terminus but also interacting with a continuous heparin chain. The latter only requires a certain register of the sugar moieties that fits to a positively charged surface patch and contributes to the general heparin-binding capability of APP-family proteins. Terminal binding of APLP1 E2 to heparin specifically involves a structure of the  nonreducing end that is very similar to heparanase-processed HS chains. These data reveal a conserved mechanism for the binding of APP-family proteins to HS and imply a specific regulatory role of HS modifications in the biology of APP and APP-like proteins.
25752887: !Alzheimer An update on the role of omega-3 fatty acids on inflammatory and degenerative diseases. Inflammation is involved in the pathophysiology of many chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and neurodegenerative diseases. Several studies have evidenced important anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties of omega-3  long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 LC-PUFAs). This review illustrates current knowledge about the efficacy of n-3 LC-PUFAs (eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), particularly) in preventing and/or treating several chronic inflammatory conditions (inflammatory bowel diseases and rheumatoid arthritis) as well as their potential benefits on neurodegenerative diseases. It is well established that n-3 LC-PUFAs are substrates for synthesis of novel series of lipid mediators (e.g., resolvins, protectins, and maresins) with potent anti-inflammatory and pro-resolving properties, which have been proposed to partly mediate the protective and beneficial actions of n-3 LC-PUFAs. Here, we briefly summarize current knowledge from preclinical studies analyzing the actions of EPA- and DHA-derived resolvins and protectins on pathophysiological models of rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer, and irritable bowel syndrome.
25751960: !Alzheimer [Role of PI3K/Akt pathway in effect of paeoniflorin against Abeta25-35-induced PC12 cell injury]. OBJECTIVE: To study the role of PI3K/Akt pathway in the neuroprotective effect of paeoniflorin on PC12 cells. METHOD: The paeoniflorin group (5, 10, 20 mumol . L(-1)) was pretreated for 30 min, and then added with Abeta25-35 (20 mumol . L(-1)) for interaction for 24 h. Inhibitor LY294002 (10 mumol . L(-1)) was pretreated for 30 min before the action of paeoniflorin (10 mumol . L(-1)). The MTT colorimetric method was used to detect the cell viability. The apoptosis rate was tested by the FITC-Annexin V/PI staining. The protein expression of p-AKT, Bax, Bcl-2 and cleaved caspase-3 protein were detected by Western blot analysis.  RESULT: Paeoniflorin could significantly inhibit the Abeta25-35-induced PC12 cell toxicity and apoptosis. Its protection effect may be achieved by up- regulating AKT phosphorylation level, increasing Bcl-2 protein expression, reducing Bax protein expression, inhibiting the activation of caspase-3. Inhibitor LY294002 could weaken the above protective effects of paeoniflorin. CONCLUSION: Paeoniflorin could activate PI3K/Akt signaling pathway to protect the PC12 cell injury induced by Abeta25-35.
25747452: !Alzheimer Solid lipid nanoparticles loaded with lipoyl-memantine codrug: preparation and characterization. Solid lipid nanoparticles (SLNs) are considered very attractive drug-delivery systems (DDS) able to enhance the efficacy of some therapeutic agents in several  pathologies difficult to treat in a conventional way. Starting from these evidences, this study describes the preparation, physicochemical characterization, release, and in vitro cytotoxicity of stealth SLNs as innovative approach to improve solubility and absorption through the gastrointestinal tract of lipoyl-memantine (LA-MEM), a potential anti-Alzheimer codrug. Physico-chemical properties of LA-MEM loaded SLNs have been intensively investigated. Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) was used to clarify the state and crystalline structure of the formulation. The results obtained from particles size analysis, polydispersity (PDI), and zeta potential measurements allowed the identification of the optimized formulation, which was characterized  by a drug-lipid ratio 1:5, an average intensity diameter of 170nm, a PDI of 0.072, a zeta potential of -33.8mV, and an entrapment efficiency of 88%. Moreover, in vitro stability and release studies in both simulated gastric fluid  (SGF) and simulated intestinal fluid (SIF), and preliminary in vitro cytotoxicity studies revealed that LA-MEM loaded SLNs could represent potential candidate for  an in vivo investigation as DDS for the brain since it resulted devoid of citotoxicity and able to release the free codrug.
25740212: !Alzheimer Structure of human dipeptidyl peptidase 10 (DPPY): a modulator of neuronal Kv4 channels. The voltage-gated potassium channel family (Kv) constitutes the most diverse class of ion channels in the nervous system. Dipeptidyl peptidase 10 (DPP10) is an inactive peptidase that modulates the electrophysiological properties, cell-surface expression and subcellular localization of voltage-gated potassium channels. As a consequence, DPP10 malfunctioning is associated with neurodegenerative conditions like Alzheimer and fronto-temporal dementia, making  this protein an attractive drug target. In this work, we report the crystal structure of DPP10 and compare it to that of DPP6 and DPP4. DPP10 belongs to the  S9B serine protease subfamily and contains two domains with two distinct folds: a beta-propeller and a classical alpha/beta-hydrolase fold. The catalytic serine, however, is replaced by a glycine, rendering the protein enzymatically inactive.  Difference in the entrance channels to the active sites between DPP10 and DPP4 provide an additional rationale for the lack of activity. We also characterize the DPP10 dimer interface focusing on the alternative approach for designing drugs able to target protein-protein interactions.
25737095: !Alzheimer Engineering superactive granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor transferrin fusion proteins as orally-delivered candidate agents for treating neurodegenerative disease. Intravenously injected granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)  has shown efficacy in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Parkinson's Disease (PD) animal studies and is undergoing clinical evaluation. The likely need for dosing  of GM-CSF to patients over months or years motivates pursuit of avenues for delivering GM-CSF to circulation via oral administration. Flow cytometric screening of 37 yeast-displayed GM-CSF saturation mutant libraries revealed residues P12, H15, R23, R24, and K72 as key determinants of GM-CSF's CD116 and CD131 GM-CSF receptor (GM-CSFR) subunit binding affinity. Screening combinatorial GM-CSF libraries mutated at positions P12, H15, and R23 yielded variants with increased affinities toward both CD116 and CD131. Genetic fusion of GM-CSF to human transferrin (Trf), a strategy that enables oral delivery of other biopharmaceuticals in animals, yielded bioactive wild type and variant cytokines  upon secretion from cultured Human Embryonic Kidney cells. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) measurements showed that all evaluated variants possess decreases in CD116 and CD131 binding KD values of up to 2.5-fold relative to wild type. Improved affinity led to increased in vitro bioactivity; the most bioactive variant, P12D/H15L/R23L, had a leukocyte proliferation assay EC50 value 3.5-fold  lower than the wild type GM-CSF/Trf fusion. These outcomes are important first steps toward our goal of developing GM-CSF/Trf fusions as orally available AD and PD therapeutics.
25735846: !Alzheimer Effects of non-enzymatic glycation in human serum albumin. Spectroscopic analysis. Human serum albumin (HSA), transporting protein, is exposed during its life to numerous factors that cause its functions become impaired. One of the basic factors - glycation of HSA - occurs in diabetes and may affect HSA-drug binding.  Accumulation of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) leads to diseases e.g. diabetic and non-diabetic cardiovascular diseases, Alzheimer disease, renal disfunction and in normal aging. The aim of the present work was to estimate how  non-enzymatic glycation of human serum albumin altered its tertiary structure using fluorescence technique. We compared glycated human serum albumin by glucose (gHSAGLC) with HSA glycated by fructose (gHSAFRC). We focused on presenting the differences between gHSAFRC and nonglycated (HSA) albumin used acrylamide (Ac), potassium iodide (KI) and 2-(p-toluidino)naphthalene-6-sulfonic acid (TNS). Changes of the microenvironment around the tryptophan residue (Trp-214) of non-glycated and glycated proteins was investigated by the red-edge excitation shift method. Effect of glycation on ligand binding was examined by the binding of phenylbutazone (PHB) and ketoprofen (KP), which a primary high affinity binding site in serum albumin is subdomain IIA and IIIA, respectively. At an excitation and an emission wavelength of lambdaex 335nm and lambdaem 420nm, respectively the increase of fluorescence intensity and the blue-shift of maximum fluorescence was observed. It indicates that the glycation products decreases the polarity microenvironment around the fluorophores. Analysis of red-edge excitation shift method showed that the red-shift for gHSAFRC is higher than for  HSA. Non-enzymatic glycation also caused, that the Trp residue of gHSAFRC becomes less accessible for the negatively charged quencher (I(-)), KSV value is smaller  for gHSAFRC than for HSA. TNS fluorescent measurement demonstrated the decrease of hydrophobicity in the glycated albumin. KSV constants for gHSA-PHB systems are higher than for the unmodified serum albumin, while KSV values for gHSA-KP systems are only slightly lower than that obtained for HSA-KP. The affinity of PHB to the glycated HSA is stronger than to the non-glycated in the first class binding sites within subdomain IIA, in the vicinity of Trp-214. Ketoprofen bound  to unmodified human serum albumin stronger than for glycated albumin and one class of binding sites is observed (Scatchard linear plots).
25735176: !Alzheimer [Effects of amyloid-beta peptide Abeta(25-35) on glycolytic and antioxidant enzymes of different ages]. Amyloid-beta peptide Abeta(25-35) was shown to cause lysis of rat erythrocytes of different ages. The toxicity of Abeta(25-35) positively correlated with both the  erythrocyte age andthe peptide concentration. The activity of glycolytic, antioxidant, and Na+/K(+)-ATPase enzymes decreased with erythrocyte aging in vivo. In vitro Abeta(25-35) reduced the activity of hexokinase, phosphofructokinase, pyruvate kinase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione transferase and increased Na+/K(+)-ATPase activity in aged erythrocytes to a greater degree than in young cells.
25725942: !Alzheimer A noninflammatory immune response in aged DNA Abeta42-immunized mice supports its safety for possible use as immunotherapy in AD patients. Aging in the immune system results in tendency to proinflammatory responses. Intradermal DNA immunization showed Th2 polarized noninflammatory immune responses. We tested here 18-month-old mice which were immunized with Abeta42 peptide, DNA Abeta42 trimer, or 2 different prime boost protocols identical to previous experiments. High Abeta42 antibody levels were found in aged mice which  had received peptide immunizations (900 mug/mL plasma), and in mice which had received peptide prime and DNA boost immunizations (500 mug/mL), compared with antibodies in DNA Abeta42 immunized mice with 50 mug/mL. Although we found T-cell proliferation and inflammatory cytokines in mice which had received peptide or prime boost immunization, these were not found in DNA-immunized mice. The results are concordant with proinflammatory responses because of immunosenescence and contraindicate the use of Abeta42 peptide immunizations or prime boost immunization protocols for the use in elderly Alzheimer's disease patients. DNA Abeta42 immunization only on the other hand does lead to effective levels of antibodies without inflammatory cytokine or T-cell responses in the aged animal model tested.
25725931: !Alzheimer Neurobiological studies on the relationship between toxoplasmosis and neuropsychiatric diseases. Toxoplasma gondii is a widespread protozoan parasite infecting approximately one  third of the world population. After proliferation of tachyzoites during the acute stage, the parasite forms tissue cysts in various anatomical sites including the Central Nervous tissue, and establishes a chronic infection. Clinical spectrum normally ranges from a completely asymptomatic infection to severe multi-organ involvement. Many studies have suggested T. gondii infection as a risk factor for the development of some neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly schizophrenia. During the last years, a potential link with other neurobiological diseases such as Parkinson disease and Alzheimer disease has also been suggested. This review will focus on neurobiological and epidemiological data relating infection with T. gondii to neuropsychiatric diseases.
25717427: !Alzheimer The influence of life events on first and recurrent admissions in bipolar disorder. BACKGROUND: Life events play an important role in the onset and course of bipolar disorder. We will test the influence of life events on first and recurrent admissions in bipolar disorder and their interaction to test the kindling hypothesis. METHODS: We collected information about life events and admissions across the life span in 51 bipolar patients. We constructed four models to explore the decay of life event effects on admissions. To test their interaction, we used the Andersen-Gill model. RESULTS: The relationship between life events and admissions was best described with a model in which the effects of life events gradually decayed by 25% per year. Both life event load and recurrent admissions significantly increased the risk of both first and subsequent admissions. No significant interaction between life event load and number of admissions was found. CONCLUSIONS: Life events increase the risk of both first and recurrent admissions in bipolar disorder. We found no significant interaction between life events and admissions, but the effect of life events on admissions decreases after the first admission which is in line with the kindling hypothesis.
25716692: !Alzheimer The prognostic significance of bromodomain PHD-finger transcription factor in colorectal carcinoma and association with vimentin and E-cadherin. PURPOSE: Bromodomain PHD-finger transcription factor (BPTF) is a chromatin-mediated regulation of transcription factor, playing an important role  in embryogenesis and differentiation. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has a pivotal role in colorectal cancer (CRC) progression, sharing the similar characteristic with BPTF. Therefore, the aim of this study was to examine the expression and clinical value of BPTF and the correlation with EMT markers in patients with CRC. METHODS: Real-time PCR and Western blot were performed to evaluate the mRNA and protein expression levels of BPTF in 20 pairs of fresh-frozen CRC and non-tumor adjacent tissues (NATs). The expressions of BPTF,  vimentin and E-cadherin were examined by immunohistochemical staining in 105 cases of paraffin-embedded primary CRC specimens. In addition, the clinicopathological significance and the prognostic value of BPTF, vimentin and E-cadherin expression were further determined. Then, the correlation of BPTF with vimentin and E-cadherin was also explored. RESULTS: BPTF mRNA and protein expression were significantly overexpressed in CRC tissues when compared with paired NATs (P < 0.01). The expression levels of BPTF and vimentin in CRC paraffin-embedded specimens were significantly higher than the expression in NATs (P < 0.01), while the expressions of E-cadherin in tumors were obviously lower than in NATs (P < 0.01). Tumors with high expression of BPTF and vimentin, as well as low expression of E-cadherin, were significantly correlated with various  adverse clinicopathological factors (P < 0.05). The CRC patients with a high BPTF or vimentin expression had shorter overall survival than those with lower expression (P < 0.05). Furthermore, univariate analysis and multivariate analysis showed that high BPTF expression was an independent prognostic factor for patients with CRC. The last and more interesting Spearman rank correlation analysis and microscopic observation found that the expression of BPTF obviously  correlated with the expression of EMT markers vimentin and E-cadherin. CONCLUSION: Our results strongly suggested that the high BPTF expression was significantly correlated with tumor progression and may be a potent prognostic marker of CRC. Moreover, BPTF expression was significantly associated with EMT markers vimentin and E-cadherin.
25714974: !Alzheimer Neuropharmacological Aspects of Crocus sativus L.: A Review of Preclinical Studies and Ongoing Clinical Research. Crocus sativus L. (Iridaceae) is an important member of the genus Crocus having high medicinal value. Its dried stigmas, known as "saffron" are being widely used form past many centuries as a food additive, coloring agent, flavoring agent and  a potential source of traditional medicine. The stigmas along with other botanical parts of Crocus sativus are being extensively used in ethnomedical treatment of varied central nervous system diseases. In line with its ethnomedical importance, several preclinical studies have been carried out to validate its traditional uses, identify active principle(s), understand pharmacological basis of therapeutic action and explore novel medicinal uses. The bioactive components of Crocus sativus have been found to modulate several synaptic processes via direct/indirect interplay with neurotransmitter receptor functions, interaction with neuronal death/survival pathways and alteration in neuronal proteins expression. Many clinical studies proving beneficial effect of  Crocus sativus in depressive disorders, Alzheimer&#039;s disease and some other neurological abnormalities have also been carried out. Based on the vast literature reports available, an attempt has been made to comprehend the fragmented information on neuropharmacological aspects, chemistry and safety of Crocus sativus. Although the plant has been well explored, but still a large scope of future preclinical and clinical research exist to explore its potential  in neurological diseases, that has been discussed in depth in the present review.
25714965: !Alzheimer New kid on the block: does histamine get along with inflammation in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis? Results from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients and pre-clinical studies strongly suggest that systemic and CNS-intrinsic immune activation plays  a central role in ALS pathogenesis. Microglial cells are emerging in this context as master regulators with a bi-functional role in the progression of the pathological response. They foster a pro-inflammatory setting through the production of cytotoxic cytokines and chemokines (M1 phenotype), after an aborted effort to sustain an anti-inflammatory environment for motor neurons through the  release of beneficial cytokines and growth factors (M2 phenotype). In this review, we gather information meant to propose that histamine and ATP, which are  released from mast cells, microglia and damaged neurons at sites of injury where  they function as transmitters, have to be considered as new players in the ALS neuroinflammatory arena. After all, abnormal histamine and ATP signalling in the  brain are already documented in neurodegenerative/neuroinflammatory conditions such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer and Parkinson's disease and, at present, histamine- as well as ATP-related compounds are in clinical trial for these same  pathologies. Concerning ALS, while emerging data are now available about purinergic mechanisms, the involvement of histamine is basically unexplored. The  circumstantial evidence that we present here thus constitutes a solid background  for formulating novel hypotheses, stimulating a scientific debate and, most of all, inspiring future research. We deem that a new potential role of histamine in the setting of ALS neuroinflammation might find a fertile ground where to thrive. ALS is still a disease without a cure: why not to play with a new kid on the block?
25714385: !Alzheimer Resonant oscillation language of a futuristic nano-machine-module: eliminating cancer cells & Alzheimer abeta plaques. Nano-machine-module is designed and synthesized as a futuristic drug (PCMS) for cancer and Alzheimers by doping 2 Nile Red molecules in the cavity of a 5(th) generation PAM AM dendrimer P, and attaching 32 molecular rotors M, 4 pH sensors  S on its surface. Molecular rotors and sensors enable the dendritic box surface to target specific sites, minimizing termination of healthy cells, e.g. cancer cells, nuclei acids (DNA) & spirals of Abeta Amyloid are disintegrated. Combined  Excitation Emission Spectroscopy (CEES) shows directed energy transfer along M<-->C<-->S, this energy transmission path is itself an oscillation, and we image live resonant oscillation of the PCMS and the target molecular system. PCMS engages into resonant oscillations with spiral molecular structures. PCMS is designed to sense microsatellite instability & spirals with resonance frequencies in the kHz range. PCM is toxic, but the toxicity disappears as S is added to derive PCMS. PCMS does not even affect the dynamic instability of microtubule, a  basic operator of living cells.
25713167: !Alzheimer The role of BPTF in melanoma progression and in response to BRAF-targeted therapy. BACKGROUND: Bromodomain PHD finger transcription factor (BPTF) plays an important role in chromatin remodeling, but its functional role in tumor progression is incompletely understood. Here we explore the oncogenic effects of BPTF in melanoma. METHODS: The consequences of differential expression of BPTF were explored using shRNA-mediated knockdown in several melanoma cell lines. Immunoblotting was used to assess the expression of various proteins regulated by BPTF. The functional role of BPTF in melanoma progression was investigated using  assays of colony formation, invasion, cell cycle, sensitivity to selective BRAF inhibitors, and in xenograft models of melanoma progression (n = 12 mice per group). The biomarker role of BPTF in melanoma progression was assessed using fluorescence in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analyses. All statistical tests were two-sided. RESULTS: shRNA-mediated BPTF silencing suppressed the proliferative capacity (by 65.5%) and metastatic potential (by 66.4%) of melanoma cells. Elevated BPTF copy number (mean >/= 3) was observed in  28 of 77 (36.4%) melanomas. BPTF overexpression predicted poor survival in a cohort of 311 melanoma patients (distant metastasis-free survival P = .03, and disease-specific survival P = .008), and promoted resistance to BRAF inhibitors in melanoma cell lines. Metastatic melanoma tumors progressing on BRAF inhibitors contained low BPTF-expressing, apoptotic tumor cell subclones, indicating the continued presence of drug-responsive subclones within tumors demonstrating overall resistance to anti-BRAF agents. CONCLUSIONS: These studies demonstrate multiple protumorigenic functions for BPTF and identify it as a novel target for  anticancer therapy. They also suggest the combination of BPTF targeting with BRAF inhibitors as a novel therapeutic strategy for melanomas with mutant BRAF.
25709784: !Alzheimer New concepts in nutraceuticals as alternative for pharmaceuticals. Nutraceuticals are products, which other than nutrition are also used as medicine. A nutraceutical product may be defined as a substance, which has physiological benefit or provides protection against chronic disease. Nutraceuticals may be used to improve health, delay the aging process, prevent chronic diseases, increase life expectancy, or support the structure or function  of the body. Nowadays, nutraceuticals have received considerable interest due to  potential nutritional, safety and therapeutic effects. Recent studies have shown  promising results for these compounds in various complications. In the present review much effort has been devoted to present new concepts about nutraceuticals  based on their diseases modifying indications. Emphasis has been made to present  herbal nutraceuticals effective on hard curative disorders related to oxidative stress including allergy, alzheimer, cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes, eye, immune, inflammatory and Parkinson's diseases as well as obesity. The recently published papers about different aspects of nutraceuticals as alternative for pharmaceuticals were searched using scientific sites such as Medline, PubMed, and Google Scholar. The used terms included nutraceutical and allergy, alzheimer, cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes, eye, immune, inflammatory or Parkinson.
25708447: !Alzheimer Uptake and metabolism of fructose by rat neocortical cells in vivo and by isolated nerve terminals in vitro. Fructose reacts spontaneously with proteins in the brain to form advanced glycation end products (AGE) that may elicit neuroinflammation and cause brain pathology, including Alzheimer's disease. We investigated whether fructose is eliminated by oxidative metabolism in neocortex. Injection of [(14) C]fructose or its AGE-prone metabolite [(14) C]glyceraldehyde into rat neocortex in vivo led to formation of (14) C-labeled alanine, glutamate, aspartate, GABA, and glutamine. In isolated neocortical nerve terminals, [(14) C]fructose-labeled glutamate, GABA, and aspartate, indicating uptake of fructose into nerve terminals and oxidative fructose metabolism in these structures. This was supported by high expression of hexokinase 1, which channels fructose into glycolysis, and whose activity was similar with fructose or glucose as substrates. By contrast, the fructose-specific ketohexokinase was weakly expressed. The fructose transporter Glut5 was expressed at only 4% of the level of neuronal glucose transporter Glut3, suggesting transport across plasma membranes of brain cells as the limiting factor in removal of extracellular fructose. The genes encoding aldose reductase and sorbitol dehydrogenase, enzymes of the polyol pathway that forms glucose from fructose, were expressed in rat neocortex. These results point to fructose being transported into neocortical cells, including nerve terminals, and that it is metabolized and thereby detoxified primarily through hexokinase activity. We asked how the brain handles fructose, which may react spontaneously  with proteins to form 'advanced glycation end products' and trigger inflammation. Neocortical cells took up and metabolized extracellular fructose oxidatively in vivo, and isolated nerve terminals did so in vitro. The low expression of fructose transporter Glut5 limited uptake of extracellular fructose. Hexokinase was a main pathway for fructose metabolism, but ketohexokinase (which leads to glyceraldehyde formation) was expressed too. Neocortical cells also took up and metabolized glyceraldehyde oxidatively.
25703279: !Alzheimer Translating endoplasmic reticulum biology into the clinic: a role for ER-targeted natural products? ER stress has been identified as a hallmark, and sometimes trigger, of several pathologies, notably cancer, inflammation and neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. Among the molecules described in literature known to affect ER function, the majority are natural products, suggesting that natural molecules may constitute a significant arsenal of chemical entities for modulating this cellular target. In this review, we will start by presenting the  current knowledge of ER biology and the hallmarks of ER stress, thus paving the way for presenting the natural products that have been described as being ER modulators, either stress inducers or ER protectors. The chemistry, distribution  and mechanism of action of these compounds will be presented and discussed.
25701707: !Alzheimer The human CHRNA7 and CHRFAM7A genes: A review of the genetics, regulation, and function. The human alpha7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor gene (CHRNA7) is ubiquitously expressed in both the central nervous system and in the periphery. CHRNA7 is genetically linked to multiple disorders with cognitive deficits, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, ADHD, epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, and Rett syndrome. The regulation of CHRNA7 is complex; more than a dozen mechanisms are known, one of which is a partial duplication of the parent gene. Exons 5-10 of CHRNA7 on chromosome 15 were duplicated and inserted 1.6 Mb upstream of CHRNA7, interrupting an earlier partial duplication of two other genes. The chimeric CHRFAM7A gene product, dupalpha7, assembles with alpha7 subunits, resulting in a dominant negative regulation of function. The duplication is human specific, occurring neither in primates nor in rodents. The  duplicated alpha7 sequence in exons 5-10 of CHRFAM7A is almost identical to CHRNA7, and thus is not completely queried in high throughput genetic studies (GWAS). Further, pre-clinical animal models of the alpha7nAChR utilized in drug development research do not have CHRFAM7A (dupalpha7) and cannot fully model human drug responses. The wide expression of CHRNA7, its multiple functions and modes of regulation present challenges for study of this gene in disease. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'The Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor: From Molecular Biology to Cognition'.
25689303: !Alzheimer HSPA5/Dna K may be a useful target for human disease therapies. The chaperone protein HSPA5/Dna K is conserved throughout evolution from higher eukaryotes down to prokaryotes. The celecoxib derivative OSU-03012 (also called AR-12) interacts with Viagra or Cialis in eukaryotic cells to rapidly reduce HSPA5 levels as well as blunt the functions of many other chaperone proteins. Because multiple chaperones are modulated in eukaryotes, the expression of cell surface virus receptors is reduced and because HSPA5 in blocked viruses cannot efficiently replicate. Because DnaK levels are reduced in prokaryotes by OSU-03012, the levels of DnaK chaperone proteins such as Rec A decline, which is  associated with bacterial cell death and a resensitization of so-called drug-resistant superbugs to standard of care antibiotics. In Alzheimer's disease, HSPA5 has been shown to play a supportive role for the progression of tau phosphorylation and neurodegeneration. Thus, in eukaryotes, HSPA5 represents a target for anticancer, antiviral, and anti-Alzheimer's therapeutics and in prokaryotes, DnaK and bacterial phosphodiesterases represent novel antibiotic targets that should be exploited in the future by pharmaceutical companies.
25686616: !Alzheimer Silybum marianum: Beyond Hepatoprotection. Silybum marianum is a medicinal plant that has long been used as hepatoprotective remedy. It has been used for the treatment of numerous liver disorders characterized by functional impairment or degenerative necrosis. Its hepatoprotective activity is unique and acts in different ways, including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities, cell permeability regulator and membrane stabilizer, stimulation of liver regeneration and inhibition of deposition in collagen fibers, which may lead to cirrhosis. Most of documented data with Silybum marianum are about liver disorders; however, recently several beneficial properties on a wide variety of other disorders such as renal protection, hypolipidemic and anti-atherosclerosis activities, cardiovascular protection, prevention of insulin resistance, especially in cirrhotic patients, cancer, and Alzheimer prevention. It is also used as a food remedy. This review article aims to present different aspects of Silybum marianum, especially the data in recently published articles about its effects on different diseases, apart from presenting the aspects of its hepatoprotection.
25685150: !Alzheimer Edible mushrooms: improving human health and promoting quality life. Mushrooms have been consumed since earliest history; ancient Greeks believed that mushrooms provided strength for warriors in battle, and the Romans perceived them as the "Food of the Gods." For centuries, the Chinese culture has treasured mushrooms as a health food, an "elixir of life." They have been part of the human culture for thousands of years and have considerable interest in the most important civilizations in history because of their sensory characteristics; they have been recognized for their attractive culinary attributes. Nowadays, mushrooms are popular valuable foods because they are low in calories, carbohydrates, fat, and sodium: also, they are cholesterol-free. Besides, mushrooms provide important nutrients, including selenium, potassium, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin D, proteins, and fiber. All together with a long history as food  source, mushrooms are important for their healing capacities and properties in traditional medicine. It has reported beneficial effects for health and treatment of some diseases. Many nutraceutical properties are described in mushrooms, such  as prevention or treatment of Parkinson, Alzheimer, hypertension, and high risk of stroke. They are also utilized to reduce the likelihood of cancer invasion and metastasis due to antitumoral attributes. Mushrooms act as antibacterial, immune  system enhancer and cholesterol lowering agents; additionally, they are important sources of bioactive compounds. As a result of these properties, some mushroom extracts are used to promote human health and are found as dietary supplements.
25683482: !Alzheimer APLP1 and APLP2, members of the APP family of proteins, behave similarly to APP in that they associate with NMDA receptors and enhance NMDA receptor surface expression. The function of amyloid precursor protein (APP) is unknown, although the discovery that it contributes to the regulation of surface expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has afforded new insights into its functional significance. Since APP is a member of a gene family that contains two other members, amyloid precursor-like proteins 1 and 2 (APLP1 and APLP2), it is important to determine if the related APP proteins possess the same properties as APP with respect to their interactions with NMDA receptors. Following expression  in mammalian cells, both APLP1 and APLP2 behaved similarly to APP in that they both co-immunoprecipitated with the two major NMDA receptor subtypes, GluN1/GluN2A and GluN1/GluN2B, via interaction with the obligatory GluN1 subunit. Immunoprecipitations from detergent extracts of adult mammalian brain showed co-immunoprecipitation of APLP1 and APLP2 with GluN2A- and GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors. Furthermore, similarly to APP, APLP1 and APLP2 both enhanced GluN1/GluN2A and GluN1/GluN2B cell surface expression. Thus, all the three members of the APP gene family behave similarly in that they each contribute to the regulation of cell surface NMDA receptor homoeostasis. Amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been shown to associate with N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and to enhance their cell surface expression. Here, we show that the other members of the APP family, APLP1 and APLP2, behave similarly to APP in that they both associate with assembled NMDA receptors in the endoplasmic reticulum via their interaction with the NMDA receptor subunit, GluN1 and, they enhance receptor cell surface expression. Alternative scenarios are depicted since it is  to be determined if respective associations are direct.
25674632: !Alzheimer Highly sensitive and rapid detection of acetylcholine using an ITO plate modified with platinum-graphene nanoparticles. Determining the concentrations of acetylcholine (ACh) and choline (Ch) is clinically important. ACh is a neurotransmitter that acts as a key link in the communication between neurons in the spinal cord and in nerve skeletal junctions  in vertebrates, and plays an important role in transmitting signals in the brain. A bienzymatic sensor for the detection of ACh was prepared by co-immobilizing choline oxidase (ChO) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) on graphene matrix/platinum nanoparticles, and then electrodepositing them on an ITO-coated glass plate. Graphene nanoparticles were decorated with platinum nanoparticles and were electrodeposited on a modified ITO-coated glass plate to form a modified electrode. The modified electrode was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), cyclic voltammetry (CV) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) studies. The optimum response of the enzyme electrode was obtained at pH 7.0 and 35 degrees C. The response time of this ACh-sensing system was shown to be 4 s. The linear range of responses to ACh was 0.005-700 muM. This biosensor exhibits excellent anti-interferential abilities and good stability, retaining 50% of its original current even after 4 months. It has been applied for the detection of ACh levels in human serum samples.
25673856: !Alzheimer Cooperative roles of hydrophilic loop 1 and the C-terminus of presenilin 1 in the substrate-gating mechanism of gamma-secretase. gamma-Secretase is a multisubunit protease complex that is responsible for generating amyloid-beta peptides, which are associated with Alzheimer disease. The catalytic subunit of gamma-secretase is presenilin 1 (PS1), which contains an initial substrate-binding site that is distinct from the catalytic site. Processive cleavage is suggested in the intramembrane-cleaving mechanism of gamma-secretase. However, it largely remains unknown as to how gamma-secretase recognizes its substrate during proteolysis. Here, we identified that the alpha-helical structural region of hydrophilic loop 1 (HL1) and the C-terminal region of human PS1 are distinct substrate-binding sites. Mutational analyses revealed that substrate binding to the HL1 region is critical for both epsilon- and gamma-cleavage, whereas binding to the C-terminal region hampers gamma-cleavage. Moreover, we propose that substrate binding triggers conformational changes in PS1, rendering it suitable for catalysis. Our data provide new insights into the complicated catalytic mechanism of PS1.
25661372: !Alzheimer Catalpol regulates cholinergic nerve system function through effect on choline acetyl-transferase not M receptor affinity. OBJECTIVE: To explore the effect of catalpol on choline acetyl-transferase and M  receptor affinity in a PC12 cell model and a rat model induced by beta-amyloid 25-35 (Abeta25-35). METHODS: In PC12 cells, catalpol (10mumol/l, 100mumol/) or saline was retained in the medium and Abeta25-35 (final concentration 20mumol/l)  was added. Choline acetyl-transferase (ChAT) expression was determined by immunocytochemistry, ChAT activity measured by radioenzymatic assay, and M receptor (muscarinic receptor) affinity determined by (3)H-QNB binding test. In Wistar rats, Abeta25-35 was injected intracerebroventricularly to establish AD model. After injection of Abeta25-35, the rats were injected catalpol at 5 and 10mg/kgd(-1) intraperitoneally for the next 7 days, and saline for the control rats. ChAT expression, ChAT activity and M receptor affinity were tested. Cells and rats all were divided into four groups: Group A (control), Group B (model), Group C (catalpol low dose), and Group D (catalpol high dose). RESULTS: Compared  with control, both PC12 cell and rat AD models showed decreased expression and activity of ChAT (p<0.01), but M receptor affinity remained the same (p>0.05). Compared with model group, treatment of catalpol increased expression and activity of ChAT of PC12 cell and rat AD model induced by Abeta25-35, p<0.05 or p<0.01 respectively. But there was no difference of M receptor affinity among the four groups (p>0.05). M receptor affinity remained the same as concentration of catalpol increased gradually in atropine competition experiments (p>0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Catalpol could regulate the cholinergic nerve system function from its effect on ChAT and may have beneficial effect for treatment of AD, but had no effect on M receptor affinity.
25661257: !Alzheimer The phospholipase D superfamily as therapeutic targets. The phospholipase D (PLD) lipid-signaling enzyme superfamily has long been studied for its roles in cell communication and a wide range of cell biological processes. With the advent of loss-of-function genetic mouse models that have revealed that PLD1 and PLD2 ablation is overtly tolerable, small-molecule PLD1/2  inhibitors that do not cause unacceptable clinical toxicity, a PLD2 polymorphism  that has been linked to altered physiology, and growing delineation of processes  that are subtly altered in mice lacking PLD1/2 activity, the stage is being set for assessment of PLD1/2 inhibition for therapeutic purposes. Based on findings to date, PLD1/2 inhibition may be of more utility in acute rather than chronic settings, although this generalization will depend on the specific risks and benefits in each disease setting.
25661086: !Alzheimer Standard biobanking conditions prevent evaporation of body fluid samples. Pre-analytical variation in biobanking procedures, e.g., long-term storage, could confound biomarker outcomes. We investigated evaporation in various body fluids at different storage temperatures and storage durations. Biobank sample tubes (Sarstedt 72.694.007) filled with water in different volumes (50, 100, 250, 500,  750, 1000, 1250, 1500mul) were stored at different temperatures (-80 degrees C, -20 degrees C, 4 degrees C, room temperature (RT)) for 4.5years and weighed at regular intervals. Next, saliva, serum, plasma, and CSF were stored in different  volumes (50, 250, 500, 1000mul) at different temperatures (-80 degrees C, -20 degrees C, 4 degrees C, RT) for 2years. An extra set of CSF was stored in tubes with safe-lock cap (Eppendorf 0030 120.086) instead of a screw cap with o-ring. No evaporation of water stored in biobanking tubes at -80 degrees C or -20 degrees C occurred over 4.5years. Storage of saliva, serum, plasma, and CSF at -80 degrees C or -20 degrees C, monitored over 2years, protected these samples from evaporation too. At 4 degrees C, evaporation was minor, approximately 1.5% (50mul) or 0% (1ml) yearly, where at RT it ranged from 38% (50mul) to 2% (1ml). Differences were observed neither between different body fluids, nor between tube caps. Our data provide support for long-term biobanking conform current biobanking guidelines, encouraging retrospective use of clinical cohorts.
25660508: !Alzheimer In situ induced metal-enhanced fluorescence: a new strategy for biosensing the total acetylcholinesterase activity in sub-microliter human whole blood. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities (i.e., total AChE) in human blood are biomarkers for theranostic monitoring of organophosphate neurotoxin-poisoned patients. We developed an ultra-sensitive method to detect the total AChE activity in sub-microliter human whole blood based on in situ induced metal-enhanced fluorescence (MEF). Both AChE and BChE can catalyze the hydrolysis of the acetylthiocholine (ATCh) substrate and produce positively-charged thiocholine (TCh). TCh can reverse the negatively-charged surface of core-shell Ag@SiO2 nanoparticles (NPs). The negatively-charged fluorescent dye (8-hydroxypyrene-1,3,6-trisulfonic acid, HPTS) is then confined to the surface of Ag@SiO2 NPs and generates an enhanced fluorescence signal in situ. Changes in the surface charge of Ag@SiO2 NPs are monitored by Zeta potential, and the MEF effect is confirmed by the measurements of fluorescence time decay. AChE activity has a dynamic range of 0 U/mL to 0.005 U/mL and a detection limit of 0.05 mU/mL. The total AChE activity in the sub-microliter human whole blood could be determined; the results were further validated. Therefore, combining the AChE catalytic reaction with MEF provides a simple, ultra-sensitive, and cost-effective "in situ MEF" approach to determine the total AChE activity in human whole blood sample down to sub-microliters without matrix  interferences. The strategy also allows potential usage in other tissues and other fields.
25651446: !Alzheimer Dual effect of docosahexaenoic acid (attenuation or amplification) on C22:0-, C24:0-, and C26:0-induced mitochondrial dysfunctions and oxidative stress on human neuronal SK-N-BE cells. Increased levels of C22:0, C24:0 and C26:0 were found in cortical lesions of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). So, it was of interest to precise the cytotoxic effects of these fatty acids, and to determine whether docosahexaenoic  acid (DHA), described to prevent AD, can attenuate their eventual side effects. Human neuronal SK-N-BE cells were cultured in the absence or presence of C22:0, C24:0 or C26:0 (0.1-20 microM) without or with DHA (50-150 microM). C22:0, C24:0  and C26:0 induce an inhibition of cell growth, a loss of Deltapsim, an overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS), a decrease of reduced glutathione, and a lipid peroxidation. DHA attenuates C22:0, C24:0 and C26:0 induced-mitochondrial dysfunctions and/or cell growth inhibition measured with MTT whatever the concentrations considered, whereas it can either decrease or amplify (especially at 150 microM) ROS overproduction. C22:0, C24:0 and C26:0 have neurotoxic activities, and depending on its concentration, DHA attenuates or not fatty acid-induced side effects.
25651436: !Alzheimer Folic acid inhibits tau phosphorylation through regulation of PP2A methylation in SH-SY5Y cells. OBJECTIVES: Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), which are composed of intracellular filamentous aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein, are one of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Because tau phosphorylation is regulated by phosphatases, abnormal metabolism of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) has been proposed to be a contributing factor to the disease process. RESULTS: To determine the function of folic acid on tau phosphorylation, an in vitro model of human neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y) were exposed to folic acid (0-40 mumol/L) for 96 h, in the presence or absence of the phosphoesterase inhibitor okadaic acid (OA) (10 nmol/L) for 9 h. The data of western blot showed  tau phosphorylation at the Ser396 site in OA-incubated SH-SY5Y cells was inhibited by folic acid in a concentration-dependent manner, with the folic acid  concentration of 40 mumol/L providing maximal inhibition. Folic acid can downregulate tau protein phosphorylation by inhibiting the demethylation reactions of PP2A. High folic acid concentrations (20 and 40 mumol/L) increased SAM:SAH ratios and cell viability. CONCLUSION: Therefore, we can speculate that folate deficiency may be a cause of PP2A deregulation, which can in turn lead to  expression of the abnormal hyperphosphorylated form of tau.
25646590: !Alzheimer Activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) exhibits striking sexual dichotomy impacting on autistic and Alzheimer's pathologies. Activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) is a most frequent autism spectrum disorder (ASD)-associated gene and the only protein significantly decreasing in the serum of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Is ADNP associated  with ASD being more prevalent in boys and AD more prevalent in women? Our results revealed sex-related learning/memory differences in mice, reflecting hippocampal  expression changes in ADNP and ADNP-controlled AD/ASD risk genes. Hippocampal ADNP transcript content was doubled in male vs female mice, with females showing  equal expression to ADNP haploinsufficient (ADNP(+/)(-)) males and no significant genotype-associated reduction. Increased male ADNP expression was replicated in human postmortem hippocampal samples. The hippocampal transcript for apolipoprotein E (the major risk gene for AD) was doubled in female mice compared with males, and further doubled in the ADNP(+/-) females, contrasting a decrease  in ADNP(+/-) males. Previously, overexpression of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) led to ASD-like phenotype in mice. Here, we identified binding sites on ADNP for eIF4E and co-immunoprecipitation. Furthermore, hippocampal eIF4E expression was specifically increased in young ADNP(+/-) male mice. Behaviorally, ADNP(+/-) male mice exhibited deficiencies in  object recognition and social memory compared with ADNP(+/+) mice, while ADNP(+/-) females were partially spared. Contrasting males, which preferred novel over familiar mice, ADNP(+/+) females showed no preference to novel mice and ADNP(+/-) females did not prefer mice over object. ADNP expression, positioned as a master regulator of key ASD and AD risk genes, introduces a novel concept of hippocampal gene-regulated sexual dimorphism and an ADNP(+/-) animal model for translational psychiatry.
25644714: !Alzheimer Very low density lipoprotein receptor regulates dendritic spine formation in a RasGRF1/CaMKII dependent manner. Very Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor (VLDLR) is an apolipoprotein E receptor involved in synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory. However, it is unknown how VLDLR can regulate synaptic and cognitive function. In the present study, we found that VLDLR is present at the synapse both pre- and post-synaptically. Overexpression of VLDLR significantly increases, while knockdown of VLDLR decreases, dendritic spine number in primary hippocampal cultures. Additionally,  knockdown of VLDLR significantly decreases synaptophysin puncta number while differentially regulating cell surface and total levels of glutamate receptor subunits. To identify the mechanism by which VLDLR induces these synaptic effects, we investigated whether VLDLR affects dendritic spine formation through  the Ras signaling pathway, which is involved in spinogenesis and neurodegeneration. Interestingly, we found that VLDLR interacts with RasGRF1, a Ras effector, and knockdown of RasGRF1 blocks the effect of VLDLR on spinogenesis. Moreover, we found that VLDLR did not rescue the deficits induced by the absence of Ras signaling proteins CaMKIIalpha or CaMKIIbeta. Taken together, our results suggest that VLDLR requires RasGRF1/CaMKII to alter dendritic spine formation.
25636690: !Alzheimer Alzheimer's disease shares gene expression aberrations with purinergic dysregulation of HPRT deficiency (Lesch-Nyhan disease). Transcriptomic studies of murine D3 embryonic stem (ES) cells deficient in the purinergic biosynthetic function hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) and undergoing dopaminergic neuronal differentiation has demonstrated a marked shift from neuronal to glial gene expression and aberrant expression of multiple genes also known to be aberrantly expressed in Alzheimer's and other CNS disorders. Such genetic dysregulations may indicate some shared pathogenic metabolic mechanisms in diverse CNS diseases.
25636055: !Alzheimer Potent acetylcholinesterase inhibitors: design, synthesis, biological evaluation, and docking study of acridone linked to 1,2,3-triazole derivatives. A novel series of acridone linked to 1,2,3-triazole derivatives have been synthesized and evaluated in vitro for their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitory activities. The synthetic approach was started from the reaction of 2-bromobenzoic acid with aniline derivatives and subsequent cyclization reaction to give acridone derivatives. Then, reaction of the later compounds with propargyl bromide followed by azide-alkyne cycloaddition reaction (click reaction) led to the formation of the title compounds in good yields. Among the synthesized compounds, 10-((1-(4-chlorobenzyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)methyl)-2-methoxyacridin-9(10H)-one 9g, depicted the most potent anti-AChE activity (IC50 = 7.31 muM). Also, docking  study confirmed the results obtained through in vitro experiments and predicted possible binding conformation.
25633677: !Alzheimer Observational and ecological studies of dietary advanced glycation end products in national diets and Alzheimer's disease incidence and prevalence. BACKGROUND: Considerable evidence indicates that diet is an important risk-modifying factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Evidence is also mounting that dietary advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are important risk factors for AD. OBJECTIVE: This study strives to determine whether estimated dietary AGEs estimated from national diets and epidemiological studies are associated with increased AD incidence. METHODS: We estimated values of dietary AGEs using values in a published paper. We estimated intake of dietary AGEs from the Washington Heights-Inwood Community Aging Project (WHICAP) 1992 and 1999 cohort studies, which investigated how the Mediterranean diet (MeDi) affected AD incidence. Further, AD prevalence data came from three ecological studies and included data  from 11 countries for 1977-1993, seven developing countries for 1995-2005, and Japan for 1985-2008. The analysis used dietary AGE values from 20 years before the AD prevalence data. RESULTS: Meat was always the food with the largest amount of AGEs. Other foods with significant AGEs included fish, cheese, vegetables, and vegetable oil. High MeDi adherence results in lower meat and dairy intake, which  possess high AGE content. By using two different models to extrapolate dietary AGE intake in the WHICAP 1992 and 1999 cohort studies, we showed that reduced dietary AGE significantly correlates with reduced AD incidence. For the ecological studies, estimates of dietary AGEs in the national diets corresponded  well with AD prevalence data even though the cooking methods were not well known. CONCLUSION: Dietary AGEs appear to be important risk factors for AD.
25624420: !Alzheimer Distinct Expression of Long Non-Coding RNAs in an Alzheimer's Disease Model. With the recent advancement in transcriptome-wide profiling approach, numerous non-coding transcripts previously unknown have been identified. Among the non-coding transcripts, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have received increasing attention for their capacity to modulate transcriptional regulation. Although alterations in the expressions of non-coding RNAs have been studied in Alzheimer's disease (AD), most research focused on the involvement of microRNAs,  and comprehensive expression profiling of lncRNAs in AD has been lacking. In this study, microarray analysis was performed to procure the expression profile of lncRNAs dysregulated in a triple transgenic model of AD (3xTg-AD). A total of 4,622 lncRNAs were analyzed: 205 lncRNAs were significantly dysregulated in 3xTg-AD compared with control mice, and 230 lncRNAs were significantly dysregulated within 3xTg-AD in an age-dependent manner (>/=2.0-fold, p < 0.05). Among these, 27 and 15 lncRNAs, respectively, had adjacent protein-coding genes whose expressions were also significantly dysregulated. A majority of these lncRNAs and their adjacent genes shared the same direction of dysregulation. For  these pairs of lncRNAs and adjacent genes, significant Gene Ontology terms were DNA-dependent regulation of transcription, transcription regulator activity, and  embryonic organ morphogenesis. One of the most highly upregulated lncRNAs had a 395 bp core sequence that overlapped with multiple chromosomal regions. This is the first study that comprehensively identified dysregulated lncRNAs in 3xTg-AD mice and will likely facilitate the development of therapeutics targeting lncRNAs in AD.
25624418: !Alzheimer Upregulation of mitochondrial ferritin by proinflammatory cytokines: implications for a role in Alzheimer's disease. Studies have shown an increased expression of mitochondrial ferritin (FtMt) and an antioxidant role for the protein in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. However, little information is available concerning the role of FtMt in other AD pathologies, including inflammation and amyloidogenesis. Therefore, we investigated the regulation and function of FtMt in inflammation and amyloidogenesis. FtMt protein expression was increased by proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and interleukin 6 (IL-6), whereas FtMt mRNA levels were increased by  TNF-alpha but not by IL-1beta or IL-6 in IMR-32 cells. The transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) inhibitor, Bay 11-7082, suppressed this TNF-alpha-induced FtMt expression. FtMt overexpression increased NF-kappaB activity and translocation of p65 into the nucleus in HEK293 cells. Conversely, knockdown of FtMt attenuated TNF-alpha-induced NF-kappaB activity. Overexpression of FtMt inhibited TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis in the cell culture. FtMt overexpression reduced iron-mediated expression of amyloid-beta protein precursor and decreased NF-kappaB-dependent increases in beta- and gamma-secretase, leading to decreased amyloid-beta production. Our data provide new insights into the mechanism underlying the regulation of FtMt expression by proinflammatory cytokines and indicate further roles for FtMt in AD.
25623279: !Alzheimer Plant sterols: Friend or foe in CNS disorders? In mammals, the central nervous system (CNS) is the most cholesterol rich organ by weight. Cholesterol metabolism is tightly regulated in the CNS and all cholesterol available is synthesized in situ. Deficits in cholesterol homeostasis at the level of synthesis, transport, or catabolism result in severe disorders featured by neurological disability. Recent studies indicate that a disturbed cholesterol metabolism is involved in CNS disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease  (AD), multiple sclerosis (MS), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In contrast to circulating cholesterol, dietary plant sterols, can cross the blood-brain barrier and accumulate in the membranes of CNS cells. Plant sterols are well-known for their ability to lower circulating cholesterol levels. The finding that they gain access to the CNS has fueled research focusing on the physiological roles of plant sterols in the healthy and diseased CNS. To date, both beneficial and detrimental effects of plant sterols on CNS disorders are defined. In this review, we discuss recent findings regarding the impact of plant sterols on homeostatic and pathogenic processes in the CNS, and elaborate on the  therapeutic potential of plant sterols in CNS disorders.
25616486: !Alzheimer Developmental determinants in non-communicable chronic diseases and ageing. Prenatal and peri-natal events play a fundamental role in health, development of  diseases and ageing (Developmental Origins of Health and Disease (DOHaD)). Research on the determinants of active and healthy ageing is a priority to: (i) inform strategies for reducing societal and individual costs of an ageing population and (ii) develop effective novel prevention strategies. It is important to compare the trajectories of respiratory diseases with those of other chronic diseases.
25612739: !Alzheimer Telomere length variations in aging and age-related diseases. Telomeres are gene sequences present at chromosomal ends and are responsible for  maintaining genome integrity. Telomere length is maximum at birth and decreases progressively with advancing age and thus is considered as a biomarker of chronological aging. This age associated decrease in the length of telomere is linked to various ageing associated diseases like diabetes, hypertension, Alzheimer's disease, cancer etc. and their associated complications. Telomere length is a result of combined effect of oxidative stress, inflammation and repeated cell replication on it, and thus forming an association between telomere length and chronological aging and related diseases. Thus, decrease in telomere length was found to be important in determining both, the variations in longevity and age-related diseases in an individual. Ongoing and progressive research in the field of telomere length dynamics has proved that aging and age-related diseases apart from having a synergistic effect on telomere length were also found to effect telomere length independently also. Here a short description about telomere length variations and its association with human aging and age-related diseases is reviewed.
25610425: !Alzheimer Farnesol-like endogenous sesquiterpenoids in vertebrates: the probable but overlooked functional "inbrome" anti-aging counterpart of juvenile hormone of insects? Literature on the question whether the juvenile stage of vertebrates is hormonally regulated is scarce. It seems to be intuitively assumed that this stage of development is automated, and does not require any specific hormone(s).  Such reasoning mimics the state of affairs in insects until it was shown that surgical removal of a tiny pair of glands in the head, the corpora allata, ended  larval life and initiated metamorphosis. Decades later, the responsible hormone was found and named "juvenile hormone" (JH) because when present, it makes a larva molt into another larval stage. JH is a simple ester of farnesol, a sesquiterpenoid present in all eukaryotes. Whereas vertebrates do not have an anatomical counterpart of the corpora allata, their tissues do contain farnesol-like sesquiterpenoids (FLS). Some display typical JH activity when tested in appropriate insect bioassays. Some FLS are intermediates in the biosynthetic pathway of cholesterol, a compound that insects and nematodes (=Ecdysozoa) cannot synthesize by themselves. They ingest it as a vitamin. Until  a recent (2014) reexamination of the basic principle underlying insect metamorphosis, it had been completely overlooked that the Ca(2+)-pump (SERCA) blocker thapsigargin is a sesquiterpenoid that mimics the absence of JH in inducing apoptosis. In our opinion, being in the juvenile state is primarily controlled by endogenous FLS that participate in controlling the activity of Ca(2+)-ATPases in the sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum (SERCAs), not only in insects  but in all eukaryotes. Understanding the control mechanisms of being in the juvenile state may boost research not only in developmental biology in general, but also in diseases that develop after the juvenile stage, e.g., Alzheimer's disease. It may also help to better understand some of the causes of obesity, a syndrome that holometabolous last larval insects severely suffer from, and for which they found a very drastic but efficient solution, namely metamorphosis.
25609250: !Alzheimer Presenilin-like GxGD membrane proteases have dual roles as proteolytic enzymes and ion channels. The GxGD proteases function to cleave protein substrates within the membrane. As  these proteases contain multiple transmembrane domains typical of ion channels, we examined if GxGD proteases also function as ion channels. We tested the putative dual function by examining two archeobacterial GxGD proteases (PSH and FlaK), with known three-dimensional structures. Both are in the same GxGD family  as presenilin, a protein mutated in Alzheimer Disease. Here, we demonstrate that  PSH and FlaK form cation channels in lipid bilayers. A mutation that affected the enzymatic activity of FlaK rendered the channel catalytically inactive and altered the ion selectivity, indicating that the ion channel and the catalytic activities are linked. We report that the GxGD proteases, PSH and FlaK, are true  "chanzymes" with interdependent ion channel and protease activity conferred by a  single structural domain embedded in the membrane, supporting the proposal that higher-order proteases, including presenilin, have channel function.
25602932: !Alzheimer Synthesis and pharmacological evaluation of benzannulated derivatives as potent and selective sigma-1 protein ligands. The sigma1 proteins are considered to be a new class of target structures for several central nervous system disorders, including depression, anxiety, psychosis, and Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Recently, the involvement of these receptors in neuropathic pain and cancer has also been observed. So far, only a few ligands are in clinical trials. In a continuation of our previous studies on the development of sigma1 ligands, a new series of benzannulated heterocycles was designed and synthesised. In vitro competition binding assays showed that many of them possessed high sigma1 receptor affinity (Ki = 0.6-10.3 nM), and good sigma2/sigma1 subtype selectivity, without cytotoxic effects on SY5Y cells (human neuroblastoma cell line).
25600944: !Alzheimer Functional Gene Networks: R/Bioc package to generate and analyse gene networks derived from functional enrichment and clustering. Functional Gene Networks (FGNet) is an R/Bioconductor package that generates gene networks derived from the results of functional enrichment analysis (FEA) and annotation clustering. The sets of genes enriched with specific biological terms  (obtained from a FEA platform) are transformed into a network by establishing links between genes based on common functional annotations and common clusters. The network provides a new view of FEA results revealing gene modules with similar functions and genes that are related to multiple functions. In addition to building the functional network, FGNet analyses the similarity between the groups of genes and provides a distance heatmap and a bipartite network of functionally overlapping genes. The application includes an interface to directly perform FEA queries using different external tools: DAVID, GeneTerm Linker, TopGO or GAGE; and a graphical interface to facilitate the use.
25596488: !Alzheimer diamondCopper (II) ions modulate Angiogenin activity in human endothelial cells. Angiogenin (ANG), a member of the secreted ribonuclease family, is a potent angiogenesis stimulator that interacts with endothelial cells inducing a wide range of responses. Metal ions dyshomeostasis play a fundamental role in the onset of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular copper that is also involved in angiogenesis processes. It is known that vascular pathologies are present in neurodegenerative diseases and Angiogenin is down-regulated in Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases, as well as it has been found as one of the mutated genes in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Copper (II) induces an increase of Angiogenin binding to endothelial cells but, so far, the relationship between copper-ANG and angiogenesis induction remain unclear. Herein, the effects of copper (II) ions on Angiogenin activity and expression were evaluated. The binding of copper was demonstrated to affect the intracellular localization of the protein decreasing its nuclear translocation. Moreover, the ANG-copper (II) system negatively affects the protein-induced angiogenesis, as well as endothelial cells migration. Surprisingly, copper also reveals the ability to modulate the Angiogenin transcription. These results highlight the tight relationship between copper and Angiogenin, pointing out the biological relevance of ANG-copper system in the regulation of endothelial cell function, and revealing a possible new mechanism at the basis of vascular pathologies.
25595257: !Alzheimer Co-stimulation with TNF receptor superfamily 4/25 antibodies enhances in-vivo expansion of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ T cells (Tregs) in a mouse study for active DNA Abeta42 immunotherapy. The study was designed to test DNA Abeta42 immunization in mice as alternative approach for possible active immunotherapy in Alzheimer patients. As results, we  found polarized Th2 immune responses, efficient Abeta42 antibody levels, and disappearance of antigen specific T cells. In-vivo TNFRSF4/25 antibody co-stimulation enhanced Abeta42 specific T cell responses with initial Th2 expansion and subsequent development of Abeta42 specific CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ cells. It showed that Th2 biased responses due to gene gun immunizations propagate the development of regulatory T cells. In conclusion, full-length DNA Abeta42 immunization into skin results in a regulatory response with minimal risk of inflammation and autoimmunity.
25593125: !Alzheimer Different mechanisms of apolipoprotein E isoform-dependent modulation of prostaglandin E2 production and triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2  (TREM2) expression after innate immune activation of microglia. Several lines of evidence support immune response in brain as a mechanism of injury in Alzheimer disease (AD). Moreover, immune activation is heightened in apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 carriers; inhibitors of prostaglandin (PG) synthesis show a partially protective effect on AD risk from APOE epsilon4; and genetic variants in triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) are  a rare but potent risk for AD. We tested the hypothesis that APOE epsilon4 inheritance modulates both the PGE2 pathway and TREM2 expression using primary murine microglia from targeted replacement (TR) APOE3/3 and APOE4/4 mice. Microglial cyclooxygenase-2, microsomal PGE synthase, and PGE2 expression were increased 2- to 25-fold in both genotypes by TLR activators; however, this induction was significantly (P < 0.01) greater in TR APOE4/4 microglia with TLR3  and TLR4 activators. Microglial TREM2 expression was reduced approximately 85% by all TLR activators; this reduction was approximately one-third greater in microglia from TR APOE4/4 mice. Importantly, both receptor-associated protein and a nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer inhibitor blocked TR APOE4/4-dependent effects on the PGE2 pathway but not on TREM2 expression. These  data demonstrate complementary, but mechanistically distinct, regulation of pro-  and anti-inflammatory mediators in TR APOE4/4 murine microglia that yields a more proinflammatory state than with TR APOE3/3.
25590729: !Alzheimer Abeta(1-42) induces abnormal alternative splicing of tau exons 2/3 in NGF-induced PC12 cells. Protein tau plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease, where its hyperphos-phorylation promotes aggregation and microtubule destabilization. Tau undergoes alternative splicing which generates six isoforms  in the human brain, due to inclusion/exclusion of exons 2, 3 and 10. Dysregulation of the splicing process of tau exon 10 is sufficient to cause tauopathy and has shown to be influenced by beta-amyloid peptides, but splicing of other exons is less studied. We studied the effects of beta-amyloid(42) in the alternative splicing of tau exons 2/3 and 6, using untreated and Nerve Growth Factor-induced PC12 cells. Beta-amyloid exposure caused formed cell processes to  retract in differentiated cells and altered the expression of exons 2/3 in both undifferentiated and differentiated cells. Expression of exon 6 was repressed in  undifferentiated cells only. Our results suggest that beta-amyloid interferes with the splicing process of exons 2/3, favoring their exclusion and thus the expression of immature tau isoforms that are less efficient in stabilizing microtubules and may also be more prone to hyperphosphorylation. The molecular mechanism for this amyloid-tau interaction remains to be determined, but may have potential implications for the understanding of the underlying neuropathological  processes in Alzheimer's disease.
25590687: !Alzheimer Neuronal cell cycle: the neuron itself and its circumstances. Neurons are usually regarded as postmitotic cells that undergo apoptosis in response to cell cycle reactivation. Nevertheless, recent evidence indicates the  existence of a defined developmental program that induces DNA replication in specific populations of neurons, which remain in a tetraploid state for the rest  of their adult life. Similarly, de novo neuronal tetraploidization has also been  described in the adult brain as an early hallmark of neurodegeneration. The aim of this review is to integrate these recent developments in the context of cell cycle regulation and apoptotic cell death in neurons. We conclude that a variety  of mechanisms exists in neuronal cells for G1/S and G2/M checkpoint regulation. These mechanisms, which are connected with the apoptotic machinery, can be modulated by environmental signals and the neuronal phenotype itself, thus resulting in a variety of outcomes ranging from cell death at the G1/S checkpoint to full proliferation of differentiated neurons.
25590369: !Alzheimer Blockade of emodin on amyloid-beta 25-35-induced neurotoxicity in AbetaPP/PS1 mice and PC12 cells through activation of the class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Beclin-1/B-cell lymphoma 2 pathway. Autophagy plays an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. In  the present study, the blockade mechanism of emodin on amyloid-beta 25-35-induced neurotoxicity was explored. Cell viability of PC12 cells was evaluated by the MTT assay and neuro damage by the lactate dehydrogenase leakage assay. Gene silencing by small interfering RNA, cDNA constructs and transfection, as well as Western blot were performed to assess protein expression levels. AbetaPP/PS1 mice were administered orally with emodin (50 mg/kg/day), and LC3-II positive cells in their brain cortex sections were detected by immunohistochemical staining. Emodin could significantly inhibit the LC3-I/LC3-II conversion ratio and cell viability  while decreasing the lactate dehydrogenase level in AbetaPP/PS1 mice and PC12 cells. LC3II positive cells in the cortex were decreased significantly by the treatment with both emodin and 3-methyladenine. Furthermore, emodin and 3-methyladenine could increase B-cell lymphoma 2 while decreasing Beclin-1 and hVps34 expressions, which were induced by amyloid-beta 25-35. Small interfering gene silencing Beclin-1 and B-cell lymphoma 2 confirmed this signaling pathway. We also found that the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 could block LC3-I/LC3-II conversion and increase B-cell lymphoma 2 while decreasing hVps34 and Beclin-1 expressions. The results suggest that the blockade of emodin  on amyloid-beta 25-35-induced autophagy may occur via the activation of the class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Beclin-1/B-cell lymphoma 2 pathway. Our results provide confirmatory evidence for the application of emodin in the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
25582787: !Alzheimer Submyeloablative conditioning with busulfan permits bone marrow-derived cell accumulation in a murine model of Alzheimer's disease. Previous work has suggested that bone marrow (BM)-derived cells (BMDCs) accumulate within the CNS and could potentially associate with beta-amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). To explore the accumulation of BMDCs in murine AD, we transplanted green fluorescent protein (GFP)-labeled BM cells into  triple transgenic (3xTg) and wild-type (wt) mice using non-irradiative myelosuppresive conditioning with busulfan (BU). We find that BU (80mg/kg) is sufficient to obtain adequate chimerism (>85%) in wt mice. In order to obtain appreciable non-irradiative chimerism in the 3xTg mice (>80%), anti-asialo ganglio-N-tetraosylceramide (alpha-ASGM-1) antibody was also used to reduce natural killer cell function and thereby abrogate the hybrid resistance of the 3xTg mouse strain. Using BU conditioning and alpha-ASGM-1 together, we observed sustained BM chimerism and BMDC accumulation within the CNS of the 3xTg and wt mice. In cortex and hippocampus, BMDC accumulation was perivascular in distribution and similar between 3xTg and wt mice, with no clear association between BMDCs and AD plaques. We conclude that non-irradiative BM chimerism can be achieved with BU in 3xTg mice, but requires alpha-ASGM-1 (or similar appropriate NK-cell depletion). Use of this chimerism protocol permits BMDCs accumulation in the CNS of mixed strain recipient mice although BMDCs appear to be largely perivascular within cortex and hippocampus.
25582438: !Alzheimer RAGE gene polymorphism and environmental factor in the risk of oral cancer. Oral squamous cell carcinoma is a common neoplasm that is known to be causally associated with genetic factors and environmental carcinogens. The receptor for advanced glycosylation endproducts (RAGE) is a transmembrane protein of the immunoglobulin superfamily with broad specificity for multiple ligands, and it has been shown to play vital roles in several pathophysiologic processes, including diabetes, Alzheimer disease, renal disease, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. The present study aimed to assess the influences of RAGE gene polymorphisms, combined with environmental carcinogens on the predisposition to oral tumorigenesis. Five polymorphisms of the RAGE gene-including -374T>A (rs1800624), -429T>C (rs1800625), 1704G>T (rs184003), Gly82Ser (rs2070600), and a 63-bp deletion allele (-407 to -345)-were examined from 592 controls and 618 patients with oral cancer. We found that individuals carrying the polymorphic allele of rs1800625 are more susceptible to oral cancer (odds ratio [OR], 1.899;  95% confidence interval [CI], 1.355 to 2.661; adjusted OR [AOR], 2.053; 95% CI, 1.269 to 3.345) after adjustment for age, sex, betel nut chewing, and tobacco consumption. Moreover, we observed a significant association of rs1800625 variants with late-stage tumors (stage III/IV, OR, 1.736; 95% CI, 1.126 to 2.677; AOR, 1.771; 95% CI, 1.101 to 2.851) and large-size tumors (>2 cm in the greatest  dimension; OR, 1.644; 95% CI, 1.083 to 2.493; AOR, 1.728; 95% CI, 1.089 to 2.741). Based on behavioral exposure of environmental carcinogens, the presence of 4 RAGE single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), combined with betel quid chewing and/or tobacco use, greatly augmented the risk of oral cancer. In addition, carriers of particular haplotypes of the 4 RAGE SNPs examined are more  prone to develop oral cancer. These results indicate an involvement of RAGE SNP rs1800625 in the development of oral squamous cell carcinoma and implicate the interaction between RAGE gene polymorphisms and environmental mutagens as a predisposing factor of oral carcinogenesis.
25582330: !Alzheimer Donepezil-ferulic acid hybrids as anti-Alzheimer drugs. BACKGROUND: Due to the complex nature of Alzheimer's disease, there is a renewed  and growing search for multitarget drugs. RESULTS: Donepezil-ferulic acid hybrids (DFAHs) were prepared by the one-pot Ugi-4CR in low-to-moderate yields. DFAHs are potent antioxidant agents, showing oxygen radical absorbance capacity values in the range 4.80-8.71 trolox equivalents, quite higher compared with those recorded for ferulic acid and melatonin. From the ChEs inhibition studies, we conclude that DFAH 8, bearing an ethylene linker, and DFAH 12, bearing a propylene linker, both substituted with a melatonin motif, are the most potent inhibitors, in the nanomolar range. CONCLUSION: We have identified DFAH 8 as a very potent antioxidant, and totally selective equineButyrylCholinEsterase (eqBuChE) inhibitor.
25580119: !Alzheimer Alternate Phosphorylation/O-GlcNAc Modification on Human Insulin IRSs: A Road towards Impaired Insulin Signaling in Alzheimer and Diabetes. Impaired insulin signaling has been thought of as important step in both Alzheimer's disease (AD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Posttranslational modifications (PTMs) regulate functions and interaction of insulin with insulin receptors substrates (IRSs) and activate insulin signaling downstream pathways via autophosphorylation on several tyrosine (TYR) residues on IRSs. Two important insulin receptor substrates 1 and 2 are widely expressed in human, and alternative phosphorylation on their serine (Ser) and threonine (Thr) residues has been known to block the Tyr phosphorylation of IRSs, thus inhibiting insulin  signaling and promoting insulin resistance. Like phosphorylation, O-glycosylation modification is important PTM and inhibits phosphorylation on same or neighboring Ser/Thr residues, often called Yin Yang sites. Both IRS-1 and IRS-2 have been shown to be O-glycosylated; however exact sites are not determined yet. In this study, by using neuronal network based prediction methods, we found more than 50  Ser/Thr residues that have potential to be O-glycosylated and may act as possible sites as well. Moreover, alternative phosphorylation and O-glycosylation on IRS-1 Ser-312, 984, 1037, and 1101 may act as possible therapeutic targets to minimize  the risk of AD and T2DM.
25579468: !Alzheimer Hsp90 interaction with clients. The conserved Hsp90 chaperone is an ATP-controlled machine that assists the folding and controls the stability of select proteins. Emerging data explain how  Hsp90 achieves client specificity and its role in the cellular chaperone cascade. Interestingly, Hsp90 has an extended substrate binding interface that crosses domain boundaries, exhibiting specificity for proteins with hydrophobic residues  spread over a large area regardless of whether they are disordered, partly folded, or even folded. This specificity principle ensures that clients preferentially bind to Hsp70 early on in the folding path, but downstream folding intermediates bind Hsp90. Discussed here, the emerging model is that the Hsp90 ATPase does not modulate client affinity but instead controls substrate influx from Hsp70.
25577016: !Alzheimer [Injectable preparation of labeled leucine with the carbon 13 for a clinical research program on the Alzheimer disease: pharmaceutical control of raw materials and the finished product and stability study]. INTRODUCTION: The L-leucine labeled (L-[U-(13)C] Leu) is a stable isotopic tracer administered by parenteral route within the framework of a new clinical research  program concerning the diagnosis of the Alzheimer's disease. To meet regulatory requirements and have ready to use solution with an expiration date, a pharmaceutical control of raw materials and the finished product followed by a stability study were realised. MATERIALS AND METHOD: After the pharmaceutical control of raw materials, the solution of L-[U-(13)C] Leu was prepared according  to the good practices preparation. Prepared bottles were stored for 1 year of a share in a climatic chamber (25 degrees C+/-2 degrees C) and the other in a refrigerator (5 degrees C+/-3 degrees C). To assess stability, the physicochemical controls (pH, osmolality, sub-visible particles, L-[U-(13)C] Leu  concentration, sodium concentration, isotopic enrichment) and microbiological (bacterial endotoxin and sterility) were performed at regular intervals for 1 year. RESULTS: Neither significant decrease of L-[U-(13)C] Leu concentration and  sodium concentration nor pH and osmolality variation were observed for 1 year. Isotopic enrichment higher than 99.9% reflected the stability of labelling of L-leucine molecule. The sub-visible particles, the bacterial endotoxin and sterility were in accordance with the European pharmacopoeia attesting limpidity, apyrogenicity and sterility of this injectable preparation. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: The injectable preparation of L-[U-(13)C] Leu was stable after 1 year for two preservation conditions, ensuring to safety for administration for human  within the framework of this clinical research.
25575172: !Alzheimer Metabolite profiling for the identification of altered metabolic pathways in Alzheimer's disease. Gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry is the most frequent tool for metabolomic profiling of low molecular weight metabolites. Its suitability in health survey is beyond doubt, given that primary metabolites involved in central pathways of metabolism are usually altered in diseases. The objective of this work is to investigate metabolic differences in serum between Alzheimer's disease patients and healthy controls in order to elucidate pathological mechanisms underlying to disease. Alterations in levels of 23 metabolites were detected, including increased lactic acid, alpha-ketoglutarate, isocitric acid, glucose, oleic acid, adenosine and cholesterol, as well as decreased urea, valine, aspartic acid, pyroglutamate, glutamine, phenylalanine, asparagine, ornithine, pipecolic acid, histidine, tyrosine, palmitic and uric acid, tryptophan, stearic  acid and cystine. Metabolic pathway analysis revealed the involvement of multiple affected pathways, such as energy deficiencies, oxidative stress, hyperammonemia, and others. Moreover, it is noteworthy that some of these compounds have not been previously described in AD research, such as alpha-ketoglutarate, isocitrate pipecolic acid, pyroglutamate and adenosine, confirming the potential of this metabolomic approach in the search of novel potential markers for early detection of Alzheimer's disease.
25572750: !Alzheimer Effect of betamethasone in combination with antibiotics on gram positive and gram negative bacteria. Betamethasone is an anti-inflammatory steroid drug used in cases of anaphylactic  and allergic reactions, of Alzheimer and Addison diseases and in soft tissue injuries. It modulates gene expression for anti-inflammatory activity suppressing the immune system response. This latter effect might decrease the effectiveness of immune system response against microbial infections. Corticosteroids, in fact, mask some symptoms of infection and during their use superimposed infections may  occur. Thus, the use of glucocorticoids in patients with sepsis remains extremely controversial. In this study we analyzed the in vitro effect of a commercial formulation of betamethasone (Bentelan) on several Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria of clinical relevance. It was found to be an inhibitor of the growth of most of the strains examined. Also the effect of betamethasone in combination with some classes of antibiotics was evaluated. Antibiotic-steroid combination therapy is, in such cases, superior to antibiotic-alone treatment to  impair bacterial growths. Such effect was essentially not at all observable on Staphylococcus aureus or Coagulase Negative Staphylococci (CoNS).
25569373: !Alzheimer High Expression Level of Antioxidants and Pharmaceutical Bioactivities of Endophytic Fungus Chaetomium Globosum JN711454. fungus Chaetomium globosum JN711454 during fermentation process, designed fermentation experiments of culture media for three levels of eight culture factors were performed using Taguchi Orthogonal Array (OA) design with layout L18 (21x37). The agitation and the potato extract were the most significant affecting factors and their interaction contributed significantly on fungus activity. The production of antioxidants was more favorable for static condition with 25 g potato extract/100 ml. The remaining factors had no strong impact when considered individually. The validation of statistically optimized medium indicated the improvement of antioxidant activity to the level of double fold with approximately overall 40% enhancement in activity. The extract of optimized medium was investigated for various pharmaceutical bioactivities; it revealed a moderate antimicrobial activity, strong anticancer activity against HepG-2, UACC62 cell lines, an antiviral activity against HSV-2 virus, and strong inhibitory activity to butyrylcholinesterase enzyme, one of neuro hydrolase enzymes that play a major role in development of Alzheimer's disease. As a result of applying statistical fermentation designs, the optimized conditions of endophytic fungus C. globosum JN711454 developed a cost-effective production medium by using inexpensive commercial potato extracts statically, which can lower energy requirement and could become an efficient, economic, and viable fermentation process for production of pharmaceutical secondary metabolites. In order to maximize antioxidant activity of pharmaceutical bioactive endophytic  fungus Chaetomium globosum JN711454 during fermentation process, designed fermentation experiments of culture media for three levels of eight culture factors were performed using Taguchi Orthogonal Array (OA) design with layout L18 (21x37). The agitation and the potato extract were the most significant affecting factors and their interaction contributed significantly on fungus activity. The production of antioxidants was more favorable for static condition with 25 g potato extract/100 ml. The remaining factors had no strong impact when considered individually. The validation of statistically optimized medium indicated the improvement of antioxidant activity to the level of double fold with approximately overall 40% enhancement in activity. The extract of optimized medium was investigated for various pharmaceutical bioactivities; it revealed a moderate antimicrobial activity, strong anticancer activity against HepG-2, UACC62 cell lines, an antiviral activity against HSV-2 virus, and strong inhibitory activity to butyrylcholinesterase enzyme, one of neuro hydrolase enzymes that play a major role in development of Alzheimer's disease. As a result of applying statistical fermentation designs, the optimized conditions of endophytic fungus C. globosum JN711454 developed a cost-effective production medium by using inexpensive commercial potato extracts statically, which can lower energy requirement and could become an efficient, economic, and viable fermentation process for production of pharmaceutical secondary metabolites.
25569096: !Alzheimer Human adipose tissue conditioned media from lean subjects is protective against H2O2 induced neurotoxicity in human SH-SY5Y neuronal cells. Adipose tissue secretes numerous hormone-like factors, which are known as adipokines. Adipokine receptors have been identified in the central nervous system but the potential role of adipokine signaling in neuroprotection is unclear. The aim of this study is to determine (1) Whether adipokines secreted from cultured adipose tissue of lean humans is protective against oxidative stress-induced neurotoxicity in human SH-SY5Y neuronal cells; and (2) To explore  potential signaling pathways involved in these processes. Adipose tissue conditioned media (ATCM) from healthy lean subjects completely prevented H2O2 induced neurotoxicity, while this effect is lost after heating ATCM. ATCM activated the phosphorylation of ERK1/2, JNK and Akt at serine 308 in SH-SY5Y cells. PD98059 (25 microM), SP600125 (5 microM) and LY29400 (20 microM) partially blocked the protective effects of ATCM against H2O2 induced neurotoxicity. Findings demonstrate that heat-sensitive factors secreted from human adipose tissue of lean subjects are protective against H2O2 induced neurotoxicity and ERK1/2, JNK, and PI3K signaling pathways are involved in these processes. In conclusion, this study demonstrates preliminary but encouraging data to further support that adipose tissue secreted factors from lean human subjects might possess neuroprotective properties and unravel the specific roles of ERK1/2, JNK  and PI3K in these processes.
25566531: !Alzheimer Farmer to pharmacist: curcumin as an anti-invasive and antimetastatic agent for the treatment of cancer. A huge number of compounds are widely distributed in nature and many of these possess medicinal/biological/pharmacological activity. Curcumin, a polyphenol derived from the rhizomes (underground stems) of Curcuma longa Linn (a member of  the ginger family, commonly known as turmeric) is a culinary spice and therapeutic used in India for thousands of years to induce color and flavor in food as well as to treat a wide array of diseases. The origin of turmeric as spice and folklore medicine is so old that it is lost in legend. Curcumin has many beneficial pharmacological effects which includes, but are not limited with, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiviral, antiangiogenic, neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease, and antidiabetic activities. Most importantly curcumin possesses immense antitumorigenic effect. It prevents tumor invasion and metastasis in a number of animal models, including models of lung, liver, stomach, colon, breast, esophageal cancer etc. Invasion and metastasis are considered as one of the hallmarks in cancer biology. The pertinent recent applications of curcumin as anti-invasive and antimetastatic agent in in vitro and in vivo and ex vivo studies as well as associated molecular mechanisms have been discussed in this review. Curcumin has also demonstrated the ability to improve patient outcomes in clinical trials.
25558551: !Alzheimer Folate and homocysteine metabolisms and their roles in the biochemical basis of neuropsychiatry. The term 'one-carbon metabolism' is commonly used to describe 3 separate metabolic processes: folate metabolism, the homocysteine remethylation cycle, and the transsulfuration pathway. Folate metabolism concerns the biochemical reactions in which endogenous and exogenous one-carbon units are transferred to tetrahydrofolates. The remethylation cycle is used for the synthesis of methionine from homocysteine with one-carbon units that come from folate. This methionine is thenfused for the synthesis of S-adenosyl methionine, which is a general donor of methyl groups for many biochemical reactions in the human body.  In the transsulfuration pathway, some amino acids and polypeptides, such as cystathionine, cysteine, and glutathione, are synthesized from homocysteine. The  kinetics of the enzymes in this pathway are regulated by the substrates of the remethylation cycle. The methylation process has been thought to have an important role in the biochemical basis of neuropsychiatry. An elevated homocysteine level is the most important marker of folate and vitamin B12 deficiencies, and also the most reliable biochemical sign of functional insufficiency. Some neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases, such as psychosis, Alzheimer's disease, and autism, have been found to be related to disorders of one-carbon metabolism. This review aims to summarize both one-carbon metabolism and its relationships with neuropsychiatric disorders.
25558244: !Alzheimer Amyloid precursor-like protein 2 C-terminal fragments upregulate S100A9 gene and  protein expression in BV2 cells. The murine microglial cell line BV2 has neuroprotective effects, but is toxic to  neurons by secreting inflammatory cytokines, and is an important target in the treatment of nerve inflammation and neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, we observed the effects of transfecting three amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2) C-terminal fragments (CTFs; C57, C50 and C31) in the pEGFP-N1 vector on S100A9 expression in BV2 cells. Reverse transcription-PCR, western blot assay and immunocytochemistry revealed that S100A9 protein and mRNA expression was greater in BV2 cells after CTF transfection than after mock transfection with an empty vector. Furthermore, transfection of full-length APLP2-751 resulted in low levels of S100A9 protein expression. Our results show that APLP2-CTFs upregulate S100A9 protein and mRNA expression in BV2 cells, and identify a novel  pathway involved in neuronal injury and apoptosis, and repair and protection in Alzheimer's disease.
25557390: !Alzheimer The ITM2B (BRI2) gene is a target of BCL6 repression: Implications for lymphomas  and neurodegenerative diseases. The human BCL6 gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that is crucial for germinal center B cell development and T follicular helper cell differentiation.  It is involved in the pathogenesis of certain human lymphomas. In an effort to identify targets of BCL6 repression, we used a previously described cell system in which BCL6 repressive effects are inhibited, followed by subtractive hybridization, and identified the integral membrane 2B gene (ITM2B, formerly BRI2) as a potential target. Here we show that BCL6 can bind to its preferential  consensus binding site within the first intron of ITM2B and represses its transcription. Knockdown of endogenous BCL6 in a human B cell lymphoma line increases ITM2B expression. Further, there is an inverse relationship between the expression levels of BCL6 and ITM2B proteins in 16 human B- and T-cell lymphomas  studied by immunohistochemistry. Both the BCL6 and ITM2B proteins are expressed ubiquitously. Similar to some other targets of BCL6, a short form of the ITM2B protein generated by alternative splicing induces apoptosis in hematopoietic cell lines. Molecular alterations in the ITM2B gene are associated with two neurodegenerative diseases, Familial British and Familial Danish dementia. ITM2B  dysfunction also may be relevant for the development of Alzheimer's disease. Our  data confirm ITM2B as a target of BCL6 repression in lymphoma. A further understanding of the genes that function as regulators of the ITM2B protein may provide insights for the development of new molecular tools not only for targeted lymphoma therapy but also for the treatment of these dementias.
25555499: !Alzheimer Gene expression profile in cardiovascular disease and preeclampsia: a meta-analysis of the transcriptome based on raw data from human studies deposited in Gene Expression Omnibus. INTRODUCTION: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) and preeclampsia (PE) share common clinical features. We aimed to identify common transcriptomic signatures involved in CVD and PE in humans. METHODS: Meta-analysis of individual raw microarray data deposited in GEO, obtained from blood samples of patients with CVD versus controls and placental samples from women with PE versus healthy women with uncomplicated pregnancies. Annotation of cases versus control samples was taken directly from the microarray documentation. Genes that showed a significant differential expression in the majority of experiments were selected for subsequent analysis. Hypergeometric gene list analysis was performed using Bioconductor GOstats package. Bioinformatic analysis was performed in PANTHER. RESULTS: Seven studies in CVD and 5 studies in PE were eligible for meta-analysis. A total of 181 genes were found to be differentially expressed in  microarray studies investigating gene expression in blood samples obtained from patients with CVD compared to controls and 925 genes were differentially expressed between preeclamptic and healthy placentas. Among these differentially  expressed genes, 22 were common between CVD and PE. DISCUSSION: Bioinformatic analysis of these genes revealed oxidative stress, p-53 pathway feedback, inflammation mediated by chemokines and cytokines, interleukin signaling, B-cell  activation, PDGF signaling, Wnt signaling, integrin signaling and Alzheimer disease pathways to be involved in the pathophysiology of both CVD and PE. Metabolism, development, response to stimulus, immune response and cell communication were the associated biologic processes in both conditions. Gene set enrichment analysis showed the following overlapping pathways between CVD and PE: TGF-beta-signaling, apoptosis, graft-versus-host disease, allograft rejection, chemokine signaling, steroid hormone synthesis, type I and II diabetes mellitus,  VEGF signaling, pathways in cancer, GNRH signaling, Huntingtons disease and Notch signaling. CONCLUSION: CVD and PE share same common traits in their gene expression profile indicating common pathways in their pathophysiology.
25554493: !Alzheimer CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein delta/miR135a/thrombospondin 1 axis mediates PGE2-induced angiogenesis in Alzheimer's disease. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), large populations of endothelial cells undergo angiogenesis due to brain hypoxia and inflammation. Substantial evidence from epidemiologic, pathologic, and clinical reports suggests that vascular factors are critical for the pathogenesis of AD. However, the precise mechanistic correlation between inflammation and angiogenesis in AD has not been well elucidated. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), a key factor of the inflammatory response, has been known to promote angiogenesis. In this study, we demonstrated that PGE2  acts through EP4 receptor and protein kinase A to modulate CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein delta (CEBPD) abundance in astrocytes. Attenuated vessel formation was observed in the brains of AppTg/Cebpd(-/-) mice. We showed that miR135a was responsive to the induction of CEBPD and further negatively regulated thrombospondin 1 (THBS1) transcription by directly targeting its 3'-untranslated  region (3'UTR) in astrocytes. Furthermore, conditioned media from astrocytes expressing miR135a promoted Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) tube-like formation, which correlated with the effects of PGE2 on angiogenesis. Our results indicated that CEBPD contributes to the repression of THBS1 transcription by activating the expression of miR135a in astrocytes following PGE2 treatment. We provided new evidence that astrocytic CEBPD increases angiogenesis during AD pathogenesis. This discovery supports the negative influence of CEBPD activation in astrocytes with respect to AD pathogenesis and implies that the CEBPD/miR135a/THBS1 axis could be a therapeutic target of AD.
25553456: !Alzheimer Protein tyrosine phosphatases in pathological process. Protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) modulate the cellular level of tyrosine phosphorylation under normal and pathological conditions, and thus exert either stimulatory or inhibitory effect on signal transduction. Hence, PTPs are potential pharmacological targets for novel drugs being developed in order to treat numerous pathologies including cancer. For example, PTPs have been found to play a key role in pathogenesis of autoimmune disorders, allergic response, cardiovascular or neurodegenerative diseases, among others Alzheimer\'s disease.  Moreover, since many PTPs fine-tune subtle regulation of microbial biochemistry controlling the viability and virulence, they can be candidates for new therapies of infection diseases. In this review, authors summarize the current knowledge on PTPs implication in etiopathogenesis of most common human diseases focusing on PTPs as potential therapeutical targets.
25552693: !Alzheimer The GSK-3 family as therapeutic target for myocardial diseases. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is one of the few signaling molecules that regulate a truly astonishing number of critical intracellular signaling pathways. It has been implicated in several diseases including heart failure, bipolar disorder, diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer disease, aging, inflammation, and cancer.  Furthermore, a recent clinical trial has validated the feasibility of targeting GSK-3 with small molecule inhibitors for human diseases. In the current review, we will focus on its expanding role in the heart, concentrating primarily on recent studies that have used cardiomyocyte- and fibroblast-specific conditional  gene deletion in mouse models. We will highlight the role of the GSK-3 isoforms in various pathological conditions including myocardial aging, ischemic injury, myocardial fibrosis, and cardiomyocyte proliferation. We will discuss our recent  findings that deletion of GSK-3alpha specifically in cardiomyocytes attenuates ventricular remodeling and cardiac dysfunction after myocardial infarction by limiting scar expansion and promoting cardiomyocyte proliferation. The recent emergence of GSK-3beta as a regulator of myocardial fibrosis will also be discussed. We will review our recent findings that specific deletion of GSK-3beta in cardiac fibroblasts leads to fibrogenesis, left ventricular dysfunction, and excessive scarring in the ischemic heart. Finally, we will examine the underlying mechanisms that drive the aberrant myocardial fibrosis in the models in which GSK-3beta is specifically deleted in cardiac fibroblasts. We will summarize these recent results and offer explanations, whenever possible, and hypotheses when not. For these studies we will rely heavily on our models and those of others to  reconcile some of the apparent inconsistencies in the literature.
25549552: !Alzheimer Synthesis and molecular modelling studies of 8-arylpyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amines as multitarget Ser/Thr kinases inhibitors. This paper reports the design and synthesis of a novel series of 8-arylpyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amines via microwave-assisted multi-step synthesis. A common precursor of the whole series, 3-amino-5-bromothieno[2,3-b]pyridine-2-carbonitrile, was rapidly synthesized in one step from commercially-available 5-bromo-2-chloronicotinonitrile. Formylation with DMF-DMA led to (E)-N'-(5-bromo-2-cyanothieno[2,3-b]pyridin-3-yl)-N,N-dimethylformimidamide (4) which was conveniently functionalized at position 8 by palladium-catalyzed Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling to introduce a heteroaromatic ring. High-temperature formamide-mediated cyclization of the cyanoamidine intermediate  gave seventeen 8-arylpyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amines. The inhibitory potency of the final products was evaluated against five protein kinases (CDK5/p25, CK1delta/epsilon, GSK3alpha/beta, DYRK1A and CLK1) and revealed that 8-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)pyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amine 1g specifically inhibits CK1delta/epsilon and CLK1 (220 and 88 nM, respectively) while its 7-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)pyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amine isomer 10 showed no activity on the panel of tested kinases. Molecular modelling  of 10 and 1g in the ATP binding sites of CK1delta/epsilon and CLK1 showed that functionalization at position 7 of pyrido[3',2':4,5]thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidin-4-amines is likely to induce a steric clash on the CK1delta/epsilon P-loop and thus a complete loss of inhibitory activity.
25543667: !Alzheimer Genetic diversity is a predictor of mortality in humans. BACKGROUND: It has been well-established, both by population genetics theory and  direct observation in many organisms, that increased genetic diversity provides a survival advantage. However, given the limitations of both sample size and genome-wide metrics, this hypothesis has not been comprehensively tested in human populations. Moreover, the presence of numerous segregating small effect alleles  that influence traits that directly impact health directly raises the question as to whether global measures of genomic variation are themselves associated with human health and disease. RESULTS: We performed a meta-analysis of 17 cohorts followed prospectively, with a combined sample size of 46,716 individuals, including a total of 15,234 deaths. We find a significant association between increased heterozygosity and survival (P = 0.03). We estimate that within a single population, every standard deviation of heterozygosity an individual has over the mean decreases that person's risk of death by 1.57%. CONCLUSIONS: This effect was consistent between European and African ancestry cohorts, men and women, and major causes of death (cancer and cardiovascular disease), demonstrating the broad positive impact of genomic diversity on human survival.
25538615: !Alzheimer Detection of bacterial antigens and Alzheimer's disease-like pathology in the central nervous system of BALB/c mice following intranasal infection with a laboratory isolate of Chlamydia pneumoniae. Pathology consistent with that observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has previously been documented following intranasal infection of normal wild-type mice with Chlamydia pneumoniae (Cpn) isolated from an AD brain (96-41). In the current study, BALB/c mice were intranasally infected with a laboratory strain of Cpn, AR-39, and brain and olfactory bulbs were obtained at 1-4 months post-infection (pi). Immunohistochemistry for amyloid beta or Cpn antigens was performed on sections from brains of infected or mock-infected mice. Chlamydia-specific immunolabeling was identified in olfactory bulb tissues and in cerebrum of AR-39 infected mice. The Cpn specific labeling was most prominent at  1 month pi and the greatest burden of amyloid deposition was noted at 2 months pi, whereas both decreased at 3 and 4 months. Viable Cpn was recovered from olfactory bulbs of 3 of 3 experimentally infected mice at 1 and 3 months pi, and  in 2 of 3 mice at 4 months pi. In contrast, in cortical tissues of infected mice  at 1 and 4 months pi no viable organism was obtained. At 3 months pi, only 1 of 3 mice had a measurable burden of viable Cpn from the cortical tissues. Mock-infected mice (0 of 3) had no detectable Cpn in either olfactory bulbs or cortical tissues. These data indicate that the AR-39 isolate of Cpn establishes a limited infection predominantly in the olfactory bulbs of BALB/c mice. Although infection with the laboratory strain of Cpn promotes deposition of amyloid beta,  this appears to resolve following reduction of the Cpn antigen burden over time.  Our data suggest that infection with the AR-39 laboratory isolate of Cpn results  in a different course of amyloid beta deposition and ultimate resolution than that observed following infection with the human AD-brain Cpn isolate, 96-41. These data further support that there may be differences, possibly in virulence factors, between Cpn isolates in the generation of sustainable AD pathology.
25538551: !Alzheimer The emerging role of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in neurodegenerative diseases. DNA methylation primarily occurs within human cells as a 5-methylcytosine (5mC) modification of the cytosine bases in CpG dinucleotides. 5mC has proven to be an  important epigenetic mark that is involved in the control of gene transcription for processes such as development and differentiation. However, recent studies have identified an alternative modification, 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), which is formed by oxidation of 5mC by ten-eleven translocation (TET) enzymes. The overall levels of 5hmC in the mammalian genome are approximately 10% of 5mC levels, although higher levels have been detected in tissues of the central nervous system (CNS). The functions of 5hmC are not yet fully known, but evidence suggests that 5hmC may be both an intermediate product during the removal of 5mC  by passive or active demethylation processes and also an epigenetic modification  in its own right, regulating chromatin or transcriptional factors involved in processes such as neurodevelopment or environmental stress response. This review  highlights our current understanding of the role that 5hmC plays in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS), Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), Huntington's disease (HD), and Parkinson's disease (PD).
25537010: !Alzheimer Mitochondrial lysates induce inflammation and Alzheimer's disease-relevant changes in microglial and neuronal cells. Neuroinflammation occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD). While AD genetic studies implicate inflammation-relevant genes and fibrillar amyloid-beta protein promotes inflammation, our understanding of AD neuroinflammation nevertheless remains incomplete. In this study we hypothesized damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) molecules arising from mitochondria, intracellular organelles that resemble bacteria, could contribute to AD neuroinflammation. To preliminarily test this possibility, we exposed neuronal and microglial cell lines to enriched  mitochondrial lysates. BV2 microglial cells treated with mitochondrial lysates showed decreased TREM2 mRNA, increased TNFalpha mRNA, increased MMP-8 mRNA, increased IL-8 mRNA, redistribution of NFkappaB to the nucleus, and increased p38 MAPK phosphorylation. SH-SY5Y neuronal cells treated with mitochondrial lysates showed increased TNFalpha mRNA, increased NFkappaB protein, decreased IkappaBalpha protein, increased AbetaPP mRNA, and increased AbetaPP protein. Enriched mitochondrial lysates from SH-SY5Y cells lacking detectable mitochondrial DNA (rho0 cells) failed to induce any of these changes, while mtDNA obtained directly from mitochondria (but not PCR-amplified mtDNA) increased BV2 cell TNFalpha mRNA. These results indicate at least one mitochondrial-derived DAMP molecule, mtDNA, can induce inflammatory changes in microglial and neuronal  cell lines. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that a mitochondrial-derived DAMP molecule or molecules could contribute to AD neuroinflammation.
25529971: !Alzheimer Long term and excessive use of 900 MHz radiofrequency radiation alter microRNA expression in brain. PURPOSE: We still do not have any information on the interaction between radiofrequency radiation (RF) and miRNA, which play paramount role in growth, differentiation, proliferation and cell death by suppressing one or more target genes. The purpose of this study was to bridge this gap by investigating effects  of long-term 900 MHz mobile phone exposure on some of the miRNA in brain tissue.  MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was carried out on 14 Wistar Albino adult male rats by dividing them into two groups: Sham (n = 7) and exposure (n = 7). Rats in the exposure group were exposed to 900 MHz RF radiation for 3 h per day (7 days a week) for 12 months (one year). The same procedure was applied to the rats in the sham group except the generator was turned off. Immediately after the last exposure, rats were sacrificed and their brains were removed. rno-miR-9-5p, rno-miR-29a-3p, rno-miR-106b-5p, rno-miR-107 and rno-miR-125a-3p in brain were investigated in detail. RESULTS: Results revealed that long-term exposure of 900  MHz RF radiation only decreased rno-miR107 (adjP* = 0.045) value where the whole  body (rms) SAR value was 0.0369 W/kg. However, our results indicated that other microRNA evaluated in this study was not altered by 900 MHz RF radiation. CONCLUSION: 900 MHz RF radiation can alter some of the miRNA, which, in turn, may lead to adverse effects. Therefore, further studies should be performed.
25523933: !Alzheimer Structural biology of presenilin 1 complexes. The presenilin genes were first identified as the site of missense mutations causing early onset autosomal dominant familial Alzheimer's disease. Subsequent work has shown that the presenilin proteins are the catalytic subunits of a hetero-tetrameric complex containing APH1, nicastrin and PEN-2. This complex (variously termed presenilin complex or gamma-secretase complex) performs an unusual type of proteolysis in which the transmembrane domains of Type I proteins are cleaved within the hydrophobic compartment of the membrane. This review describes some of the molecular and structural biology of this unusual enzyme complex. The presenilin complex is a bilobed structure. The head domain contains  the ectodomain of nicastrin. The base domain contains a central cavity with a lateral cleft that likely provides the route for access of the substrate to the catalytic cavity within the centre of the base domain. There are reciprocal allosteric interactions between various sites in the complex that affect its function. For instance, binding of Compound E, a peptidomimetic inhibitor to the  PS1 N-terminus, induces significant conformational changes that reduces substrate binding at the initial substrate docking site, and thus inhibits substrate cleavage. However, there is a reciprocal allosteric interaction between these sites such that prior binding of the substrate to the initial docking site paradoxically increases the binding of the Compound E peptidomimetic inhibitor. Such reciprocal interactions are likely to form the basis of a gating mechanism that underlies access of substrate to the catalytic site. An increasingly detailed understanding of the structural biology of the presenilin complex is an  essential step towards rational design of substrate- and/or cleavage site-specific modulators of presenilin complex function.
25523365: !Alzheimer Pyrazine derivatives: a patent review (June 2012 - present). INTRODUCTION: Pyrazine is a member of 1,4-diazines, which constitute an important class of heterocycles. Various pyrazine derivatives have been synthesized and successfully evaluated as agents with diverse pharmacological effects (including  but not limited to antiproliferative, anti-infective, and effects on cardiovascular or nervous system) and some of them have become clinically used drugs worldwide. AREA COVERED: This review is a survey of important patents on pyrazine derivatives with pharmacological activity published in the period June 2012 - July 2014. The patent databases SciFinder and esp@cenet were used to locate patent applications. EXPERT OPINION: Pyrazine derivatives possess numerous noteworthy pharmacological effects, including antimycobacterial, antibacterial, antifungal, antidiabetic, diuretic, anticancer, antiviral, hypnotic, and analgesic. The class of pyrazine-based candidate drugs has experienced a rapid growth both in absolute numbers of investigated compounds and in the spectrum of  diverse biological activities. We expect that several of these compounds will add to existing pharmaceuticals in the very near future. According to the number of compounds and filed patents, the most promising areas are: i) inhibitors of protein kinases (applicable as antiproliferatives); and ii) inhibitors of beta-secretase (applicable for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease).
25506810: !Alzheimer Synthesis of indazole motifs and their medicinal importance: an overview. Indazoles is an important class of heterocyclic compounds having a wide range of  biological and pharmaceutical applications. There is enormous potential in the synthesis of novel heterocyclic systems to be used as building blocks for the next generation of pharmaceuticals as anti-bacterial, anti-depressant and anti-inflammatory. Fused aromatic 1H and 2H-indazoles are well recognized for anti-hypertensive and anti-cancer properties. The present review focuses on novel routes of their synthesis and various biological activities.
25505871: !Alzheimer Molecular magnetic resonance imaging of brain-immune interactions. Although the blood-brain barrier (BBB) was thought to protect the brain from the  effects of the immune system, immune cells can nevertheless migrate from the blood to the brain, either as a cause or as a consequence of central nervous system (CNS) diseases, thus contributing to their evolution and outcome. Accordingly, as the interface between the CNS and the peripheral immune system, the BBB is critical during neuroinflammatory processes. In particular, endothelial cells are involved in the brain response to systemic or local inflammatory stimuli by regulating the cellular movement between the circulation  and the brain parenchyma. While neuropathological conditions differ in etiology and in the way in which the inflammatory response is mounted and resolved, cellular mechanisms of neuroinflammation are probably similar. Accordingly, neuroinflammation is a hallmark and a decisive player of many CNS diseases. Thus, molecular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of inflammatory processes is a central theme of research in several neurological disorders focusing on a set of molecules expressed by endothelial cells, such as adhesion molecules (VCAM-1, ICAM-1, P-selectin, E-selectin, ...), which emerge as therapeutic targets and biomarkers for neurological diseases. In this review, we will present the most recent advances in the field of preclinical molecular MRI. Moreover, we will discuss the possible translation of molecular MRI to the clinical setting with a  particular emphasis on myeloperoxidase imaging, autologous cell tracking, and targeted iron oxide particles (USPIO, MPIO).
25505410: !Alzheimer Variations in brain DNA. It is assumed that DNA sequences are conserved in the diverse cell types present  in a multicellular organism like the human being. Thus, in order to compare the sequences in the genome of DNA from different individuals, nucleic acid is commonly isolated from a single tissue. In this regard, blood cells are widely used for this purpose because of their availability. Thus blood DNA has been used to study genetic familiar diseases that affect other tissues and organs, such as  the liver, heart, and brain. While this approach is valid for the identification  of familial diseases in which mutations are present in parental germinal cells and, therefore, in all the cells of a given organism, it is not suitable to identify sporadic diseases in which mutations might occur in specific somatic cells. This review addresses somatic DNA variations in different tissues or cells (mainly in the brain) of single individuals and discusses whether the dogma of DNA invariance between cell types is indeed correct. We will also discuss how single nucleotide somatic variations arise, focusing on the presence of specific  DNA mutations in the brain.
25499431: !Alzheimer Investigating the binding interactions of the anti-Alzheimer's drug donepezil with CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein. The anti-Alzheimer's agent donepezil is known to bind to the hepatic enzyme CYP3A4, but its relationship with the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is not as well elucidated. We conducted in vitro inhibition studies of donepezil using human recombinant CYP3A4 and P-gp. These studies show that donepezil is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 (IC50=54.68+/-1.00muM) whereas the reference agent ketoconazole exhibited potent inhibition (CYP3A4 IC50=0.20+/-0.01muM). P-gp inhibition studies indicate that donepezil exhibits better inhibition relative to CYP3A4 (P-gp EC50=34.85+/-4.63muM) although it was less potent compared to ketoconazole (P-gp EC50=9.74+/-1.23muM). At higher concentrations, donepezil exhibited significant inhibition of CYP3A4 (69%, 84% and 87% inhibition at 100, 250 and 500muM, respectively). This indicates its potential to cause drug-drug interactions with other CYP3A4 substrates upon co-administration; however, this scenario is unlikely in vivo due to the low therapeutic concentrations of donepezil. Similarly, donepezil co-administration with P-gp substrates or inhibitors is unlikely to result in beneficial or adverse drug interactions. The  molecular docking studies show that the 5,6-dimethoxyindan-1-one moiety of donepezil was oriented closer to the heme center in CYP3A4 whereas in the P-gp binding site, the protonated benzylpiperidine pharmacophore of donepezil played a major role in its binding ability. Energy parameters indicate that donepezil complex with both CYP3A4 and P-gp was less stable (CDOCKER energies=-15.05 and -4.91kcal/mol, respectively) compared to the ketoconazole-CYP3A4 and P-gp complex (CDOCKER energies=-41.89 and -20.03kcal/mol, respectively).
25497154: !Alzheimer [Neurological diseases and nutrition -- what can we do?]. Neurological diseases and nutrition are in complex relationship. In the first part of this review the nutritional consequences of acute neurological diseases is presented, with special emphasis on traumatic injuries of the nervous system and stroke. Nutritional therapy of these patients is described in detail. In addition, chronic, degenerative neurological pathological conditions are also discussed, including nutritional consequences and possibilities of therapy. Some  ethical and legal issues are also considered. The second part of this review article describes neurological consequences of nutritional problems, both deficits of macro- and micronutrients and toxic effects.
25497098: !Alzheimer Differential regulation of the heat shock factor 1 and DAF-16 by neuronal nhl-1 in the nematode C. elegans. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling (IIS) reduction hyperactivates the transcription factors DAF-16 and heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1), creating long-lived, stress-resistant worms that are protected from proteotoxicity. How DAF-16 executes its distinct functions in  response to IIS reduction is largely obscure. Here, we report that NHL-1, a member of the TRIM-NHL protein family, acts in chemosensory neurons to promote stress resistance in distal tissues by DAF-16 activation but is dispensable for the activation of HSF-1. The expression of nhl-1 is regulated by the IIS, defining a neuronal regulatory circuit that controls the organismal stress response. The knockdown of nhl-1 protects nematodes that express the Alzheimer-disease-associated Abeta peptide from proteotoxicity but has no effect  on lifespan. Our findings indicate that DAF-16- and HSF-1-regulated heat-responsive mechanisms are differentially controlled by neurons and show that one neuronal protein can be involved in the activation of different stress responses in remote tissues.
25492566: !Alzheimer Conditions for exercising residents' voting rights in long-term care residences:  a prospective multicenter study. To assess voting conditions in long-term care settings, we conducted a multicenter survey after the 2009 European elections in France. A questionnaire about voting procedures and European elections was proposed in 146 out of 884 randomized facilities. Sixty-four percent of facilities answered the questionnaire. Four percent of residents voted (national turnout: 40%), by proxy  (58%) or at polling places (42%). Abstention related to procedural issues was reported in 32% of facilities. Sixty-seven percent of establishments had voting procedures, and 53% declared that they assessed residents' capacity to vote. Assistance was proposed to residents for voter registration, for proxy voting, and for voting at polling places, respectively, in 33%, 87%, and 80% of facilities. This survey suggests that residents may be disenfranchised and that more progress should be made to protect the voting rights of residents in long-term care facilities.
25491510: !Alzheimer Amyloid-beta precursor protein promotes cell proliferation and motility of advanced breast cancer. BACKGROUND: Amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) is a highly conserved single transmembrane protein that has been linked to Alzheimer disease. Recently, the increased expression of APP in multiple types of cancers has been reported where  it has significant correlation with the cancer cell proliferation. However, the function of APP in the pathogenesis of breast cancer has not previously been determined. In this study, we studied the pathological role of APP in breast cancer and revealed its potential mechanism. METHODS: The expression level of APP in multiple breast cancer cell lines was measured by Western blot analysis and the breast cancer tissue microarray was utilized to analyze the expression pattern of APP in human patient specimens. To interrogate the functional role of  APP in cell growth and apoptosis, the effect of APP knockdown in MDA-MB-231 cells were analyzed. Specifically, multiple signal transduction pathways and functional alterations linked to cell survival and motility were examined in in vivo animal  model as well as in vitro cell culture with the manipulation of APP expression. RESULTS: We found that the expression of APP is increased in mouse and human breast cancer cell lines, especially in the cell line possessing higher metastatic potential. Moreover, the analysis of human breast cancer tissues revealed a significant correlation between the level of APP and tumor development. Knockdown of APP (APP-kd) in breast cancer cells caused the retardation of cell growth in vitro and in vivo, with both the induction of p27(kip1) and caspase-3-mediated apoptosis. APP-kd cells also had higher sensitivity to treatment of chemotherapeutic agents, TRAIL and 5-FU. Such anti-tumorigenic effects shown in the APP-kd cells partially came from reduced pro-survival AKT activation in response to IGF-1, leading to activation of key signaling regulators for cell growth, survival, and pro-apoptotic events such as  GSK3-beta and FOXO1. Notably, knock-down of APP in metastatic breast cancer cells limited cell migration and invasion ability upon stimulation of IGF-1. CONCLUSION: The present data strongly suggest that the increase of APP expression is causally linked to tumorigenicity as well as invasion of aggressive breast cancer and, therefore, the targeting of APP may be an effective therapy for breast cancer.
25491230: !Alzheimer New type of BACE1 siRNA delivery to cells. BACKGROUND: Small interfering RNA (siRNA) gene therapy is a new molecular approach in the search for an efficient therapy for Alzheimer disease (AD), based on the principle of RNA interference. Reducing BACE activity can have great therapeutic potential for the treatment of AD. In this study, receptor-mediated delivery was used to deliver opioid peptide-conjugated BACE 1 to INR-32 human neuroblastoma cells. MATERIAL AND METHODS: An INR-32 human neuroblastoma cell line was stably transfected to express the APP cDNA coding fragment containing the predicted sites for cleavage by alpha, beta, or gamma-secretase. This was then treated with BACE 1 siRNA to silence BACE gene expression. BACE gene transcription and translation was determined using BACE-1 siRNA cross-linked with opioid peptide, together with RT-PCR, Western blot analysis, and ELISA. RESULTS:  Receptor-mediated delivery was used to introduce BACE1 siRNA to the APP - INR 32  human neuroblastoma cells. Decreased BACE mRNA and protein expression were observed after the cells were transfected with BACE1 siRNA. CONCLUSIONS: Delivery of BACE1 siRNA appears to specifically reduce the cleavage of APP by inhibiting BACE1 activity.
25484187: !Alzheimer Implications of polyadenylation in health and disease. Polyadenylation is the RNA processing step that completes the maturation of nearly all eukaryotic mRNAs. It is a two-step nuclear process that involves an endonucleolytic cleavage of the pre-mRNA at the 3'-end and the polymerization of  a polyadenosine (polyA) tail, which is fundamental for mRNA stability, nuclear export and efficient translation during development. The core molecular machinery responsible for the definition of a polyA site includes several recognition, cleavage and polyadenylation factors that identify and act on a given polyA signal present in a pre-mRNA, usually an AAUAAA hexamer or similar sequence. This mechanism is tightly regulated by other cis-acting elements and trans-acting factors, and its misregulation can cause inefficient gene expression and may ultimately lead to disease. The majority of genes generate multiple mRNAs as a result of alternative polyadenylation in the 3'-untranslated region. The variable lengths of the 3' untranslated regions created by alternative polyadenylation are a recognizable target for differential regulation and clearly affect the fate of  the transcript, ultimately modulating the expression of the gene. Over the past few years, several studies have highlighted the importance of polyadenylation and alternative polyadenylation in gene expression and their impact in a variety of physiological conditions, as well as in several illnesses. Abnormalities in the 3'-end processing mechanisms thus represent a common feature among many oncological, immunological, neurological and hematological disorders, but slight  imbalances can lead to the natural establishment of a specific cellular state. This review addresses the key steps of polyadenylation and alternative polyadenylation in different cellular conditions and diseases focusing on the molecular effectors that ensure a faultless pre-mRNA 3' end formation.
25482632: !Alzheimer The role of proteases in regulating Eph/ephrin signaling. Proteases regulate a myriad of cell functions, both in normal and disease states. In addition to protein turnover, they regulate a range of signaling processes, including those mediated by Eph receptors and their ephrin ligands. A variety of  proteases is reported to directly cleave Ephs and/or ephrins under different conditions, to promote receptor and/or ligand shedding, and regulate receptor/ligand internalisation and signaling. They also cleave other adhesion proteins in response to Eph-ephrin interactions, to indirectly facilitate Eph-mediated functions. Proteases thus contribute to Eph/ephrin mediated changes  in cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, in cell morphology and in cell migration and invasion, in a manner which appears to be tightly regulated by, and co-ordinated with, Eph signaling. This review summarizes the current literature describing the function and regulation of protease activities during Eph/ephrin-mediated cell signaling.
25482235: !Alzheimer A second-generation Bacillus cell factory for rare inositol production. Some rare inositol stereoisomers are known to exert specific health-promoting effects, including scyllo-inositol (SI), which is a promising therapeutic agent for Alzheimer disease. We recently reported a Bacillus subtilis cell factory that performed the efficient production of SI from the cheapest and most abundant isomer myo-inositol (MI). In the cell factory all "useless" genes involved in MI  and SI metabolism were deleted and overexpression of the key enzymes, IolG and IolW, was appended. It converted 10 g/L MI into the same amount of SI in 48 h of  cultivation. In this addendum, we discuss further improvement in the cell factory and its possible applications.
25481814: !Alzheimer Aspartic protease inhibitors containing tertiary alcohol transition-state mimics. Aspartic proteases (APs) are a class of enzymes engaged in the proteolytic digestion of peptide substrates. APs play important roles in physiological and infectious pathways, making them plausible drug targets. For instance in the treatment of HIV infections, access to an efficient combination of protease and reverse transcriptase inhibitors have changed a terminal illness to a chronic but manageable disease. However, the benefits have been limited due to the emergence  of drug resistant viral strains, poor pharmacokinetic properties of peptidomimetic inhibitors and adverse effects associated with the treatment. In the 1980s, D. Rich and co-workers proposed a novel strategy for the development of AP inhibitors by replacing the secondary hydroxyl group with a tertiary alcohol as part of the transition state (TS) mimicking moiety. This strategy has  been extensively explored over the last decade with a common belief that masking  of the polar group, e.g. by intramolecular hydrogen bonding, has the potential to enhance transcellular transport. This is the first review presenting the advances of AP inhibitors comprising a tertiary hydroxyl group. The inhibitors have been classified into different tert-hydroxy TS mimics and their design strategies, synthesis, biological activities, structure-activity-relationships and X-ray structures are discussed.
25479244: !Alzheimer Rapid survey of four Asp isomers in disease-related proteins by LC-MS combined with commercial enzymes. Until relatively recently, it was considered that D-amino acids were excluded from living systems except for the cell wall of microorganisms. However, D-aspartate residues have now been detected in long-lived proteins from various tissues of elderly humans. Formation of D-aspartate in proteins induces aggregation and loss of function, leading to age-related disorders such as cataracts and Alzheimer disease. A recent study used LC-MS to analyze isomers of  Asp residues in proteins precisely without complex purification of the proteins.  However, to identify the four Asp isomers (Lalpha, Lbeta, Dbeta, and Dalpha) on the chromatogram, it was necessary to synthesize reference peptides containing the four different Asp isomers as standards. Here, we describe a method for rapidly and comprehensively identifying Asp isomers in proteins using a combination of LC-MS and commercial enzymes without synthesizing reference peptides. The protein sample is treated with trypsin, trypsin plus Asp-N, trypsin plus PIMT, trypsin plus paenidase, and the resulting peptides are applied to LC-MS. Because Asp-N hydrolyzes peptide bonds on the N-terminus of only Lalpha-Asp residues, it differentiates peptides containing Lalpha-Asp from those  containing the other three isomers. Similarly, PIMT recognizes only peptides containing Lbeta-Asp residues, and paenidase internally cleaves the C-terminus of Dalpha-Asp residues. This approach was successfully applied to the analysis of all tryptic peptides in aged lens. The comprehensive quantitative data of Asp isomer formation in age-related proteins obtained via this method might be used as biomarkers of age-related disease.
25477508: !Alzheimer Phosphorylation and inactivation of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) by  dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (Dyrk1A). Glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) participates in many cellular processes, and its dysregulation has been implicated in a wide range of diseases  such as obesity, type 2 diabetes, cancer, and Alzheimer disease. Inactivation of  GSK3beta by phosphorylation at specific residues is a primary mechanism by which  this constitutively active kinase is controlled. However, the regulatory mechanism of GSK3beta is not fully understood. Dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (Dyrk1A) has multiple biological functions that occur as the result of phosphorylation of diverse proteins that are involved in metabolism, synaptic function, and neurodegeneration. Here we show that GSK3beta directly interacts with and is phosphorylated by Dyrk1A. Dyrk1A-mediated phosphorylation at the Thr(356) residue inhibits GSK3beta activity. Dyrk1A transgenic (TG) mice are lean and resistant to diet-induced obesity because of reduced fat mass, which shows an inverse correlation with the effect of GSK3beta  on obesity. This result suggests a potential in vivo association between GSK3beta and Dyrk1A regarding the mechanism underlying obesity. The level of Thr(P)(356)-GSK3beta was higher in the white adipose tissue of Dyrk1A TG mice compared with control mice. GSK3beta activity was differentially regulated by phosphorylation at different sites in adipose tissue depending on the type of diet the mice were fed. Furthermore, overexpression of Dyrk1A suppressed the expression of adipogenic proteins, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, in 3T3-L1 cells and in young Dyrk1A TG mice fed a chow diet. Taken together, these results reveal a novel regulatory mechanism for GSK3beta activity and indicate that overexpression of Dyrk1A may contribute to the obesity-resistant phenotype through phosphorylation and inactivation of GSK3beta.
25477292: !Alzheimer NMDA-receptor antagonists block B-cell function but foster IL-10 production in BCR/CD40-activated B cells. BACKGROUND: B cells are important effectors and regulators of adaptive and innate immune responses, inflammation and autoimmunity, for instance in anti-NMDA-receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis. Thus, pharmacological modulation of B-cell function could be an effective regimen in therapeutic strategies. Since the non-competitive NMDAR antagonist memantine is clinically applied to treat advanced Alzheimer`s disease and ketamine is supposed to improve the course of resistant depression, it is important to know how these drugs affect B-cell function. RESULTS: Non-competitive NMDAR antagonists impaired B-cell receptor (BCR)- and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced B-cell proliferation, reduced B-cell  migration towards the chemokines SDF-1alpha and CCL21 and downregulated IgM and IgG secretion. Mechanistically, these effects were mediated through a blockade of Kv1.3 and KCa3.1 potassium channels and resulted in an attenuated Ca(2+)-flux and activation of Erk1/2, Akt and NFATc1. Interestingly, NMDAR antagonist treatment increased the frequency of IL-10 producing B cells after BCR/CD40 stimulation. CONCLUSIONS: Non-competitive NMDAR antagonists attenuate BCR and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) B-cell signaling and effector function and can foster IL-10 production. Consequently, NMDAR antagonists may be useful to target B cells in autoimmune diseases or pathological systemic inflammation. The drugs' additional  side effects on B cells should be considered in treatments of neuronal disorders  with NMDAR antagonists.
25470254: !Alzheimer Inflammation-induced tumorigenesis in mouse colon is caspase-6 independent. Caspases play an important role in maintaining tissue homeostasis. Active Caspase-6 (Casp6) is considered a novel therapeutic target against Alzheimer disease (AD) since it is present in AD pathological brain lesions, associated with age-dependent cognitive decline, and causes age-dependent cognitive impairment in the mouse brain. However, active Casp6 is highly expressed and activated in normal human colon epithelial cells raising concerns that inhibiting Casp6 in AD may promote colon carcinogenesis. Furthermore, others have reported rare mutations of Casp6 in human colorectal cancers and an effect of Casp6 on apoptosis and metastasis of colon cancer cell lines. Here, we investigated the role of Casp6 in inflammation-associated azoxymethane/dextran sulfate sodium (AOM/DSS) colon cancer in Casp6-overexpressing and -deficient mice. In wild-type  mice, AOM/DSS-induced tumors had significantly higher Casp6 mRNA, protein and activity levels compared to normal adjacent colon tissues. Increased human Casp6  or absence of Casp6 expression in mice colon epithelial cells did not change colonic tumor multiplicity, burden or distribution. Nevertheless, the incidence of hyperplasia was slightly reduced in human Casp6-overexpressing colons and increased in Casp6 null colons. Overexpression of Casp6 did not affect the grade  of the tumors while all tumors in heterozygous or homozygous Casp6 null colons were high grade compared to only 50% high grade in wild-type mice. Casp6 levels did not alter cellular proliferation and apoptosis. These results suggest that Casp6 is unlikely to be involved in colitis-associated tumors.
25465297: !Alzheimer Roles and regulation of neutral sphingomyelinase-2 in cellular and pathological processes. Our understanding of the functions of ceramide signaling has advanced tremendously over the past decade. In this review, we focus on the roles and regulation of neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase2), an enzyme that generates the  bioactive lipid ceramide through the hydrolysis of the membrane lipid sphingomyelin. A large body of work has now implicated nSMase2 in a diverse set of cellular functions, physiological processes, and disease pathologies. We discuss different aspects of this enzyme's regulation from transcriptional, post-translational, and biochemical. Furthermore, we highlight nSMase2 involvement in cellular processes including inflammatory signaling, exosome generation, cell growth, and apoptosis, which in turn play important roles in pathologies such as cancer metastasis, Alzheimer's disease, and other organ systems disorders. Lastly, we examine avenues where targeted nSMase2-inhibition may be clinically beneficial in disease scenarios.
25463479: !Alzheimer Homeostasis of phospholipids - The level of phosphatidylethanolamine tightly adapts to changes in ethanolamine plasmalogens. Ethanolamine plasmalogens constitute a group of ether glycerophospholipids that,  due to their unique biophysical and biochemical properties, are essential components of mammalian cellular membranes. Their importance is emphasized by the consequences of defects in plasmalogen biosynthesis, which in humans cause the fatal disease rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata (RCDP). In the present lipidomic study, we used fibroblasts derived from RCDP patients, as well as brain tissue from plasmalogen-deficient mice, to examine the compensatory mechanisms of lipid homeostasis in response to plasmalogen deficiency. Our results show that phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), a diacyl glycerophospholipid, which like ethanolamine plasmalogens carries the head group ethanolamine, is the main player in the adaptation to plasmalogen insufficiency. PE levels were tightly adjusted to the amount of ethanolamine plasmalogens so that their combined levels were kept constant. Similarly, the total amount of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in ethanolamine phospholipids was maintained upon plasmalogen deficiency. However, we found an increased incorporation of arachidonic acid at the expense of docosahexaenoic acid in the PE fraction of plasmalogen-deficient tissues. These data show that under conditions of reduced plasmalogen levels, the amount of total ethanolamine phospholipids is precisely maintained by a rise in PE. At the same time, a shift in the ratio between omega-6 and omega-3 PUFAs occurs, which might have unfavorable, long-term biological consequences. Therefore, our findings are not only of interest for RCDP but may have more widespread implications also for other disease conditions, as for example Alzheimer's disease, that have been associated with a decline in plasmalogens.
25460644: !Alzheimer Silver nanoparticles affect on gene expression of inflammatory and neurodegenerative responses in mouse brain neural cells. Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) have antibacterial characteristics, and currently are applied in Ag-containing products. This study found neural cells can uptake 3-5 nm AgNPs, and investigated the potential effects of AgNPs on gene expression  of inflammation and neurodegenerative disorder in murine brain ALT astrocytes, microglial BV-2 cells and neuron N2a cells. After AgNPs (5, 10, 12.5 mug/ml) exposure, these neural cells had obviously increased IL-1beta secretion, and induced gene expression of C-X-C motif chemokine 13 (CXCL13), macrophage receptor with collagenous structure (MARCO) and glutathione synthetase (GSS) for inflammatory response and oxidative stress neutralization. Additionally, this study found amyloid-beta (Abeta) plaques for pathological feature of Alzheimer's  disease (AD) deposited in neural cells after AgNPs treatment. After AgNPs exposure, the gene expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP) was induced, and otherwise, neprilysin (NEP) and low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) were reduced in neural cells as well as protein level. These results suggested AgNPs could alter gene and protein expressions of Abeta deposition potentially to induce AD progress in neural cells. It's necessary to take notice of AgNPs distribution in the environment.
25455483: !Alzheimer Discovery of potent iminoheterocycle BACE1 inhibitors. The synthesis of a series of iminoheterocycles and their structure-activity relationships (SAR) as inhibitors of the aspartyl protease BACE1 will be detailed. An effort to access the S3 subsite directly from the S1 subsite initially yielded compounds with sub-micromolar potency. A subset of compounds from this effort unexpectedly occupied a different binding site and displayed excellent BACE1 affinities. Select compounds from this subset acutely lowered Abeta40 levels upon subcutaneous and oral administration to rats.
25455094: !Alzheimer A dual vaccine against influenza & Alzheimer's disease failed to enhance anti-beta-amyloid antibody responses in mice with pre-existing virus specific memory. Novel dual vaccine, WSN-Abeta(1-10), based on the recombinant influenza virus, expressing immunodominant B-cell epitope of beta-amyloid, simultaneously induced  therapeutically potent anti-Abeta and anti-influenza antibodies. In this study we showed that boosting of WSN-WT primed mice with WSN-Abeta(1-10) enhances anti-viral, but fails to induce anti-Abeta antibody responses. This inhibition is associated with expression of Abeta(1-10) within the context of an inactivated influenza virus vaccine. These results demonstrate that the use of an inactivated influenza virus as a carrier for AD vaccine may not be applicable due to the possible inhibition of anti-Abeta antibody response in individuals previously vaccinated or infected with influenza.
25451577: !Alzheimer Neuroprotective effects of macranthoin G from Eucommia ulmoides against hydrogen  peroxide-induced apoptosis in PC12 cells via inhibiting NF-kappaB activation. Oxidative stress-mediated cellular injury has been considered as a major cause of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases. The scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS) mediated by antioxidants may be a potential strategy for retarding the disease's progression. Macranthoin G (MCG),  isolated from Eucommia ulmoides, is a derivative from chlorogenic acid methyl ester and caffeic acid. This study is aimed to investigate the protective role of MCG against the cytotoxicity induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and to elucidate potential protective mechanisms in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. The results showed that the treatment of PC12 cells with MCG prior to H2O2 exposure effectively increased the cell viability, and stabilized the mitochondria membrane potential (MMP); furthermore, it enhanced the antioxidant enzyme activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and the levels of intracellular glutathione (GSH); it also decreased the malondialdehyde (MDA) content, intracellular ROS, caspase-3 activation, as well as cell apoptosis. In addition, the MCG treatment minimized the cell injury by H2O2 via down-regulation of the NF-kappaB pathway as well as activation of phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha, p38, and the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). These results showed that that MCG is promising as a potential therapeutic agent for neurodegenerative diseases induced by oxidative damage and should be encouraged for further research.
25451329: !Alzheimer Development of a CCK1R-membrane nanoparticle as a fish-out tool for bioactive peptides. The cholecystokinin receptor type 1 (CCK1R) is a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that is involved in several biological processes including the regulation  of the secretion of digestive enzymes. The peptide hormone cholecystokinin (CCK)  binds to CCK1R, which is an important pharmacological target for several diseases, including obesity. Interestingly, nutritional dietary peptides also appear to activate CCK1R, and may play a role in CCK1R signaling in the gut. In this study, a novel technique to screen for CCK1R ligands based on affinity-selection is described. Functional expressed CCK1R is reconstituted into membrane nanoparticles called NABBs (nanoscale apo-lipoprotein bound bilayers). NABBs are native-like bilayer membrane systems for incorporation of GPCRs. CCK1R-NABBs were characterized using a fluorescently labeled CCK analog and can be used as a cutting-edge technology to screen for CCK1R ligands using affinity-selection mass spectrometry.
25446614: !Alzheimer Compounds blocking methylglyoxal-induced protein modification and brain endothelial injury. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Elevated levels of reactive carbonyl species such as methylglyoxal triggers carbonyl stress and activates a series of inflammatory responses leading to accelerated vascular damage. Carbonyl stress is implicated in conditions and diseases like aging, diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular diseases. Our aim was to examine the effects of methylglyoxal on human hCMEC/D3 brain endothelial cells and search for protective molecules to prevent endothelial damage. METHODS: Methylglyoxal-induced modification of albumin was tested in a cell-free assay. Endothelial cell viability was monitored by impedance measurement in real-time. The following compounds were tested in cell-free and viability assays: beta-alanine, all-trans-retinoic acid, aminoguanidine, ascorbic acid, L-carnosine, GW-3333, indapamide, piracetam, gamma-tocopherol, U0126, verapamil. Barrier function of brain endothelial monolayers was characterized by permeability measurements and visualized by immunohistochemistry for beta-catenin. mRNA expression level of 60 selected blood-brain barrier-related genes in hCMEC/D3 cells was investigated by a custom  Taqman gene array. RESULTS: Methylglyoxal treatment significantly elevated protein modification, exerted toxicity, reduced barrier integrity, increased permeability for markers FITC-dextran and albumin and caused higher production of reactive oxygen species in hCMEC/D3 endothelial cells. Changes in the mRNA expression of 30 genes coding tight junction proteins, transporters and enzymes were observed in methylglyoxal-treated hCMEC/D3 cells. From the tested 11 compounds only all-trans-retinoic acid, an antioxidant and antiglycation agent, U0126, a MAP/ERK kinase inhibitor and aminoguanidine attenuated methylglyoxal-induced damage in hCMEC/D3 cells. CONCLUSIONS: All-trans-retinoic acid and inhibition of the MAP/ERK signaling pathway may be protective in carbonyl stress induced brain endothelial damage.
25444248: !Alzheimer Derivatization oriented strategy for enhanced detection of valproic acid and its  metabolites in human plasma and detection of valproic acid induced reactive oxygen species associated protein modifications by mass spectrometry. Valproic acid (VA) is a branch chain fatty acid that is widely used to treat epilepsy and convulsion. Recent studies show that VA can also be used to treat migraine headaches, bipolar disorder, and other diseases such as Alzheimer disease. However, clinical treatment with VA may cause hepatotoxicity, bone marrow suppression, and hyperammonemic encephalopathy. Valproic acid is also a known human teratogen. Because of the potential cytotoxic effects of VA and its major metabolite, 2-propyl 4-pentenoic acid (4-ene VA), VA plasma concentrations  must be closely monitored during clinical applications of VA in order to avoid severe side effects. This study developed a derivatization oriented strategy for  increasing sensitivity in detecting VA in quantities as low as 20muL and its metabolites in human plasma. After micro-scale liquid-liquid extraction (MLLE) and micro-scale derivatization, VA and 4-ene VA were quantitated by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of- fl ight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). The linear ranges were 10-1000muM for VA and 5-500muM for 4-ene VA. All relative standard deviation (RSD) and relative error (RE) values obtained in intra- and inter-day analyses of VA and 4-ene VA were below 8%. The structures of VA and its metabolite derivatives were further identified by nano ultra performance liquid chromatographic system (nanoUPLC) coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Since protein modifications induced by VA were also identifiable by nanoUPLC-MS/MS, these modifications may be useful biological indicators of a toxic reaction during clinical applications of VA.
25437463: !Alzheimer [Extrapancreatic effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists: an open window towards new treatment goals in type 2 diabetes]. The wide ubiquity of GLP-1 receptors in the body has stimulated the search for different extrapancreatic actions of GLP-1 and its receptor agonists. Thus, severe cardioprotective effects directed on myocardial ischaemia and dysfunction  as well as diverse antiaterogenic actions have been reported. Also, native and GLP-1 receptor agonists have demonstrated significant beneficial effects on liver steatosis and fibrosis and on neuronal protection in experimental models of Alzheimer, and Parkinson's disease as well as on cerebral ischaemia. Recent evidences suggest that these drugs may also be useful for prevention and treatment of diabetic retinopathy, nephropathy and peripheral neuropathy. Good results have also been reported in psoriasis. Despite we still need confirmation  that these promising effects can be applied to clinical practice, they offer new  interesting perspectives for treatment of type 2 diabetes associated complications and give to GLP-1 receptor agonists an even more integral position  in diabetes therapy.
25435019: !Alzheimer Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3): regulation, actions, and diseases. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) may be the busiest kinase in most cells, with over 100 known substrates to deal with. How does GSK3 maintain control to selectively phosphorylate each substrate, and why was it evolutionarily favorable for GSK3 to assume such a large responsibility? GSK3 must be particularly adaptable for incorporating new substrates into its repertoire, and we discuss the distinct properties of GSK3 that may contribute to its capacity to fulfill its roles in multiple signaling pathways. The mechanisms regulating GSK3 (predominantly post-translational modifications, substrate priming, cellular trafficking, protein complexes) have been reviewed previously, so here we focus on newly identified complexities in these mechanisms, how each of these regulatory mechanism contributes to the ability of GSK3 to select which substrates to phosphorylate, and how these mechanisms may have contributed to its adaptability as new substrates evolved. The current understanding of the mechanisms regulating GSK3 is reviewed, as are emerging topics in the actions of  GSK3, particularly its interactions with receptors and receptor-coupled signal transduction events, and differential actions and regulation of the two GSK3 isoforms, GSK3alpha and GSK3beta. Another remarkable characteristic of GSK3 is its involvement in many prevalent disorders, including psychiatric and neurological diseases, inflammatory diseases, cancer, and others. We address the  feasibility of targeting GSK3 therapeutically, and provide an update of its involvement in the etiology and treatment of several disorders.
25428252: !Alzheimer Activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP): a case study for highly conserved chordata-specific genes shaping the brain and mutated in cancer. The recent finding of activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) as a protein decreased in serum of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared to  controls, alongside with the discovery of ADNP mutations in autism and coupled with the original description of cancer mutations, ignited an interest for a comparative analysis of ADNP with other AD/autism/cancer-associated genes. We strive toward a better understanding of the molecular structure of key players in psychiatric/neurodegenerative diseases including autism, schizophrenia, and AD. This article includes data mining and bioinformatics analysis on the ADNP gene and protein, in addition to other related genes, with emphasis on recent literature. ADNP is discovered here as unique to chordata with specific autism mutations different from cancer-associated mutation. Furthermore, ADNP exhibits similarities to other cancer/autism-associated genes. We suggest that key genes,  which shape and maintain our brain and are prone to mutations, are by in large unique to chordata. Furthermore, these brain-controlling genes, like ADNP, are linked to cell growth and differentiation, and under different stress conditions  may mutate or exhibit expression changes leading to cancer propagation. Better understanding of these genes could lead to better therapeutics.
25427833: !Alzheimer Huperzine A production by Paecilomyces tenuis YS-13, an endophytic fungus isolated from Huperzia serrata. Huperzine A (HupA), a naturally occurring alkaloid in the plant family Huperziaceae, has drawn great interest for its potential application in Alzheimer disease therapy. Our primary objective was to identify alkaloid- and HupA-producing fungi from the Chinese folk herb, Huperzia serrata. We established a rapid and efficient model for screening HupA-producing endophytic fungal strains. The presence of HupA in Paecilomyces tenuis YS-13 was analysed by thin-layer chromatography, high-performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. The fermentation yield of HupA was 21.0 mug/L, and the IC50 of the  crude extract of YS-13 fermentation broth was 1.27 +/- 0.04 mg/mL. This is the first report of P. tenuis as a HupA-producing endophyte isolated from Huperziaceae.
25417106: !Alzheimer Enhancer interaction networks as a means for singular olfactory receptor expression. The transcriptional activation of one out of ?2800 olfactory receptor (OR) alleles is a poorly understood process. Here, we identify a plethora of putative  OR enhancers and study their in vivo activity in olfactory neurons. Distinguished by an unusual epigenetic signature, candidate OR enhancers are characterized by extensive interchromosomal interactions associated with OR transcription and share a similar pattern of transcription factor footprints. In particular, we establish the role of the transcription factor Bptf as a facilitator of both enhancer interactions and OR transcription. Our observations agree with the model whereby OR transcription occurs in the context of multiple interacting enhancers. Disruption of these interchromosomal interactions results in weak and multigenic  OR expression, suggesting that the rare coincidence of numerous enhancers over a  stochastically chosen OR may account for the singularity and robustness in OR transcription.
25416110: !Alzheimer The role of chemical engineering in medicinal research including Alzheimer's. Various disciplines of chemical engineering, especially thermodynamics and kinetics, play an important role in medicinal research and this has been particularly recognized during the last 10-15 years (von Stockar and van der Wielen, J Biotechnol 59:25, 1997; Prausnitz, Fluid Phase Equilib 53:439, 1989; Prausnitz, Pure Appl Chem 79:1435, 2007; Dey and Prausnitz, Ind Eng Chem Res 50:3, 2011; Prausnitz, J Chem Thermodynamics 35:21, 2003; Tsivintzelis et al. AIChE J 55:756, 2009). It is expected that during the twenty-first century chemical engineering and especially thermodynamics can contribute as significantly to the life sciences development as it has been done with the oil and gas and chemical sectors in the twentieth century. Moreover, it has during the recent years recognized that thermodynamics can help in understanding diseases like human cataract, sickle-cell anemia, Creuzfeldt-Jacob ("mad cow" disease), and Alzheimer's which are connected to "protein aggregation." Several articles in the Perspectives section of prominent chemical engineering journals have addressed this issue (Hall, AIChE J 54:1956, 2008; Vekilov, AIChE J 54:2508, 2008). This work reviews recent applications of thermodynamics (and other areas of chemical engineering) first in drug development and then in the understanding  of the mechanism of Alzheimer's and similar diseases.
25413004: !Alzheimer Pharmacological approaches to targeting muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. The presence of cholinergic system markers and muscarinic receptor subtypes in several tissues also of nonneuronal type has been largely demonstrated. Acetylcholine, synthesized in the nervous system, can locally contribute to modulate cell proliferation, survival and apoptosis. Considering that the cholinergic system functions are impaired in a number of disorders, the identification of new drugs regulating these functions appears of great clinical  relevance. The possible involvement of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in different pathologies has been proposed in recent years and is becoming an important area of study. However, the lack of selective muscarinic receptor ligands has for long time limited the therapeutic treatment based on muscarinic receptors as targets. To date, some muscarinic ligands such as xanomeline (patent, US5980933) or cevimeline (patents US4855290, US5571918) have been developed for the treatment of several pathologies (Alzheimer's and Sjogren's diseases). The present review will be focused on the potential effects produced by muscarinic receptor activation in different pathologies, including tumors. In  fact, the potential use of muscarinic ligands in therapeutic protocols in cancer  therapy will be discussed, considering that several muscarinic antagonists, already used in the treatment of genitourinary diseases (e.g. darifenacin, patent, US5096890, US6106864), have also been demonstrated to arrest the tumor growth in vivo. Moreover, the contribution of muscarinic receptors to analgesia is also reviewed. Finally, some of the most significant achievements in the field of bitopic/dualsteric ligands will be discussed and the molecules patented so far will be presented.
25410365: !Alzheimer Targeting of ECM molecules and their metabolizing enzymes and receptors for the treatment of CNS diseases. Extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules, their receptors at the cell surface, and cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) involved in cell-cell or cell-ECM interactions are implicated in processes related to major diseases of the central nervous system including Alzheimer's disease (AD), epilepsy, schizophrenia, addiction, multiple  sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and cancer. There are multiple strategies for targeting the ECM molecules and their metabolizing enzymes and receptors with antibodies, peptides, glycosaminoglycans, and other natural and synthetic compounds. ECM-targeting treatments include chondroitinase ABC, heparin/heparan sulfate-mimicking oligosaccharides, ECM cross-linking antibodies, and drugs stimulating expression of ECM molecules. The amount or activity of ECM-degrading  enzymes like matrix metalloproteinases can be modulated indirectly via the regulation of endogenous inhibitors like TIMPs and RECK or at the transcriptional and translational levels using, e.g., histone deacetylase inhibitors, synthetic inhibitors like Periostat, microRNA-interfering drugs like AC1MMYR2, and natural  compounds like flavonoids, epigallocatechin-3-gallate, anacardic acid, and erythropoietin. Among drugs targeting the major ECM receptors, integrins, are the anticancer peptide cilengitide and anti-integrin antibodies, which have a potential for treatment of stroke, multiple sclerosis, and AD. The latter can be  also potentially treated with modulators of CAMs, such as peptide mimetics derived from L1-CAM and NCAM1.
25410364: !Alzheimer Endogenous and synthetic MMP inhibitors in CNS physiopathology. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs, including the membrane-type MMPs (MT-MMPs)), a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM), and ADAM with thrombospondin motifs belong to the metzincins, a subclass of metalloproteinases that contain a Met residue and a Zn(2+) ion at the catalytic site necessary for enzymatic reaction.  MMP proteolytic activity is mainly controlled by their natural tissue inhibitors  of metalloproteinase (TIMP). A number of synthetic inhibitors have been developed to control deleterious MMP activity. The roles of MMPs and some of their ECM substrates in CNS physiology and pathology are covered by other chapters of the present volume and will thus not be addressed in depth. This chapter will focus (i) on the endogenous MMP inhibitors in the CNS, (ii) on MMP and TIMP regulations in three large classes of neuropathologic processes (inflammatory, neurodegenerative, and infectious), and (iii) on synthetic inhibitors of MMPs and the perspective of their use in different brain diseases.
25409785: !Alzheimer Therapeutic potential of human adipose-derived stem cells in neurological disorders. Stem cell therapy has been noted as a novel strategy to various diseases including neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, stroke, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Huntington's disease that have no effective treatment available to date. The adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs), mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) isolated from adipose tissue, are well known for their pluripotency with the ability to differentiate into various types of cells and immuno-modulatory property. These biological features make ASCs a promising source for regenerative cell therapy in neurological disorders. Here we discuss the recent progress of regenerative therapies in various neurological disorders utilizing ASCs.
25407569: !Alzheimer Smart polyaniline nanoparticles with thermal and photothermal sensitivity. Conductive polyaniline nanoparticles (PANI NPs) are synthesized by oxidation of aniline with persulfate in acid media, in the presence of polymeric stabilizers:  polyvinilpyrrolidone (PVP), poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (PNIPAM), and hydroxylpropylcellulose (HPC). It is observed that the size of the nanoparticles  obtained depends on the polymeric stabilizer used, suggesting a mechanism where the aggregation of polyaniline molecules is arrested by adsorption of the polymeric stabilizer. Indeed, polymerization in the presence of a mixture of two  polymers having different stabilizing capacity (PVP and PNIPAM) allows tuning of  the size of the nanoparticles. Stabilization with biocompatible PVP, HPC and PNIPAM allows use of the nanoparticle dispersions in biological applications. The nanoparticles stabilized by thermosensitive polymers (PNIPAM and HPC) aggregate when the temperature exceeds the phase transition (coil to globule) temperature of each stabilizer (Tpt = 32 degrees C for PNIPAM or Tpt = 42 degrees C for HPC). This result suggests that an extended coil form of the polymeric stabilizer is necessary to avoid aggregation. The dispersions are reversibly restored when the  temperature is lowered below Tpt. In that way, the effect could be used to separate the nanoparticles from soluble contaminants. On the other hand, the PANI NPs stabilized with PVP are unaffected by the temperature change. UV-visible spectroscopy measurements show that the nanoparticle dispersion changes their spectra with the pH of the external solution, suggesting that small molecules can easily penetrate the stabilizer shell. Near infrared radiation is absorbed by PANI NPs causing an increase of their temperature which induces the collapse of the thermosensitive polymer shell and aggregation of the NPs. The effect reveals  that it is possible to locally heat the nanoparticles, a phenomenon that can be used to destroy tumor cells in cancer therapy or to dissolve protein aggregates of neurodegenerative diseases (e.g. Alzheimer). Moreover, the long range control  of aggregation can be used to modulate the nanoparticle residence inside biological tissues.
25407074: !Alzheimer [The etiology and pathogenesis of sporadic inclusion body myositis]. Sporadic inclusion body myositis (sIBM) is the most common acquired muscle disease in older individuals. Muscle weakness and atrophy in the quadriceps, wrist flexor, and finger flexors are the typical clinical findings in sIBM. The etiology and pathogenesis of sIBM are still poorly understood; however, genetic factors, aging, and environmental factors might possibly play a role. The pathological characteristics of sIBM include two unique features: inflammatory changes in muscle fibers, and cytoplasmic and intranuclear inclusions containing  several Alzheimer-type proteins. Based on these pathological findings, there is a continuing debate on whether sIBM is primarily a T cell-mediated inflammatory myositis or a myodegenerative disorder characterized by abnormal protein aggregation, presence of inclusions bodies, and secondary inflammation. Unfortunately, sIBM is also generally refractory to immune therapy.
25403541: !Alzheimer Epistasis analysis using artificial intelligence. Here we introduce artificial intelligence (AI) methodology for detecting and characterizing epistasis in genetic association studies. The ultimate goal of our AI strategy is to analyze genome-wide genetics data as a human would using sources of expert knowledge as a guide. The methodology presented here is based on computational evolution, which is a type of genetic programming. The ability to generate interesting solutions while at the same time learning how to solve the problem at hand distinguishes computational evolution from other genetic programming approaches. We provide a general overview of this approach and then present a few examples of its application to real data.
25403412: !Alzheimer Localization and differentiation pattern of transplanted human multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells in the brain of bulbectomized mice. Replacement cell therapy with transplantation of stem cells is a promising approach for the therapy of various neurodegenerative diseases, e.g. Alzheimer's  disease. However, the behavior of transplanted cells in the damaged tissue should be thoroughly studied before introduction of this method into clinical practice.  We studied the pathways of migration of human multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells after their systemic transplantation into the brain of bulbectomized mice characterized by the development of Alzheimer-type neurodegenerative process. Immunohistochemical analysis with antibodies to human nuclear antigen (HNA) and immunofluorescent analysis of the results of transplantation of multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells carrying green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene showed that these cells can cross the blood-brain barrier and penetrate into some structures of recipient brain. Analysis of differentiation of transplanted human  cells using antibodies to neurospecific enolase (NSE) or astroglial marker (GFAP) with parallel staining for human nuclear antigen revealed no neural differentiation of transplanted cells in the brains of bulbectomized animals. However, some of these cells differentiated into astrocytes, which brought us to  an assumption on important role of astroglial abnormalities in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
25393935: !Alzheimer Metabolomics reveals significant impairments in the immune system of the APP/PS1  transgenic mice of Alzheimer's disease. Inflammatory processes and other failures related to the immune system are common features associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), in both brain and the peripheral system. Thus, the study of the main organs of the immune system may have a great potential for the elucidation of pathological mechanisms underlying  these abnormalities. This is the first metabolomic investigation performed in spleen and thymus from transgenic mice of AD. Tissues were fingerprinted using a  metabolomic platform comprising GC-MS and ultra-HPLC-MS. Multivariate statistics  demonstrated significant differences in numerous metabolites between the APP/PS1  mice and wild-type controls, and it was proven that multiple biochemical pathways are disturbed in these organs including abnormal metabolism of phospholipids, energy deficiencies, altered homeostasis of amino acids, oxidative stress, and others. Therefore, these findings highlight the importance of the proper metabolic functioning of peripheral immune system in the development of neurodegenerative disorders such as AD.
25389957: !Alzheimer Epigenetic nutraceutical diets in Alzheimer's disease. There is growing support that environmental influences and individual genetic susceptibility may increase the incidence and accelerate the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Epigenetic mechanisms encompass a complex regulatory network of modifications with considerable impact on health and disease risk. Abnormal epigenetic regulation is a hallmark in many pathological conditions including AD. It is well recognized that numerous bioactive dietary components mediate epigenetic modifications associated with the pathophysiology of several diseases. Although the influences of dietary factors on epigenetic regulation have been extensively investigated, only few studies have explored the effects of specific  food components in regulating epigenetic patterns during neurodegeneration and AD. Epigenetic nutritional research has substantial potential for AD and may represent a window of opportunity to complement other interventions. Here, we provide a brief overview of the main mechanisms involved in AD, some of which may be epigenetically modulated by bioactive food.
25385071: !Alzheimer Protein interaction module-assisted function X (PIMAX) approach to producing challenging proteins including hyperphosphorylated tau and active CDK5/p25 kinase complex. Many biomedically critical proteins are underrepresented in proteomics and biochemical studies because of the difficulty of their production in Escherichia  coli. These proteins might possess posttranslational modifications vital to their functions, tend to misfold and be partitioned into bacterial inclusion bodies, or act only in a stoichiometric dimeric complex. Successful production of these proteins requires efficient interaction between these proteins and a specific "facilitator," such as a protein-modifying enzyme, a molecular chaperone, or a natural physical partner within the dimeric complex. Here we report the design and application of a protein interaction module-assisted function X (PIMAX) system that effectively overcomes these hurdles. By fusing two proteins of interest to a pair of well-studied protein-protein interaction modules, we were able to potentiate the association of these two proteins, resulting in successful production of an enzymatically active cyclin-dependent kinase complex and hyperphosphorylated tau protein, which is intimately linked to Alzheimer disease. Furthermore, using tau isoforms quantitatively phosphorylated by GSK-3beta and CDK5 kinases via PIMAX, we demonstrated the hyperphosphorylation-stimulated tau oligomerization in vitro, paving the way for new Alzheimer disease drug discoveries. Vectors for PIMAX can be easily modified to meet the needs of different applications. This approach thus provides a convenient and modular suite with broad implications for proteomics and biomedical research.
25377320: !Alzheimer Glycosaminoglycans: anticoagulant and nonanticoagulant actions: a short history of symposia held at villa vigoni. Heparin, a sulfated polysaccharide belonging to the family of glycosaminoglycans, was discovered in the beginning of the 20th century and was initially identified  as a procoagulant isolated from liver tissue. After the first application in patients approximately 30 years later, further purification identified the major  as well as minor, but important, component units of the complex chain mixtures constituting heparin and the multiplex actions became a scientific challenge recently. A series of "Glycosaminoglycan symposium-anticoagulant and nonanticoagulant actions" developed over the past 20 years and focused on this topic has published research data in three issues of Seminars in Thrombosis & Hemostasis and in several other international scientific journals. The latest developments on the methods of analysis, the synthesis, the degradation by heparanases and the nonanticoagulant effects in tumor growth, in anti-inflammatory diseases, and in Alzheimer diseases as presented in the 21st symposium are summarized in the present overview on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the journal with special reference to the journal's founding Editor in Chief, Eberhard F. Mammen.
25375876: !Alzheimer 24-hour rhythms of DNA methylation and their relation with rhythms of RNA expression in the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Circadian rhythms modulate the biology of many human tissues, including brain tissues, and are driven by a near 24-hour transcriptional feedback loop. These rhythms are paralleled by 24-hour rhythms of large portions of the transcriptome. The role of dynamic DNA methylation in influencing these rhythms is uncertain. While recent work in Neurospora suggests that dynamic site-specific circadian rhythms of DNA methylation may play a role in modulating the fungal molecular clock, such rhythms and their relationship to RNA expression have not, to our knowledge, been elucidated in mammalian tissues, including human brain tissues. We hypothesized that 24-hour rhythms of DNA methylation exist in the human brain, and play a role in driving 24-hour rhythms of RNA expression. We analyzed DNA methylation levels in post-mortem human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex samples from 738 subjects. We assessed for 24-hour rhythmicity of 420,132 DNA methylation sites throughout the genome by considering methylation levels as a function of clock time of death and parameterizing these data using cosine functions. We determined global statistical significance by permutation. We then related rhythms of DNA methylation with rhythms of RNA expression determined by RNA sequencing. We found evidence of significant 24-hour rhythmicity of DNA methylation. Regions near transcription start sites were enriched for high-amplitude rhythmic DNA methylation sites, which were in turn time locked to  24-hour rhythms of RNA expression of nearby genes, with the nadir of methylation  preceding peak transcript expression by 1-3 hours. Weak ante-mortem rest-activity rhythms were associated with lower amplitude DNA methylation rhythms as were older age and the presence of Alzheimer's disease. These findings support the hypothesis that 24-hour rhythms of DNA methylation, particularly near transcription start sites, may play a role in driving 24-hour rhythms of gene expression in the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and may be affected by age and Alzheimer's disease.
25374107: !Alzheimer Bone marrow-derived macrophages from AbetaPP/PS1 mice are sensitized to the effects of inflammatory stimuli. Macrophages are key cells in tissue defense in the periphery and, under certain circumstances, infiltrate the central nervous system, where they may play a similar role in the brain, perhaps supporting the function of microglia. Macrophages have been shown to adopt different activation states in response to various stimuli. Specifically, when exposed to inflammatory stimuli such as interferon (IFN)gamma, the cells adopt the M1 phenotype, whereas when exposed to  anti-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-4 or IL-13, the M2 phenotype is adopted. While M1 macrophages are associated with tissue defense and destruction of invading pathogens, M2 macrophages are involved in tissue repair and in terminating inflammation. It is well known that an inflammatory microenvironment exists in the brain of aged animals and also in the brain of mice that overexpress amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) and presenilin 1 (PS1; AbetaPP/PS1 mice), a commonly-used model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent studies have revealed that immune cells, including macrophages, infiltrate the brain in both circumstances raising the possibility that these cells adopt the M1 activation state and contribute to the already-existing neuroinflammation. We set out to examine the responses of bone marrow-derived macrophages prepared from wildtype and AbetaPP/PS1 mice and demonstrate that cells from AbetaPP/PS1 mice, even after several days in culture, respond more profoundly to IFNgamma than those from wildtype mice. We suggest that this propensity to respond to M1-polarizing stimuli, together with the described changes in the brain of AbetaPP/PS1 mice, contribute to the development of chronic neuroinflammation.
25365441: !Alzheimer Care of the adult patient with Down syndrome. Individuals with Down syndrome have an increased risk for many conditions, including cardiovascular disease, cancer, infections, and osteoporosis, and endocrine, neurological, orthopedic, auditory, and ophthalmic disorders. They also are at increased risk for abuse and human rights violations and receive fewer screenings and interventions than the population without Down syndrome. In  this literature review, the most common health conditions associated with Down syndrome are examined, along with the topics of sexual abuse, menstrual hygiene,  contraception, and human rights. Clinical guidelines for this population are summarized in an effort to assist practicing physicians in improving their provision of health care to the adult patient with Down syndrome.
25364765: !Alzheimer Cardio-miRNAs and onco-miRNAs: circulating miRNA-based diagnostics for non-cancerous and cancerous diseases. Cardiovascular diseases and cancers are the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the world. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that primarily repress target mRNAs. Here, miR-24, miR-125b, miR-195, and miR-214 were selected as representative cardio-miRs that are upregulated in human heart failure. To bridge the gap between miRNA studies in cardiology and oncology, the  targets and functions of these miRNAs in cardiovascular diseases and cancers will be reviewed. ACVR1B, BCL2, BIM, eNOS, FGFR3, JPH2, MEN1, MYC, p16, and ST7L are miR-24 targets that have been experimentally validated in human cells. ARID3B, BAK1, BCL2, BMPR1B, ERBB2, FGFR2, IL6R, MUC1, SITR7, Smoothened, STAT3, TET2, and TP53 are representative miR-125b targets. ACVR2A, BCL2, CCND1, E2F3, GLUT3, MYB,  RAF1, VEGF, WEE1, and WNT7A are representative miR-195 targets. BCL2L2, ss-catenin, BIM, CADM1, EZH2, FGFR1, NRAS, PTEN, TP53, and TWIST1 are representative miR-214 targets. miR-125b is a good cardio-miR that protects cardiomyocytes; miR-195 is a bad cardio-miR that elicits cardiomyopathy and heart failure; miR-24 and miR-214 are bi-functional cardio-miRs. By contrast, miR-24, miR-125b, miR-195, and miR-214 function as oncogenic or tumor suppressor miRNAs in a cancer (sub)type-dependent manner. Circulating miR-24 is elevated in diabetes, breast cancer and lung cancer. Circulating miR-195 is elevated in acute myocardial infarction, breast cancer, prostate cancer and colorectal adenoma. Circulating miR-125b and miR-214 are elevated in some cancers. Cardio-miRs and onco-miRs bear some similarities in functions and circulation profiles. miRNAs regulate WNT, FGF, Hedgehog and other signaling cascades that are involved in orchestration of embryogenesis and homeostasis as well as pathogenesis of human diseases. Because circulating miRNA profiles are modulated by genetic and environmental factors and are dysregulated by genetic and epigenetic alterations  in somatic cells, circulating miRNA association studies (CMASs) within several thousands of cases each for common non-cancerous diseases and major cancers are necessary for miRNA-based diagnostics.
25364723: !Alzheimer Stem cell transplantation improves aging-related diseases. Aging is a complex process of damage accumulation, and has been viewed as experimentally and medically intractable. The number of patients with age-associated diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), osteoporosis, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease, atherosclerosis, and cancer has increased recently. Aging-related diseases are related to a deficiency of the immune system, which results from an aged thymus and bone marrow cells. Intra bone marrow-bone marrow transplantation (IBM-BMT) is a useful method to treat intractable diseases. This review summarizes findings that IBM-BMT can improve and treat aging-related diseases, including T2DM, osteoporosis and AD, in animal  models.
25362514: !Alzheimer BPTF Associated with EMT Indicates Negative Prognosis in Patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays an important role  in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) dissemination. Bromodomain PHD-finger transcription factor (BPTF) could regulate embrogenesis and stem cell differentiation, and it may be involved in tumor progression and EMT. In this study, we aimed to determine BPTF, E-cadherin and vimentin expression in tumor tissues and the clinical significance in relation to HCC. METHODS: The BPTF, vimentin and E-cadherin expression of 106 HCC tissue samples was examined by immunohistochemical staining. RESULTS: BPTF and vimentin showed high expression and E-cadherin showed low expression in HCC. BPTF is associated with the tumor number, vascular invasion, Edmondson-Steiner grade, TNM stage and recurrence (P < 0.05). Vimentin is positively correlated with tumor size, tumor number, vascular  invasion, Edmondson-Steiner grade, TNM stage and recurrence (P < 0.05). E-cadherin is negatively correlated with tumor number, Edmondson-Steiner grade, TNM stage and recurrence (P < 0.05). Survival analysis has shown that high expression of BPTF and vimentin indicates poorer overall and disease-free survival (P < 0.05). Multivariate analysis shows that BPTF is an independent marker for survival prediction (P = 0.015). Additionally, high BPTF expression is correlated with high vimentin expression and low E-cadherin expression (P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: High BPTF expression may be an independent marker for survival prediction in HCC patients and is probably involved in EMT.
25348714: !Alzheimer Functional interactions between NURF and Ctcf regulate gene expression. Gene expression frequently requires chromatin-remodeling complexes, and it is assumed that these complexes have common gene targets across cell types. Contrary to this belief, we show by genome-wide expression profiling that Bptf, an essential and unique subunit of the nucleosome-remodeling factor (NURF), predominantly regulates the expression of a unique set of genes between diverse cell types. Coincident with its functions in gene expression, we observed that Bptf is also important for regulating nucleosome occupancy at nucleosome-free regions (NFRs), many of which are located at sites occupied by the multivalent factors Ctcf and cohesin. NURF function at Ctcf binding sites could be direct, because Bptf occupies Ctcf binding sites in vivo and has physical interactions with CTCF and the cohesin subunit SA2. Assays of several Ctcf binding sites using reporter assays showed that their regulatory activity requires Bptf in two different cell types. Focused studies at H2-K1 showed that Bptf regulates the ability of Klf4 to bind near an upstream Ctcf site, possibly influencing gene expression. In combination, these studies demonstrate that gene expression as regulated by NURF occurs partly through physical and functional interactions with the ubiquitous and multivalent factors Ctcf and cohesin.
25345893: !Alzheimer Alterations in immune cells and mediators in the brain: it's not always neuroinflammation! Neuroinflammation was once a clearly defined term denoting pathological immune processes within the central nervous system (CNS). Historically, this term was used to indicate the four hallmarks of peripheral inflammaton that occur following severe CNS injuries, such as stroke, injury or infection. Recently, however, the definition of neuroinflammation has relaxed to the point that it is  often now assumed to be present when even only a single classical hallmark of inflammation is measured. As a result, a wide range of disorders, from psychiatric to degenerative diseases, are now assumed to have an integral inflammatory component. Ironically, at the same time, research has revealed unexpected nonclassical immune actions of immune mediators and cells in the CNS in the absence of pathology, increasing the likelihood that homeostatic and adaptive immune processes in the CNS will be mistaken for neuroinflammation. Thus, we suggest reserving the term neuroinflammation for contexts where multiple signs of inflammation are present to avoid erroneously classifying disorders as inflammatory when they may instead be caused by nonimmune etiologies or secondary immune processes that serve adaptive roles.
25342134: !Alzheimer Inhibition of BACE2 counteracts hIAPP-induced insulin secretory defects in pancreatic beta-cells. BACE2 (beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 2) is a protease localized in the brain, where it appears to play a role in the development of Alzheimer disease (AD). It  is also found in the pancreas, although its biologic function is not fully known. Amyloidogenic diseases, including AD and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D), share the accumulation of abnormally folded and insoluble proteins that interfere with  cell function. Islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) deposits are a key pathogenic feature of T2D. Within this context, we found by global gene expression profiling that BACE2 was up-regulated in the rat pancreatic beta-cell line INS1E stably transfected with human IAPP gene (hIAPP-INS1E). Glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in hIAPP-INS1E cells was 30% lower than in INS1E cells. Additionally, INS1E cells transfected with a transient overexpression of BACE2 showed a 60% decrease in proliferation, a 3-fold increase in reactive oxygen species production, and a 25% reduction in GSIS compared to control cells. Remarkably, silencing of endogenous BACE2 in hIAPP-INS1E cells resulted in a significant improvement in GSIS (3-fold increase vs. untransfected cells), revealing the significant role of BACE2 expression in beta-cell function. Thus, BACE2 inhibition may be useful to recover insulin secretion in hIAPP-INS1E defective cells and may be proposed as a therapeutic target for T2D.
25339862: !Alzheimer Inflammasomes in neuroinflammation and changes in brain function: a focused review. Recent literature has pointed to the existence of inflammasome-mediated inflammatory pathways in central nervous system (CNS) disorders and associated changes in behavior. Neuroinflammation, which is an innate immune response in the CNS against harmful and irritable stimuli such as pathogens and metabolic toxic waste, as well as to chronic mild stress, is mediated by protein complexes known  as inflammasomes. Inflammasomes activate pro-inflammatory caspases 1 and 5, which then cleave the precursor forms of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-18, and IL-33 into their active forms. These pro-inflammatory cytokines have been shown to promote a variety of innate immune processes associated with infection,  inflammation, and autoimmunity, and thereby play an instrumental role in the instigation of neuroinflammation during old age and subsequent occurrence of neurodegenerative diseases, cognitive impairment, and dementia. In particular, NLRP inflammasomes may also have a role in the etiologies of depression, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in metabolic disorders, such as Type II diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular diseases that have been shown to be co-morbid with psychiatric illnesses. It has been reported that while these inflammasomes may be activated through TNF-alpha dependent pathways, other cytokines, like IFN-gamma,  may assist in inhibiting their activation and thus delay disease progression. Furthermore, some other cytokines, including IL-6, may not have a direct role in  inflammasome-mediated diseases. An array of recent research suggests that NLRP inflammasomes targeted therapies could be used for alleviating neuroinflammation  and for treatment of associated psychiatric illnesses, although this still remains a challenge and necessitates further extensive research. This review examines the complex inflammatory signaling pathways involved in the activation of NLRP inflammasomes and the role they play in promoting neuroinflammation and subsequent behavioral changes.
25337079: !Alzheimer Regulation of a TrkB Alternative Transcript by microRNAs. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Tropomyosin-related kinase B receptor (TrkB)-mediated signaling  is vital for neuronal differentiation, survival, plasticity, and cognition. In this study, the focus was placed on TrkB-Shc, a neuron-specific transcript, to determine if microRNAs (miRNAs) play a role in TrkB-Shc regulation. METHODS: A combination of bioinformatics and molecular gene expression analysis techniques was used to assess the effect of miR-409-3p and miR-216b on TrkB-Shc expression.  RESULTS: miR-409-3p and miR-216b were found to regulate the TrkB-Shc 3'UTR through the identified putative binding sites. When the effect of the miRNAs on TrkB was assessed using SHSY5Y neuronal cells, differential effects were observed between mRNA and protein expression. CONCLUSION: This study highlights the importance of miRNA-mediated regulation in TrkB signaling.
25336646: !Alzheimer Minireview series on the thirtieth anniversary of research on O-GlcNAcylation of  nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins: Nutrient regulation of cellular metabolism and  physiology by O-GlcNAcylation. The dynamic cycling of N-acetylglucosamine (termed O-GlcNAcylation) on serine or  threonine residues of nuclear or cytoplasmic proteins serves as a nutrient sensor, both independently and also via its interplay with other post-translational modifications, to regulate signaling, transcription, and cellular physiology. Emerging evidence suggests that dysregulation of this ubiquitous post-translational modification contributes to the etiology of some the most important human chronic diseases.
25327901: !Alzheimer Coumarin derivatives: an updated patent review (2012-2014). INTRODUCTION: Coumarins belong to the benzopyrones family. They are naturally plant-derived and synthetically taken polyphenolic substances, presenting a wide  variety of biological activities and behaviours, supporting their use as therapeutic agents for multiple diseases. Their structural characteristics correlated to physicochemical properties seem to define the extent of the biological activity. AREAS COVERED: Recent patent publications (2012-2014), describing coumarins and their derivatives are analyzed. Synthesis, hybridization techniques and biological evaluation in vitro/in vivo, for example, antimitotic,  antiviral, anticancer, cytotoxic, anti-acne and antioxidant coumarin macromolecule polymer agents are included. Furthermore, a wide range of pharmaceutical applications and pharmaceutical compositions are also summarized.  EXPERT OPINION: Several natural and synthetic coumarins, hybrids and derivatives  appear to have promising anticancer-antitumor activities. Their clinical evaluation will be critical to assess therapeutic utility. The compounds for which the mechanism of action is well defined can serve as lead compounds for the design of new more potent molecules.
25326841: !Alzheimer [Extrapancreatic effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists: an open window towards new treatment goals in type 2 diabetes]. The wide ubiquity of GLP-1 receptors in the body has stimulated the search for different extrapancreatic actions of GLP-1 and its receptor agonists. Thus, severe cardioprotective effects directed on myocardial ischaemia and dysfunction  as well as diverse antiaterogenic actions have been reported. Also, native and GLP-1 receptor agonists have demonstrated significant beneficial effects on liver steatosis and fibrosis and on neuronal protection in experimental models of Alzheimer, and Parkinson's disease as well as on cerebral ischaemia. Recent evidences suggest that these drugs may also be useful for prevention and treatment of diabetic retinopathy, nephropathy and peripheral neuropathy. Good results have also been reported in psoriasis. Despite we still need confirmation  that these promising effects can be applied to clinical practice, they offer new  interesting perspectives for treatment of type 2 diabetes associated complications and give to GLP-1 receptor agonists an even more integral position  in diabetes therapy.
25326131: !Alzheimer Seizure control by derivatives of medium chain fatty acids associated with the ketogenic diet show novel branching-point structure for enhanced potency. The medium chain triglyceride (MCT) ketogenic diet is a major treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy but is problematic, particularly in adults, because of poor tolerability. Branched derivatives of octanoic acid (OA), a medium chain fat provided in the diet have been suggested as potential new treatments for drug-resistant epilepsy, but the structural basis of this functionality has not been determined. Here we investigate structural variants of branched medium chain fatty acids as new seizure-control treatments. We initially employ a series of methyl-branched OA derivatives, and using the GABAA receptor antagonist pentylenetetrazol to induce seizure-like activity in rat hippocampal slices, we show a strong, branch-point-specific activity that improves upon the related epilepsy treatment valproic acid. Using low magnesium conditions to induce glutamate excitotoxicity in rat primary hippocampal neuronal cultures for the assessment of neuroprotection, we also show a structural dependence identical to  that for seizure control, suggesting a related mechanism of action for these compounds in both seizure control and neuroprotection. In contrast, the effect of these compounds on histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibition, associated with teratogenicity, shows no correlation with therapeutic efficacy. Furthermore, small structural modifications of the starting compounds provide active compounds without HDAC inhibitory effects. Finally, using multiple in vivo seizure models,  we identify potent lead candidates for the treatment of epilepsy. This study therefore identifies a novel family of fatty acids, related to the MCT ketogenic  diet, that show promise as new treatments for epilepsy control and possibly other MCT ketogenic diet-responding conditions, such as Alzheimer disease.
25317174: !Alzheimer Neuroprotective effects of berry fruits on neurodegenerative diseases. Recent clinical research has demonstrated that berry fruits can prevent age-related neurodegenerative diseases and improve motor and cognitive functions. The berry fruits are also capable of modulating signaling pathways involved in inflammation, cell survival, neurotransmission and enhancing neuroplasticity. The neuroprotective effects of berry fruits on neurodegenerative diseases are related to phytochemicals such as anthocyanin, caffeic acid, catechin, quercetin, kaempferol and tannin. In this review, we made an attempt to clearly describe the beneficial effects of various types of berries as promising neuroprotective agents.
25312618: !Alzheimer Implications of some selected flavonoids towards Alzheimer's disease with the emphasis on cholinesterase inhibition and their bioproduction by metabolic engineering. Flavonoids are one of the most abundant secondary metabolites having a polyphenolic structure in plant and animal species with various desired pharmacological effects towards human health. Many flavonoid derivatives have been reported to possess neuroprotective activity through different mechanisms of action and, among them, cholinesterase (ChE) inhibition constitutes an important  clinically applied treatment strategy of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Some flavonoid derivatives have been demonstrated to inhibit both acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) to varying extent, which are called the sister enzymes linked to the pathogenesis of AD. On the other hand, diverse bioproduction techniques such as plant tissue culture, microbial transformation,  etc. are applicable for flavonoids and, among them, production of flavonoids through metabolic engineering using special bacteria or yeast species has recently become popular. In the current review, some common flavonoids with ChE inhibitory effect as well as the examples of flavonoids obtained from metabolic engineering methods will be discussed.
25311587: !Alzheimer Maternal immune activation and abnormal brain development across CNS disorders. Epidemiological studies have shown a clear association between maternal infection and schizophrenia or autism in the progeny. Animal models have revealed maternal  immune activation (mIA) to be a profound risk factor for neurochemical and behavioural abnormalities in the offspring. Microglial priming has been proposed  as a major consequence of mIA, and represents a critical link in a causal chain that leads to the wide spectrum of neuronal dysfunctions and behavioural phenotypes observed in the juvenile, adult or aged offspring. Such diversity of phenotypic outcomes in the mIA model are mirrored by recent clinical evidence suggesting that infectious exposure during pregnancy is also associated with epilepsy and, to a lesser extent, cerebral palsy in children. Preclinical research also suggests that mIA might precipitate the development of Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases. Here, we summarize and critically review the emerging evidence that mIA is a shared environmental risk factor across CNS disorders that varies as a function of interactions between genetic and additional environmental factors. We also review ongoing clinical trials targeting immune pathways affected by mIA that may play a part in disease manifestation. In addition, future directions and outstanding questions are discussed, including potential symptomatic, disease-modifying and preventive treatment strategies.
25306655: !Alzheimer [Genetic and epigenetic news in gerontology]. The overview represents the recent most conspicuous findings in aging studies. It includes new data on the whole genome association studies (GWAS) in big cohort of centenaries, recently found mutation protecting from Alzheimer disease, discovery of hypothalamus as a command center of human aging, very important data on the negative effect of common antioxidants in the treatment of lung cancer as well as new data concerning antiaging and anticancer effects of common drugs such as rapamycine and metformin. Substantial part of the review is devoted to the epigenetic problems of senescence and feasible impact of basic epigenetic mechanisms (methylation of DNA and histone proteins, DNA heterochromatization) in regulation of gene expression, long-term genome reprogramming during early childhood, and transgeneration transmission of epigenetic traits. The necessity of transition from molecular studies of dormant human genome (anatomy of human genome) to genome in action (dynamic genome) and thus with special emphasis to epigenetic medicine is stressed.
25305052: !Alzheimer Age-dependent metabolic dysregulation in cancer and Alzheimer's disease. Age is the main risk factor for cancer and neurodegeneration; two radically divergent diseases. Yet selective pressure to meet cellular metabolic needs may provide a common mechanism linking these two disorders. The exclusive use of glycolysis, despite the presence of oxygen, is commonly referred to as aerobic glycolysis and is the primary metabolic pathway of cancer cells. Recent evidence  suggests that aerobic glycolysis is also a key regulator of synaptic plasticity in the brain that may positively influence cognition. Elevated aerobic glycolysis is a contributing factor to the development of cancer as increased glycolytic flux plays an important role in the biosynthesis of macromolecules and promotes proliferation. In contrast, decreased aerobic glycolysis in the brain occurs with age and could lead to a loss of cell survival mechanisms that counter pathogenic  processes underlying neurodegeneration. In this review we discuss the recent findings from epidemiological studies demonstrating an inverse comorbidity of cancer and Alzheimer's disease. We summarize evidence linking the two diseases through changes in metabolism over the course of normal aging. We discuss the key steps and regulatory mechanisms of aerobic glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation which could be exploited for the development of novel therapies.  In addition, we outline the regulation of aerobic glycolysis at the transcriptional level by HIF-1alpha and Pin1 and their roles in cancer and neurodegeneration. Finally, we provide a possible explanation for metabolic dysregulation that occurs with age, and how it may be a contributing factor to age-related diseases. Determining how metabolism becomes dysregulated over time could lead to the development of effective interventions for ensuring metabolic homeostasis and healthy aging.
25290579: !Alzheimer Fluorinated aromatic amino acids are sensitive 19F NMR probes for bromodomain-ligand interactions. We describe a (19)F NMR method for detecting bromodomain-ligand interactions using fluorine-labeled aromatic amino acids due to the conservation of aromatic residues in the bromodomain binding site. We test the sensitivity, accuracy, and  speed of this method with small molecule ligands (+)-JQ1, BI2536, Dinaciclib, TG101348, and acetaminophen using three bromodomains Brd4, BrdT, and BPTF. Simplified (19)F NMR spectra allowed for simultaneous testing of multiple bromodomains to assess selectivity and identification of a new BPTF ligand. Fluorine labeling only modestly affected the Brd4 structure and function assessed by isothermal titration calorimetry, circular dichroism, and X-ray crystallography. The speed, ease of interpretation, and low concentration of protein needed for binding experiments affords a new method to discover and characterize both native and new ligands.
25288153: !Alzheimer Stress Conditions Increase Vimentin Cleavage by Omi/HtrA2 Protease in Human Primary Neurons and Differentiated Neuroblastoma Cells. Dysfunctional Omi/HtrA2, a mitochondrial serine protease, has been implicated in  various neurodegenerative disorders. Despite the wealth of evidence on the roles  of Omi/HtrA2 in apoptosis, little is known about its cytosolic targets, the cleavage of which could account for the observed morphological changes such as cytoskeletal reorganizations in axons. By proteomic analysis, vimentin was identified as a substrate for Omi/HtrA2 and we have reported increased Omi/HtrA2  protease activity in Alzheimer disease (AD) brain. Here, we investigated a possible link between Omi/HtrA2 and vimentin cleavage, and consequence of this cleavage on mitochondrial distribution in neurons. In vitro protease assays showed vimentin to be cleaved by Omi/HtrA2 protease, and proximity ligation assay demonstrated an increased interaction between Omi/HtrA2 and vimentin in human primary neurons upon stress stimuli. Using differentiated neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, we showed that Omi/HtrA2 under several different stress conditions induces cleavage of vimentin in wild-type as well as SH-SY5Y cells transfected with amyloid precursor protein with the Alzheimer disease-associated Swedish mutation. After stress treatment, inhibition of Omi/HtrA2 protease activity by the Omi/HtrA2 specific inhibitor, Ucf-101, reduced the cleavage of vimentin in wild-type cells. Following altered vimentin filaments integrity by stress stimuli, mitochondria was redistributed in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells and human primary neurons. In summary, the findings outlined in this paper suggest a role of Omi/HtrA2 in modulation of vimentin filamentous structure in neurons. Our results provide important findings for understanding the biological role of Omi/HtrA2 activity during stress conditions, and give knowledge of interplay between Omi/HtrA2 and vimentin which might affect mitochondrial distribution in neurons.
25281130: !Alzheimer Application of a novel metabolomic approach based on atmospheric pressure photoionization mass spectrometry using flow injection analysis for the study of  Alzheimer's disease. The use of atmospheric pressure photoionization is not widespread in metabolomics, despite its considerable potential for the simultaneous analysis of compounds with diverse polarities. This work considers the development of a novel analytical approach based on flow injection analysis and atmospheric pressure photoionization mass spectrometry for rapid metabolic screening of serum samples. Several experimental parameters were optimized, such as type of dopant, flow injection solvent, and their flows, given that a careful selection of these variables is mandatory for a comprehensive analysis of metabolites. Toluene and methanol were the most suitable dopant and flow injection solvent, respectively.  Moreover, analysis in negative mode required higher solvent and dopant flows (100 microl min(-1) and 40 microl min(-1), respectively) compared to positive mode (50 microl min(-1) and 20 microl min(-1)). Then, the optimized approach was used to elucidate metabolic alterations associated with Alzheimer's disease. Thereby, results confirm the increase of diacylglycerols, ceramides, ceramide-1-phosphate  and free fatty acids, indicating membrane destabilization processes, and reduction of fatty acid amides and several neurotransmitters related to impairments in neuronal transmission, among others. Therefore, it could be concluded that this metabolomic tool presents a great potential for analysis of biological samples, considering its high-throughput screening capability, fast analysis and comprehensive metabolite coverage.
25275896: !Alzheimer Ocular and systemic manifestations of exfoliation syndrome. Exfoliation syndrome is an age-related disease characterized by the production and progressive accumulation of a fibrillar extracellular material in many ocular tissues. It leads to the most common identifiable cause of open-angle glaucoma worldwide, comprising the majority of glaucoma in some countries. The material in the eye appears as white deposits on the anterior lens surface and/or pupillary border. During pupillary movement, the iris scrapes exfoliation material from the lens surface, while the material on the lens causes rupture of iris pigment epithelial cells, with concomitant pigment dispersion into the anterior chamber and its deposition on anterior chamber structures. Exfoliation material can be found in many different organs. It is an ischemic disease and is associated with  elevated serum homocysteine. Systemic associations include transient ischemic attacks, hypertension, angina, myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disease, aortic aneurysm, Alzheimer disease, and hearing loss. The discovery in 2007 of nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms in the LOXL1 (lysyl oxidase-like 1) gene are expected to make a major impact not only in understanding exfoliation syndrome, but in leading to new avenues of therapy.
25273029: !Alzheimer Biopolymer-based transdermal films of donepezil as an alternative delivery approach in Alzheimer's disease treatment. Matrix type transdermal films of donepezil (DNP) as an alternative delivery approach was designed to improve patient compliance to Alzheimer disease treatment. Sodium alginate, a natural polysaccharide, was used as matrix-forming  agent in the optimization of transdermal films. Propylene glycol and dl-limonene  was added into films as a plasticizer and permeation enhancer, respectively. As well as mechanical strength and bioadhesiveness of optimized transdermal films of DNP, the impact of dl-limonene concentration in films on DNP in vitro permeation  across pig skin was assessed. Attenuated total reflectance-Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) measurements were carried out to examine the effects of enhancer on in vitro conformational order of the stratum corneum intercellular lipids following permeation study. Results showed that transdermal formulations of DNP were suitable due to both mechanical and bioadhesive features of the films. In vitro skin permeation study indicated that dl-limonene at a concentration of 3% was optimum with high drug flux. ATR-FTIR results confirmed a more fluidized stratum corneum lipid state in the presence of dl-limonene, indicating its permeation enhancement effect. Regarding to achieve therapeutic levels of DNP, it seems to be feasible deliver DNP with transdermal films for the management of Alzheimer disease.
25259414: !Alzheimer Ab initio molecular simulations for proposing potent inhibitors to butyrylcholinesterases. Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) exists mainly at neuromuscular junctions and plays an important role in the hydrolyzing mechanism of neurotransmitter acetylcholine. A variety of compounds have been produced in order to inhibit the function of BChE. We here investigate the specific interactions between BChE and some ligands (Kx) with large binding affinity to BChE, using ligand-docking, classical molecular mechanics and ab initio fragment molecular orbital (FMO) methods. The binding energies between BChE and Kx evaluated by the FMO method have a correlation with the 50% inhibition concentration obtained by the previous experiments. In addition, the FMO calculations highlight that Asp70, Trp82 and Tyr128 residues of BChE contribute significantly to the binding between BChE and  Kx. Based on the results, we propose some novel ligands and elucidate that one of the proposed ligands can bind strongly to BChE. The present results are useful for developing potent inhibitors to BChE.
25249622: !Alzheimer Target-responsive DNA-capped nanocontainer used for fabricating universal detector and performing logic operations. Nucleic acids have become a powerful tool in nanotechnology because of their controllable diverse conformational transitions and adaptable higher-order nanostructure. Using single-stranded DNA probes as the pore-caps for various target recognition, here we present an ultrasensitive universal electrochemical detection system based on graphene and mesoporous silica, and achieve sensitivity with all of the major classes of analytes and simultaneously realize DNA logic gate operations. The concept is based on the locking of the pores and preventing  the signal-reporter molecules from escape by target-induced the conformational change of the tailored DNA caps. The coupling of 'waking up' gatekeeper with highly specific biochemical recognition is an innovative strategy for the detection of various targets, able to compete with classical methods which need expensive instrumentation and sophisticated experimental operations. The present  study has introduced a new electrochemical signal amplification concept and also  adds a new dimension to the function of graphene-mesoporous materials hybrids as  multifunctional nanoscale logic devices. More importantly, the development of this approach would spur further advances in important areas, such as point-of-care diagnostics or detection of specific biological contaminations, and hold promise for use in field analysis.
25249537: !Alzheimer Genetic and environmental exposures constrain epigenetic drift over the human life course. Epigenetic mechanisms such as DNA methylation (DNAm) are essential for regulation of gene expression. DNAm is dynamic, influenced by both environmental and genetic factors. Epigenetic drift is the divergence of the epigenome as a function of age due to stochastic changes in methylation. Here we show that epigenetic drift may  be constrained at many CpGs across the human genome by DNA sequence variation and by lifetime environmental exposures. We estimate repeatability of DNAm at 234,811 autosomal CpGs in whole blood using longitudinal data (2-3 repeated measurements) on 478 older people from two Scottish birth cohorts--the Lothian Birth Cohorts of 1921 and 1936. Median age was 79 yr and 70 yr, and the follow-up period was approximately 10 yr and approximately 6 yr, respectively. We compare this to methylation heritability estimated in the Brisbane Systems Genomics Study, a cross-sectional study of 117 families (offspring median age 13 yr; parent median  age 46 yr). CpG repeatability in older people was highly correlated (0.68) with heritability estimated in younger people. Highly heritable sites had strong underlying cis-genetic effects. Thirty-seven and 1687 autosomal CpGs were associated with smoking and sex, respectively. Both sets were strongly enriched for high repeatability. Sex-associated CpGs were also strongly enriched for high  heritability. Our results show that a large number of CpGs across the genome, as  a result of environmental and/or genetic constraints, have stable DNAm variation  over the human lifetime. Moreover, at a number of CpGs, most variation in the population is due to genetic factors, despite some sites being highly modifiable  by the environment.
25245568: !Alzheimer alpha1-antitrypsin modulates microglial-mediated neuroinflammation and protects microglial cells from amyloid-beta-induced toxicity. BACKGROUND: One hallmark of Alzheimer disease is microglial activation. Therapeutic approaches for this neurodegenerative disease include the modulation  of microglial cells. alpha1-antitrypsin (A1AT) has been shown to exert anti-inflammatory effects on macrophages and lung epithelial cells and an inhibition of calpain activity in neutrophil granulocytes. Nothing is known about the effect of A1AT on microglial-mediated neuroinflammation. Our aim was to investigate the effect of A1AT on amyloid-beta (Abeta)- and LPS-treated microglial cells in vitro with respect to cytokine production, stress pathways, cell viability, phagocytotic abilities and the underlying mechanisms. METHODS: Primary microglial cells were isolated from Swiss Webster mouse embryos on embryonic day 13.5. Cytokines in the supernatants of treated primary microglial cells were analyzed with ELISAs, and accumulated nitrite was detected with Griess reagents. Intracellular stress pathways were investigated in cell lysates using western blotting. Intracellular calcium levels were detected in BV-2 microglial cells loaded with the Ca2+-sensitive (fluorescent) dye Fluo-4. Calpain activity in primary microglial cells was assessed by using a calpain activity assay. Cell  viability of Abeta-treated microglial cells was analyzed using MTT assay. Phagocytosis of Abeta was evaluated with western blot analysis. RESULTS: Upon co-administration, A1AT reduced pro-inflammatory mediators induced by LPS or Abeta. Interestingly, we detected a reduction in calpain activity and in the concentration of intracellular calcium that might mediate the anti-inflammatory effects of A1AT. Inhibition of the classic activation pathways, such as phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases or activation of protein kinase A were excluded as a mechanism of A1AT-mediated effects. In addition, A1AT increased the viability of Abeta-treated microglial cells and reduced Abeta phagocytosis. CONCLUSIONS: We provide evidence on the mechanism of action of A1AT on microglial-mediated neuroinflammation in vitro. Our in vitro data indicate that A1AT treatment modulates microglial cells in inflammatory conditions and that this modulation is due to an inhibition of calpain activity and intracellular calcium levels. The underlying mechanisms of the effects observed here are promising for future therapeutic strategies and should thus be further pursued in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer disease.
25243877: !Alzheimer Carthamus, Salvia and Stachys species protect neuronal cells against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. CONTEXT: Finding effective therapies for neurodegenerative diseases is of utmost  importance for the aging population. Plants growing in Iran are rich sources of antioxidants and active phytochemicals. OBJECTIVE: The protective capacity of plants, with a special focus on those with reported antioxidant or neuroprotective potential or nervous system-related applications in folk medicine, was tested against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Aerial parts of 20 plants including Carthamus, Salvia, and Stachys species were extracted with 80% methanol and dichloromethane and preincubated with neuronal PC12 cells for 3 h. Oxidative stress and apoptosis were induced by  hydrogen peroxide (75 microM, 1 h exposure). Cell viability and intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) were measured by MTT and 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein-diacetate (DCFH-DA) assays, respectively, while apoptosis was determined by annexin V-FITC/propidium iodide staining by a flow cytometer. RESULTS: Eighty percent methanol extracts of Carthamus oxyacantha Bieb. (Asteraceae), Salvia santolinifolia Boiss. (Lamiaceae), and Salvia sclarea  L. (Lamiaceae) at the concentration of 100 mug/ml showed significant neuroprotection in the MTT assay by 38.7, 34.7, and 39.5%, respectively, and inhibited intracellular ROS by 48.6, 61.9, and 61.4%, respectively. The first two extracts also significantly inhibited apoptosis. Dichloromethane extracts of C. oxyacantha and Stachys pilifera Benth. (Lamiaceae) at the concentration of 25 mug/ml showed neuroprotection by 27.5 and 26.5%, respectively, and inhibited ROS  by 44.5 and 39.4%, respectively. CONCLUSION: The above-mentioned plants seem to have important biological activities and their further study may lead to the discovery of new natural therapeutics useful against disorders such as Alzheimer  and Parkinson diseases.
25239520: !Alzheimer Prominence of central sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor-1 in attenuating abeta-induced injury by fingolimod. FTY720 (fingolimod), the sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) analogue, has been experimentally indicated to exert substantial ameliorating effects in animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present work aims to answer whether central S1P receptor 1 (S1P1) plays significant role in the impact of fingolimod  in AD. To verify the prominence of central FTY720 phosphorylation, DMS (sphingosine kinase inhibitor) was infused intracerebrally in parallel with systemic FTY720 administration to prevent central formation of FTY720-P as the recognized active ligand for S1PRs. The corresponding S1P1 modulation was also investigated using the pharmacological blockage of central S1P1 by W123. Both DMS and W123 were efficiently capable of suppressing FTY720-ameliorating effects in AD animals, either on memory deficit or on COX-II and TNF-alpha expression. Our data conclude that experimental benefits of FTY720 in the context of AD depend on central S1P1 modulation, as well as on S1P kinase activity in the brain.
25237865: !Alzheimer Chemical biology methods for investigating G protein-coupled receptor signaling. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are targets for a quarter of prescription drugs. Despite recent progress in structural biology of GPCRs, only few key conformational states in the signal transduction process have been elucidated. Agonist ligands frequently display functional selectivity where activated receptors are biased to either G protein- or arrestin-mediated downstream signaling pathways. Selective manipulation of individual steps in the GPCR activation scheme requires precise information about the kinetics of ligand binding and the dynamics of downstream signaling. One approach is to obtain time-resolved information using receptors tagged with fluorescent or structural probes. Recent advances allow for site-specific introduction of genetically encoded unnatural amino acids into expressed GPCRs. We describe how bioorthogonal functional groups on GPCRs enable the mapping of receptor-ligand interactions and how bioorthogonal chemical reactions can be used to introduce fluorescent labels  for single-molecule fluorescence applications to study the kinetics and conformational dynamics of GPCR signaling complexes ("signalosomes").
25236746: !Alzheimer Mechanism of oxidative inactivation of human presequence protease by hydrogen peroxide. The mitochondrial presequence protease (PreP) is a member of the pitrilysin class of metalloproteases. It degrades the mitochondrial targeting presequences of mitochondria-localized proteins as well as unstructured peptides such as amyloid-beta peptide. The specific activity of PreP is reduced in Alzheimer patients and animal models of Alzheimer disease. The loss of activity can be mimicked in vitro by exposure to oxidizing conditions, and indirect evidence suggested that inactivation was due to methionine oxidation. We performed peptide mapping analyses to elucidate the mechanism of inactivation. None of the 24 methionine residues in recombinant human PreP was oxidized. We present evidence that inactivation is due to oxidation of cysteine residues and consequent oligomerization through intermolecular disulfide bonds. The most susceptible cysteine residues to oxidation are Cys34, Cys112, and Cys119. Most, but not all,  of the activity loss is restored by the reducing agent dithiothreitol. These findings elucidate a redox mechanism for regulation of PreP and also provide a rational basis for therapeutic intervention in conditions characterized by excessive oxidation of PreP.
25233067: !Alzheimer Systematic review of potential health risks posed by pharmaceutical, occupational and consumer exposures to metallic and nanoscale aluminum, aluminum oxides, aluminum hydroxide and its soluble salts. Abstract Aluminum (Al) is a ubiquitous substance encountered both naturally (as the third most abundant element) and intentionally (used in water, foods, pharmaceuticals, and vaccines); it is also present in ambient and occupational airborne particulates. Existing data underscore the importance of Al physical and chemical forms in relation to its uptake, accumulation, and systemic bioavailability. The present review represents a systematic examination of the peer-reviewed literature on the adverse health effects of Al materials published  since a previous critical evaluation compiled by Krewski et al. (2007) . Challenges encountered in carrying out the present review reflected the experimental use of different physical and chemical Al forms, different routes of administration, and different target organs in relation to the magnitude, frequency, and duration of exposure. Wide variations in diet can result in Al intakes that are often higher than the World Health Organization provisional tolerable weekly intake (PTWI), which is based on studies with Al citrate. Comparing daily dietary Al exposures on the basis of "total Al"assumes that gastrointestinal bioavailability for all dietary Al forms is equivalent to that for Al citrate, an approach that requires validation. Current occupational exposure limits (OELs) for identical Al substances vary as much as 15-fold. The toxicity of different Al forms depends in large measure on their physical behavior and relative solubility in water. The toxicity of soluble Al forms depends upon the delivered dose of Al(+3) to target tissues. Trivalent Al reacts  with water to produce bidentate superoxide coordination spheres [Al(O2)(H2O4)(+2) and Al(H2O)6 (+3)] that after complexation with O2(*-), generate Al superoxides [Al(O2(*))](H2O5)](+2). Semireduced AlO2(*) radicals deplete mitochondrial Fe and promote generation of H2O2, O2 (*-) and OH(*). Thus, it is the Al(+3)-induced formation of oxygen radicals that accounts for the oxidative damage that leads to intrinsic apoptosis. In contrast, the toxicity of the insoluble Al oxides depends primarily on their behavior as particulates. Aluminum has been held responsible for human morbidity and mortality, but there is no consistent and convincing evidence to associate the Al found in food and drinking water at the doses and chemical forms presently consumed by people living in North America and Western Europe with increased risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neither is there clear evidence to show use of Al-containing underarm antiperspirants or cosmetics increases the risk of AD or breast cancer. Metallic Al, its oxides, and common Al salts have not been shown to be either genotoxic or carcinogenic. Aluminum exposures during neonatal and pediatric parenteral nutrition (PN) can impair bone mineralization and delay neurological development. Adverse effects to vaccines with Al adjuvants have occurred; however, recent controlled trials found that the immunologic response to certain vaccines with Al adjuvants was no greater, and in some cases less than, that after identical vaccination without Al adjuvants. The  scientific literature on the adverse health effects of Al is extensive. Health risk assessments for Al must take into account individual co-factors (e.g., age,  renal function, diet, gastric pH). Conclusions from the current review point to the need for refinement of the PTWI, reduction of Al contamination in PN solutions, justification for routine addition of Al to vaccines, and harmonization of OELs for Al substances.
25230328: !Alzheimer Salivary cortisol levels in athletes and nonathletes: a systematic review. High performance athletes are constantly facing different situations involving stress. Salivary cortisol has been used as a physiological measure to verify high performance athlete and mental health, in spite of research that has shown that comparisons between cortisol levels in athletes and nonathletes are inconclusive. The purpose of this study was to review articles that investigated salivary cortisol levels at rest in high performance athletes in comparison to physically  active or sedentary nonathlete individuals. PubMed, ISI Web of Knowledge, SciELO, LILACS, and Scopus databases were searched for studies on salivary cortisol in athletes and the size effect was calculated. Although 3 articles reported higher  salivary cortisol levels in female athletes compared to a control group, the results showed homogeneity among baseline groups or groups in resting conditions, suggesting a lack of discriminative capacity. These results should be interpreted with caution, due to the presence of substantial methodological bias.
25229860: !Alzheimer Green tea aroma fraction reduces beta-amyloid peptide-induced toxicity in Caenorhabditis elegans transfected with human beta-amyloid minigene. Green tea is a popular world-wide beverage with health benefits that include preventive effects on cancer as well as cardiovascular, liver and Alzheimer's diseases (AD). This study will examine the preventive effects on AD of a unique aroma of Japanese green tea. First, a transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) CL4176 expressing human beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) was used as a model of AD. A hexane extract of processed green tea was further fractionated into volatile and non-volatile fractions, named roasty aroma and green tea aroma fractions depending on their aroma, by microscale distillation. Both hexane extract and green tea aroma fraction were found to inhibit Abeta-induced paralysis, while only green tea aroma fraction extended lifespan in CL4176. We also found that green tea aroma fraction has antioxidant activity. This paper indicates that the green tea aroma fraction is an additional component for prevention of AD.
25221582: !Alzheimer Role of Notch-1 signaling pathway in PC12 cell apoptosis induced by amyloid beta-peptide (25-35). Recent studies have demonstrated that Notch-1 expression is increased in the hippocampus of Alzheimer's disease patients. We speculate that Notch-1 signaling  may be involved in PC12 cell apoptosis induced by amyloid beta-peptide (25-35) (Abeta25-35). In the present study, PC12 cells were cultured with different doses (0, 0.1, 1.0, 10 and 100 nmol/L) of N-[N-(3,5-Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester, a Notch-1  signaling pathway inhibitor, for 30 minutes. Then cultured cells were induced with Abeta25-35 for 48 hours. Pretreatment of PC12 cells with high doses of N-[N-(3,5-Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (> 10 nmol/L) prolonged the survival of PC12 cells after Abeta25-35 induction, decreased the expression of apoptosis-related proteins caspase-3, -8, -9, increased the activity of oxidative stress-related superoxide dismutase and catalase, inhibited the production of active oxygen, and reduced nuclear factor kappa B expression. This study indicates that the Notch-1 signaling pathway plays a pivotal role in Abeta25-35-induced PC12 apoptosis.
25219999: !Alzheimer Immune responses in neurodegenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative disease is a progressive loss of neurons from central nervous system and has a huge impact on health care system. Various causes have been proposed of which inflammation has been suggested to be a probable key factor in  the most of such conditions. The involvement of immune cells including lymphocytes in such diseased condition of the CNS supports this notion. The effective therapy for these diseases has been sought for more than a half century but still lacking such therapy. On such basis this review article has mainly focussed on evidence of the involvement of immune cells in various neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's diseases and Multiple sclerosis and suggests a possible therapy of such diseased conditions of the CNS by the modulation of immune system.
25219467: !Alzheimer Cross talk between PI3K-AKT-GSK-3beta and PP2A pathways determines tau hyperphosphorylation. Glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) and protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) are  the important enzymes controlling tau hyperphosphorylation. The relationship between these two enzymes and its impact on tau hyperphosphorylation are not well understood. In the present study, we determined the cross talk between PI3K-AKT-GSK-3beta and PP2A pathways and found that the former regulated the methylation of PP2Ac via GSK-3beta. Upregulation of GSK-3beta led to an increase  in the methylation and activity of PP2Ac through suppression of protein phosphatase methylesterase-1 expression and phosphorylation of leucine carboxyl methyltransferase 1. PP2A also regulated GSK-3beta phosphorylation. Downregulation of PP2A enhanced Ser9 phosphorylation of GSK-3beta and inhibited its kinase activity. Thus, GSK-3beta and PP2A regulate each other and control tau phosphorylation both directly and indirectly through each other. Reduction of tau phosphorylation by inhibition of GSK-3beta may be more than offset by inhibition  of PP2A through a shift in phosphatase methylesterase-1/leucine carboxyl methyltransferase 1 balance; PP2A regulates phosphorylation of tau at Ser262/356, a required site for tau pathology. These findings suggest targeting PP2A rather than GSK-3beta to inhibit tau pathology.
25219254: !Alzheimer [Significant genes extraction and analysis of gene expression data based on matrix factorization techniques]. It is generally considered that various regulatory activities between genes are contained in the gene expression datasets. Therefore, the underlying gene regulatory relationship and the biologically useful information can be found by modeling the gene regulatory network from the gene expression data. In our study, two unsupervised matrix factorization methods, independent component analysis (ICA) and nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF), were proposed to identify significant genes and model the regulatory network using the microarray gene expression data of Alzheimer's disease (AD). By bio-molecular analyzing of the pathways, the differences between ICA and NMF have been explored and the fact, which the inflammatory reaction is one of the main pathological mechanisms of AD, is also emphasized. It was demonstrated that our study gave a novel and valuable  method for the research of early detection and pathological mechanism, biomarkers' findings of AD.
25217641: !Alzheimer Neurogenin 2 mediates amyloid-beta precursor protein-stimulated neurogenesis. Amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) is well studied for its role in Alzheimer disease, although its normal function remains uncertain. It has been reported that APP stimulates the proliferation and neuronal differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs). In this study we examined the role of APP in NSPC  differentiation. To identify proteins that may mediate the effect of APP on NSPC  differentiation, we used a gene array approach to find genes whose expression correlated with APP-induced neurogenesis. We found that the expression of neurogenin 2 (Ngn2), a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, was significantly down-regulated in NSPCs from APP knock-out mice (APPKO) and increased in APP transgenic (Tg2576) mice. Ngn2 overexpression in APPKO NSPCs promoted neuronal differentiation, whereas siRNA knockdown of Ngn2 expression in  wild-type NSPCs decreased neuronal differentiation. The results demonstrate that  APP-stimulated neuronal differentiation of NSPCs is mediated by Ngn2.
25217383: !Alzheimer Senescent cells: SASPected drivers of age-related pathologies. The progression of physiological ageing is driven by intracellular aberrations including telomere attrition, genomic instability, epigenetic alterations and loss of proteostasis. These in turn damage cells and compromise their functionality. Cellular senescence, a stable irreversible cell-cycle arrest, is elicited in damaged cells and prevents their propagation in the organism. Under normal conditions, senescent cells recruit the immune system which facilitates their removal from tissues. Nevertheless, during ageing, tissue-residing senescent cells tend to accumulate, and might negatively impact their microenvironment via profound secretory phenotype with pro-inflammatory characteristics, termed senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Indeed, senescent cells are mostly abundant at sites of age-related pathologies, including degenerative disorders and malignancies. Interestingly, studies on progeroid mice indicate that selective elimination of senescent cells can delay age-related deterioration. This suggests that chronic inflammation induced by senescent cells might be a main driver of these pathologies. Importantly, senescent cells accumulate as a result of deficient immune surveillance, and their removal is increased upon the use of immune stimulatory agents. Insights into mechanisms of senescence surveillance could be combined with current approaches for cancer immunotherapy to propose new preventive and therapeutic strategies for age-related diseases.
25206904: !Alzheimer Nasal mucosal inhalation of amyloid-beta peptide 3-10 defective adenovirus attenuates cytotoxicity induced by beta-amyloid (1-42). Three-month-old Alzheimer's disease model transgenic mice were immunized with Abeta1-42 Plp-Adenovirus [Ad]-X-CMV-(Abeta3-10)10-CpG [AdCpG-(Abeta3-10)10] or AdCpG virus fluid via nasal mucosal inhalation, respectively. ELISA analysis of serum showed Abeta42 antibody titers were significantly increased in mice immunized with Abeta1-42 and AdCpG-(Abeta3-10)10. Concanavalin A and AdCpG-(Abeta3-10)10 stimulation significantly increased the number of proliferating spleen cells cultured from AdCpG(Abeta3-10)10 and Abeta42 groups compared with the control group. In the AdCpG(Abeta3-10)10 group, levels of interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-10 were increased, while those of IL-2 and interferon-gamma were decreased. In the Abeta42 group, levels of IL-4, IL-10, IL-2 and interferon-gamma were all increased. Experimental findings indicate that AdCpG-(Abeta3-10)10 vaccine can produce strong T helper 2 (Th2) humoral immune responses in addition to the production of Abeta42 antibody. The cellular immunologic response was weak and avoided Abeta1-42-mediated cytotoxicity.
25206842: !Alzheimer rAAV/ABAD-DP-6His attenuates oxidative stress-induced injury of PC12 cells. Our previous studies have revealed that amyloid beta (Abeta)-binding alcohol dehydrogenase (ABAD) decoy peptide antagonizes Abeta42-induced neurotoxicity. However, whether it improves oxidative stress injury remains unclear. In this study, a recombinant adenovirus constitutively secreting and expressing Abeta-ABAD decoy peptide (rAAV/ABAD-DP-6His) was successfully constructed. Our results showed that rAAV/ABAD-DP-6His increased superoxide dismutase activity in  hydrogen peroxide-induced oxidative stress-mediated injury of PC12 cells. Moreover, rAAV/ABAD-DP-6His decreased malondialdehyde content, intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, and the level of reactive oxygen species. rAAV/ABAD-DP-6His maintained the stability of the mitochondrial membrane potential. In addition, the ATP level remained constant, and apoptosis was reduced. Overall, the results  indicate that rAAV/ABAD-DP-6His generates the fusion peptide, Abeta-ABAD decoy peptide, which effectively protects PC12 cells from oxidative stress injury induced by hydrogen peroxide, thus exerting neuroprotective effects.
25203772: !Alzheimer Systemic administration of valproic acid stimulates overexpression of microtubule-associated protein 2 in the spinal cord injury model to promote neurite outgrowth. OBJECTIVES: Growing body of evidence suggests that neurite outgrowth is a key determinant in the re-networking of damaged neuronal circuits as well as synaptogenesis. The essential molecule in this interesting process is microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) studies demonstrated that inhibition of MAP2 by antisense Oligonucleotide hinders neurite outgrowth. METHODS: In the current study, we evaluated the effects of valproic acid (VPA), a histone deacetylase inhibitor on the expression of MAP2 in the rat spinal cord injury model by real time RT-PCR and immunoreactivity assays. RESULTS: We revealed that  a significant increase in the MAP2 overexpression occurred in VPA-treated group compared to the sham group by quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunoreactivity assays for MAP2 gene expression. DISCUSSION: The present findings indicated that systemic administration of VPA stimulated MAP2 gene expression and also supports the involvement of the MAP2-mediated de novo re-arborization and neurite outgrowth of neurons, which might contribute to successful neuronal re-wirings. Thus, VPA has  promising applications in the treatment of many neurological problems, such as neurotrauma, Alzheimer and Parkinson's disease, and others.
25199867: !Alzheimer Chitosan as a suitable nanocarrier material for anti-Alzheimer drug delivery. Chitosan, a biocompatible natural polysaccharide is frequently reported carrier material in targeted drug delivery to treat neurodegenerative disorders. Chitosan and its biodegradable products exert its bioactivities on nerve cells and blood brain barrier at the molecular level, which are beneficial in anti-Alzheimer therapy. Flexibility of surface modification, the ability to get attached with varieties of ligand molecules and the formation of the stable nano complex in physiological condition make chitosan an adorable material for delivery of anti-Alzheimer drugs and siRNA to the brain. The success rate of nose to brain delivery of anti-Alzheimer drugs enhances when chitosan used as a carrier material. This review covers direct and indirect anti-Alzheimer effects of chitosan, surface modification strategies to augment permeation from the blood-brain barrier structure, different ligands reported for brain targeting of  chitosan nanoparticles containing anti Alzheimer drugs, blood compatibility and widely utilized chitosan nanoparticle fabrication techniques. Key intellectual claims are also condensed through patents to appraise chitosan as an attractive polymer for brain targeted nanoformulation which is currently facing oversight by regulatory agencies and manufacturers.
25199710: !Alzheimer Breaking peripheral immune tolerance to CNS antigens in neurodegenerative diseases: boosting autoimmunity to fight-off chronic neuroinflammation. Immune cell infiltration to the brain's territory was considered for decades to reflect a pathological process in which immune cells attack the central nervous system (CNS); such a process is observed in the inflammatory autoimmune disease,  multiple sclerosis (MS). As neuroinflammatory processes within the CNS parenchyma are also common to other CNS pathologies, regardless of their etiology, including neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), these pathologies have often been compared to MS, a disease that benefits from immunosuppressive therapy. Yet, over the last decade,  it became clear that autoimmunity has a bright side, and that it plays a pivotal  role in CNS repair following damage. Specifically, autoimmune T cells were found  to facilitate CNS healing processes, such as in the case of sterile mechanical injuries to the brain or the spinal cord, mental stress, or biochemical insults.  Even more intriguingly, autoimmune T cells were found to be involved in supporting fundamental processes of brain functional integrity, such as in the maintenance of life-long brain plasticity, including spatial learning and memory, and neurogenesis. Importantly, autoimmune T cells are part of a cellular network  which, to operate efficiently and safely, requires tight regulation by other immune cell populations, such as regulatory T cells, which are indispensable for  maintenance of immunological self-tolerance and homeostasis. Here, we suggest that dysregulation of the balance between peripheral immune suppression, on one hand, and protective autoimmunity, on the other, is an underlying mechanism in the emergence and progression of the neuroinflammatory response associated with chronic neurodegenerative diseases and brain aging. Mitigating chronic neuroinflammation under these conditions necessitates activation, rather than suppression, of the peripheral immune response directed against self. Accordingly, we propose that fighting off acute and chronic neurodegenerative conditions requires breaking peripheral immune tolerance to CNS self-antigens, in order to boost protective autoimmunity. Nevertheless, the optimal approach to fine tune such immune response must be individually explored for each condition.
25194196: !Alzheimer The physiological significance of postinspiration in respiratory control. The term postinspiration is commonly used in the scientific literature concerned  with neural generation and the control of breathing movements. Because postinspiration belongs functionally to the mechanical act of expiration, the physiological significance of postinspiration as a distinct phase of the breathing cycle is often underappreciated. The present review will give an overview of the physiological significance of postinspiratory motor activity in laryngeal adductor (constrictor) muscles and the crural diaphragm. The functional importance of postinspiratory motor activity is discussed for the eupneic respiratory cycle, and for various protective respiratory reflex mediations (e.g., sneeze, cough, and breath-hold). Also, the implications of recruited postinspiratory activity during nonventilatory behaviors such as vocalization, swallowing, or vomiting are underpinned. Finally, we describe the impact of absence or malfunction of postinspiratory motor function in neurological diseases.
25190571: !Alzheimer [Protein O-GlcNAcylation and regulation of cell signalling: involvement in pathophysiology]. O-GlcNAcylation corresponds to the addition of N-acetyl glucosamine (GlcNAc) on serine or threonine residues of cytosolic and nuclear proteins. This reversible post-translational modification regulates protein phosphorylation, sub-cellular localisation, stability and activity. Only two enzymes, OGT (O-linked N-acetyl-glucosaminyltransferase) and OGA (O-linked N-acetyl-beta-D glucosaminidase), control the addition and removal of GlcNAc from more than a thousand of proteins. Alternative splicing generates different isoforms of OGT and OGA, and address these enzymes to different sub-cellular compartments (mitochondria, cytosol...), restraining their action to specific subsets of substrates. Moreover, interaction with adaptor proteins may also help address these enzymes to specific substrates. Alterations in protein O-GlcNAcylation have been observed in a number of important human diseases, such as Alzheimer, cancer  and diabetes. A reciprocal relationship between Tau protein phosphorylation and O-GlcNAcylation has been observed, and decreased O-GlcNAcylation in the brain of  patients with Alzheimer diseases may favour Tau aggregation, destabilisation of microtubules and neuronal alterations. Alterations in OGT/OGA expression levels,  and in protein O-GlcNAcylation, have been described in different types of cancer, and much evidence indicates that O-GlcNAcylation may participate in abnormal proliferation and migration of cancer cells. O-GlcNAcylation of transcription factors and signalling effectors may also participate in defects observed in diabetes. Indeed, in situation of chronic hyperglycaemia, abnormal O-GlcNAcylation may have deleterious effect on insulin secretion and action, resulting in further impairment of glucose homeostasis. Therefore, O-GlcNAcylation appears to be a major regulator of cellular activities and may play an important part in different human diseases. However, because of the large spectrum of OGT and OGA substrates, targeting O-GlcNAc for treatment of these diseases will be a highly challenging task.
25182736: !Alzheimer Bacterial infection and Alzheimer's disease: a meta-analysis. The possibility of an infectious etiology for Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been repeatedly postulated over the past three decades. We provide the first meta-analysis to address the relationship between bacterial infection and AD. Studies examining the association between AD and spirochetal bacteria or Chlamydophila pneumoniae (Cpn) were identified through a systematic search of the databases MEDLINE, EMBASE, PubMed, and Google Scholar. Data combined from 25 relevant, primarily case-control studies demonstrated a statistically significant association between AD and detectable evidence of infection of either bacterial group. We found over a ten-fold increased occurrence of AD when there is detectable evidence of spirochetal infection (OR: 10.61; 95% CI: 3.38-33.29) and  over a four-fold increased occurrence of AD in a conservative risk estimate (OR:  4.45; 95% CI: 2.33-8.52). We found over a five-fold increased occurrence of AD with Cpn infection (OR: 5.66; 95% CI: 1.83-17.51). This study shows a strongly positive association between bacterial infection and AD. Further detailed investigation of the role of bacterial infection is warranted.
25182609: !Alzheimer Role of prolyl isomerase pin1 in pathogenesis of diseases and remedy for the diseases from natural products. The peptidyl prolyl cis/trans isomerase Pin1, the human ortholog of yeast Ess1 specifically isomerizes peptide bindings of pSer/pThr-Pro residues in various proteins, and regulates the expression levels and functions of phosphorylated proteins. Activation of Pin1 is associated with pathology of a variety of diseases, such as cancer, Alzheimer's disease, infectious diseases and so on. Therefore, regulatory compounds for Pin1 can be applied as a clinical medicine against these diseases. Many chemists have exerted themselves to synthesize the inhibitors based on the 3D structure of Pin1. We have screened for the inhibitors against Pin1 from the natural products including the functional foods. Here we review the Pin1-associated pathology and the known inhibitors identified from natural products. And we introduce the screening methods targeting Pin1 activity.
25178013: !Alzheimer X-ray micro-diffraction studies on biological samples at the BioCAT Beamline 18-ID at the Advanced Photon Source. The small source sizes of third-generation synchrotron sources are ideal for the  production of microbeams for diffraction studies of crystalline and non-crystalline materials. While several such facilities have been available around the world for some time now, few have been optimized for the handling of delicate soft-tissue specimens under cryogenic conditions. Here the development of a new X-ray micro-diffraction instrument at the Biophysics Collaborative Access Team beamline 18-ID at the Advanced Photon Source, and its use with newly  developed cryo-diffraction techniques for soft-tissue studies, are described. The combination of the small beam sizes delivered by this instrument, the high delivered flux and successful cryo-freezing of rat-tail tendon has enabled us to  record data to better than 4 A resolution. The ability to quickly raster scan samples in the beam allows selection of ordered regions in fibrous samples for markedly improved data quality. Examples of results of experiments obtainable using this instrument are presented.
25175670: !Alzheimer Oliguric acute kidney injury as a main symptom of bradycardia and arteriosclerosis resolved by pacemaker implantation: a case report. INTRODUCTION: Cardiovascular comorbidities regularly determine renal function. We report a case of acute kidney injury (Acute Kidney Injury Network stage 3) due to an intermittent third-degree atrioventricular block, which had not been diagnosed before. CASE PRESENTATION: A 76-year-old Caucasian man with liver cirrhosis due to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and type-2 diabetes was cognitively impaired and had reduced vigilance presumably caused by hepatic encephalopathy and/or Alzheimer dementia. Within 2 years, two hospitalizations occurred for syncope attributed to orthostatic failure and hypovolemia. During the last hospitalization, oliguric acute kidney injury occurred. Sonography ruled out a post-renal cause. His renal resistive index was 1.0; his heart rate was below 50  beats per minute. After cessation of beta-blocker therapy, Holter electrocardiogram showed a new intermittent third-degree atrioventricular block with pauses for less than 3 seconds. Pacemaker insertion resolved his acute kidney injury, despite resumption of beta-blocker therapy. During four months of  follow-up, syncope has not occurred, and vigilance was stable. However, his renal resistive index of 1.0 remained. CONCLUSIONS: Here, typical neurologic symptoms of bradycardia were misclassified. Diagnostic work-up of oliguric acute kidney injury revealed intermittent third-degree heart block. The pathomechanism of acute kidney injury relates to relevant bradycardia and increased vascular stiffness attenuating arterial diastolic renal blood flow.
25175064: !Alzheimer Gold drug auranofin could reduce neuroinflammation by inhibiting microglia cytotoxic secretions and primed respiratory burst. Neuroinflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of neurological disorders. Anti-inflammatory treatments could potentially be used to slow down the progression of these diseases. We studied the anti-neuroinflammatory activity of  gold compounds which have been used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. Non-toxic concentrations of auranofin (0.1-1 muM) significantly reduced the cytotoxic secretions by primary human microglia and microglia-like THP-1 promonocytic cells. Auranofin inhibited primed NADPH-oxidase dependent respiratory burst and secretion of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and nitric oxide by monocytic cells. It had a direct neuroprotective effect on SH-SY5Y neuronal cells. Auranofin could have a novel application in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
25169757: !Alzheimer An intronic PICALM polymorphism, rs588076, is associated with allelic expression  of a PICALM isoform. BACKGROUND: Although genome wide studies have associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP)s near PICALM with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the mechanism underlying this association is unclear. PICALM is involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis and modulates Ass clearance in vitro. Comparing allelic expression provides the means to detect cis-acting regulatory polymorphisms. Thus, we evaluated whether PICALM showed allele expression imbalance (AEI) and whether this imbalance was associated with the AD-associated polymorphism, rs3851179. RESULTS: We measured PICALM allelic expression in 42 human brain samples by using next-generation sequencing. Overall, PICALM demonstrated equal allelic expression with no detectable influence by rs3851179. A single sample demonstrated robust global PICALM allelic expression imbalance (AEI), i.e., each of the measured isoforms showed AEI. Moreover, the PICALM isoform lacking exons 18 and 19 (D18-19 PICALM) showed significant AEI in a subset of individuals. Sequencing these individuals and subsequent genotyping revealed that rs588076, located in PICALM intron 17, was robustly associated with this imbalance in D18-19 PICALM allelic expression (p = 9.54 x 10-5). This polymorphism has been associated previously with systolic blood pressure response to calcium channel blocking agents. To evaluate whether this polymorphism was associated with AD, we genotyped 3269 individuals and found that rs588076 was modestly associated with AD. However, when both the primary AD SNP rs3851179 was added to the logistic regression model, only rs3851179 was significantly associated with AD. CONCLUSIONS: PICALM expression shows no evidence of AEI associated with rs3851179. Robust global AEI  was detected in one sample, suggesting the existence of a rare SNP that strongly  modulates PICALM expression. AEI was detected for the D18-19 PICALM isoform, and  rs588076 was associated with this AEI pattern. Conditional on rs3851179, rs588076 was not associated with AD risk, suggesting that D18-19 PICALM is not critical in AD. In summary, this analysis of PICALM allelic expression provides novel insights into the genetics of PICALM expression and AD risk.
25168594: !Alzheimer Connection between periodontitis and Alzheimer's disease: possible roles of microglia and leptomeningeal cells. Neuroinflammation, inflammation of the brain, is strongly implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD), which can be enhanced by systemic inflammation. Therefore, the initiation and progression of AD are affected by systemic diseases such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes. This concept suggests a possible link between periodontitis and AD because periodontitis is a peripheral, chronic  infection that elicits a significant systemic inflammatory response. There is now growing clinical evidence that chronic periodontitis is closely linked to the initiation and progression of AD. Recent studies have suggested that leptomeningeal cells play an important role in transducing systemic inflammatory  signals to the brain-resident microglia, which in turn initiate neuroinflammation. Furthermore, it is apparent that senescent-type microglia respond in an exaggerated manner to systemic inflammation. It is estimated that a high percentage of adults are suffering from periodontitis, and the prevalence of periodontitis increases with age. Therefore, chronic periodontitis can be a significant source of covert systemic inflammation within the general population. The present review article highlights our current understanding of the link between periodontitis and AD.
25168262: !Alzheimer How dependent is synaptic plasticity on microglial phenotype? Microglia are particularly plastic cells which can be shifted from their resting  state by numerous factors and adopt distinct phenotypes. The cells are multifunctional, though their main role is probably maintenance of homoeostasis.  Resting cells are responsible for surveillance, whereas activation induces the cells to adopt neuroprotective or neurodetrimental roles, which are anti-inflammatory or pro-inflammatory respectively. The evidence indicates that activated cells with a pro-inflammatory phenotype predominate in neurodegenerative diseases and models of neurodegeneration and that this may significantly contribute to the deteriorating neuronal function. This question is considered in this review, in particular in the context of animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neuroimmunology and Synaptic Function'.
25165047: !Alzheimer Virchow-Robin space and aquaporin-4: new insights on an old friend. Recent studies have strongly indicated that the classic circulation model of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is no longer valid. The production of CSF is not only dependent on the choroid plexus but also on water flux in the peri-capillary (Virchow Robin) space. Historically, CSF flow through the Virchow Robin space is  known as interstitial flow, the physiological significance of which is now fully  understood. This article briefly reviews the modern concept of CSF physiology and the Virchow-Robin space, in particular its functionalities critical for central nervous system neural activities. Water influx into the Virchow Robin space and,  hence, interstitial flow is regulated by aquaporin-4 (AQP-4) localized in the endfeet of astrocytes, connecting the intracellular cytosolic fluid space of astrocytes and the Virchow Robin space. Interstitial flow has a functionality equivalent to systemic lymphatics, on which clearance of beta-amyloid is strongly dependent. Autoregulation of brain blood flow serves to maintain a constant inner capillary fluid pressure, allowing fluid pressure of the Virchow Robin space to regulate regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) based on AQP-4 gating. Excess heat produced by neural activities is effectively removed from the area of activation  by increased rCBF by closing AQP-4 channels. This neural flow coupling (NFC) is likely mediated by heat generated proton channels.
25161917: !Alzheimer Summer Savory: From the Selection of Traditional Applications to the Novel Effect in Relief, Prevention, and Treatment of a Number of Serious Illnesses such as Diabetes, Cardiovascular Disease, Alzheimer's Disease, and Cancer. Savory (Satureja L.) plant species have been used for centuries as culinary herbs and spices, as well as traditional remedies for the treatment or relief of various common health symptoms in many parts of the world. Recent studies suggest that the use of some Satureja species is effective in protecting the body against oxidative stress, free radical damage, inflammation, microbial infections, etc.,  A review of many studies suggests that savory species, in addition to treating minor ordinary ailments, can potentially provide a novel natural prevention or treatment for some chronic and serious illnesses such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and Alzheimer's.
25153931: !Alzheimer Prioritizing candidate disease metabolites based on global functional relationships between metabolites in the context of metabolic pathways. Identification of key metabolites for complex diseases is a challenging task in today's medicine and biology. A special disease is usually caused by the alteration of a series of functional related metabolites having a global influence on the metabolic network. Moreover, the metabolites in the same metabolic pathway are often associated with the same or similar disease. Based on these functional relationships between metabolites in the context of metabolic pathways, we here presented a pathway-based random walk method called PROFANCY for prioritization of candidate disease metabolites. Our strategy not only takes  advantage of the global functional relationships between metabolites but also sufficiently exploits the functionally modular nature of metabolic networks. Our  approach proved successful in prioritizing known metabolites for 71 diseases with an AUC value of 0.895. We also assessed the performance of PROFANCY on 16 disease classes and found that 4 classes achieved an AUC value over 0.95. To investigate  the robustness of the PROFANCY, we repeated all the analyses in two metabolic networks and obtained similar results. Then we applied our approach to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and found that a top ranked candidate was potentially related to AD but had not been reported previously. Furthermore, our method was applicable to prioritize the metabolites from metabolomic profiles of prostate cancer. The PROFANCY could identify prostate cancer related-metabolites that are  supported by literatures but not considered to be significantly differential by traditional differential analysis. We also developed a freely accessible web-based and R-based tool at http://bioinfo.hrbmu.edu.cn/PROFANCY.
25152362: !Alzheimer Approaches for detecting lysosomal alkalinization and impaired degradation in fresh and cultured RPE cells: evidence for a role in retinal degenerations. Lysosomes contribute to a multitude of cellular processes, and the pH of the lysosomal lumen plays a central mechanistic role in many of these functions. In addition to controlling the rate of enzymatic degradation for material delivered  through autophagic or phagocytotic pathways, lysosomal pH regulates events such as lysosomal fusion with autophagosomes and the release of lysosomal calcium into the cytoplasm. Disruption of either the steady state lysosomal pH or of the regulated manipulations to lysosomal pH may be pathological. For example, chloroquine elevates the lysosomal pH of retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells and triggers a retinopathy characterized by the accumulation of lipofuscin-like material in both humans and animals. Compensatory responses to restore lysosomal  pH are observed; new data illustrate that chronic chloroquine treatment increases mRNA expression of the lysosomal/autophagy master transcription factor TcFEB and  of the vesicular proton pump vHATPase in the RPE/choroid of mice. An elevated lysosomal pH with upregulation of TcFEB and vHATPase resembles the pathology in fibroblasts of patients with mutant presenilin 1 (PS1), suggesting a common link  between age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and Alzheimer's disease. While the absolute rise in pH is often small in these disorders, elevations of only a few tenths of a pH unit can have a major impact on both lysosomal function and the accumulation of waste over decades. Accurate measurement of lysosomal pH can be complex, and imprecise measurements have clouded the field. Protocols to optimize pH measurement from fresh and cultured cells are discussed, and indirect measurements to confirm changes in lysosomal pH and degradative capacity are addressed. The ability of reacidifying treatments to restore degradative function confirms the central role of lysosomal pH in these disorders and identifies potential approaches to treat diseases of lysosomal accumulation like AMD and Alzheimer's disease. In summary, various approaches to determine lysosomal pH in  fresh and cultured cells, as well as the potential to restore pH levels to an optimal range, can help identify and repair pathologies associated with lysosomal defects in RPE cells and perhaps also suggest new approaches to treat lysosomal storage diseases throughout the body.
25147790: !Alzheimer Heat shock proteins at the crossroads between cancer and Alzheimer's disease. Heat shock proteins 70 and heat shock proteins 90 (Hsp70/90) have been implicated in many crucial steps of carcinogenesis: stabilizing oncogenic proteins, inhibiting programmed cell death and replicative senescence, induction of tumor angiogenesis, and activation of the invasion and metastasis. Plenty of cancer related proteins have the ability of regulating the expression of Hsp70/90 through heat shock factor 1. Cancer and Alzheimer's disease (AD) have plenty of overlapping regions in molecular genetics and cell biology associated with Hsp70/90. The Hsp70, as a protein stabilizer, has a cellular protection against neurodegeneration of the central nervous system, while Hsp90 promote neurodegenerative disorders indirectly through regulating the expression of Hsp70 and other chaperones. All these make existing anticancer drugs target Hsp70/90 which might be used in AD therapy.
25147110: !Alzheimer Stress-induced activation of the sympathoadrenal system is determined by genetic  background in rat models of tauopathy. Stress may accelerate onset of neurodegenerative diseases in vulnerable subjects  and, vice versa, neurodegeneration affects the responsiveness to stressors. We investigated the neuroendocrine response to immobilization stress in normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY), spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), and transgenic rats of respective WKY and SHR strains overexpressing human truncated tau protein. Plasma levels of epinephrine, norepinephrine, and corticosterone were determined. An immobilization-induced elevation of epinephrine and norepinephrine was significantly reduced in WKY transgenic rats compared to WKY wild-type rats,  while no differences were seen between SHR transgenic and SHR wild-type animals.  Our data have shown that sympathoadrenal system response to stress strongly depends on both tau protein-induced neurodegeneration and genetic background of experimental animals.
25147109: !Alzheimer Air pollution and children: neural and tight junction antibodies and combustion metals, the role of barrier breakdown and brain immunity in neurodegeneration. Millions of children are exposed to concentrations of air pollutants, including fine particulate matter (PM2.5), above safety standards. In the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA) megacity, children show an early brain imbalance in oxidative stress, inflammation, innate and adaptive immune response-associated genes, and blood-brain barrier breakdown. We investigated serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) antibodies to neural and tight junction proteins and environmental pollutants in 139 children ages 11.91 +/- 4.2 y with high versus low air pollution exposures. We also measured metals in serum and CSF. MCMA children showed significantly higher serum actin IgG, occludin/zonulin 1 IgA, IgG, myelin  oligodendrocyte glycoprotein IgG and IgM (p < 0.01), myelin basic protein IgA and IgG, S-100 IgG and IgM, and cerebellar IgG (p < 0.001). Serum IgG antibodies to formaldehyde, benzene, and bisphenol A, and concentrations of Ni and Cd were significantly higher in exposed children (p < 0.001). CSF MBP antibodies and nickel concentrations were higher in MCMA children (p = 0.03). Air pollution exposure damages epithelial and endothelial barriers and is a robust trigger of tight junction and neural antibodies. Cryptic 'self' tight junction antigens can  trigger an autoimmune response potentially contributing to the neuroinflammatory  and Alzheimer and Parkinson's pathology hallmarks present in megacity children. The major factor determining the impact of neural antibodies is the integrity of  the blood-brain barrier. Defining the air pollution linkage of the brain/immune system interactions and damage to physical and immunological barriers with short  and long term neural detrimental effects to children's brains ought to be of pressing importance for public health.
25146189: !Alzheimer The roles of FoxOs in modulation of aging by calorie restriction. FoxO activity and modifications, such as its phosphorylation, acetylation, and methylation, may help drive the expression of genes involved in combating oxidative stress by causing the epigenetic modifications, and thus, preserve cellular function during aging and age-related diseases, such as diabetes, cancer, and Alzheimer disease. Insulin signaling has been postulated to influence the aging process by increasing resistance to oxidative stress, and slowing the accumulation of oxidative damage. Some antioxidative effects are mediated by a conserved family of forkhead box transcription factors (FoxOs), which in the absence of insulin signaling freely bind to promoters of antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase, and catalase. On the other hand, calorie restriction (CR) extends the lifespans of several species via the insulin pathway, and extends longevity and healthspan in diverse species via a conserved mechanism. CR enhances adaptive stress responses at the cellular and organism levels and extends lifespan in a FoxO-independent manner. Thus, increased modification of FoxO is modulated via the hyperinsulinemia-induced PI3K/Akt pathway during aging, and CR reverses this process. Accordingly, FoxO plays an important role in maintenance of metabolic homeostasis and removal of oxidative stress in the aging process and in the effect of CR on lifespan.
25143259: !Alzheimer Finding off-targets, biological pathways, and target diseases for chymase inhibitors via structure-based systems biology approach. Off-target binding connotes the binding of a small molecule of therapeutic significance to a protein target in addition to the primary target for which it was proposed. Progressively such off-targeting is emerging to be regular practice to reveal side effects. Chymase is an enzyme of hydrolase class that catalyzes hydrolysis of peptide bonds. A link between heart failure and chymase is ascribed, and a chymase inhibitor is in clinical phase II for treatment of heart  failure. However, the underlying mechanisms of the off-target effects of human chymase inhibitors are still unclear. Here, we develop a robust computational strategy that is applicable to any enzyme system and that allows the prediction of drug effects on biological processes. Putative off-targets for chymase inhibitors were identified through various structural and functional similarity analyses along with molecular docking studies. Finally, literature survey was performed to incorporate these off-targets into biological pathways and to establish links between pathways and particular adverse effects. Off-targets of chymase inhibitors are linked to various biological pathways such as classical and lectin pathways of complement system, intrinsic and extrinsic pathways of coagulation cascade, and fibrinolytic system. Tissue kallikreins, granzyme M, neutrophil elastase, and mesotrypsin are also identified as off-targets. These off-targets and their associated pathways are elucidated for the effects of inflammation, cancer, hemorrhage, thrombosis, and central nervous system diseases (Alzheimer's disease). Prospectively, our approach is helpful not only to better  understand the mechanisms of chymase inhibitors but also for drug repurposing exercises to find novel uses for these inhibitors. Proteins 2014. (c) 2014 Wiley  Periodicals, Inc.
25138702: !Alzheimer Apollon/Bruce is upregulated by Humanin. Humanin, a short bioactive peptide, inhibits a variety of cell deaths. Humanin-mediated inhibition of neuronal cell death, caused by an Alzheimer's disease (AD)-linked mutant gene occurs via binding of Humanin to its heterotrimeric Humanin receptor (htHNR), which results in the activation of the Janus-associated kinases (JAKs) and signal transducer and activator and transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling pathway. A previous study demonstrated that the Humanin-induced activation of the htHNR/JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway leads to increased expression of SH3 domain-binding protein 5 (SH3BP5), which is an essential effector of Humanin's anti-cell death activity in some cultured neuronal cells. However, it remains unknown whether SH3BP5 is the sole effector of the Humanin signaling pathway via htHNR/JAKs/STAT3. Here we show that the Humanin signaling pathway via htHNR/JAKs/STAT3 increased the expression levels of mRNA and protein of Apollon/Bruce, an unusual member of the inhibitors of apoptosis proteins, and that overexpression of Apollon/Bruce inhibits neuronal death, caused by a London-type familial AD-linked mutant (V642I) of amyloid beta  precursor protein. Overall, the results indicate that expression of Apollon/Bruce is upregulated by Humanin, and Apollon/Bruce could be an effector of Humanin in a context-dependent manner.
25136126: !Alzheimer A unique PDZ domain and arrestin-like fold interaction reveals mechanistic details of endocytic recycling by SNX27-retromer. The sorting nexin 27 (SNX27)-retromer complex is a major regulator of endosome-to-plasma membrane recycling of transmembrane cargos that contain a PSD95, Dlg1, zo-1 (PDZ)-binding motif. Here we describe the core interaction in SNX27-retromer assembly and its functional relevance for cargo sorting. Crystal structures and NMR experiments reveal that an exposed beta-hairpin in the SNX27 PDZ domain engages a groove in the arrestin-like structure of the vacuolar protein sorting 26A (VPS26A) retromer subunit. The structure establishes how the  SNX27 PDZ domain simultaneously binds PDZ-binding motifs and retromer-associated  VPS26. Importantly, VPS26A binding increases the affinity of the SNX27 PDZ domain for PDZ- binding motifs by an order of magnitude, revealing cooperativity in cargo selection. With disruption of SNX27 and retromer function linked to synaptic dysfunction and neurodegenerative disease, our work provides the first step, to our knowledge, in the molecular description of this important sorting complex, and more broadly describes a unique interaction between a PDZ domain and an arrestin-like fold.
25134730: !Alzheimer Dynamic changes in pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in microglia after PPAR-gamma agonist neuroprotective treatment in the MPTPp mouse model of progressive Parkinson's disease. Neuroinflammatory changes play a pivotal role in the progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. Recent findings have suggested that activated microglia may polarize similarly to peripheral macrophages in the central nervous system (CNS), assuming a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype or the alternative anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype via cytokine production. A skewed M1 activation over M2 has been related to disease progression in Alzheimer disease, and modulation of microglia polarization may be a therapeutic target for neuroprotection. By using the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-probenecid (MPTPp) mouse model of progressive PD, we investigated dynamic changes in the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta, and anti-inflammatory cytokines, such as transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta and IL-10, within Iba-1-positive cells in the substantia nigra compacta (SNc). In addition, to further characterize changes in the M2 phenotype, we measured CD206 in microglia. Moreover, in order to target microglia polarization, we evaluated the effect of the peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma agonist rosiglitazone, which has been shown to exert neuroprotective effects on nigral dopaminergic neurons in PD models, and acts as  a modulator of cytokine production and phenotype in peripheral macrophages. Chronic treatment with MPTPp induced a progressive degeneration of SNc neurons. The neurotoxin treatment was associated with a gradual increase in both TNF-alpha and IL-1beta colocalization with Iba-1-positive cells, suggesting an increase in  pro-inflammatory microglia. In contrast, TGF-beta colocalization was reduced by the neurotoxin treatment, while IL-10 was mostly unchanged. Administration of rosiglitazone during the full duration of MPTPp treatment reverted both TNF-alpha and IL-1beta colocalization with Iba-1 to control levels. Moreover, rosiglitazone induced an increase in TGF-beta and IL-10 colocalization compared with the MPTPp  treatment. CD206 was gradually reduced by the chronic MPTPp treatment, while rosiglitazone restored control levels, suggesting that M2 anti-inflammatory microglia were stimulated and inflammatory microglia were inhibited by the neuroprotective treatment. The results show that the dopaminergic degeneration was associated with a gradual microglia polarization to the inflammatory over the anti-inflammatory phenotype in a chronic mouse model of PD. Neuroprotective treatment with rosiglitazone modulated microglia polarization, boosting the M2 over the pro-inflammatory phenotype. PPAR-gamma agonists may offer a novel approach to neuroprotection, acting as disease-modifying drugs through an immunomodulatory action in the CNS.
25134358: !Alzheimer [Mechanisms of the immune system ageing and some age-associated diseases]. In this paper the concept of homeostenosis (progressive reduction of ability to adapt producing loss of effectiveness) of the immune system is presented as a cause of the system ageing. In particular, the progression of immune system homeostenosis was shown to be associated with previous or ongoing chronic inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, chronic kidney disease and Alzheimer's disease.
25131448: !Alzheimer Folate deficiency-induced oxidative stress contributes to neuropathy in young and aged zebrafish--implication in neural tube defects and Alzheimer's diseases. Folate is a nutrient essential for the development, function and regeneration of  nervous systems. Folate deficiency has been linked to many neurological disorders including neural tube defects in fetus and Alzheimer's diseases in the elderly. However, the etiology underlying these folate deficiency-associated diseases is not completely understood. In this study, zebrafish transgenic lines with timing  and duration-controllable folate deficiency were developed by ectopically overexpressing a recombinant EGFP-gamma-glutamyl hydrolase (gammaGH). Impeded neural crest cell migration was observed in the transgenic embryos when folate deficiency was induced in early stages, leading to defective neural tube closure  and hematopoiesis. Adding reduced folate or N-acetylcysteine reversed the phenotypic anomalies, supporting the causal link between the increased oxidative  stress and the folate deficiency-induced abnormalities. When folate deficiency was induced in aged fish accumulation of beta-amyloid and phosphorylated Tau protein were found in the fish brain cryo-sections. Increased autophagy and accumulation of acidic autolysosome were apparent in folate deficient neuroblastoma cells, which were reversed by reduced folate or N-acetylcysteine supplementation. Decreased expression of cathepsin B, a lysosomal protease, was also observed in cells and tissue with folate deficiency. We concluded that folate deficiency-induced oxidative stress contributed to the folate deficiency-associated neuropathogenesis in both early and late stages of life.
25127118: !Alzheimer Neuronal cellular responses to extremely low frequency electromagnetic field exposure: implications regarding oxidative stress and neurodegeneration. Neurodegenerative diseases comprise both hereditary and sporadic conditions characterized by an identifying progressive nervous system dysfunction and distinctive neuopathophysiology. The majority are of non-familial etiology and hence environmental factors and lifestyle play key roles in their pathogenesis. The extensive use of and ever increasing worldwide demand for electricity has stimulated societal and scientific interest on the environmental exposure to low  frequency electromagnetic fields (EMFs) on human health. Epidemiological studies  suggest a positive association between 50/60-Hz power transmission fields and leukemia or lymphoma development. Consequent to the association between EMFs and  induction of oxidative stress, concerns relating to development of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer disease (AD), have been voiced as the brain consumes the greatest fraction of oxygen and is particularly vulnerable to oxidative stress. Exposure to extremely low frequency (ELF)-EMFs are reported  to alter animal behavior and modulate biological variables, including gene expression, regulation of cell survival, promotion of cellular differentiation, and changes in cerebral blood flow in aged AD transgenic mice. Alterations in inflammatory responses have also been reported, but how these actions impact human health remains unknown. We hence evaluated the effects of an electromagnetic wave (magnetic field intensity 1 mT; frequency, 50-Hz) on a well-characterized immortalized neuronal cell model, human SH-SY5Y cells. ELF-EMF exposure elevated the expession of NOS and O2(-), which were countered by compensatory changes in antioxidant catylase (CAT) activity and enzymatic kinetic parameters related to CYP-450 and CAT activity. Actions of ELF-EMFs on cytokine gene expression were additionally evaluated and found rapidly modified. Confronted with co-exposure to H2O2-induced oxidative stress, ELF-EMF proved not  as well counteracted and resulted in a decline in CAT activity and a rise in O2(-) levels. Together these studies support the further evaluation of ELF-EMF exposure in cellular and in vivo preclinical models to define mechanisms potentially impacted in humans.
25125470: !Alzheimer Direct visualization of fungal infection in brains from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Recently, we have reported the presence of fungal infections in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Accordingly, fungal proteins and DNA were found in brain samples, demonstrating the existence of infection in the central nervous system. In the present work, we raised antibodies to specific fungal species and  performed immunohistochemistry to directly visualize fungal components inside neurons from AD patients. Mice infected with Candida glabrata were initially used to assess whether yeast can be internalized in mammalian tissues. Using polyclonal rabbit antibodies against C. glabrata, rounded immunopositive cells could be detected in the cytoplasm of cells from liver, spleen, and brain samples in infected, but not uninfected, mice. Immunohistochemical analyses of tissue from the frontal cortex of AD patients revealed the presence of fungal material in a small percentage (~10%) of cells, suggesting the presence of infection. Importantly, this immunopositive material was absent in control samples. Confocal microscopy indicated that this fungal material had an intracellular localization. The specific morphology of this material varied between patients; in some instances, disseminated material was localized to the cytoplasm, whereas small punctate bodies were detected in other patients. Interestingly, fungal material could be revealed using different anti-fungal antibodies, suggesting multiple infections. In summary, fungal infection can only be observed using specific anti-fungal antibodies and only a small percentage of cells contain fungi. Our findings provide an explanation for the hitherto elusive detection of fungi in AD brains, and are consistent with the idea that fungal cells are internalized inside neurons.
25125469: !Alzheimer The microbiome and disease: reviewing the links between the oral microbiome, aging, and Alzheimer's disease. This review, gathered from diverse sources, shows how our microbiome influences health and ultimately how well we age. Evidence linking oral bacteria to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is discussed in the context of aging, drawing together data from epidemiological, experimental, genetic, and environmental studies. Immunosenescence results in increased bacterial load as cell-mediated and humoral immune responses wane. The innate immune system gradually takes over; contributing to the rise in circulating proinflammatory cytokines such as TNFalpha. Maintaining the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) against a backdrop of increasing bacterial load is important. Aging may favor the proliferation of anaerobes in the mouth eliciting a robust TNFalpha response from the oral epithelium. Prolonged exposure to high levels of circulating TNFalpha compromises the integrity of the BBB. Sensitive techniques now detect the "asymptomatic" presence of bacteria in areas previously thought to be sterile, providing new insights into the wider distribution of components of the microbiome. These "immune-tolerated" bacteria may slowly multiply elsewhere until they elicit a chronic inflammatory response; some are now considered causal in instances of atherosclerosis and back pain. Inflammatory processes have long been associated with AD. We propose for a subset of AD patients, aging favors the overgrowth of oral anaerobes established earlier in life provoking a pro-inflammatory innate response that weakens the BBB allowing bacteria to spread and quietly influence the pathogenesis of AD. Finally, we suggest that human polymorphisms considered alongside components of the microbiome may provide new avenues of research for the prevention and treatment of disease.
25124962: !Alzheimer MyD88 acts as an adaptor protein for inflammatory signalling induced by amyloid-beta in macrophages. Neuroinflammation is the complex innate immune response of neural tissue to control infection, and Toll-like receptors (TLRs), a major family of pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), have a key role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. Innate immune cells, including macrophages, govern tailored inflammatory gene expression to regulate inflammatory responses, however the role of macrophages in AD pathogenesis is not clear. All TLRs, with the exception of TLR3, recruit the MyD88 adaptor, and evidence indicates a role for this adaptor in inflammatory and cognitive changes in mouse AD models, in addition to amyloid-beta (Abeta)-induced inflammatory signalling at a cellular level. In the  present study, we employed the use of Abeta to induce inflammatory signalling in  immortalized macrophages. Data presented herein demonstrate that Abeta promoted the nuclear sequestration of NF-kappaB, and polarized macrophages to an M1 phenotype with downstream consequences on pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. Importantly, Abeta-induced TNF-alpha production was exacerbated in macrophages lacking MyD88, while MyD88 deficiency promoted NF-kappaB activation, enhanced M1  and M2 polarization, and compromised macrophage viability. We demonstrate that in the absence of MyD88, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPKs) act as upstream signalling intermediates targeted by Abeta in the cascade leading to TNF-alpha expression. Our findings offer a new role for MyD88 in cellular mechanisms underlying AD pathogenesis, indicating that MyD88 adaptors are key in regulating  Abeta-induced inflammatory signalling in macrophages.
25122912: !Alzheimer Amyloid precursor protein dimerization and synaptogenic function depend on copper binding to the growth factor-like domain. Accumulating evidence suggests that the copper-binding amyloid precursor protein  (APP) has an essential synaptic function. APP synaptogenic function depends on trans-directed dimerization of the extracellular E1 domain encompassing a growth  factor-like domain (GFLD) and a copper-binding domain (CuBD). Here we report the  1.75 A crystal structure of the GFLD in complex with a copper ion bound with high affinity to an extended hairpin loop at the dimerization interface. In coimmunoprecipitation assays copper binding promotes APP interaction, whereas mutations in the copper-binding sites of either the GFLD or CuBD result in a drastic reduction in APP cis-orientated dimerization. We show that copper is essential and sufficient to induce trans-directed dimerization of purified APP. Furthermore, a mixed culture assay of primary neurons with HEK293 cells expressing different APP mutants revealed that APP potently promotes synaptogenesis depending on copper binding to the GFLD. Together, these findings  demonstrate that copper binding to the GFLD of APP is required for APP cis-/trans-directed dimerization and APP synaptogenic function. Thus, neuronal activity or disease-associated changes in copper homeostasis likely go along with altered APP synaptic function.
25112168: !Alzheimer De novo transcriptome sequencing and digital gene expression analysis predict biosynthetic pathway of rhynchophylline and isorhynchophylline from Uncaria rhynchophylla, a non-model plant with potent anti-alzheimer's properties. BACKGROUND: The major medicinal alkaloids isolated from Uncaria rhynchophylla (gouteng in chinese) capsules are rhynchophylline (RIN) and isorhynchophylline (IRN). Extracts containing these terpene indole alkaloids (TIAs) can inhibit the  formation and destabilize preformed fibrils of amyloid beta protein (a pathological marker of Alzheimer's disease), and have been shown to improve the cognitive function of mice with Alzheimer-like symptoms. The biosynthetic pathways of RIN and IRN are largely unknown. RESULTS: In this study, RNA-sequencing of pooled Uncaria capsules RNA samples taken at three developmental stages that accumulate different amount of RIN and IRN was performed. More than 50 million high-quality reads from a cDNA library were generated and de novo assembled. Sequences for all of the known enzymes involved  in TIAs synthesis were identified. Additionally, 193 cytochrome P450 (CYP450), 280 methyltransferase and 144 isomerase genes were identified, that are potential candidates for enzymes involved in RIN and IRN synthesis. Digital gene expression profile (DGE) analysis was performed on the three capsule developmental stages, and based on genes possessing expression profiles consistent with RIN and IRN levels; four CYP450s, three methyltransferases and three isomerases were identified as the candidates most likely to be involved in the later steps of RIN and IRN biosynthesis. CONCLUSION: A combination of de novo transcriptome assembly and DGE analysis was shown to be a powerful method for identifying genes encoding enzymes potentially involved in the biosynthesis of important secondary metabolites in a non-model plant. The transcriptome data from this study provides an important resource for understanding the formation of major bioactive constituents in the capsule extract from Uncaria, and provides information that may aid in metabolic engineering to increase yields of these important alkaloids.
25109373: !Alzheimer Fibrillar beta-amyloid 1-42 alters cytokine secretion, cholinergic signalling and neuronal differentiation. Adult neurogenesis is impaired by inflammatory processes, which are linked to altered cholinergic signalling and cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we investigated how amyloid beta (Abeta)-evoked inflammatory responses affect the generation of new neurons from human embryonic stem (hES) cells and the role of cholinergic signalling in regulating this process. The hES  were cultured as neurospheres and exposed to fibrillar and oligomeric Abeta(1-42) (Abetaf, AbetaO) or to conditioned medium from human primary microglia activated  with either Abeta(1-42) or lipopolysaccharide. The neurospheres were differentiated for 29 days in vitro and the resulting neuronal or glial phenotypes were thereafter assessed. Secretion of cytokines and the enzymes acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) involved in cholinergic signalling was measured in medium throughout the differentiation. We report that differentiating neurospheres released various cytokines, and exposure to Abetaf, but not AbetaO,  increased the secretion of IL-6, IL-1beta and IL-2. Abetaf also influenced the levels of AChE, BuChE and ChAT in favour of a low level of acetylcholine. These changes were linked to an altered secretion pattern of cytokines. A different pattern was observed in microglia activated by Abetaf, demonstrating decreased secretion of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-2 relative to untreated cells. Subsequent exposure of differentiating neurospheres to Abetaf or to microglia-conditioned medium decreased neuronal differentiation and increased glial differentiation. We suggest that a basal physiological secretion of cytokines is involved in shaping  the differentiation of neurospheres and that Abetaf decreases neurogenesis by promoting a microenvironment favouring hypo-cholinergic signalling and gliogenesis.
25108625: !Alzheimer Molecular mechanism of intramembrane proteolysis by gamma-secretase. Presenilin is a membrane-embedded intramembrane-cleaving protease with a conserved catalytic GxGD motif. It is the catalytic subunit of gamma-secretase, which plays critical roles in developmental biology and the molecular etiology of Alzheimer disease, together with three membrane protein cofactors, nicastrin, Aph-1 and Pen-2. Biochemical and enzymatic analyses have revealed that gamma-secretase executes two types of proteolytic activities on a single substrate; an endopeptidase-like cleavage followed by carboxypeptidase-like processive cleavage. Utilizing small molecule inhibitors/modulators together with the substituted cysteine accessibility method, we identified certain residues and regions of presenilin that contribute to the formation of a catalytic pore structure within the lipid bilayer required for its intramembrane-cleaving activity. Recently, determination of the crystal structure of the archaeal presenilin homologue has confirmed the intramembranous location of the two conserved and essential aspartates. In this review, I will introduce the recent progresses in the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of action of this atypical protease.
25107315: !Alzheimer Involvement of Seladin-1 in goniothalamin-induced apoptosis in urinary bladder cancer cells. BACKGROUND: Selective Alzheimer Disease Indicator-1 (or Seladin-1) is a multifunctional protein first discovered by downregulation of its expression in Alzheimer's disease. Interestingly, the expression of this protein is upregulated in several cancers, including primary bladder cancer. However, its role in cancer formation has yet to be discovered. Goniothalamin is a natural product that has been demonstrated to induce apoptosis in various cancer cell lines. In this study, we have elucidated the role of Seladin-1 in goniothalamin-induced cytotoxicity towards human urinary bladder cancer cell line RT4. METHODS: The cytotoxicity of goniothalamin in human urinary bladder cancer cell line RT4 was assessed using MTT assay and the mode of cell death was determined by Annexin V-FITC/PI labeling assay. Finally, the expression of Seladin-1 protein in goniothalamin-treated RT4 cells was determined by Western blot. RESULTS: MTT assay showed that the cytotoxicity of goniothalamin on RT4 cells was concentration and time dependent with IC50 values of 61 muM (24 hr), 38 muM (48 hr) and 31 muM for 72 hr, respectively. Cell death induced was confirmed through  apoptosis; as assessed using the Annexin V-FITC/PI labeling assay. Furthermore, the involvement of Seladin-1 in goniothalamin-induced apoptosis was evidenced through the cleavage of 60 kDa protein to 40 kDa and 20 kDa. This was followed by a gradual increase of 20 kDa fragment suggesting the involvement of Seladin-1 in  goniothalamin-induced apoptosis on RT4 cells. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that goniothalamin induce cytotoxicity and apoptosis on RT4 cells. The involvement of Seladin-1 in goniothalamin-induced apoptosis further suggested that Seladin-1 may play a role in the formation of primary bladder cancer.
25105774: !Alzheimer The importance of patient compliance in nonunion of forearm fracture. INTRODUCTION: Studies on radius ulna shaft fractures are very important. Surgical treatment is generally administered due to the unstability caused by the dynamic  effect of forearm muscles. Surgical technique, implant, osteoporosis, patient compliance can affect the surgical treatment and healing. PRESENTATION OF CASE: An 86-year-old female patient was admitted to emergency service with the complaint of protrusion of forearm implant from the skin. Physical examination revealed that 80 degrees nonunion developed on the radial side. Therefore, protruded and exposed internal fixation materials were excised under axillary block. We used zoledronic acid as a treatment of osteoporosis with the value of -3.2 Dexa score. DISCUSSION: Complication rate is reported to be 25% in patients  treated with plate fixation. Patient compliance is very crucial in forearm fractures as in all surgical procedures. Presence of comorbidities and socioeconomical status of the patient are important factors in fracture healing.  CONCLUSION: This case emphasizes the importance of compliance of the patient to the follow-up after surgical treatment of forearm fracture.
25104975: !Alzheimer Alpha-lipoic acid as a pleiotropic compound with potential therapeutic use in diabetes and other chronic diseases. Alpha-lipoic acid is a naturally occurring substance, essential for the function  of different enzymes that take part in mitochondria's oxidative metabolism. It is believed that alpha-lipoic acid or its reduced form, dihydrolipoic acid have many biochemical functions acting as biological antioxidants, as metal chelators, reducers of the oxidized forms of other antioxidant agents such as vitamin C and  E, and modulator of the signaling transduction of several pathways. These above-mentioned actions have been shown in experimental studies emphasizing the use of alpha-lipoic acid as a potential therapeutic agent for many chronic diseases with great epidemiological as well economic and social impact such as brain diseases and cognitive dysfunctions like Alzheimer disease, obesity, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, burning mouth syndrome, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, some types of cancer, glaucoma and osteoporosis. Many conflicting data have been found concerning the clinical use of alpha-lipoic acid in the treatment of diabetes and of diabetes-related chronic complications such as retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy, wound healing and diabetic cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy. The most frequent clinical condition in which alpha-lipoic  acid has been studied was in the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathy in  patients with type 1 as well type 2 diabetes. Considering that oxidative stress,  a imbalance between pro and antioxidants with excessive production of reactive oxygen species, is a factor in the development of many diseases and that alpha-lipoic acid, a natural thiol antioxidant, has been shown to have beneficial effects on oxidative stress parameters in various tissues we wrote this article in order to make an up-to-date review of current thinking regarding alpha-lipoic  acid and its use as an antioxidant drug therapy for a myriad of diseases that could have potential benefits from its use.
25102813: !Alzheimer Dissection of key determinants of cleavage activity in signal peptidase III (SPaseIII) PibD. In Archaea, type IV prepilins and prearchaellins are processed by designated signal peptidase III (SPaseIII) prior to their incorporation into pili and the archaellum, respectively. These peptidases belong to the family of integral membrane aspartic acid proteases that contain two essential aspartate residues of which the second aspartate is located in a conserved GxGD motif. To this group also bacterial type IV prepilin peptidases, Alzheimer disease-related secretases, signal peptide peptidases and signal peptide peptidase-like proteases in humans belong. Here we have performed detailed in vivo analyses to understand the cleavage activity of PibD, SPaseIII from the thermoacidophilic crenarchaeon Sulfolobus acidocaldarius. Using an already established in vivo heterologous system cleavage assay, we could successfully identify the key amino acid residues essential for catalysis of PibD. Furthermore, in trans complementation of a pibD  S. acidocaldarius deletion mutant with PibD variants having substituted key amino acids has consolidated our observations of the importance of these residues in catalysis. Based on our data, we propose to re-define class III peptidases/type IV prepilin/prearchaellin peptidases as GxHyD group (rather than GxGD) of proteases [Hy-hydrophobic amino acid].
25101284: !Alzheimer Ketogenic diet in neuromuscular and neurodegenerative diseases. An increasing number of data demonstrate the utility of ketogenic diets in a variety of metabolic diseases as obesity, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes. In regard to neurological disorders, ketogenic diet is recognized as an effective treatment for pharmacoresistant epilepsy but emerging data suggests that ketogenic diet could be also useful in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer,  Parkinson's disease, and some mitochondriopathies. Although these diseases have different pathogenesis and features, there are some common mechanisms that could  explain the effects of ketogenic diets. These mechanisms are to provide an efficient source of energy for the treatment of certain types of neurodegenerative diseases characterized by focal brain hypometabolism; to decrease the oxidative damage associated with various kinds of metabolic stress;  to increase the mitochondrial biogenesis pathways; and to take advantage of the capacity of ketones to bypass the defect in complex I activity implicated in some neurological diseases. These mechanisms will be discussed in this review.
25101076: !Alzheimer Macromolecular networks and intelligence in microorganisms. Living organisms persist by virtue of complex interactions among many components  organized into dynamic, environment-responsive networks that span multiple scales and dimensions. Biological networks constitute a type of information and communication technology (ICT): they receive information from the outside and inside of cells, integrate and interpret this information, and then activate a response. Biological networks enable molecules within cells, and even cells themselves, to communicate with each other and their environment. We have become  accustomed to associating brain activity - particularly activity of the human brain - with a phenomenon we call "intelligence." Yet, four billion years of evolution could have selected networks with topologies and dynamics that confer traits analogous to this intelligence, even though they were outside the intercellular networks of the brain. Here, we explore how macromolecular networks in microbes confer intelligent characteristics, such as memory, anticipation, adaptation and reflection and we review current understanding of how network organization reflects the type of intelligence required for the environments in which they were selected. We propose that, if we were to leave terms such as "human" and "brain" out of the defining features of "intelligence," all forms of  life - from microbes to humans - exhibit some or all characteristics consistent with "intelligence." We then review advances in genome-wide data production and analysis, especially in microbes, that provide a lens into microbial intelligence and propose how the insights derived from quantitatively characterizing biomolecular networks may enable synthetic biologists to create intelligent molecular networks for biotechnology, possibly generating new forms of intelligence, first in silico and then in vivo.
25099695: !Alzheimer Comparison of mobile apps for the leading causes of death among different income  zones: a review of the literature and app stores. BACKGROUND: The advances achieved in technology, medicine, and communications in  the past decades have created an excellent scenario for the improvement and expansion of eHeath and mHealth in particular. Mobile phones, smartphones, and tablets are exceptional means for the application of mobile health, especially for those diseases and health conditions that are the deadliest worldwide. OBJECTIVE: The main aim of this paper was to compare the amount of research and the number of mobile apps dedicated to the diseases and conditions that are the leading causes of death according to the World Health Organization grouped by different income regions. These diseases and conditions were ischemic heart disease; stroke and other cerebrovascular diseases; lower respiratory infections; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; diarrheal diseases; HIV/AIDS; trachea, bronchus, and lung cancers; malaria; and Alzheimer disease and other dementias. METHODS: Two reviews were conducted. In the first, the systems IEEE Xplore, Scopus, Web of Knowledge, and PubMed were used to perform a literature review of  applications related to the mentioned diseases. The second was developed in the currently most important mobile phone apps stores: Google play, iTunes, BlackBerry World, and Windows Phone Apps+Games. RESULTS: Search queries up to June 2013 located 371 papers and 557 apps related to the leading causes of death, and the following findings were obtained. Alzheimer disease and other dementias are included in the diseases with more apps, although it is not among the top 10  causes of death worldwide, whereas lower respiratory infections, the third leading cause of death, is one of the less researched and with fewer apps. Two diseases that are the first and second of low-income countries (lower respiratory infections and diarrheal diseases) have very little research and few commercial applications. HIV/AIDS, in the top 6 of low-income and middle-income zones, is one of the diseases with more research and applications, although it is not in the top 10 in high-income countries. Trachea, bronchus, and lung cancers are the  third cause of death in high-income countries but are one of the least researched diseases with regard to apps. CONCLUSIONS: Concerning mobile apps, there is more  work done in the commercial field than in the research field, although the distribution among the diseases is similar in both fields. In general, apps for common diseases of low- and middle-income countries are not as abundant as those  for typical diseases of developed countries. Nevertheless, there are some exceptions such as HIV/AIDS, due to its important social conscience; and trachea, bronchus and lung cancers, which was totally unexpected.
25097638: !Alzheimer Therapeutic potential of dental pulp stem cells in regenerative medicine: An overview. The purpose of this review is to gain an overview of the applications of the dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) in the treatment of various medical diseases. Stem cells have the capacity to differentiate and regenerate into various tissues. DPSCs are the adult stem cells that reside in the cell rich zone of the dental pulp. These are the multipotent cells that can be explained by their embryonic origin from the neural crest. Owing to this multipotency, these DPSCs can be used in both dental and medical applications. A review of literature has been performed using electronic and hand-searching methods for the medical applications of DPSCs. On the basis of the available information, DPSCs appear to be a promising alternative for the regeneration of tissues and treatment of various diseases, although, long-term clinical trials and studies are needed to confirm their efficacy.
25091425: !Alzheimer Palmitoylation and depalmitoylation defects. Palmitoylation describes the enzymatic attachment of a 16-carbon atom fatty acid  to a target protein. Such lipidation events occur in all eukaryotes and can be of reversible (S-palmitoylation) or irreversible (N-palmitoylation) nature. In particular S-palmitoylation is dynamically regulated by two opposing types of enzymes which add (palmitoyl acyltransferases - PAT) or remove (acyl protein thioesterases) palmitate from proteins. Protein palmitoylation is an important process that dynamically regulates the assembly and compartmentalization of many  neuronal proteins at specific subcellular sites. Enzymes that regulate protein palmitoylation are critical for several biological processes. To date, eight palmitoylation related genes have been reported to be associated with human disease. This review intends to give an overview on the pathological changes which are associated with defects in the palmitoylation/depalmitoylation process.
25079798: !Alzheimer Helicobacter pylori filtrate induces Alzheimer-like tau hyperphosphorylation by activating glycogen synthase kinase-3beta. Abnormal hyperphosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein tau is involved in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's  disease (AD). Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection has been reported to be related with a high risk of AD, but the direct laboratory evidence is lacking. Here we explored the effect of H. pylori infection on tau phosphorylation. The results showed that H. pylori filtrate induced significant tau hyperphosphorylation at several AD-related tau phosphorylation sites, such as Thr205, Thr231, and Ser404, both in mouse neuroblastoma N2a cells and rat brains  with activation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta). Application of GSK-3 inhibitors efficiently attenuated the H. pylori-induced tau hyperphosphorylation. Our data provide evidence supporting the role of H. pylori  infection in AD-like tau pathology, suggesting that H. pylori eradication may be  beneficial in the prevention of tauopathy.
25071571: !Alzheimer The glial response to intracerebrally delivered therapies for neurodegenerative disorders: is this a critical issue? The role of glial cells in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative conditions  of the central nervous system (CNS) is now well established (as is discussed in other reviews in this special issue of Frontiers in Neuropharmacology). What is less clear is whether there are changes in these same cells in terms of their behavior and function in response to invasive experimental therapeutic interventions for these diseases. This has, and will continue to become more of an issue as we enter a new era of novel treatments which require the agent to be  directly placed/infused into the CNS such as deep brain stimulation (DBS), cell transplants, gene therapies and growth factor infusions. To date, all of these treatments have produced variable outcomes and the reasons for this have been widely debated but the host astrocytic and/or microglial response induced by such invasively delivered agents has not been discussed in any detail. In this review, we have attempted to summarize the limited published data on this, in particular  we discuss the small number of human post-mortem studies reported in this field.  By so doing, we hope to provide a better description and understanding of the extent and nature of both the astrocytic and microglial response, which in turn could lead to modifications in the way these therapeutic interventions are delivered.
25070503: !Alzheimer Donepezil can improve ischemic muscle atrophy by activating angiomyogenic properties of satellite cells. BACKGROUND: Saving more limbs of patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD)  from amputation by accelerating angiogenesis in affected limbs has been anticipated for years. We hypothesized that an anti-Alzheimer drug, donepezil (DPZ), can activate angiomyogenic properties of satellite cells, myogenic progenitors, and thus be an additional pharmacological therapy against PAD. METHODS AND RESULTS: In a murine hindlimb ischemia model, we investigated the angiogenic effects of a clinical dose of DPZ (0.2 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) and its combination with cilostazol, a platelet aggregation inhibitor and a conventional  therapeutic drug against PAD. The combination therapy most effectively improved skin coldness and most effectively upregulated vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-producing satellite cells in ischemic hindlimbs. Computed tomography revealed that DPZ remarkably attenuated ischemic muscle atrophy and induced super-restoration in affected hindlimbs. The in vitro study with human aortic endothelial cells showed that DPZ or its combination with cilostazol effectively  upregulated the expression of pAkt, hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha, and VEGF protein. Likewise, in primary cultured satellite cells, DPZ, alone or in combination, upregulated the expression of VEGF, interleukin-1beta, and fibroblast growth factor 2 protein. CONCLUSIONS: The present results suggest that a clinical dosage of DPZ accelerates angiomyogenesis by directly acting on both endothelial and satellite cells. Therefore, DPZ is a potential additional choice  for conventional drug therapy against PAD.
25068731: !Alzheimer Synthesis of new isoxazoline derivatives from harmine and evaluation of their anti-Alzheimer, anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory activities. In our study, a series of new harmine derivatives has been prepared by cycloaddition reaction using various arylnitrile oxides and evaluated in vitro against acetylcholinesterase and 5-lipoxygenase enzymes, MCF7 and HCT116 cancer cell lines. Some of these molecules have been shown to be potent inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase and MCF7 cell line. The greatest activity against acetylcholinesterase (IC50 = 10.4 microM) was obtained for harmine 1 and cytotoxic activities (IC50 = 0.2 microM) for compound 3a. Two derivatives 3e and  3f with the thiophene and furan systems, respectively, showed good activity against 5- lipoxygenase enzyme (IC50 = 29.2 and 55.5 microM, respectively).
25065914: !Alzheimer The Alu-rich genomic architecture of SPAST predisposes to diverse and functionally distinct disease-associated CNV alleles. Intragenic copy-number variants (CNVs) contribute to the allelic spectrum of both Mendelian and complex disorders. Although pathogenic deletions and duplications in SPAST (mutations in which cause autosomal-dominant spastic paraplegia 4 [SPG4]) have been described, their origins and molecular consequences remain obscure. We mapped breakpoint junctions of 54 SPAST CNVs at nucleotide resolution. Diverse combinations of exons are deleted or duplicated, highlighting the importance of particular exons for spastin function. Of the 54 CNVs, 38 (70%) appear to be mediated by an Alu-based mechanism, suggesting that the Alu-rich genomic architecture of SPAST renders this locus susceptible to various genome rearrangements. Analysis of breakpoint Alus further informs a model of Alu-mediated CNV formation characterized by small CNV size and potential involvement of mechanisms other than homologous recombination. Twelve deletions (22%) overlap part of SPAST and a portion of a nearby, directly oriented gene, predicting novel chimeric genes in these subjects' genomes. cDNA from a subject with a SPAST final exon deletion contained multiple SPAST:SLC30A6 fusion transcripts, indicating that SPAST CNVs can have transcriptional effects beyond the gene itself. SLC30A6 has been implicated in Alzheimer disease, so these fusion gene data could explain a report of spastic paraplegia and dementia cosegregating in a family with deletion of the final exon of SPAST. Our findings  provide evidence that the Alu genomic architecture of SPAST predisposes to diverse CNV alleles with distinct transcriptional--and possibly phenotypic--consequences. Moreover, we provide further mechanistic insights into  Alu-mediated copy-number change that are extendable to other loci.
25064643: !Alzheimer Development of a metabolomic approach based on urine samples and direct infusion  mass spectrometry. The analysis of urine by direct infusion mass spectrometry suffers from ion suppression due to its high salt content and inter-sample variability caused by the differences in urine volume between persons. Thus, urine metabolomics requires a careful selection of the sample preparation procedure and a normalization strategy to deal with these problems. Several approaches were tested for metabolomic analysis of urine samples by direct infusion electrospray  mass spectrometry (DI-ESI-MS), including solid phase extraction, liquid-liquid extraction, and sample dilution. In addition, normalization of results based on conductivity values and statistical treatment was performed to minimize sample variability. Both urine dilution and solid phase extraction with mixed mode sorbent considerably reduced the salt content in urine, providing comprehensive metabolomic fingerprints. Moreover, statistical data normalization enabled the correction of inter-sample physiological variability, improving the quality of results obtained. Therefore, high-throughput DI-ESI-MS fingerprinting of urine samples can be achieved with simple pretreatment procedures allowing the use of this noninvasive sampling in metabolomics. Finally, the optimized approach was tested in a pilot metabolomic investigation of urine samples from transgenic mice models of Alzheimer's disease (APP/PS1) in order to illustrate the potential of the methodology.
25064444: !Alzheimer The endogenous alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist kynurenic acid  modulates amyloid-beta-induced inflammation in BV-2 microglial cells. Amyloid-beta has been shown to interact with the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor on neuronal cells. Not much is known on the effect on microglial cells and whether this effect can be modulated by the endogenous alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist kynurenic acid. Our aim was to investigate the  effect of kynurenic acid on amyloid-beta-treated BV-2 microglial cells with respect to alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor expression, cell viability, cytokine production and phagocytotic abilities. Therefore BV-2 cells were treated with oligomeric or fibrillar forms of amyloid-beta(1-40) and co-treated with kynurenic acid. alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor quantity was investigated using Western blotting. Cell viability was assessed by staining cells with fluorescein diacetate and propidium iodide. Pro-inflammatory cytokines were measured in cell culture supernatants of treated cells with ELISAs; NO with Griess reagents and amyloid-beta uptake were investigated with fluorescence-activated cell sorting and verified by Western blotting. Amyloid-beta nor kynurenic acid did have an effect on the protein level of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Amyloid-Beta induced cell mortality was  unchanged after addition of kynurenic acid. However, kynurenic acid co-treatment  reduced the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumour necrosis factor-alpha and IL-6 and  amyloid-beta phagocytosis. We provide evidence for an immunomodulating effect of  the endogenous alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist kynurenic acid. Our findings indicate a role for kynurenic acid in amyloid-beta associated neuroinflammation in Alzheimer disease.
25062725: !Alzheimer Barriers in access to healthcare services for chronic patients in times of austerity: an empirical approach in Greece. OBJECTIVES: To investigate the magnitude of barriers in access to health services for chronic patients and the socioeconomic and demographic characteristics that affect them. METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted in 1,594 chronic patients suffering from diabetes, hypertension, COPD and Alzheimer. Logistic regression analyses were carried out in order to explore the factors related to economic and geographical barriers in access, as well as the determinants of barriers due to waiting lists. RESULTS: A total of 25% of chronic patients face geographical barriers while 63.5% and 58.5% of them are in front of economic and  waiting list barriers, respectively. Unemployed, low-income and low-educated are  more likely to face economic barriers in access. Moreover, women, low-income patients, and patients with lower health status are more likely to be in front of geographical barriers. In addition, the probability of waiting lists occurrence is greater for unemployed, employees and low income patients. CONCLUSIONS: Barriers in access can be mainly attributed to income decrease and unemployment.  In this context, health policy measures are essential for removing barriers in access. Otherwise, inequalities may increase and chronic patients' health status  will be deteriorated. These consequences imply adverse effects on health expenditure.
25061748: !Alzheimer Cloning and characterization of a norbelladine 4'-O-methyltransferase involved in the biosynthesis of the Alzheimer's drug galanthamine in Narcissus sp. aff. pseudonarcissus. Galanthamine is an Amaryllidaceae alkaloid used to treat the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. This compound is primarily isolated from daffodil (Narcissus spp.), snowdrop (Galanthus spp.), and summer snowflake (Leucojum aestivum). Despite its importance as a medicine, no genes involved in the biosynthetic pathway of galanthamine have been identified. This absence of genetic information on biosynthetic pathways is a limiting factor in the development of synthetic biology platforms for many important botanical medicines. The paucity of information is largely due to the limitations of traditional methods for finding  biochemical pathway enzymes and genes in non-model organisms. A new bioinformatic approach using several recent technological improvements was applied to search for genes in the proposed galanthamine biosynthetic pathway, first targeting methyltransferases due to strong signature amino acid sequences in the proteins.  Using Illumina sequencing, a de novo transcriptome assembly was constructed for daffodil. BLAST was used to identify sequences that contain signatures for plant  O-methyltransferases in this transcriptome. The program HAYSTACK was then used to identify methyltransferases that fit a model for galanthamine biosynthesis in leaf, bulb and inflorescence tissues. One candidate gene for the methylation of norbelladine to 4'-O-methylnorbelladine in the proposed galanthamine biosynthetic pathway was identified. This methyltransferase cDNA was expressed in E. coli and  the protein purified by affinity chromatography. The resulting protein was found  to be a norbelladine 4'-O-methyltransferase (NpN4OMT) of the proposed galanthamine biosynthetic pathway.
25061055: !Alzheimer Active invasion of Porphyromonas gingivalis and infection-induced complement activation in ApoE-/- mice brains. Periodontal disease is a polymicrobial inflammatory disease that leads to chronic systemic inflammation and direct infiltration of bacteria/bacterial components, which may contribute to the development of Alzheimer's disease. ApoE-/- mice were orally infected (n = 12) with Porphyromonas gingivalis, Treponema denticola, Tannerella forsythia, and Fusobacterium nucleatum as mono- and polymicrobial infections. ApoE-/- mice were sacrificed following 12 and 24 weeks of chronic infection. Bacterial genomic DNA was isolated from all brain tissues except for the F. nucleatum mono-infected group. Polymerase chain reaction was performed using universal 16 s rDNA primers and species-specific primer sets for each organism to determine whether the infecting pathogens accessed the brain. Sequencing amplification products confirmed the invasion of bacteria into the brain during infection. The innate immune responses were detected using antibodies against complement activation products of C3 convertase stage and the  membrane attack complex. Molecular methods demonstrated that 6 out of 12 ApoE-/-  mice brains contained P. gingivalis genomic DNA at 12 weeks (p = 0.006), and 9 out of 12 at 24 weeks of infection (p = 0.0001). Microglia in both infected and control groups demonstrated strong intracellular labeling with C3 and C9, due to  on-going biosynthesis. The pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus in 4 out of 12 infected mice brains demonstrated characteristic opsonization with C3 activation  fragments (p = 0.032). These results show that the oral pathogen P. gingivalis was able to access the ApoE-/- mice brain and thereby contributed to complement activation with bystander neuronal injury.
25059768: !Alzheimer The influence of Ser-154, Cys-113, and the phosphorylated threonine residue on the catalytic reaction mechanism of Pin1. Pin1 is an enzyme that specifically catalyzes the cis-trans isomerization of proline amide bonds in peptides that contain a phosphorylated threonine or serine residue in the position preceding proline. In the cell, the isomerization reaction is associated with cellular signaling and has been related to diseases such as Alzheimer and cancer. The catalytic mechanism by which Pin1 accelerates the isomerization reaction, however, is still unknown. In this study, we use molecular dynamics simulation in combination with the QM/MM methodology to disclose the influence of the residues Ser-154 and Cys-113 in the enzyme and the  phosphorylated threonine residue in the peptide on the reaction mechanism. To account for the correct electrostatic interaction between the three residues and  the reactive center, we derive atomic charges that account for the varying electrostatic field in the catalytic cavity. Different methods based on reproducing the molecular electrostatic potential or an atoms in molecules approach were investigated. Finally, the reaction mechanism is analyzed with the  mean reaction force and the influence of the three residues is disclosed. Our results show that Pin1 specifically catalyzes the isomerization of the trans conformer in a jump-rope type of motion, as suggested by us and confirmed experimentally by others. This is accomplished by anchoring the threonine phosphate residue on one end of the peptide through electrostatic interactions with the basic triad of the enzyme and at the other end through specific enzyme-peptide hydrogen bonds. Cys-113 reduces the structural contribution to the activation free energy through the stabilization of the cis conformer, and Ser-154 in combination with Gln-131 assist in the isomerization reaction of the trans isomer.
25057188: !Alzheimer Deletion of interleukin-6 signal transducer gp130 in small sensory neurons attenuates mechanonociception and down-regulates TRPA1 expression. Glycoprotein 130 (gp130) is the signal transducing receptor subunit for cytokines of the interleukin-6 (IL-6) family, and it is expressed in a multitude of cell types of the immune and nervous system. IL-6-like cytokines are not only key regulators of innate immunity and inflammation but are also essential factors for the differentiation and development of the somatosensory system. Mice with a null mutation of gp130 in primary nociceptive afferents (SNS-gp130(-/-)) are largely protected from hypersensitivity to mechanical stimuli in mouse models of pathological pain. Therefore, we set out to investigate how neuronal gp130 regulates mechanonociception. SNS-gp130(-/-) mice revealed reduced mechanosensitivity to high mechanical forces in the von Frey assay in vivo, and this was associated with a reduced sensitivity of nociceptive primary afferents in vitro. Together with these findings, transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) mRNA expression was significantly reduced in DRG from SNS-gp130(-/-) mice. This was also reflected by a reduced number of neurons responding with calcium transients to TRPA1 agonists in primary DRG cultures. Downregulation of Trpa1 expression was predominantly discovered in nonpeptidergic neurons, with the deficit becoming evident during stages of early postnatal development. Regulation of Trpa1 mRNA expression levels downstream of gp130 involved the classical Janus  kinase family-signal transducer and activator of transcription pathway. Our results closely link proinflammatory cytokines to the expression of TRPA1, both of which have been shown to contribute to hypersensitive pain states. We suggest  that gp130 has an essential role in mechanonociception and in the regulation of TRPA1 expression.
25055921: !Alzheimer A schematic workflow for collecting information about the interaction between copy number variants and microRNAs using existing resources. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) and copy number variations (CNVs) are two extensively studied  genomic components in the field of modern biology-as they have been found to be associated with many disorders such as cancer, Alzheimer, pancreatitis, HIV susceptibility, beta-thalassemia, and glomerulonephritis. Several studies suggested that an alteration in CNV-miRNA interaction could result in some human  diseases such as cancer. Therefore, the possible miRNA-binding site information within the CNV genes opens new avenues in understanding such disorders. In this chapter, we present a schematic approach for collecting the information on CNV-miRNA interactions using miRWalk and TargetScan databases.
25051175: !Alzheimer Histone acetyltransferase p300 mediates histone acetylation of PS1 and BACE1 in a cellular model of Alzheimer's disease. Epigenetic modifications, particularly histone acetylation, have been implicated  in Alzheimer's disease (AD). While previous studies have suggested that histone hypoacetylation may regulate the expression of genes associated with memory and learning in AD, little is known about histone regulation of AD-related genes such as Presenilin 1(PS1) and beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1(BACE1). By utilizing neuroblastoma N2a cells transfected with Swedish mutated human amyloid precursor protein (APP) (N2a/APPswe) and wild-type APP (N2a/APPwt)  as cellular models of AD, we examined the alterations of histone acetylation at the promoter regions of PS1 and BACE1 in these cells. Our results revealed that histone H3 acetylation in PS1 and BACE1 promoters is markedly increased in N2a/APPswe cells when compared to N2a/APPwt cells and control cells (vector-transfected), respectively, causing the elevated expression of PS1 and BACE1. In addition, expression of histone acetyltransferase (HAT) adenoviral E1A-associated 300-kDa protein (p300) is dramatically enhanced in N2a/APPswe cells compared to N2a/APPwt and control cells. We have further demonstrated the direct binding of p300 protein to the PS1 and BACE1 promoters in N2a/APPswe cells. The expression levels of H3 acetylation of the PS1 and BACE1 promoters and p300 protein, however, were found to be not significantly different in N2a/APPwt  cells when compared to controls in our studies. Furthermore, curcumin, a natural  selective inhibitor of p300 in HATs, significantly suppressed the expression of PS1 and BACE1 through inhibition of H3 acetylation in their promoter regions in N2a/APPswe cells. These findings indicated that histone acetyltransferase p300 plays a critical role in controlling the expression of AD-related genes through regulating the acetylation of their promoter regions, suggesting that p300 may represent a novel potential therapeutic target for AD.
25042600: !Alzheimer Gypsogenin derivatives: an unexpected class of inhibitors of cholinesterases. Gypsogenin (1) was obtained by acidic hydrolysis from its saponin. While the parent compound 1 acted as a selective inhibitor for butyrylcholinesterase (from  equus) possessing a moderate mixed-type inhibition of the enzyme, Ki values as low as 2.67 +/- 0.59 muM were determined for (3beta,4alpha) 3-O-acetyl-olean-12-ene-23,28-dinitrile (11) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE, from electric eel). Thus, 11 possesses one-fifth of the inhibitory activity of the "gold standard" galantamine hydrobromide; this compound is one of the first pentacyclic triterpenoids described as a potent AChE-selective inhibitor.
25041794: !Alzheimer Neuroprotection against degeneration of sk-N-mc cells using neuron growth factor-encapsulated liposomes with surface cereport and transferrin. Liposomes with Cereport (RMP-7) and transferrin (Tf) (RMP-7/Tf/liposomes) were employed to target the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and to inhibit the degeneration  of neurons insulted with fibrillar beta-amyloid peptide 1-42 (Abeta1-42). Neuron  growth factor (NGF)-encapsulated RMP-7/Tf/liposomes (RMP-7/Tf/NGF-liposomes) were used to permeate a monolayer of human brain-microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs) regulated by human astrocytes (HAs) and to treat Abeta1-42 -attacked SK-N-MC cells. An increase in RMT-7 concentration increased the particle size, zeta potential, propidium iodide (PI) permeability, and NGF permeability, but decreased the cross-linking efficiency of RMT-7, viability of HBMECs and HAs, and transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER). In addition, an increase in Tf concentration enhanced the particle size, viability of HBMECs, HAs, and SK-N-MC cells, PI permeability, and NGF permeability, but reduced the zeta potential, cross-linking efficiency of RMT-7 and Tf, and TEER. RMP-7/Tf/NGF-liposomes can transport NGF across the BBB and improve the neuroprotection for Alzheimer's disease therapy in preclinical trials.
25036600: !Alzheimer Novel tacrine/acridine anticholinesterase inhibitors with piperazine and thiourea linkers. A new series of substituted tacrine/acridine and tacrine/tacrine dimers with aliphatic or alkylene-thiourea linkers was synthesized and the potential of these compounds as novel human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE) and human butyrylcholinesterase (hBChE) inhibitors with nanomolar inhibition activity was evaluated. The most potent AChE inhibitor was found to be homodimeric tacrine derivative 14a, which demonstrated an IC50 value of 2 nM; this value indicates an activity rate which is 250-times higher than that of tacrine 1 and 7500-times higher than 7-MEOTA 15, the compounds which were used as standards in the study.  IC50 values of derivatives 1, 9, 10, 14b and 15 were compared with the dissociation constants of the enzyme-inhibitor complex, Ki1, and the enzyme-substrate-inhibitor complex, Ki2, for. A dual binding site is presumed for the synthesized compounds which possess two tacrines or tacrine and acridine as terminal moieties show evidence of dual site binding. DFT calculations of theoretical desolvation free energies, DeltaDeltaGtheor, and docking studies elucidate these suggestions in more detail.
25034304: !Alzheimer Inhibition of stress induced premature senescence in presenilin-1 mutated cells with water soluble Coenzyme Q10. A water-soluble formulation of CoQ10 (WS-CoQ10) was shown to stabilize mitochondria and prevent oxidative stress-induced neuronal death. Presenilin-1 (PS-1)-mutated Alzheimer's Disease (AD) fibroblasts (PSAF) were used for studying the effects of PS-1 mutation. PS-1 mutation correlated to increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and stress induced premature senescence (SIPS) in PSAF; WS-CoQ10 treatment decreased ROS generation, increased population doublings, and postponed SIPS. Treated PSAF had higher PCNA expression, and lower levels of MnSOD, p21, p16Ink4A, and Rb. WS-CoQ10 caused the resumption of autophagy in PSAF. Thus, WS-CoQ10 as inhibitor of SIPS and ameliorator of autophagy could be an effective prophylactic/therapeutic agent for AD.
25034052: !Alzheimer Pathophysiology of brain dysfunction in hyperammonemic syndromes: The many faces  of glutamine. Ineffective hepatic clearance of excess ammonia in the form of urea, as occurs in urea cycle enzymopathies (UCDs) and in liver failure, leads to increases in circulating and tissue concentrations of glutamine and a positive correlation between brain glutamine and the severity of neurological symptoms. Studies using  1H/13C Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy reveal increased de novo synthesis of glutamine in the brain in acute liver failure (ALF) but increases of synthesis rates per se do not correlate with either the severity of encephalopathy or brain edema. Skeletal muscle becomes primarily responsible for  removal of excess ammonia in liver failure and in UCDs, an adaptation that results from a post-translational induction of the glutamine synthetase (GS) gene. The importance of muscle in ammonia removal in hyperammonemia accounts for  the resurgence of interest in maintaining adequate dietary protein and the use of agents aimed at the stimulation of muscle GS. Alternative or additional metabolic and regulatory pathways that impact on brain glutamine homeostasis in hyperammonemia include (i) glutamine deamination by the two isoforms of glutaminase, (ii) glutamine transamination leading to the production of the putative neurotoxin alpha-ketoglutaramate and (iii) alterations of high affinity  astrocytic glutamine transporters (SNATs). Findings of reduced expression of the  glutamine transporter SNAT-5 (responsible for glutamine clearance from the astrocyte) in ALF raise the possibility of "glutamine trapping" within these cells. Such a trapping mechanism could contribute to cytotoxic brain edema and to the imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission in this disorder.
25033982: !Alzheimer Determination of free fatty acids in human serum by HPLC with fluorescence detection. It has been suggested that serum concentrations of polyunsaturated essential fatty acids correlate with the symptoms or severity of various diseases, including depression and Alzheimer-type dementia, and that determination of serum fatty acids might be important for disease diagnosis. Thus, we developed to analyze serum fatty acids in healthy individuals by using a high-performance liquid chromatography method with fluorescence detection, because free fatty acids have a carboxyl group that can be derivatized with a fluorescent reagent, 4-N,N-dimethylaminosulfonyl-7-N-(2-aminoethyl)amino-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole. This approach could quantify five types of free fatty acids [alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), palmitoleic acid (PLA), arachidonic acid (AA), linoleic acid (LA) and oleic acid (OA)] in human serum. The detection limits of the method were in the range of 2.29-4.75 fmol (signal-to-noise ratio 3), and absolute concentrations of ALA, PLA, AA, LA and OA were 8.27 +/- 1.04, 18.8 +/- 2.95, 49.9 +/- 4.03, 230 +/- 18.1 and 201 +/- 22.1 microM, respectively.
25032889: !Alzheimer Pathway network inference from gene expression data. BACKGROUND: The development of high-throughput omics technologies enabled genome-wide measurements of the activity of cellular elements and provides the analytical resources for the progress of the Systems Biology discipline. Analysis and interpretation of gene expression data has evolved from the gene to the pathway and interaction level, i.e. from the detection of differentially expressed genes, to the establishment of gene interaction networks and the identification of enriched functional categories. Still, the understanding of biological systems requires a further level of analysis that addresses the characterization of the interaction between functional modules. RESULTS: We present a novel computational methodology to study the functional interconnections among the molecular elements of a biological system. The PANA approach uses high-throughput genomics measurements and a functional annotation scheme to extract an activity profile from each functional block -or pathway- followed by machine-learning methods to infer the relationships between these functional profiles. The result is a global, interconnected network of pathways that represents the functional cross-talk within the molecular system. We have applied this approach to describe the functional transcriptional connections during the yeast cell cycle and to identify pathways that change their connectivity in a disease condition using an Alzheimer example. CONCLUSIONS: PANA is a useful tool to deepen in our understanding of the functional interdependences that operate within complex biological systems. We show the approach is algorithmically consistent and the inferred network is well supported by the available functional data. The method allows the dissection of the molecular basis of the functional connections and we describe the different regulatory mechanisms that explain the network's topology obtained for the yeast  cell cycle data.
25024695: !Alzheimer Glutathione and mitochondria. Glutathione (GSH) is the main non-protein thiol in cells whose functions are dependent on the redox-active thiol of its cysteine moiety that serves as a cofactor for a number of antioxidant and detoxifying enzymes. While synthesized exclusively in the cytosol from its constituent amino acids, GSH is distributed in different compartments, including mitochondria where its concentration in the  matrix equals that of the cytosol. This feature and its negative charge at physiological pH imply the existence of specific carriers to import GSH from the  cytosol to the mitochondrial matrix, where it plays a key role in defense against respiration-induced reactive oxygen species and in the detoxification of lipid hydroperoxides and electrophiles. Moreover, as mitochondria play a central strategic role in the activation and mode of cell death, mitochondrial GSH has been shown to critically regulate the level of sensitization to secondary hits that induce mitochondrial membrane permeabilization and release of proteins confined in the intermembrane space that once in the cytosol engage the molecular machinery of cell death. In this review, we summarize recent data on the regulation of mitochondrial GSH and its role in cell death and prevalent human diseases, such as cancer, fatty liver disease, and Alzheimer's disease.
25024584: !Alzheimer Aromatic L-Amino acid decarboxylase deficiency: A new case from Turkey with a novel mutation. Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), a vitamin B6-requiring enzyme that converts L-dopa to dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptophan to serotonin. Deficiency of this enzyme results in developmental delay, muscular hypotonia, dystonia, involuntary movements, autonomic dysfunction, and oculogyric crises. We now report a 2-year-old Turkish boy with AADC deficiency confirmed by greatly reduced AADC activity in the plasma and by genetic studies. Mutation analysis revealed a  homozygous mutation c.208C > T (p. His70Tyr) in exon 3 of the AADC gene which has not been described to date.
25024339: !Alzheimer RanBP9 modulates AICD localization and transcriptional activity via direct interaction with Tip60. Proteolytic processing of the amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) occurs via alternative pathways, culminating with the production of the AbetaPP intracellular domain (AICD). AICD can translocate to the nucleus and regulate transcription, but its activity is modulated by interactions with other proteins. In the nucleus, AICD, FE65, and Tip60 associate into AFT complexes, which are targeted to nuclear spots which correspond to transcription factories. Here we report that RanBP9 interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of AbetaPP, through the  NPXY internalization motif. Moreover, RanBP9 interaction with Tip60 is also described. The RanBP9-Tip60 interaction dramatically relocated RanBP9 from a widespread cellular distribution to nuclear speckles. AbetaPP processing is a central aspect in determining the protein's function and that of its resulting proteolytic fragments, among them AICD. The latter results from the amyloidogenic pathway and is the peptidic species predominantly involved in nuclear signaling.  Of note RanBP9 transfection was previously demonstrated to increase amyloid-beta  generation. Here we show that RanBP9 relocates AICD to the Tip60-enriched nuclear speckles, and prevented the formation of nuclear spots formation, having therefore a negative effect on AICD mediated nuclear signaling and consequently AFT complex formation. Furthermore, by transfecting cells with increasing amounts of RanBP9, the expression of AICD-regulated genes, including AbetaPP itself, was  reduced. Given the data presented, one can deduce that RanBP9 has an inhibitory regulatory effect on AICD-mediated transcription and the effect is mediated by relocating AICD away from transcription factories.
25023914: !Alzheimer Multiple chronic conditions and life expectancy: a life table analysis. BACKGROUND: The number of people living with multiple chronic conditions is increasing, but we know little about the impact of multimorbidity on life expectancy. OBJECTIVE: We analyze life expectancy in Medicare beneficiaries by number of chronic conditions. RESEARCH DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study using single-decrement period life tables. SUBJECTS: Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries (N=1,372,272) aged 67 and older as of January 1, 2008. MEASURES: Our primary outcome measure is life expectancy. We categorize study subjects by sex, race, selected chronic conditions (heart disease, cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, stroke, and Alzheimer disease), and number of comorbid conditions. Comorbidity was measured as a count of conditions collected  by Chronic Conditions Warehouse and the Charlson Comorbidity Index. RESULTS: Life expectancy decreases with each additional chronic condition. A 67-year-old individual with no chronic conditions will live on average 22.6 additional years. A 67-year-old individual with 5 chronic conditions and >/=10 chronic conditions will live 7.7 fewer years and 17.6 fewer years, respectively. The average marginal decline in life expectancy is 1.8 years with each additional chronic condition-ranging from 0.4 fewer years with the first condition to 2.6 fewer years with the sixth condition. These results are consistent by sex and race. We  observe differences in life expectancy by selected conditions at 67, but these differences diminish with age and increasing numbers of comorbid conditions. CONCLUSIONS: Social Security and Medicare actuaries should account for the growing number of beneficiaries with multiple chronic conditions when determining population projections and trust fund solvency.
25005067: !Alzheimer Compounds from the aerial parts of Piper bavinum and their anti-cholinesterase activity. A new alkenylphenol, bavinol A (1), together with six known compounds (2-7) were  isolated from the aerial parts of Piper bavinum (Piperaceae). The chemical structures of these compounds were determined by spectroscopic analyses including 2D NMR spectroscopy. The anti-Alzheimer effects of compounds 1-7 were evaluated from acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitory activity assays. Bavinol A (1), ampelopsin (3), and violanthin (4) exhibited AChE inhibitory activities with IC50 values of 29.80, 59.47 and 79.80 muM. Compound 1  also showed the most potent BChE inhibitory activity with an IC50 value of 19.25  muM.
25003233: !Alzheimer mNos2 deletion and human NOS2 replacement in Alzheimer disease models. Understanding the pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying Alzheimer disease relies on knowledge of disease onset and the sequence of development of brain pathologies. We present a comprehensive analysis of early and progressive changes in a mouse model that demonstrates a full spectrum of characteristic Alzheimer disease-like pathologies. This model demonstrates an altered immune redox state reminiscent of the human disease and capitalizes on data indicating critical differences between human and mouse immune responses, particularly in nitric oxide levels produced by immune activation of the NOS2 gene. Using the APPSwDI(+)/(+)mNos2(-/-) (CVN-AD) mouse strain, we show a sequence of pathologic  events leading to neurodegeneration,which include pathologically hyperphosphorylated tau in the perforant pathway at 6 weeks of age progressing to insoluble tau, early appearance of beta-amyloid peptides in perivascular deposits around blood vessels in brain regions known to be vulnerable to Alzheimer disease, and progression to damage and overt loss in select vulnerable neuronal populations in these regions. The role of species differences between hNOS2 and mNos2 was supported by generating mice in which the human NOS2 gene replaced mNos2. When crossed with CVN-AD mice, pathologic characteristics of this new strain (APPSwDI(+)/(-)/HuNOS2(tg+)/(+)/mNos2(-/-)) mimicked the pathologic phenotypes found in the CVN-AD strain.
25002271: !Alzheimer The novel alpha7beta2-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtype is expressed in mouse and human basal forebrain: biochemical and pharmacological characterization. We examined alpha7beta2-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7beta2-nAChR) expression in mammalian brain and compared pharmacological profiles of homomeric  alpha7-nAChRs and alpha7beta2-nAChRs. alpha-Bungarotoxin affinity purification or immunoprecipitation with anti-alpha7 subunit antibodies (Abs) was used to isolate nAChRs containing alpha7 subunits from mouse or human brain samples. alpha7beta2-nAChRs were detected in forebrain, but not other tested regions, from both species, based on Western blot analysis of isolates using beta2 subunit-specific Abs. Ab specificity was confirmed in control studies using subunit-null mutant mice or cell lines heterologously expressing specific human nAChR subtypes and subunits. Functional expression in Xenopus oocytes of concatenated pentameric (alpha7)5-, (alpha7)4(beta2)1-, and (alpha7)3(beta2)2-nAChRs was confirmed using two-electrode voltage clamp recording of responses to nicotinic ligands. Importantly, pharmacological profiles were indistinguishable for concatenated (alpha7)5-nAChRs or for homomeric alpha7-nAChRs constituted from unlinked alpha7 subunits. Pharmacological profiles were similar for (alpha7)5-, (alpha7)4(beta2)1-, and (alpha7)3(beta2)2-nAChRs except for diminished efficacy of nicotine (normalized to acetylcholine efficacy) at alpha7beta2- versus alpha7-nAChRs. This study represents the first direct confirmation of alpha7beta2-nAChR expression in human and mouse forebrain, supporting previous mouse studies that suggested relevance of alpha7beta2-nAChRs in Alzheimer disease etiopathogenesis. These data also indicate that alpha7beta2-nAChR subunit isoforms with different alpha7/beta2 subunit ratios have similar pharmacological profiles to each other and to alpha7  homopentameric nAChRs. This supports the hypothesis that alpha7beta2-nAChR agonist activation predominantly or entirely reflects binding to alpha7/alpha7 subunit interface sites.
24998676: !Alzheimer Differential role of APP and APLPs for neuromuscular synaptic morphology and function. The analysis of mouse models indicated that APP and the related APLPs are important for synapse formation and function. The synaptic role of APP is, however, complex due to partially overlapping functions within the gene family. APP/APLPs are proteolytically cleaved and have both adhesive and signaling properties. Mice lacking individual APP family members are viable, whereas APP/APLP2 and APLP1/APLP2 double knockout (DKO) mice die shortly after birth. Here, we analyzed the morphology of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) of lethal APLP1/APLP2-DKO mice in comparison to lethal APP/APLP2-DKO mutants and viable single KO mice. We report that, surprisingly, the NMJ phenotype of APLP1/APLP2-DKO mice shows striking differences as compared to APP/APLP2-DKO mice. Unexpectedly, APLP1/APLP2-DKO mice exhibit normal endplate patterning and lack presynaptic nerve terminal sprouting. However, at the level of individual synapses we show that APLP1/APLP2-DKO mice exhibit reduced size of pre- and postsynaptic compartments and reduced colocalization. As APP/APLP2-DKO and APLP1/APLP2-DKO mice show similar penetrance of early postnatal lethality, this suggests that deficits at the level of individual synapses due to impaired synaptic apposition and/or deficits in transmitter release may cause lethality. Using an in vitro cell-adhesion assay, we observed that APP trans-dimerization is considerably less efficient than APLP2 trans-interaction. Thus, differences between APP/APLP2 and APP/APLP1 NMJ formation may be in part explained by differences in APP/APLP2 trans-dimerization properties. Collectively, our study further highlights the distinct and essential role of APLP2 at NMJ synapses that  cannot be compensated by APP.
24988985: !Alzheimer The effects of C-glycosylation of luteolin on its antioxidant, anti-Alzheimer's disease, anti-diabetic, and anti-inflammatory activities. To investigate the effect of C-glycosylation at different positions of luteolin,  the structure-activity relationships of luteolin and a pair of isomeric C-glycosylated derivatives orientin and isoorientin, were evaluated. We investigated the effects of C-glycosylation on the antioxidant, anti-Alzheimer's  disease (AD), anti-diabetic and anti-inflammatory effects of luteolin and its two C-glycosides via in vitro assays of peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)), total reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitric oxide (NO), 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydraxyl (DPPH), aldose reductase, protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B), acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), and beta-site amyloid precursor cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), and cellular assays of NO production and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)/cyclooxygenase-2 expression in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells. Of the three compounds, isoorientin showed the  highest scavenging activity against DPPH, NO, and ONOO(-), while luteolin was the most potent inhibitor of ROS generation. In addition, luteolin showed the most potent anti-AD activity as determined by its inhibition of AChE, BChE, and BACE1. With respect to anti-diabetic effects, luteolin exerted the strongest inhibitory  activity against PTP1B and rat lens aldose reductase. Luteolin also inhibited NO  production and iNOS protein expression in LPS-stimulated macrophages, while orientin and isoorientin were inactive at the same concentrations. The effects of C-glycosylation at different positions of luteolin may be closely linked to the intensity and modulation of antioxidant, anti-AD, anti-diabetic, and anti-inflammatory effects of luteolin and its C-glycosylated derivatives.
24988102: !Alzheimer Mortality and cancer incidence in aluminum smelter workers: a 5-year update. OBJECTIVE: To determine the mortality and cancer incidence of aluminum smelter workers. METHOD: The experience of 17,089 workers between 1950 and 2004 was studied. RESULTS: There were 25 deaths/47 female incident cancers and 6350 deaths/3984 male incident cancers. Mortality was significantly elevated for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Alzheimer disease (likely influenced by regional factors), all cancers, stomach, bladder, and lung cancers. Incidence was significantly elevated for bladder, lung, and laryngeal cancers. Digestive, lung, and bladder cancer mortality and lung, bladder, and buccal cancer incidence increased significantly with benzo(a)pyrene (B(a)P) exposure. Over time lung cancer risk has diminished but bladder cancer risk has not. CONCLUSIONS: Bladder  cancer incidence was not increased at B(a)P exposures below 40 mug/m.yr. Occupational origins for other cancers occurring above expected rates but probably unrelated to B(a)P exposure cannot be excluded. In the prebake plant, nonsignificant increases of lung cancer were observed between 2000 and 2004.
24987548: !Alzheimer A comparative study on the effect of high cholesterol diet on the hippocampal CA1 area of adult and aged rats. Dementia is one of the most important problems nowadays. Aging is associated with learning and memory impairments. Diet rich in cholesterol has been shown to be detrimental to cognitive performance. This work was carried out to compare the effect of high cholesterol diet on the hippocampus of adult and aged male albino  rats. Twenty adult and twenty aged male rats were used in this study. According to age, the rats were randomly subdivided into balanced and high cholesterol diet fed groups. The diet was 15 g/rat/day for adult rats and 20 g/rat/day for aged rats for eight weeks. Serial coronal sections of hippocampus and blood samples were taken from each rat. For diet effect evaluation, Clinical, biochemical, histological, immunohistochemical, and morphometric assessments were done. In compare to a balanced diet fed rat, examination of Cornu Ammonis 1 (CA 1) area in the hippocampus of the high cholesterol diet adult rats showed degeneration, a significant decrease of the pyramidal cells, attenuation and/or thickening of small blood vessels, apparent increase of astrocytes and apparent decrease of Nissl's granules content. Moreover, the high cholesterol diet aged rats showed aggravation of senility changes of the hippocampus together with Alzheimer like pathological changes. In conclusion, the high cholesterol diet has a significant  detrimental effect on the hippocampus and aging might pronounce this effect. So,  we should direct our attention to limit cholesterol intake in our food to maintain a healthy life style for a successful aging.
24983737: !Alzheimer Telomerase: a target for therapeutic effects of curcumin and a curcumin derivative in Abeta1-42 insult in vitro. This study was designed to investigate whether telomerase was involved in the neuroprotective effect of curcumin and Cur1. Alzheimer's disease is a consequence of an imbalance between the generation and clearance of amyloid-beta peptide in the brain. In this study, we used Abeta1-42 (10 microg/ml) to establish a damaged cell model, and curcumin and Cur1 were used in treatment groups. We measured cell survival and cell growth, intracellular oxidative stress and hTERT expression. After RNA interference, the effects of curcumin and Cur1 on cells were verified.  Exposure to Abeta1-42 resulted in significant oxidative stress and cell toxicity, and the expression of hTERT was significantly decreased. Curcumin and Cur1 both protected SK-N-SH cells from Abeta1-42 and up-regulated the expression of hTERT.  Furthermore, Cur1 demonstrated stronger protective effects than curcumin. However, when telomerase was inhibited by TERT siRNA, the neuroprotection by curcumin and Cur1 were ceased. Our study indicated that the neuroprotective effects of curcumin and Cur1 depend on telomerase, and thus telomerase may be a target for therapeutic effects of curcumin and Cur1.
24983592: !Alzheimer A report from the American Academy of Neurology 2014 Annual Meeting (April 26-May 3 - Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA). Not far from the Liberty Bell Hall and the historical parks of old Philadelphia,  the Pennsylvania Convention Center hosted this year's American Academy of Neurology Annual Meeting for a full week of integrated science, symposium and general poster sessions. A great amount of research papers were presented and discussed during the meeting by attendees taking refuge from the downpour outside during at least 2 days. But the science was worth staying indoors to witness high-quality research, as summarized in this report.
24983378: !Alzheimer Alum and squalene-oil-in-water emulsion enhance the titer and avidity of anti-Abeta antibodies induced by multimeric protein antigen (1-11)E2, preserving  the Igg1-skewed isotype distribution. The development of active immunotherapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD) requires the identification of immunogens that can ensure a high titer antibody response toward Abeta, while minimizing the risks of adverse reactions. Multimeric protein (1-11)E2 induces a robust and persistent antibody response to Abeta in mice, when formulated in Freund's adjuvant. The goal of this translational study was to evaluate the immunogenicity of (1-11)E2 formulated in alum (Alhydrogel 2%), or in a squalene oil-in-water emulsion (AddaVax), or without adjuvant. A IgG1-skewed isotype distribution was observed for the anti-Abeta antibodies generated in mice immunized with either the non-adjuvanted or the adjuvanted vaccine, indicating that (1-11)E2 induces a Th2-like response in all tested conditions. Both Alhydrogel 2% and AddaVax enhanced the titer and avidity of the anti-Abeta response elicited by (1-11)E2. We conclude that (1-11)E2 is a promising candidate for anti-Abeta immunization protocols that include alum or squalene-oil-in-water  emulsion, or no adjuvant.
24980597: !Alzheimer Characterization of Human Hippocampal Neural Stem/Progenitor Cells and Their Application to Physiologically Relevant Assays for Multiple Ionotropic Glutamate  Receptors. The hippocampus is an important brain region that is involved in neurological disorders such as Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia, and epilepsy. Ionotropic glutamate receptors-namely, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors (AMPARs), and kainic acid (KA) receptors (KARs)-are well known to be involved in these diseases by mediating long-term potentiation, excitotoxicity, or both. To predict the therapeutic efficacy and neuronal toxicity of drug candidates acting on these receptors, physiologically relevant systems for assaying brain region-specific human neural cells are necessary. Here, we characterized the functional differentiation of human fetal hippocampus-derived neural stem/progenitor cells-namely, HIP-009 cells. Calcium rise assay demonstrated that, after a 4-week differentiation, the cells responded to NMDA (EC50 = 7.5 +/- 0.4 microM; n = 4),  AMPA (EC50 = 2.5 +/- 0.1 microM; n = 3), or KA (EC50 = 33.5 +/- 1.1 microM; n = 3) in a concentration-dependent manner. An AMPA-evoked calcium rise was observed  in the absence of the desensitization inhibitor cyclothiazide. In addition, the calcium rise induced by these agonists was inhibited by antagonists for each receptor-namely, MK-801 for NMDA stimulation (IC50 = 0.6 +/- 0.1 microM; n = 4) and NBQX for AMPA and KA stimulation (IC50 = 0.7 +/- 0.1 and 0.7 +/- 0.03 microM, respectively; n = 3). The gene expression profile of differentiated HIP-009 cells was distinct from that of undifferentiated cells and closely resembled that of the human adult hippocampus. Our results show that HIP-009 cells are a unique tool for obtaining human hippocampal neural cells and are applicable to systems for assay of ionotropic glutamate receptors as a physiologically relevant in vitro model.
24974339: !Alzheimer Tryptophanol-derived oxazolopiperidone lactams: identification of a hit compound  as NMDA receptor antagonist. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) exacerbated activation leads to neuron death through a phenomenon called excitotoxicity. These receptors are implicated  in several neurological diseases (e.g., Alzheimer and Parkinson) and thus represent an important therapeutic target. We herein describe the study of enantiopure tryptophanol-derived oxazolopiperidone lactams as NMDA receptor antagonists. The most active hit exhibited an IC50 of 63.4 muM in cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons thus being 1.5 fold more active than clinically approved NMDA antagonist amantadine (IC50=92 muM).
24973211: !Alzheimer Anamorsin, a novel caspase-3 substrate in neurodegeneration. Activated caspases play a central role in the execution of apoptosis by cleaving  endogenous substrates. Here, we developed a high throughput screening method to identify novel substrates for caspase-3 in a neuronal cell line. Critical steps in our strategy consist of two-dimensional electrophoresis-based protein separation and in vitro caspase-3 incubation of immobilized proteins to sort out  direct substrates. Among 46 putative substrates identified in MN9D neuronal cells, we further evaluated whether caspase-3-mediated cleavage of anamorsin, a recently recognized cell death-defying factor in hematopoiesis, is a general feature of apoptosis. In vitro and cell-based cleavage assays indicated that anamorsin was specifically cleaved by caspase-3 but not by other caspases, generating 25- and 10-kDa fragments. Thus, in apoptosis of neuronal and non-neuronal cells induced by various stimuli including staurosporine, etoposide, or 6-hydroxydopamine, the cleavage of anamorsin was found to be blocked in the presence of caspase inhibitor. Among four tetrapeptide consensus DXXD motifs existing in anamorsin, we mapped a specific cleavage site for caspase-3 at DSVD(209) downward arrowL. Intriguingly, the 25-kDa cleaved fragment of anamorsin was also detected in post-mortem brains of Alzheimer and Parkinson disease patients. Although the RNA interference-mediated knockdown of anamorsin rendered  neuronal cells more vulnerable to staurosporine treatment, reintroduction of full-length anamorsin into an anamorsin knock-out stromal cell line made cells resistant to staurosporine-induced caspase activation, indicating the antiapoptotic function of anamorsin. Taken together, our approach seems to be effective to identify novel substrates for caspases and has the potential to provide meaningful insights into newly identified substrates involved in neurodegenerative processes.
24969117: !Alzheimer Inflammation and insulin/IGF-1 resistance as the possible link between obesity and neurodegeneration. Obesity is a growing epidemic that contributes to several brain disorders including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases. Obesity could promote these diseases through several different mechanisms. Here we review evidence supporting the involvement of two recently recognized factors linking obesity with neurodegeneration: the induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines and onset of insulin and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) resistance. Excess peripheral pro-inflammatory mediators, some of which can cross the blood brain barrier, may trigger neuroinflammation, which subsequently exacerbates neurodegeneration. Insulin and IGF-1 resistance leads to weakening of neuroprotective signaling by these molecules and can contribute to onset of neurodegenerative diseases.
24964789: !Alzheimer Enteral Nutrition for Older Adults in Healthcare Communities. Older adults living in healthcare communities (HCCs) have multiple comorbidities  and are at increased risk of malnutrition and unintended weight loss. Aging affects nearly every system as well as body composition and structure, causing physiological changes that can affect nutrition status. A significant percentage  (56%) of residents who live in nursing facilities require extensive help to eat and have dental problems such as ill-fitting dentures, missing teeth, and swallowing problems, which can lead to inadequate caloric intake and unintended weight loss. Alzheimer disease or dementia is prevalent in both nursing facilities and in assisted living/residential care communities, where it affects  45% of older adults. In cognitively impaired residents, most tube feeding placements occur in the acute care setting and result in significant use of additional healthcare resources, along with high postinsertion mortality rates within 60 days of insertion. Nursing facilities receiving Medicare or Medicaid funding must abide by state and federal regulations and undergo rigorous surveys  while balancing complex decisions related to initial placement of feeding tubes.  Healthcare professionals must recognize the importance of establishing nutrition  treatment goals that are resident centered and that respect the unique values and personal decisions of the older adult. Informed choice, resident-centered care decisions, and the review of living wills and/or advance directives are essential in the decision-making process. After enteral nutrition is started, healthcare practitioners must carefully review the physician's orders and administer and monitor the resident's tolerance, checking for potential complications.
24964362: !Alzheimer Structure elucidation of phase I metabolites of the microtubule perturbagens: ceratamines A and B. The heterocyclic alkaloids, ceratamines A and B, are isolates from a marine Pseudoceratina sp. sponge. They behave as antimitotic agents, with IC50 values in the low micromolar range. The mechanism of this activity involves the disruption  of microtubule dynamics; therefore, the ceratamines are of great interest in cancer drug discovery. Studies of in vitro metabolism were performed using rat liver microsomes to begin to understand the pharmacokinetics of these unique natural products. A total of eight metabolites were identified using UV and LC-MS/MS techniques. The majority of metabolites were formed as a result of various demethylation reactions. The formation of two metabolites, M1 and M3, involved monooxygenation, most likely on the aromatic ring, however the exact structure has not been determined. UV absorbance revealed a hypsochromic shift as a result of monooxygenation, an observation that may suggest the loss of aromaticity; however, further investigation is required. The structures of two major metabolites of ceratamine B, M4 and M6, were confirmed by (1)H NMR spectroscopy. These metabolites formed as a result of demethylation at the methoxy and aminoimidazole, respectively.
24963152: !Alzheimer Maternal choline supplementation programs greater activity of the phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT) pathway in adult Ts65Dn trisomic mice. Maternal choline supplementation (MCS) induces lifelong cognitive benefits in the Ts65Dn mouse, a trisomic mouse model of Down syndrome and Alzheimer's disease. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying these beneficial effects, we conducted a study to test the hypothesis that MCS alters choline metabolism in adult Ts65Dn offspring. Deuterium-labeled methyl-d9-choline was administered to adult Ts65Dn and disomic (2N) female littermates born to choline-unsupplemented or choline-supplemented Ts65Dn dams. Enrichment of d9-choline metabolites (derived from intact choline) and d3 + d6-choline metabolites [produced when choline-derived methyl groups are used by phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT)] was measured in harvested tissues. Adult offspring (both Ts65Dn and 2N) of choline-supplemented (vs. choline-unsupplemented) dams exhibited 60% greater (P</=0.007) activity of hepatic PEMT, which functions in de novo choline synthesis and produces phosphatidylcholine (PC) enriched in docosahexaenoic acid. Higher (P<0.001) enrichment of PEMT-derived d3 and d6 metabolites was detected in liver, plasma, and brain in both genotypes but to a greater extent in the Ts65Dn adult offspring. MCS also yielded higher (P<0.05) d9 metabolite enrichments in liver, plasma, and brain. These data demonstrate that MCS exerts lasting effects on offspring choline metabolism, including up-regulation of the hepatic PEMT pathway and enhanced provision of choline and PEMT-PC to the brain.
24963128: !Alzheimer Radiosynthesis, photoisomerization, biodistribution, and metabolite analysis of 11C-PBB3 as a clinically useful PET probe for imaging of tau pathology. 2-((1E,3E)-4-(6-((11)C-methylamino)pyridin-3-yl)buta-1,3-dienyl)benzo[d]thiazol-6 -ol ((11)C-PBB3) is a clinically useful PET probe that we developed for in vivo imaging of tau pathology in the human brain. To ensure the availability of this probe among multiple PET facilities, in the present study we established protocols for the radiosynthesis and quality control of (11)C-PBB3 and for the characterization of its photoisomerization, biodistribution, and metabolism. METHODS: (11)C-PBB3 was synthesized by reaction of the tert-butyldimethylsilyl desmethyl precursor ( 1: ) with (11)C-methyl iodide using potassium hydroxide as  a base, followed by deprotection. Photoisomerization of (11)C-PBB3 under fluorescent light was determined. The biodistribution and metabolite analysis of  (11)C-PBB3 was determined in mice using the dissection method. RESULTS: (11)C-PBB3 was synthesized with 15.4% +/- 2.8% radiochemical yield (decay-corrected, n = 50) based on the cyclotron-produced (11)C-CO2 and showed an averaged synthesis time of 35 min from the end of bombardment. The radiochemical  purity and specific activity of (11)C-PBB3 were 98.0% +/- 2.3% and 180.2 +/- 44.3 GBq/mumol, respectively, at the end of synthesis (n = 50). (11)C-PBB3 showed rapid photoisomerization, and its radiochemical purity decreased to approximately 50% at 10 min after exposure to fluorescent light. After the fluorescent light was switched off, (11)C-PBB3 retained more than 95% radiochemical purity over 60  min. A suitable brain uptake (1.92% injected dose/g tissue) of radioactivity was  observed at 1 min after the probe injection, which was followed by rapid washout  from the brain tissue. More than 70% of total radioactivity in the mouse brain homogenate at 5 min after injection represented the unchanged (11)C-PBB3, despite its rapid metabolism in the plasma. CONCLUSION: (11)C-PBB3 was produced with sufficient radioactivity and high quality, demonstrating its clinical utility. The present results of radiosynthesis, photoisomerization, biodistribution, and metabolite analysis could be helpful for the reliable production and application  of (11)C-PBB3 in diverse PET facilities.
24962281: !Alzheimer Conformational restriction: an effective tactic in 'follow-on'-based drug discovery. The conformational restriction (rigidification) of a flexible ligand has often been a commonly used strategy in drug design, as it can minimize the entropic loss associated with the ligand adopting a preferred conformation for binding, which leads to enhanced potency for a given physiological target, improved selectivity for isoforms and reduced the possibility of drug metabolism. Therefore, the application of conformational restriction strategy is a core aspect of drug discovery and development that is widely practiced by medicinal chemists either deliberately or subliminally. The present review will highlight current representative examples and a brief overview on the rational design of conformationally restricted agents as well as discuss its advantages over the flexible counterparts.
24959146: !Alzheimer Osteoporosis and alzheimer pathology: Role of cellular stress response and hormetic redox signaling in aging and bone remodeling. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and osteoporosis are multifactorial progressive degenerative disorders. Increasing evidence shows that osteoporosis and hip fracture are common complication observed in AD patients, although the mechanisms underlying this association remain poorly understood. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are emerging as intracellular redox signaling molecules involved in the regulation of bone metabolism, including receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand-dependent osteoclast differentiation, but they also have cytotoxic effects that include lipoperoxidation and oxidative damage to proteins  and DNA. ROS generation, which is implicated in the regulation of cellular stress response mechanisms, is an integrated, highly regulated, process under control of redox sensitive genes coding for redox proteins called vitagenes. Vitagenes, encoding for proteins such as heat shock proteins (Hsps) Hsp32, Hsp70, the thioredoxin, and the sirtuin protein, represent a systems controlling a complex network of intracellular signaling pathways relevant to life span and involved in the preservation of cellular homeostasis under stress conditions. Consistently, nutritional anti-oxidants have demonstrated their neuroprotective potential through a hormetic-dependent activation of vitagenes. The biological relevance of dose-response affects those strategies pointing to the optimal dosing to patients in the treatment of numerous diseases. Thus, the heat shock response has become an important hormetic target for novel cytoprotective strategies focusing on the  pharmacological development of compounds capable of modulating stress response mechanisms. Here we discuss possible signaling mechanisms involved in the activation of vitagenes which, relevant to bone remodeling and through enhancement of cellular stress resistance provide a rationale to limit the deleterious consequences associated to homeostasis disruption with consequent impact on the aging process.
24958380: !Alzheimer The decreased expression of mitofusin-1 and increased fission-1 together with alterations in mitochondrial morphology in the kidney of rats with chronic fluorosis may involve elevated oxidative stress. This study was designed to characterize changes in the expression of mitofusin-1  (Mfn1) and fission-1 (Fis1), as well as in mitochondrial morphology in the kidney of rats subjected to chronic fluorosis and to elucidate whether any mitochondrial injury observed is associated with increased oxidative stress. Sixty Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were divided randomly into 3 groups of 20 each, i.e., the untreated control group (natural drinking water containing <0.5mg fluoride/L), the low-fluoride group (drinking water supplemented with 10mg fluoride/L, prepared with NaF) and the high-fluoride group (50mg fluoride/L), and treated for 6 months. Thereafter, renal expression of Mfn1 and Fis1 at both the protein and mRNA levels was determined by immunohistochemistry and real-time PCR, respectively. In addition, the malondiadehyde (MDA) was quantitated by the thiobarbituric acid procedure and the total antioxidative capability (T-AOC) by a colorimetric method. The morphology of renal mitochondria was observed under the  transmission electron microscope. In the renal tissues of rats with chronic fluorosis, expression of both Mfn1 protein and mRNA was clearly reduced, whereas  that of Fis1 was elevated. The level of MDA was increased and the T-AOC lowered.  Swollen or fragmented mitochondria in renal cells were observed under the electronic microscope. These findings indicate that chronic fluorosis can lead to the abnormal mitochondrial dynamics and changed morphology in the rat kidney, which in mechanism might be induced by a high level of oxidative stress in the disease.
24951896: !Alzheimer Double negative (CD19+IgG+IgD-CD27-) B lymphocytes: a new insight from telomerase in healthy elderly, in centenarian offspring and in Alzheimer's disease patients. Immunosenescence is characterized by the impairment of humoral immunity with changes in the memory/naive B cell compartment. In particular we have previously  reported the percentage increase of a Memory IgD(-)CD27(-) (Double Negative, DN)  B cell population in aged people. In this study, we have further characterized DN B cells with the aim to better understand their contribution to immunosenescence. As DN B cells show a poor ability to proliferate in vitro, we have evaluated the  expression of the inhibitory receptors CD307d and CD22 on these cells from young  and old individuals. In addition we have evaluated the ability to activate DN B cells by the simultaneous use of innate (CpG) and adaptive (alpha-Ig/CD40) ligands. Our data demonstrate that the refractoriness to proliferate of DN B cells does not depend on the expression of inhibitory receptors, but it is due to the kind of stimulation. Indeed, when DN B cells are stimulated engaging both BCR and TLR9, they become able to proliferate and reactivate the telomerase enzyme. In the present study, we have also compared the telomerase activity in a group of people genetically advantaged for longevity as centenarian offspring (CO) and in  a group of moderate-severe Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, who represent a model of unsuccessful aging. Our study suggests that telomerase reactivation of DN B cells, as well as their number and ability in activating, depend essentially by the biological age of the subjects studied, so the evaluation of DN B cells might allow to gain insight to healthy and unsuccessful aging.
24946875: !Alzheimer Oral inflammation, tooth loss, risk factors, and association with progression of  Alzheimer's disease. Periodontitis is a polymicrobial chronic inflammatory disease of tooth-supporting tissues with bacterial etiology affecting all age groups, becoming chronic in a subgroup of older individuals. Periodontal pathogens Porphyromonas gingivalis, Tannerella forsythia, and Treponema denticola are implicated in the development of a number of inflammatory pathologies at remote organ sites, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). The initial inflammatory hypothesis proposed that AD hallmark proteins were the main contributors of central nervous system (CNS) inflammation. This hypothesis is expanding to include the role of infections, lifestyle, and genetic and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of AD. Periodontal disease (PD) typifies a condition that encompasses all of the above factors including pathogenic bacteria. These bacteria not only are the source of  low-grade, chronic infection and inflammation that follow daily episodes of bacteremia arising from everyday tasks such as brushing, flossing teeth, chewing  food, and during dental procedures, but they also disseminate into the brain from closely related anatomical pathways. The long-term effect of inflammatory mediators, pathogens, and/or their virulence factors, reaching the brain systemically or otherwise would, over time, prime the brain's own microglia in individuals who have inherent susceptibility traits. Such susceptibilities contribute to inadequate neutralization of invading agents, upon reaching the brain. This has the capacity to create a vicious cycle of sustained local inflammatory milieu resulting in the loss of cytoarchitectural integrity and vital neurons with subsequent loss of function (deterioration in memory). The possible pathways between PD and AD development are considered here, as well as environmental factors that may modulate/exacerbate AD symptoms.
24932636: !Alzheimer The nuclear receptor REV-ERBalpha regulates Fabp7 and modulates adult hippocampal neurogenesis. The function of the nuclear receptor Rev-erbalpha (Nr1d1) in the brain is, apart  from its role in the circadian clock mechanism, unknown. Therefore, we compared gene expression profiles in the brain between wild-type and Rev-erbalpha knock-out (KO) animals. We identified fatty acid binding protein 7 (Fabp7, Blbp)  as a direct target of repression by REV-ERBalpha. Loss of Rev-erbalpha manifested in memory and mood related behavioral phenotypes and led to overexpression of Fabp7 in various brain areas including the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampus, where neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs) can initiate adult neurogenesis. We found increased proliferation of hippocampal neurons and loss of its diurnal pattern in Rev-erbalpha KO mice. In vitro, proliferation and migration of glioblastoma cells were affected by manipulating either Fabp7 expression or REV-ERBalpha activity. These results suggest an important role of Rev-erbalpha and Fabp7 in adult neurogenesis, which may open new avenues for treatment of gliomas as well as neurological diseases such as depression and Alzheimer.
24929655: !Alzheimer Functions of the CB1 and CB 2 receptors in neuroprotection at the level of the blood-brain barrier. The cannabinoid (CB) receptors are the main targets of the cannabinoids, which include plant cannabinoids, endocannabinoids and synthetic cannabinoids. Over the last few years, accumulated evidence has suggested a role of the CB receptors in  neuroprotection. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is an important brain structure that is essential for neuroprotection. A link between the CB receptors and the BBB is thus likely, but this possible connection has only recently gained attention. Cannabinoids and the BBB share the same mechanisms of neuroprotection  and both protect against excitotoxicity (CB1), cell death (CB1), inflammation (CB2) and oxidative stress (possibly CB independent)-all processes that also damage the BBB. Several examples of CB-mediated protection of the BBB have been found, such as inhibition of leukocyte influx and induction of amyloid beta efflux across the BBB. Moreover, the CB receptors were shown to improve BBB integrity, particularly by restoring the tightness of the tight junctions. This review demonstrated that both CB receptors are able to restore the BBB and neuroprotection, but much uncertainty about the underlying signaling cascades still exists and further investigation is needed.
24929105: !Alzheimer Coptis chinensis Franch. exhibits neuroprotective properties against oxidative stress in human neuroblastoma cells. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The dried rhizome of Coptis chinensis Franch. (family Ranunculaceae) is traditionally used in Chinese medicine for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and diabetes. Recent studies showed a variety  of activities of Coptis chinensis Franch. alkaloids, including neuroprotective, neuroregenerative, anti-diabetic, anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effects. However, there is no report on the neuroprotective effect of Coptis chinensis Franch. watery extract against tert-butylhydroperoxide (t-BOOH) induced oxidative damage. The aim of the study is to investigate neuroprotective properties of Coptis chinensis Franch. rhizome watery extract (CRE) and to evaluate its potential mechanism of action. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Neuroprotective properties  on t-BOOH induced oxidative stress were investigated in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. Cells were pretreated with CRE for 2 h or 24 h followed by 2 h of treatment with t-BOOH. To evaluate the neuroprotective effect of CRE, cell viability, cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and the apoptotic rate were determined and microarray analyses, as well as qRT-PCR analyses were conducted. RESULTS: Two hours of exposure to 100 microM t-BOOH resulted in a significant reduction of cell viability, increased apoptotic rate, declined mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and increased ROS production. Reduction of cell viability, increased apoptotic rate and declined mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) could be significantly reduced in cells pretreated with CRE (100 microg/ml) for 2h or 24h ahead of t-BOOH exposure with the greatest effect after 24h of pretreatment; however ROS production was not changed significantly. Furthermore, microarray analyses revealed that the expressions of 2 genes; thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) and mitochondrially encoded NADH dehydrogenase 1, were significantly regulated. Down  regulation of TXNIP was confirmed by qRT-PCR. CONCLUSION: Due to its neuroprotective properties CRE might be a potential therapeutic agent for the prevention or amelioration of diseases like diabetic neuropathy and neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer and Parkinsons disease.
24919190: !Alzheimer Epigenetic regulations of immediate early genes expression involved in memory formation by the amyloid precursor protein of Alzheimer disease. We previously demonstrated that APP epigenetically regulates Egr1 expression both in cultured neurons and in vivo. Since Egr1 is an immediate early gene involved in memory formation, we wondered whether other early genes involved in memory were regulated by APP and we studied molecular mechanisms involved. By comparing  prefrontal (PF) cortex from wild type (APP+/+) and APP knockout mice (APP-/-), we observed that APP down regulates expression of four immediate early genes, Egr1,  c-Fos, Bdnf and Arc. Down regulation of Egr1, c-Fos and Bdnf transcription resulted from a decreased enrichment of acetylated histone H4 on the corresponding gene promoter. Further characterization of H4 acetylation at Egr1 and c-Fos promoters revealed increased acetylation of H4K5 and H4K12 residues in  APP-/- mice. Whereas APP affected Egr1 promoter activity by reducing access of the CREB transcription factor, its effect on c-Fos appeared to depend on increased recruitment of HDAC2 histone deacetylase to the gene promoter. The physiological relevance of the epigenetic regulation of Egr1 and c-Fos gene transcription by APP was further analyzed following exposure of mice to novelty.  Although transcription of Egr1 and c-Fos was increased following exposure of APP+/+ mice to novelty, such an induction was not possible in APP-/- mice with a  high basal level of expression of these immediate early genes. Altogether, these  results demonstrate that APP-mediated regulation of c-Fos and Egr1 by different epigenetic mechanisms is needed for their induction during exposure to novelty.
24913894: !Alzheimer Low-copper diet as a preventive strategy for Alzheimer's disease. Copper is an essential element, and either a copper deficiency or excess can be life threatening. Recent studies have indicated that alteration of copper metabolism is one of the pathogenetic mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In  light of these findings, many researchers have proposed preventive strategies to  reduce AD risk. Because the general population comes in contact with copper mainly through dietary intake, that is, food 75% and drinking water 25%, a low-copper diet can reduce the risk of AD in individuals with an altered copper metabolism. We suggest that a diet-gene interplay is at the basis of the "copper  phenotype" of sporadic AD. Herein, we describe the pathways regulating copper homeostasis, the adverse sequelae related to its derangements, the pathogenic mechanism of the AD copper phenotype, indications for a low-copper diet, and future perspectives to improve this preventive strategy.
24911293: !Alzheimer Superoxide production by cytochrome bc1 complex: a mathematical model. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in the pathophysiology of several diseases (e.g. Alzheimer or atherosclerosis) and also in the aging process. The main source of ROS in aerobic organisms is the electron transport chain (ETC) in  the inner mitochondrial membrane. Superoxide is produced at complexes I and III of the ETC, starting a complex network of ROS reactions. To achieve a deeper mechanistic understanding of how ROS are generated by complex III, we developed a mathematical model that successfully describes experimental data of complex III activity in various rat tissues, the production of ROS with and without antimycin and ROS generation depending on different values of the membrane potential Psi. The model also reinforces the idea of ubiquinone acting as a redox mediator between heme bL and oxygen, as proposed earlier.
24906069: !Alzheimer Agent Orange exposure and disease prevalence in Korean Vietnam veterans: the Korean veterans health study. Between 1961 and 1971, military herbicides were used by the United States and allied forces for military purposes. Agent Orange, the most-used herbicide, was a mixture of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and contained an impurity of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Many Korean Vietnam veterans were exposed to Agent Orange during the Vietnam War. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between Agent Orange exposure and the prevalence of diseases of the endocrine, nervous, circulatory, respiratory, and digestive systems. The Agent Orange exposure was assessed by a geographic information system-based model. A total of 111,726 Korean Vietnam veterans were analyzed for  prevalence using the Korea National Health Insurance claims data from January 2000 to September 2005. After adjusting for covariates, the high exposure group had modestly elevated odds ratios (ORs) for endocrine diseases combined and neurologic diseases combined. The adjusted ORs were significantly higher in the high exposure group than in the low exposure group for hypothyroidism (OR=1.13),  autoimmune thyroiditis (OR=1.93), diabetes mellitus (OR=1.04), other endocrine gland disorders including pituitary gland disorders (OR=1.43), amyloidosis (OR=3.02), systemic atrophies affecting the nervous system including spinal muscular atrophy (OR=1.27), Alzheimer disease (OR=1.64), peripheral polyneuropathies (OR=1.09), angina pectoris (OR=1.04), stroke (OR=1.09), chronic  obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD) including chronic bronchitis (OR=1.05) and  bronchiectasis (OR=1.16), asthma (OR=1.04), peptic ulcer (OR=1.03), and liver cirrhosis (OR=1.08). In conclusion, Agent Orange exposure increased the prevalence of endocrine disorders, especially in the thyroid and pituitary gland; various neurologic diseases; COPD; and liver cirrhosis. Overall, this study suggests that Agent Orange/2,4-D/TCDD exposure several decades earlier may increase morbidity from various diseases, some of which have rarely been explored in previous epidemiologic studies.
24903697: !Alzheimer Frontiers in neurodegeneration--new insights and prospects--20th HUPO BPP Workshop: 15 September 2013, Yokohama, Japan. The HUPO Brain Proteome Project (HUPO BPP) held its 20th workshop in Yokohama, Japan, September 15, 2013. The focus of the autumn workshop was on new insights and prospects of neurodegenerative diseases.
24889810: !Alzheimer O-acyl isopeptide method: development of an O-acyl isodipeptide unit for Boc SPPS and its application to the synthesis of Abeta1-42 isopeptide. The O-acyl isopeptide method was developed for the efficient preparation of difficult sequence-containing peptide. Furthermore, development of the O-acyl isodipeptide unit for Fmoc chemistry simplified its synthetic procedure by solid-phase peptide synthesis. Here, we report a novel isodipeptide unit for Boc  chemistry, and the unit was successfully applied to the synthesis of amyloid beta peptide. Combination of Boc chemistry and the isodipeptide unit would be an effective method for the synthesis of many difficult peptides. Copyright (c) 2014 European Peptide Society and John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
24882360: !Alzheimer Interaction of Grb2 SH3 domain with UVRAG in an Alzheimer's disease-like scenario. Growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2) is an adaptor protein which participates in trafficking pathways alongside its role in signaling. Proteins important for actin remodeling and cellular compartmentalization contain SRC Homology 3 (SH3) binding motifs that interact with Grb2. While studying the Grb2-amyloid precursor protein (APP) intracellular domain (AICD) interaction in Alzheimer's disease cell line models, it was seen that Grb2 colocalized to compartments that mature into autophagosomes. The entrapping of AICD in the Grb2  vesicles and its clearance via autophagosomes was a survival contrivance on the part of the cell. Here, we report that Grb2, when in excess, interacts with ultraviolet radiation resistance-associated gene protein (UVRAG) under excess conditions of AICD-Grb2 or Grb2. The N-terminal SH3 domain of Grb2 specifically interacts with UVRAG, unlike the C-terminal SH3 domain. This interaction helps to understand the role of Grb2 in the autophagic maturation of vesicles.
24872596: !Alzheimer Personal utility in genomic testing: is there such a thing? In ethical and regulatory discussions on new applications of genomic testing technologies, the notion of 'personal utility' has been mentioned repeatedly. It  has been used to justify direct access to commercially offered genomic testing or feedback of individual research results to research or biobank participants. Sometimes research participants or consumers claim a right to genomic information with an appeal to personal utility. As of yet, no systematic account of the umbrella notion of personal utility has been given. This paper offers a definition of personal utility that places it in the middle of the spectrum between clinical utility and personal perceptions of utility, and that acknowledges its normative charge. The paper discusses two perspectives on personal utility, the healthcare perspective and the consumer perspective, and argues that these are too narrow and too wide, respectively. Instead, it proposes a normative definition of personal utility that postulates information and potential use as necessary conditions of utility. This definition entails that perceived utility does not equal personal utility, and that expert judgment may be necessary to help determine whether a genomic test can have personal utility for someone. Two examples of genomic tests are presented to illustrate the discrepancies between perceived utility and our proposed definition of personal utility. The paper concludes that while there is room for the notion of personal  utility in the ethical evaluation and regulation of genomic tests, the justificatory role of personal utility is not unlimited. For in the absence of clinical validity and reasonable potential use of information, there is no personal utility.
24865990: !Alzheimer Efficient strategy for maintaining and enhancing the huperzine A production of Shiraia sp. Slf14 through inducer elicitation. Huperzine A (HupA), a naturally occurring lycopodium alkaloid, is a potent, highly specific and reversible inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase and is a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease. However, isolating HupA from Huperziaceae plants is inefficient; thus, extracting this compound from endophytic fungi may be more controllable and sustainable. However, the large-scale production of this chemical from endophytes is limited by the innate  instability of endophytic fungi. In this study, we maintained the stability and viability of the HupA-producing endophytic fungus Shiraia sp. Slf14 and enhanced  the HupA titers during fermentation by adding Huperzia serrata extracts (HSE), L-lysine, and acetic acid into the culture as inducers. Adding trace amounts of HupA clearly improved the HupA production of Shiraia sp. Slf14, reaching a maximum content of approximately 40 mug g(-1). Moreover, the addition of HSE and  L-lysine promoted HupA production in the flask fermentation. The aforementioned bioprocessing strategy may be potentially applied to other endophytic fungal culture systems for the efficient production of plant secondary metabolites.
24858540: !Alzheimer Dibenzo[1,4,5]thiadiazepine: a hardly-known heterocyclic system with neuroprotective properties of potential usefulness in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. In this work we describe a new family of dibenzo[1,4,5]thiadiazepines (2-12) that showed an interesting in vitro biological profile, namely neuroprotective and antioxidant properties, as well as blockade of cytosolic calcium entry. They showed no cytotoxic effects and the majority were predicted as CNS-permeable compounds. In human neuroblastoma cells they displayed good neuroprotective properties against mitochondrial oxidative stress which, in many cases, almost reached the full protection (>90%) when compounds were incubated with cells 24 h  before the addition of toxic stressors. In co-incubation conditions these figures were smaller, although some compounds maintained an interesting level of neuroprotection, higher than 50%. Four selected compounds (2, 5, 8, and 11) were  found to be effective antioxidant agents by sequestering mitochondrial radical oxygen species (ROS). Moreover, compound 2 showed a remarkable calcium-channel modulating activity. The interest of these compounds is increased by the fact that dibenzo[1,4,5]thiadiazepine is a barely known structure that is not difficult to synthesize and presents very few described derivatives, opening a new and broad line of research in Medicinal Chemistry.
24858130: !Alzheimer Epigenetics: the neglected key to minimize learning and memory deficits in Down syndrome. Down syndrome (DS) is the most common genetic intellectual disability, caused by  the triplication of the human chromosome 21 (HSA21). Although this would theoretically lead to a 1.5 fold increase in gene transcription, transcript levels of many genes significantly deviate. Surprisingly, the underlying cause of this gene expression variation has been largely neglected so far. Epigenetic mechanisms, including DNA methylation and post-translational histone modifications, regulate gene expression and as such might play a crucial role in  the development of the cognitive deficits in DS. Various overexpressed HSA21 proteins affect epigenetic mechanisms and DS individuals are thus likely to present epigenetic aberrations. Importantly, epigenetic marks are reversible, offering a huge therapeutic potential to alleviate or cure certain genetic deficits. Current epigenetic therapies are already used for cancer and epilepsy,  and might provide novel possibilities for cognition-enhancing treatment in DS as  well. To that end, this review discusses the still limited knowledge on epigenetics in DS and describes the potential of epigenetic therapies to reverse  dysregulated gene expression.
24857034: !Alzheimer Novel and sensitive reversed-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography method with electrochemical detection for the simultaneous and fast determination of eight biogenic amines and metabolites in human brain tissue. A fast and simple RP-HPLC method with electrochemical detection (ECD) and ion pair chromatography was developed, optimized and validated in order to simultaneously determine eight different biogenic amines and metabolites in post-mortem human brain tissue in a single-run analytical approach. The compounds of interest are the indolamine serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), the catecholamines dopamine (DA) and (nor)epinephrine ((N)E), as well as their respective metabolites, i.e. 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxy-3-indoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG). A two-level fractional factorial experimental design was applied to study the effect of five experimental factors  (i.e. the ion-pair counter concentration, the level of organic modifier, the pH of the mobile phase, the temperature of the column, and the voltage setting of the detector) on the chromatographic behaviour. The cross effect between the five quantitative factors and the capacity and separation factors of the analytes were then analysed using a Standard Least Squares model. The optimized method was fully validated according to the requirements of SFSTP (Societe Francaise des Sciences et Techniques Pharmaceutiques). Our human brain tissue sample preparation procedure is straightforward and relatively short, which allows samples to be loaded onto the HPLC system within approximately 4h. Additionally,  a high sample throughput was achieved after optimization due to a total runtime of maximally 40min per sample. The conditions and settings of the HPLC system were found to be accurate with high intra and inter-assay repeatability, recovery and accuracy rates. The robust analytical method results in very low detection limits and good separation for all of the eight biogenic amines and metabolites in this complex mixture of biological analytes.
24849358: !Alzheimer The systemic amyloid precursor transthyretin (TTR) behaves as a neuronal stress protein regulated by HSF1 in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells and APP23 Alzheimer's disease model mice. Increased neuronal synthesis of transthyretin (TTR) may favorably impact on Alzheimer's disease (AD) because TTR has been shown to inhibit Abeta aggregation  and detoxify cell-damaging conformers. The mechanism whereby hippocampal and cortical neurons from AD patients and APP23 AD model mice produce more TTR is unknown. We now show that TTR expression in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, primary hippocampal neurons and the hippocampus of APP23 mice, is significantly enhanced by heat shock factor 1 (HSF1). Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays demonstrated occupation of TTR promoter heat shock elements by HSF1 in APP23 hippocampi, primary murine hippocampal neurons, and SH-SY5Y cells, but not  in mouse liver, cultured human hepatoma (HepG2) cells, or AC16 cultured human cardiomyocytes. Treating SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells with heat shock or the HSF1 stimulator celastrol increased TTR transcription in parallel with that of HSP40, HSP70, and HSP90. With both treatments, ChIP showed increased occupancy of heat shock elements in the TTR promoter by HSF1. In vivo celastrol increased the  HSF1 ChIP signal in hippocampus but not in liver. Transfection of a human HSF1 construct into SH-SY5Y cells increased TTR transcription and protein production,  which could be blocked by shHSF1 antisense. The effect is neuron specific. In cultured HepG2 cells, HSF1 was either suppressive or had no effect on TTR expression confirming the differential effects of HSF1 on TTR transcription in different cell types.
24848532: !Alzheimer Cellular senescence and the senescent secretory phenotype in age-related chronic  diseases. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Possible mechanisms in cellular senescence and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) that drive and promote chronic inflammation in multiple age-related chronic diseases are considered. RECENT FINDINGS: A series of studies about the SASP indicate that senescent cells may be involved in the development of chronic inflammatory diseases associated with aging. SUMMARY: Aging is a complex biological process accompanied by a state of chronic, low-grade, 'sterile' inflammation, which is a major contributor to the development of many age-related chronic disorders including atherosclerosis, osteoarthritis, Alzheimer's disease, type 2 diabetes, cancers, and others. It appears that cellular senescence plays a role in causing inflammation through the SASP. A better understanding of the contribution of senescent cells to the pathologies of chronic inflammatory disorders could have potentially profound diagnostic and therapeutic implications.
24847081: !Alzheimer The oligomeric states of the purified sigma-1 receptor are stabilized by ligands. Sigma-1 receptor (S1R) is a mammalian member of the ERG2 and sigma-1 receptor-like protein family (pfam04622). It has been implicated in drug addiction and many human neurological disorders, including Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A broad range of synthetic  small molecules, including cocaine, (+)-pentazocine, haloperidol, and small endogenous molecules such as N,N-dimethyltryptamine, sphingosine, and steroids, have been identified as regulators of S1R. However, the mechanism of activation of S1R remains obscure. Here, we provide evidence in vitro that S1R has ligand binding activity only in an oligomeric state. The oligomeric state is prone to decay into an apparent monomeric form when exposed to elevated temperature, with  loss of ligand binding activity. This decay is suppressed in the presence of the  known S1R ligands such as haloperidol, BD-1047, and sphingosine. S1R has a GXXXG  motif in its second transmembrane region, and these motifs are often involved in  oligomerization of membrane proteins. Disrupting mutations within the GXXXG motif shifted the fraction of the higher oligomeric states toward smaller states and resulted in a significant decrease in specific (+)-[(3)H]pentazocine binding. Results presented here support the proposal that S1R function may be regulated by its oligomeric state. Possible mechanisms of molecular regulation of interacting  protein partners by S1R in the presence of small molecule ligands are discussed.
24842139: !Alzheimer Neuronal differentiation of rat hair follicle stem cells: the involvement of the  neuroprotective factor Seladin-1 (DHCR24). BACKGROUND: The seladin-1 (selective Alzheimer disease indicator-1), also known as DHCR24, is a gene found to be down-regulated in brain region affected by Alzheimer disease (AD). Whereas, hair follicle stem cells (HFSC), which are affected in with neurogenic potential, it might to hypothesize that this multipotent cell compartment is the predominant source of seladin-1. Our aim was  to evaluate seladin-1 gene expression in hair follicle stem cells. METHODS: In this study, bulge area of male Wistar rat HFSC were cultured and then characterized with Seladin-1 immunocytochemistry and flow cytometry on days 8 to  14. Next, 9-11-day cells were evaluated for seladin-1 gene expression by real-time PCR. RESULTS: Our results indicated that expression of the seladin-1 gene (DHCR24) on days 9, 10, and 11 may contribute to the development of HFSC. However, the expression of this gene on day 11 was more than day 10 and on 10th day was more than day 9. Also, we assessed HFSC on day 14 and demonstrated these  cells were positive for beta-small sha, Cyrillic tubulin, and seladin-1 was not expressed in this day. CONCLUSION: HFSC express seladin-1 and this result demonstrates that these cells might be used to cell therapy for AD in future.
24841380: !Alzheimer Associations of genetic polymorphisms of Siglecs with human diseases. Genetic polymorphism studies in humans provide unique opportunities to understand human biology and the mechanisms of diseases. Correlations between polymorphisms  in the genes encoding human Siglecs and various diseases have been reported. Leading examples, such as the CD33 polymorphism associated with late-onset Alzheimer's disease, are well supported by genetic replication and mechanistic studies, while some others (such as SIGLEC8 polymorphism associated with bronchial asthma and SIGLEC14 polymorphism associated with exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) may benefit reinforcement by independent genetic replication or mechanistic studies. In a few cases, such as MAG polymorphism associated with psychological disorder and CD22 polymorphism associated with autoimmune disease, the phenotype associated with a genetic polymorphism of a Siglec gene and that of an enzyme gene involved in the biosynthesis of Siglec ligand show some overlap, providing indirect support for the observed genotype-phenotype association. Although studies using engineered mutant mice have provided invaluable insights into the biological functions and mechanisms of diseases, it is not always possible to develop appropriate mouse model to replicate human situations because of significant species-to-species differences, which can be a major obstacle in understanding the biology of some of human CD33/Siglec-3-related Siglecs. Further studies in genetic polymorphisms  of human Siglecs, combined with appropriate functional studies, may reveal unexpected biological roles of human Siglecs, and identify possible targets for prevention and/or treatment of certain diseases.
24835770: !Alzheimer S-linolenoyl glutathione intake extends life-span and stress resistance via Sir-2.1 upregulation in Caenorhabditis elegans. Oxidative stress has a prominent role in life-span regulation of living organisms. One of the endogenous free radical scavenger systems is associated with glutathione (GSH), the most abundant nonprotein thiol in mammalian cells, acting as a major reducing agent and in antioxidant defense by maintaining a tight control over redox status. We have recently designed a series of novel S-acyl-GSH derivatives capable of preventing amyloid oxidative stress and cholinergic dysfunction in Alzheimer disease models, upon an increase in GSH intake. In this study we show that the longevity of the wild-type N2 Caenorhabditis elegans strain was significantly enhanced by dietary supplementation with linolenoyl-SG (lin-SG) thioester with respect to the ethyl ester of GSH, linolenic acid, or vitamin E. RNA interference analysis and activity inhibition assay indicate that life-span extension was mediated by the upregulation of Sir-2.1, a NAD-dependent histone deacetylase ortholog of mammalian SIRT1. In particular, lin-SG-mediated overexpression of Sir-2.1 appears to be related to the Daf-16 (FoxO) pathway. Moreover, the lin-SG derivative protects N2 worms from the paralysis and oxidative stress induced by Abeta/H2O2 exposure. Overall, our findings put forward lin-SG thioester as an antioxidant supplement triggering sirtuin upregulation, thus opening new future perspectives  for healthy aging or delayed onset of oxidative-related diseases.
24833295: !Alzheimer Liver X receptors in lipid metabolism: opportunities for drug discovery. The liver X receptors (LXRs) are pivotal regulators of lipid homeostasis in mammals. These transcription factors control the expression of a battery of genes involved in the uptake, transport, efflux and excretion of cholesterol in a tissue-dependent manner. The identification of the LXRs, and an increased understanding of the mechanisms by which LXR signalling regulates lipid homeostasis in different tissues (including the liver, intestine and brain), has  highlighted new opportunities for therapeutic intervention in human metabolism. New strategies for the pharmacological manipulation of LXRs and their target genes offer promise for the treatment of human diseases in which lipids have a central role, including atherosclerosis and Alzheimer's disease.
24831964: !Alzheimer Uptake of silica nanoparticles: neurotoxicity and Alzheimer-like pathology in human SK-N-SH and mouse neuro2a neuroblastoma cells. Growing concern has been raised over the potential adverse effects of engineered  nanoparticles on human health due to their increasing use in commercial and medical applications. Silica nanoparticles (SiNPs) are one of the most widely used nanoparticles in industry and have been formulated for cellular and non-viral gene delivery in the central nerve system. However, the potential neurotoxicity of SiNPs remains largely unclear. In this study, we investigated the cellular uptake of SiNPs in human SK-N-SH and mouse neuro2a (N2a) neuroblastoma cells treated with 10.0 mug/ml of 15-nm SiNPs for 24 h by transmission electron microscopy. We found that SiNPs were mainly localized in the cytoplasm of the treated cells. The treatment of SiNPs at various concentrations impaired the morphology of SK-N-SH and N2a cells, characterized by increased number of round cells, diminishing of dendrite-like processes and decreased cell density. SiNPs significantly decreased the cell viability, induced cellular apoptosis, and elevated the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) in a dose-dependent manner in both cell lines. Additionally, increased deposit of intracellular beta-amyloid 1-42 (Abeta(1-42)) and enhanced phosphorylation of tau at Ser262 and Ser396, two specific pathological hallmarks  of Alzheimer's disease (AD), were observed in both cell lines with SiNPs treatment. Concomitantly, the expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP) was up-regulated, while amyloid-beta-degrading enzyme neprilysin was down-regulated in SiNP-treated cells. Finally, activity-dependent phosphorylation of glycogen syntheses kinase (GSK)-3beta at Ser9 (inactive form) was significantly decreased  in SiNP-treated SK-N-SH cells. Taken together, these data demonstrated that exposure to SiNPs induced neurotoxicity and pathological signs of AD. The pre-Alzheimer-like pathology induced by SiNPs might result from the dys-regulated expression of APP/neprilysin and activation of GSK-3beta. This is the first study with direct evidence indicating that in addition to neurotoxicity induced by SiNPs, the application of SiNPs might increase the risk of developing AD.
24821282: !Alzheimer Knockdown of phosphotyrosyl phosphatase activator induces apoptosis via mitochondrial pathway and the attenuation by simultaneous tau hyperphosphorylation. Phosphotyrosyl phosphatase activator (PTPA) is decreased in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the AD transgenic mouse models. Here, we investigated whether down-regulation of PTPA affects cell viability and the underlying mechanisms. We found that PTPA was located in the integral membrane of mitochondria, and knockdown of PTPA induced cell apoptosis in HEK293 and N2a cell lines. PTPA knockdown decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and induced Bax  translocation into the mitochondria with a simultaneous release of Cyt C, activation of caspase-3, cleavage of poly (DNA ribose) polymerase (PARP), and decrease in Bcl-xl and Bcl-2 protein levels. Over-expression of Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) catalytic subunit (PP2AC ) did not rescue the apoptosis induced by PTPA knockdown, and PTPA knockdown did not affect the level of and their phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), indicating that PP2A and MAPKs were not involved in the apoptosis induced by PTPA knockdown. In the cells with over-expression of tau, PTPA knockdown induced PP2A inhibition  and tau hyperphosphorylation but did not cause significant cell death. These data suggest that PTPA deficit causes apoptotic cell death through mitochondrial pathway and simultaneous tau hyperphosphorylation attenuates the PTPA-induced cell death. Phosphotyrosyl phosphatase activator (PTPA) is decreased in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and AD transgenic mouse models. Here, we investigated whether down-regulation of PTPA affects cell viability. We found that PTPA located in the integral membrane of mitochondria, and knockdown of PTPA induced cell apoptosis in HEK293 and N2a cell lines by decreasing mitochondrial membrane potential, which leads to translocation of Bax and a simultaneous release of Cyt C. In the cells with tau over-expression, PTPA knockdown inactivated PP2A to phosphorylate tau to avoid cell apoptosis which induced by PTPA knockdown.
24812499: !Alzheimer Ulceration of the oral mucosa following direct contact with ferrous sulfate in elderly patients: a case report and a review of the French National Pharmacovigilance Database. OBJECTIVE: To report a series of cases of ulceration of the oral mucosa linked to direct contact with ferrous sulfate in elderly patients. CASE SUMMARY: The first  case report concerns the occurrence of widespread oral ulceration in an 87-year-old woman with Alzheimer's disease. The ulceration extended from the side of the tongue to the floor of the mouth. No clear explanation was found and various local treatments were ineffective. Once it was realized that the ferrous  sulfate tablets (given as an iron supplement) were crushed prior to administration (due to the patient's deglutition disorder), withdrawal of this treatment led to rapid resolution of the ulceration. Nine other cases of oral ulcerations associated with ferrous sulfate were identified in the French National Pharmacovigilance Database. All but one of the patients were over 80 years of age and the youngest patient (a 54-year-old) had dysphagia associated with facial paralysis. DISCUSSION: Only two other reports of oral ulceration due  to ferrous sulfate have been published to date. Mucosal toxicity of ferrous sulfate (which is probably related to oxidative stress) has previously been reported for the hypopharynx, the esophageal lumen, and (after inhalation of a tablet) the tracheobronchial tree. CONCLUSION: The mucosal toxicity of ferrous sulfate must be taken into account when deglutition disorders are present (as in  elderly patients) and appropriate pharmaceutical formulations (such as syrups) should be administered to at-risk patients. The use of iron salts other than ferrous sulfate could be considered.
24811002: !Alzheimer Antimuscle atrophy effect of nicotine targets muscle satellite cells partly through an alpha7 nicotinic receptor in a murine hindlimb ischemia model. We have recently identified that donepezil, an anti-Alzheimer drug, accelerates angiogenesis in a murine hindlimb ischemia (HLI) model. However, the precise mechanisms are yet to be fully elucidated, particularly whether the effects are derived from endothelial cells alone or from other nonvascular cells. Further investigation of the HLI model revealed that nicotine accelerated angiogenesis by activation of vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF) synthesis through nicotinic receptors in myogenic cells, that is, satellite cells, in vivo and upregulated the expression of angiogenic factors, for example, VEGF and fibroblast growth factor 2, in vitro. As a result, nicotine prevented skeletal muscle from ischemia-induced muscle atrophy and upregulated myosin heavy chain expression in vitro. The in vivo anti-atrophy effect of nicotine on muscle was also observed in galantamine, another anti-Alzheimer drug, playing as an allosteric potentiating ligand. Such effects of nicotine were attenuated in alpha7 nicotinic receptor knockout mice. In contrast, PNU282987, an alpha7 nicotinic receptor agonist, comparably salvaged skeletal muscle, which was affected by HLI. These results suggest that cholinergic signals also target myogenic cells and have inhibiting roles in muscle loss by ischemia-induced muscle atrophy.
24807822: !Alzheimer Multifunctional liposomes for nasal delivery of the anti-Alzheimer drug tacrine hydrochloride. The purpose of this study was the development of multifunctional liposomes for nasal administration of tacrine hydrochloride. Liposomes were prepared using traditional excipients (cholesterol and phosphatidylcholine), partly enriched with alpha-tocopherol and/or Omega3 fatty acids. This approach was chosen in order to obtain at the same time two positive results: an enhanced drug permeation through nasal mucosa and a concomitant neuroprotective effect. Several liposome formulations were prepared using the Reverse Phase Evaporation technique followed by membrane filter extrusion. In particular, liposome capacity to enhance drug permeation was evaluated by means of membrane permeation and cellular uptake studies. Furthermore, liposome effect on neuronal viability and intracellular ROS production was evaluated as well as their cytoprotective effect against oxidative stress. All liposome formulations showed a mean diameter in the range of 175 nm to 219 nm with polydispersity index lower than 0.22, a lightly negative zeta potential and excellent encapsulation efficiency. Moreover, along with good mucoadhesive properties, multifunctional liposomes showed a markedly increase in tacrine permeability, which can be related to liposome fusion with cellular membrane, a hypothesis, which was also supported by cellular uptake studies. Finally, the addition of alpha-tocopherol without Omega3 fatty acids, was found to increase the neuroprotective activity and antioxidant properties of  liposomes.
24806729: !Alzheimer Is the Aluminum Hypothesis dead? The Aluminum Hypothesis, the idea that aluminum exposure is involved in the etiology of Alzheimer disease, dates back to a 1965 demonstration that aluminum causes neurofibrillary tangles in the brains of rabbits. Initially the focus of intensive research, the Aluminum Hypothesis has gradually been abandoned by most  researchers. Yet, despite this current indifference, the Aluminum Hypothesis continues to attract the attention of a small group of scientists and aluminum continues to be viewed with concern by some of the public. This review article discusses reasons that mainstream science has largely abandoned the Aluminum Hypothesis and explores a possible reason for some in the general public continuing to view aluminum with mistrust.
24806347: !Alzheimer Attitudes of Saudi parents with a deaf child towards prenatal diagnosis and termination of pregnancy. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the attitudes of Muslim parents from Saudi Arabia with a deaf child towards prenatal diagnosis (PND) and termination of pregnancy (TOP) for deafness and 29 other genetic and medical conditions. METHODS: A questionnaire mainly focused on parent's attitude toward PND and TOP for 30 different hypothetical scenarios for a series of genetic, non-genetic and non-medical conditions was completed by 70 Saudi parents with a deaf child. The results were compared and scored, and parents' comments were noted. RESULTS: The attitude for PND was favorable (81.4%) and was influenced by  the severity of the condition among men. Among women, it was influenced by cultural considerations. For TOP, average acceptance rate (25.2%) was lower than  for PND. Attitudes toward TOP were fairly similar for men and women, as both groups would consider TOP for Alzheimer disease, cleft lip and palate, and cystic fibrosis. In addition, women also ranked high deafness and thalassemia for consideration of TOP. Acceptance for TOP was not influenced by gender, income, education level, number of children, or partner attending clinic. CONCLUSION: In  the Saudi society, cultural consideration influences attitudes towards PND and TOP rather than the severity of the condition.
24801214: !Alzheimer Geniposide attenuates oligomeric Abeta(1-42)-induced inflammatory response by targeting RAGE-dependent signaling in BV2 cells. The neuroinflammation induced by amyloid-beta (Abeta) is one of the key events in Alzheimer's disease (AD) progress in which microglia are the main cells involved. Receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) mediates and enhances Abeta-induced microglial activation and leads to induction of proinflammatory mediators, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta  (IL-1beta). Geniposide, a pharmacologically active component purified from gardenia fruit, exhibits a broad spectrum anti-inflammatory effect as well as neurotrophic and neuroprotective properties. However, the effects of geniposide on Abeta-mediated microglial pathways have not been fully discovered. Here, we demonstrate that geniposide treatment significantly blocks Abeta-induced RAGE-dependent signaling (activation of ERK and NF-kappaB) along with the production of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in cultured BV2 microglia cells. Notably, based on the data from coimmunoprecipitation assay, we infer that geniposide exerts protective effects on Abeta-induced inflammatroy response through blocking Abeta binding to RAGE and suppressing the RAGE-mediated signaling pathway. Taken  together, these findings indicate that geniposide is a potent suppressor of neuroflammation through inhibiting RAGE-dependent signaling pathway. Thus, geniposide may be a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of neuroinflammation that is involved in neurological diseases such as AD.
24799715: !Alzheimer Noninvasive in vivo monitoring of tissue-specific global gene expression in humans. Circulating cell-free RNA in the blood provides a potential window into the health, phenotype, and developmental programs of a variety of human organs. We used high-throughput methods of RNA analysis such as microarrays and next-generation sequencing to characterize the global landscape circulating RNA in a cohort of human subjects. By focusing on genes whose expression is highly specific to certain tissues, we were able to identify the relative contributions  of these tissues to circulating RNA and to monitor changes in tissue development  and health. As one application of this approach, we performed a longitudinal study on pregnant women and analyzed their combined cell-free RNA transcriptomes  across all three trimesters of pregnancy and after delivery. In addition to the analysis of mRNA, we observed and characterized noncoding species such as long noncoding RNA and circular RNA transcripts whose presence had not been previously observed in human plasma. We demonstrate that it is possible to track specific longitudinal phenotypic changes in both the mother and the fetus and that it is possible to directly measure transcripts from a variety of fetal tissues in the maternal blood sample. We also studied the role of neuron-specific transcripts in the blood of healthy adults and those suffering from the neurodegenerative disorder Alzheimer's disease and showed that disease specific neural transcripts  are present at increased levels in the blood of affected individuals. Characterization of the cell-free transcriptome in its entirety may thus provide  broad insights into human health and development without the need for invasive tissue sampling.
24794747: !Alzheimer Novel aromatic-polyamine conjugates as cholinesterase inhibitors with notable selectivity toward butyrylcholinesterase. Three types of aromatic-polyamine conjugates (6a-6s) were designed, synthesized and evaluated as potential inhibitors for cholinesterases (ChEs). The results showed that anthraquinone-polyamine conjugates (AQPCs) exhibited the most potent  acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activity with IC50 values from 1.50 to 11.13 muM. Anthracene-polyamine conjugates (APCs) showed a surprising selectivity (from 76- to 3125-fold) and were most potent at inhibiting butyrylcholinesterase  (BChE), with IC50 values from 0.016 to 0.657 muM. A Lineweaver-Burk plot and molecular modeling studies indicated that the representative compounds, 6l and 6k, targeted both the catalytic active site (CAS) and the peripheral anionic site (PAS) of ChEs. Furthermore, APCs did not affect HepG2 cell viability at the concentration of 100 muM. Consequently, these polyamine conjugates could be thoroughly and systematically studied for the treatment of AD.
24794626: !Alzheimer Stable accumulation of seed storage proteins containing vaccine peptides in transgenic soybean seeds. There has been a significant increase in the use of transgenic plants for the large-scale production of pharmaceuticals and industrial proteins. Here, we report the stable accumulation of seed storage proteins containing disease vaccine peptides in transgenic soybean seeds. To synthesize vaccine peptides in soybean seeds, we used seed storage proteins as a carrier and a soybean breeding  line lacking major seed storage proteins as a host. Vaccine peptides were inserted into the flexible disordered regions in the A1aB1b subunit three-dimensional structure. The A1aB1b subunit containing vaccine peptides in the disordered regions were sorted to the protein storage vacuoles where vaccine  peptides are partially cleaved by proteases. In contrast, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-retention type of the A1aB1b subunit containing vaccine peptides accumulated in compartments that originated from the ER as an intact pro-form. These results indicate that the ER may be an organelle suitable for the stable accumulation of bioactive peptides using seed storage proteins as carriers.
24792094: !Alzheimer ACE overexpression in myelomonocytic cells: effect on a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. While it is well known that angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) plays an important role in blood pressure control, ACE also has effects on renal function, hematopoiesis, reproduction, and aspects of the immune response. ACE 10/10 mice overexpress ACE in myelomonocytic cells. Macrophages from these mice have an increased polarization towards a pro-inflammatory phenotype that results in a very effective immune response to challenge by tumors or bacterial infection. In  a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the ACE 10/10 phenotype provides significant protection against AD pathology, including reduced inflammation, reduced burden of the neurotoxic amyloid-beta protein and preserved cognitive function. Taken together, these studies show that increased myelomonocytic ACE expression in mice alters the immune response to better defend against many different types of pathologic insult, including the cognitive decline observed in an animal model of AD.
24786080: !Alzheimer Polarization of the effects of autoimmune and neurodegenerative risk alleles in leukocytes. To extend our understanding of the genetic basis of human immune function and dysfunction, we performed an expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) study of  purified CD4(+) T cells and monocytes, representing adaptive and innate immunity, in a multi-ethnic cohort of 461 healthy individuals. Context-specific cis- and trans-eQTLs were identified, and cross-population mapping allowed, in some cases, putative functional assignment of candidate causal regulatory variants for disease-associated loci. We note an over-representation of T cell-specific eQTLs  among susceptibility alleles for autoimmune diseases and of monocyte-specific eQTLs among Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease variants. This polarization implicates specific immune cell types in these diseases and points to the need to identify the cell-autonomous effects of disease susceptibility variants.
24781778: !Alzheimer PEG-like nanoprobes: multimodal, pharmacokinetically and optically tunable nanomaterials. "PEG-like Nanoprobes" (PN's) are pharmacokinetically and optically tunable nanomaterials whose disposition in biological systems can be determined by fluorescence or radioactivity. PN's feature a unique design where a single PEG polymer surrounds a short fluorochrome and radiometal bearing peptide, and endows the resulting nanoprobe with pharmacokinetic control (based on molecular weight of the PEG selected) and optical tunability (based on the fluorochrome selected), while the chelate provides a radiolabeling option. PN's were used to image brain  capillary angiography (intravital 2-photon microscopy), tumor capillary permeability (intravital fluorescent microscopy), and the tumor enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect (111In-PN and SPECT). Clinical applications of PN's include use as long blood half-life fluorochromes for intraoperative angiography, for measurements of capillary permeability in breast  cancer lesions, and to image EPR by SPECT, for stratifying patient candidates for long-circulating nanomedicines that may utilize the EPR mechanism.
24766626: !Alzheimer Synthesis and characterization of (68)Ga-labeled curcumin and curcuminoid complexes as potential radiotracers for imaging of cancer and Alzheimer's disease. Curcumin (CUR) and curcuminoids complexes labeled with fluorine-18 or technetium-99m have recently shown their potential as diagnostic tools for Alzheimer's disease. Gallium-68 is a positron-emitting, generator-produced radionuclide, and its properties can be exploited in situ in medical facilities without a cyclotron. Moreover, CUR showed a higher uptake in tumor cells compared to normal cells, suggesting potential diagnostic applications in this field. In spite of this, no studies using labeled CUR have been performed in this direction, so far. Herein, (68)Ga-labeled complexes with CUR and two curcuminoids, namely diacetyl-curcumin (DAC) and bis(dehydroxy)curcumin (bDHC), were synthesized and characterized by means of experimental and theoretical approaches. Moreover, a first evaluation of their affinity to synthetic beta-amyloid fibrils and uptake by A549 lung cancer cells was performed to show the potential application of these new labeled curcuminoids in these diagnostic fields. The radiotracers were prepared by reacting (68)Ga(3+) obtained from a (68)Ge/(68)Ga generator with 1 mg/mL curcuminoids solutions. Reaction parameters  (precursor amount, reaction temperature, and pH) were optimized to obtain high and reproducible radiochemical yield and purity. Stoichiometry and formation of the curcuminoid complexes were investigated by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, NMR, ultraviolet-visible, and fluorescence spectroscopy on the equivalent (nat)Ga-curcuminoids (nat = natural)  complexes, and their structure was computed by theoretical density functional theory calculations. The analyses evidenced that CUR, DAC, and bDHC were predominantly in the keto-enol form and attested to Ga(L)2(+) species formation.  Identity of the (68)Ga(L)2(+) complexes was confirmed by coelution with the equivalent (nat)Ga(L)2(+) complexes in ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography analyses.(68)Ga(CUR)2(+), (68)Ga(DAC)2(+), and (68)Ga(bDHC)2(+) were highly (87 +/- 4, 90 +/- 1%) and moderately (48 +/- 2%), respectively, retained by synthetic beta-amyloid fibrils in vitro. All the Ga-curcuminoid complexes showed an uptake in A549 lung cancer cells, at least equivalent to the  respective free curcuminoids, confirming potential applications as cancer-detecting radiotracers.
24755222: !Alzheimer Ligand-induced homotypic and heterotypic clustering of apolipoprotein E receptor  2. ApoE Receptor 2 (ApoER2) and the very low density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) are type I transmembrane proteins belonging to the LDLR family of receptors. They are neuronal proteins found in synaptic compartments that play an important role  in neuronal migration during development. ApoER2 and VLDLR bind to extracellular  glycoproteins, such as Reelin and F-spondin, which leads to phosphorylation of adaptor proteins and subsequent activation of downstream signaling pathways. It is thought that ApoER2 and VLDLR undergo clustering upon binding to their ligands, but no direct evidence of clustering has been shown. Here we show strong clustering of ApoER2 induced by the dimeric ligands Fc-RAP, F-spondin, and Reelin but relatively weak clustering with the ligand apoE in the absence of lipoproteins. This clustering involves numerous proteins besides ApoER2, including amyloid precursor protein and the synaptic adaptor protein PSD-95. Interestingly, we did not observe strong clustering of ApoER2 with VLDLR. Clustering was modulated by both extracellular and intracellular domains of ApoER2. Together, our data demonstrate that several multivalent ligands for ApoER2 induce clustering in transfected cells and primary neurons and that these  complexes included other synaptic molecules, such as APP and PSD-95.
24753468: !Alzheimer Developing new methods to answer old and new questions in neurodegenerative diseases: 21(st) Workshop of the HUPO Brain Proteome Project (HBPP) 23-24 January 2014, Honolulu, Hawaii. The HUPO Brain Proteome Project (HUPO BPP) held its 21(st) workshop in Honolulu,  Hawaii. During the 23-24 January 2014 the island became the center of the open workshop of the scientific community.
24748223: !Alzheimer Biological consequences of zinc deficiency in the pathomechanisms of selected diseases. From many points of view, zinc is one of the most important trace elements in biological systems. Many articles describe the well-known role of this metal in human physiology and pathophysiology, but in the related literature, there is a lack of current and reliable reviews of the role of zinc deficiency in many diseases. In this article, we describe the role of zinc deficiency in the oxidative stress control, immune response, proliferation, and pathogenesis and pathophysiology of selected diseases such as depression, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer's disease, and Wilson's disease.
24746790: !Alzheimer Protection of SK-N-MC cells against beta-amyloid peptide-induced degeneration using neuron growth factor-loaded liposomes with surface lactoferrin. A liposomal system with surface lactoferrin (Lf) was developed for delivering neuron growth factor (NGF) across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and improving the viability of neuron-like SK-N-MC cells with deposited beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta). The Lf-grafted liposomes carrying NGF (Lf/NGF-liposomes) were applied to a monolayer of human brain-microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs) regulated by  human astrocytes (HAs) and to fibrillar Abeta1-42-insulted SK-N-MC cells. An increase in cholesterol mole percentage enhanced the particle size, absolute value of zeta potential, and physical stability, however, reduced the entrapment  efficiency and release rate of NGF. In addition, an increase in Lf concentration  increased the particle size, surface nitrogen percentage, NGF permeability across the BBB, and viability of HBMECs, HAs, and SK-N-MC cells, however, decreased the  absolute value of zeta potential, surface phosphorus percentage, and loading efficiency of Lf. After treating with Lf/NGF-liposomes, a higher Abeta concentration yielded a lower survival of SK-N-MC cells. The current Lf/NGF-liposomes are efficacious drug carriers to target the BBB and inhibit the  Abeta-induced neurotoxicity as potential pharmacotherapy for Alzheimer's disease.
24746619: !Alzheimer Hsp27 suppresses the Cu(2+)-induced amyloidogenicity, redox activity, and cytotoxicity of alpha-synuclein by metal ion stripping. Aberrant copper homeostasis and oxidative stress have critical roles in several neurodegenerative diseases. Expression of heat-shock protein 27 (Hsp27) is elevated under oxidative stress as well as upon treatment with Cu(2+), and elevated levels of Hsp27 are found in the brains of patients with Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases. We demonstrate, using steady-state and time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy as well as isothermal titration calorimetry studies, that Hsp27 binds Cu(2+) with high affinity (Kd ~10(-11) M). Treating IMR-32 human neuroblastoma cells with Cu(2+) leads to upregulation of endogenous Hsp27. Further, overexpression of Hsp27 in IMR-32 human neuroblastoma cells confers cytoprotection against Cu(2+)-induced cell death. Hsp27 prevents the deleterious  interaction of Cu(2+) with alpha-synuclein, the protein involved in Parkinson disease and synucleinopathies. Hsp27 attenuates Cu(2+)- or Cu(2+)-alpha-synuclein-mediated generation of reactive oxygen species and confers cytoprotection on IMR-32 cells as well as on mouse primary neural precursor cells. Hsp27 prevents Cu(2+)-ascorbate or Cu(2+)-alpha-synuclein-ascorbate treatment-induced increase in mitochondrial superoxide level and mitochondrial disorganization in IMR-32 cells. Hsp27 dislodges the alpha-synuclein-bound Cu(2+) and prevents the Cu(2+)-mediated amyloidogenesis of alpha-synuclein. Our findings that Hsp27 binds Cu(2+) with high affinity leading to beneficial effects and that Hsp27 can dislodge Cu(2+) from alpha-synuclein, preventing amyloid fibril formation, indicate potential therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases involving aberrant Cu(2+) homeostasis.
24743900: !Alzheimer Ischemic heart disease and the Mediterranean diet. Lifestyle modification is primary in cardiovascular (CV) disease prevention. A major contribution is the Mediterranean diet (MedDiet), defined by two of seven components. Italian investigators determined a significant decrease in peripheral arterial disease of 56 % for a high score. Multiple specific CV risk factors are  also favorably modified by the MedDiet. This includes beneficial effect on inflammation, vascular endothelium, and insulin resistance. There is also evidence that coronary heart disease, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome are decreased. Benefit appears to extend to new migrants in France. The economics of dietary adherence are favorable with decreased total lifetime health costs. Although mixed nuts appear to be a major factor in the MedDiet, special emphasis  goes to extra virgin olive oil. Benefit also extends to other noncommunicable diseases with a decrease in cancer, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Further quantitation of benefit and understanding of mechanisms involved in dietary benefit is essential.
24742562: !Alzheimer Isolation and screened neuroprotective active constituents from the roots and rhizomes of Valeriana amurensis. In previous study, we have screened the effective fraction against Alzheimer's disease (AD-EF) from the extracts of roots and rhizomes of Valeriana amurensis, based on which neuroprotective active constituents from AD-EF were investigated.  Six new compounds 1-6, including four iridoids (xiecaoside A-C and xiecaoline A), one pinane-type monoterpeneglucoside (xiecaoside D), and one phenylpropanoid glycoside (xiecaoside E) were isolated together with 11 known compounds 7-17. The structures of 1-6 were elucidated by their spectroscopic data. The protective effects of compounds 1-17 on PC12 cells with neurotoxicity induced by amyloid-beta 1-42 (Abeta(1-42)) was also investigated, respectively. Consequently, compound 6 and lignans 11-17 were responsible for protecting against Abeta-induced toxicity in PC12 cells.
24742402: !Alzheimer Capturing the biological impact of CDKN2A and MC1R genes as an early predisposing event in melanoma and non melanoma skin cancer. Germline mutations in CDKN2A and/or red hair color variants in MC1R genes are associated with an increased susceptibility to develop cutaneous melanoma or non  melanoma skin cancer. We studied the impact of the CDKN2A germinal mutation p.G101W and MC1R variants on gene expression and transcription profiles associated with skin cancer. To this end we set-up primary skin cell co-cultures  from siblings of melanoma prone-families that were later analyzed using the expression array approach. As a result, we found that 1535 transcripts were deregulated in CDKN2A mutated cells, with over-expression of immunity-related genes (HLA-DPB1, CLEC2B, IFI44, IFI44L, IFI27, IFIT1, IFIT2, SP110 and IFNK) and  down-regulation of genes playing a role in the Notch signaling pathway. 3570 transcripts were deregulated in MC1R variant carriers. In particular, genes related to oxidative stress and DNA damage pathways were up-regulated as well as  genes associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's, Alzheimer and Huntington. Finally, we observed that the expression signatures indentified in phenotypically normal cells carrying CDKN2A mutations or MC1R variants are maintained in skin cancer tumors (melanoma and squamous cell carcinoma). These results indicate that transcriptome deregulation represents an early event critical for skin cancer development.
24735001: !Alzheimer Prolonged altered mental status and bradycardia following pediatric donepezil ingestion. CONTEXT: Donepezil is a centrally-acting, reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that is used in the treatment of Alzheimer disease. Altered mental status, nausea, vomiting, and bradycardia have been reported in therapeutic and supratherapeutic ingestions of donepezil, though pediatric exposures have not been well-described. We report a case of prolonged altered mental status and recurrent bradycardia in a child with a single-pill ingestion of donepezil. CASE  DETAILS: A 14-month-old boy was brought to the Emergency Department 3 hours after ingesting one of his grandfather's donepezil tablets (10 mg). Upon arrival, he was somnolent and drooling, with multiple episodes of vomiting and diarrhea. Pupils were normal. Initial vitals: temperature, 36.8 degrees C; blood pressure,  103/56 mmHg; heart rate, 140/min; respiratory rate, 36/min; oxygen saturation, 97%. His drooling, vomiting, and diarrhea resolved, but he remained intermittently agitated. Over the course of the following four days, he had intermittent, episodes of asymptomatic bradycardia to a low of 55/min, primarily  when sleeping. A transient episode of junctional rhythm was observed. Serum donepezil level 97 hours post-ingestion was 10 ng/ml. He did not require atropine treatment, and was discharged in stable condition on hospital day 5. DISCUSSION:  Donepezil has a prolonged elimination of half-life in adults of approximately 70  hours. Despite its relative specificity for central AChEs, peripheral cholinergic symptoms have been described. We report a case of a symptomatic ingestion of donepezil in a child. CONCLUSIONS: Even after a single-tablet ingestion, donepezil may cause prolonged altered mental status and bradycardia in young children.
24732790: !Alzheimer Discovery of small molecular (D)-leucinamides as potent, Notch-sparing gamma-secretase modulators. Structural optimization of the prior lead 3 led to the small molecular (D)-leucinamides with potent modulating activity and Notch-sparing selectivity on the proteolytic processing of amyloid-beta precursor proteins. The N-(R)-epoxypropyl analog 10c exhibited potent gamma-secretase modulation compared to DAPT and showed substantial substrate selection for APP cleavage over Notch cleavage, while N-(2-fluoro)benzyl analog 10e showed the most potent gamma-secretase inhibition with dull selectivity. The exceptional suppression of  ERK-mediated activation suggested that these potent gamma-secretase modulators may adapt an alternative pathway to prominently induce the differential inhibition of C99 cleavage by gamma-secretase.
24721836: !Alzheimer PrP overdrive: does inhibition of alpha-cleavage contribute to PrP(C) toxicity and prion disease? Knockout of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) in mice is tolerated, as is complete elimination of the protein's N-terminal domain. However, deletion of select short segments between the N- and C-terminal domains is lethal. How can one reconcile this apparent paradox? Research over the last few years demonstrates that PrP(C) undergoes alpha-cleavage in the vicinity of residue 109  (mouse sequence) to release the bioactive N1 and C1 fragments. In biophysical studies, we recently characterized the action of relevant members of the ADAM (A  Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase) enzyme family (ADAM8, 10, and 17) and found that they all produce alpha-cleavage, but at 3 distinct cleavage sites, with proteolytic efficiency modulated by the physiologic metals copper and zinc. Remarkably, the shortest lethal deletion segment in PrP(C) fully encompasses the  3 alpha-cleavage sites. Analysis of all reported PrP(C) deletion mutants suggests that elimination of alpha-cleavage, coupled with retention of the protein's N-terminal residues, segments 23-31 and longer, confers the lethal phenotype. Interestingly, these N-terminal residues are implicated in the activation of several membrane proteins, including synaptic glutamate receptors. We propose that alpha-cleavage is a general mechanism essential for downregulating PrP(C)'s  intrinsic activity, and that blockage of proteolysis leads to constitutively active PrP(C) and consequent dyshomeostasis.
24721672: !Alzheimer TDP-43 interaction with the intracellular domain of amyloid precursor protein induces p53-associated apoptosis. TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43), an essential pathological protein in both amyotrophic later sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), is expressed abnormally in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, whether and how TDP-43 contributes the pathogenesis of AD remains unknown. We have shown here a colocalization between TDP-43 and the intracellular domain of APP (AICD) in the nucleus. Coimmunoprecipitation analysis showed an interaction between TDP-43 and  AICD. Overexpression of TDP-43 in COS7 cells enhanced the transactivation of AICD in an APP-Gal4 luciferase reporter system. Real-time PCR analysis showed that cotransfection of TDP-43 and AICD in HEK293 cells increased P53 mRNA levels compared to either TDP-43-transfected or AICD-transfected cells. Moreover, cotransfection of TDP-43 and AICD in either N2a or COS7 cells showed increased numbers of apoptotic cells compared to either TDP-43-transfected or AICD-transfected cells, indicating that TDP-43 enhances AICD-mediated apoptosis in N2a or COS7 cells. Thus, TDP-43 may play a role in AD pathology through interaction with AICD.
24719319: !Alzheimer Nitration transforms a sensitive peroxiredoxin 2 into a more active and robust peroxidase. Peroxiredoxins (Prx) are efficient thiol-dependent peroxidases and key players in the mechanism of H2O2-induced redox signaling. Any structural change that could affect their redox state, oligomeric structure, and/or interaction with other proteins could have a significant impact on the cascade of signaling events. Several post-translational modifications have been reported to modulate Prx activity. One of these, overoxidation of the peroxidatic cysteine to the sulfinic derivative, inactivates the enzyme and has been proposed as a mechanism of H2O2 accumulation in redox signaling (the floodgate hypothesis). Nitration of Prx has  been reported in vitro as well as in vivo; in particular, nitrated Prx2 was identified in brains of Alzheimer disease patients. In this work we characterize  Prx2 tyrosine nitration, a post-translational modification on a noncatalytic residue that increases its peroxidase activity and its resistance to overoxidation. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed that treatment of disulfide-oxidized Prx2 with excess peroxynitrite renders mainly mononitrated and dinitrated species. Tyrosine 193 of the YF motif at the C terminus, associated with the susceptibility toward overoxidation of eukaryotic Prx, was identified as nitrated and is most likely responsible for the protection of the peroxidatic cysteine against oxidative inactivation. Kinetic analyses suggest that tyrosine nitration facilitates the intermolecular disulfide formation, transforming a sensitive Prx into a robust one. Thus, tyrosine nitration appears as another mechanism to modulate these enzymes in the complex network of redox signaling.
24717089: !Alzheimer The developing concept of implicit awareness: a rejoinder and reply to commentaries on Mograbi and Morris (2013). We reply to commentaries on our discussion paper (2013), clarifying our position  on the points raised and expanding the scope of our description. We discuss, in particular, the dichotomy between explicit/implicit processes, the heterogeneity  of anosognosia, the notion of awareness as an emergent process, and the pervasive role of emotion on awareness expression. We conclude by pointing to clinical implications of the phenomenon of implicit awareness.
24713870: !Alzheimer Berberine attenuates axonal transport impairment and axonopathy induced by Calyculin A in N2a cells. Berberine is a primary component of the most functional extracts of Coptidis rhizome used in traditional Chinese medicine for centuries. Recent reports indicate that Berberine has the potential to prevent and treat Alzheimer's disease (AD). The previous studies reported that Calyculin A (CA) impaired the axonal transport in neuroblastoma-2a (N2a) cells. Berberine attenuated tau hyperphosphorylation and cytotoxicity induced by CA. Our study aimed at investigating the effects of Berberine on the axonal transport impairment induced by CA in N2a cells. The results showed that Berberine could protect the cell from CA -induced toxicity in metabolism and viability, as well as hyperphosphorylation of tau and neurofilaments (NFs). Furthermore, Berberine could reverse CA-induced  axonal transport impairment significantly. Berberine also partially reversed the  phosphorylation of the catalytic subunit of PP-2A at Tyrosine 307, a crucial site negatively regulating the activity of PP-2A, and reduced the levels of malondialdehyde and the activity of superoxide dismutase, markers of oxidative stress, induced by CA. The present work for the first time demonstrates that Berberine may play a role in protecting against CA-induced axonal transport impairment by modulating the activity of PP-2A and oxidative stress. Our findings also suggest that Berberine may be a potential therapeutic drug for AD.
24713701: !Alzheimer Altering O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine cycling disrupts mitochondrial function. Mitochondrial impairment is commonly found in many diseases such as diabetes, cancer, and Alzheimer disease. We demonstrate that the enzymes responsible for the addition or removal of the O-GlcNAc modification, O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT)  and O-GlcNAcase (OGA), respectively, are critical regulators of mitochondrial function. Using a SILAC (stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture)-based proteomics screen, we quantified the changes in mitochondrial protein expression in OGT- and OGA-overexpressing cells. Strikingly, overexpression of OGT or OGA showed significant decreases in mitochondria-localized proteins involved in the respiratory chain and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Furthermore, mitochondrial morphology was altered in these cells. Both cellular respiration and glycolysis were reduced in OGT/OGA-overexpressing cells. These data demonstrate that alterations in O-GlcNAc cycling profoundly affect energy and metabolite production.
24708721: !Alzheimer Multidisciplinary teams of case managers in the implementation of an innovative integrated services delivery for the elderly in France. BACKGROUND: The case management process is now well defined, and teams of case managers have been implemented in integrated services delivery. However, little is known about the role played by the team of case managers and the value in having multidisciplinary case management teams. The objectives were to develop a  fuller understanding of the role played by the case manager team and identify the value of inter-professional collaboration in multidisciplinary teams during the implementation of an innovative integrated service in France. METHODS: We conducted a qualitative study with focus groups comprising 14 multidisciplinary teams for a total of 59 case managers, six months after their recruitment to the  MAIA program (Maison Autonomie Integration Alzheimer). RESULTS: Most of the case  managers saw themselves as being part of a team of case managers (91.5%). Case management teams help case managers develop a comprehensive understanding of the  integration concept, meet the complex needs of elderly people and change their professional practices. Multidisciplinary case management teams add value by helping case managers move from theory to practice, by encouraging them develop a comprehensive clinical vision, and by initiating the interdisciplinary approach.  CONCLUSIONS: The multidisciplinary team of case managers is central to the implementation of case management and helps case managers develop their new role  and a core inter-professional competency.
24705924: !Alzheimer Nanowire array chips for molecular typing of rare trafficking leukocytes with application to neurodegenerative pathology. Despite the presence of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) that restricts the entry of immune cells and mediators into the central nervous system (CNS), a small number  of peripheral leukocytes can traverse the BBB and infiltrate into the CNS. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is one of the major routes through which trafficking leukocytes migrate into the CNS. Therefore, the number of leukocytes and their phenotypic compositions in the CSF may represent important sources to investigate immune-to-brain interactions or diagnose and monitor neurodegenerative diseases.  Due to the paucity of trafficking leucocytes in the CSF, a technology capable of  efficient isolation, enumeration, and molecular typing of these cells in the clinical settings has not been achieved. In this study, we report on a biofunctionalized silicon nanowire array chip for highly efficient capture and multiplexed phenotyping of rare trafficking leukocytes in small quantities (50 microliters) of clinical CSF specimens collected from neurodegenerative disease patients. The antibody coated 3D nanostructured materials exhibited vastly improved rare cell capture efficiency due to high-affinity binding and enhanced cell-substrate interactions. Moreover, our platform creates multiple cell capture interfaces, each of which can selectively isolate specific leukocyte phenotypes.  A comparison with the traditional immunophenotyping using flow cytometry demonstrated that our novel silicon nanowire-based rare cell analysis platform can perform rapid detection and simultaneous molecular characterization of heterogeneous immune cells. Multiplexed molecular typing of rare leukocytes in CSF samples collected from Alzheimer's disease patients revealed the elevation of white blood cell counts and significant alterations in the distribution of major  leukocyte phenotypes. Our technology represents a practical tool for potentially  diagnosing and monitoring the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases by allowing an effective hematological analysis of the CSF from patients.
24694195: !Alzheimer mTor is a signaling hub in cell survival: a mass-spectrometry-based proteomics investigation. mTor plays a central role in controlling protein homeostasis and cell survival. Recently, we have demonstrated that perturbations of mTor signaling are implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and that mTor complex 1 (mTorC1) is involved in the formation of toxic phospho-tau. Therefore, we employed mass-spectrometry-based proteomics to identify specific protein expression changes in relation with cell survival in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells expressing genetically modified mTor. Cell death in SH-SY5Y cells was induced by  moderate serum deprivation. Using flow cytometry we observed that up-regulated mTor complex 2 (mTorC2) increases the number of viable cells. By using a combination approach of proteomic and enrichment analysis we have identified several proteins (Thioredoxin-dependent peroxide reductase, Peroxiredoxin-5, Cofilin 1 (non-muscle), Annexin A5, Mortalin, and 14-3-3 protein zeta/delta) involved in mitochondrial integrity, apoptotosis, and pro-survival functions (caspase inhibitor activity and anti-apoptosis) that were significantly altered by mTor activity modulation. The major findings of this study are the implication of mTorC2 but not mTorC1 in cell viability modulation by activating the pro-survival machinery. Taken together, these results suggest that up-regulated mTorC2 might be playing an important role in promoting cell survival by suppressing the mitochondria-caspase-apoptotic pathway in vitro.
24690897: !Alzheimer Galanthamine, an anticholinesterase drug, effects plant growth and development in Artemisia tridentate Nutt. via modulation of auxin and neutrotransmitter signaling. Galanthamine is a naturally occurring acetylcholinesterase (AchE) inhibitor that  has been well established as a drug for treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer disease, but the role of the compound in plant metabolism is not known. The current study was designed to investigate whether galanthamine could redirect morphogenesis of Artemisia tridentata Nutt. cultures by altering concentration of endogenous neurosignaling molecules acetylcholine (Ach), auxin (IAA), melatonin (Mel), and serotonin (5HT). Exposure of axenic A. tridentata cultures to 10 microM galanthamine decreased the concentration of endogenous Ach, IAA, MEL, and  AchE, and altered plant growth in a manner reminiscent of 2-4D toxicity. Galanthamine itself demonstrated IAA activity in an oat coleotile elongation bioassay, 20 microM galanthamine showed no significant difference compared with 5 muM IAA or 5 muM 1-Naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Metabolomic analysis detected between 20,921 to 27,891 compounds in A. tridentata plantlets and showed greater  commonality between control and 5 microM treatments. Furthermore, metabolomic analysis putatively identified coumarins scopoletin/isoscopoletin, and scopolin in A. tridentata leaf extracts and these metabolites linearly increased in response to galanthamine treatments. Overall, these data indicate that galanthamine is an allelopathic phytochemical and support the hypothesis that neurologically active compounds in plants help ensure plant survival and adaptation to environmental challenges.
24690593: !Alzheimer Amyloid beta (A4) precursor protein expression in human periodontitis-affected gingival tissues. OBJECTIVE: Periodontitis involves periodontal tissue destruction and is associated with chronic inflammation and ageing. Periodontitis has recently been  recognised as a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). We showed upregulation  of molecules in the AD pathway including amyloid beta (A4) precursor protein (APP), a key gene in AD, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta), and complement component  1 (q subcomponent, A chain) (C1QA) in periodontitis compared to healthy tissues.  Here, we quantitatively analysed the expression levels of APP, IL-1beta, and C1QA and determined the localisation of APP in gingival tissues. DESIGN: Fourteen chronic periodontitis patients and 14 healthy participants were enrolled. Six samples of total RNA from two distinct sites of healthy and periodontitis-affected gingival tissues from three randomly selected patients were used for microarray analyses, and significant biological pathways in periodontitis were identified. Differential gene expression of APP, IL-1beta, and C1QA, which belong to the AD pathway, were analysed with quantitative reverse transcription real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) using samples from these 14 chronic periodontitis patients and 14 healthy controls. APP localisation was analysed with immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: APP, IL-1beta, and C1QA mRNA levels were significantly upregulated in periodontitis-affected gingival tissues. APP was mainly localised in macrophages in gingival connective tissues underneath the epithelial layers. CONCLUSIONS: An association between AD and periodontitis was detected with microarray and computer-aided data mining analyses. qRT-PCR identified differential gene expression in periodontitis-affected gingival tissue that may be related to AD pathogenesis. Elevated APP, IL-1beta, and C1QA transcripts and APP-expressing macrophages in periodontitis-affected gingival tissues were observed, suggesting a relationship between periodontitis and AD pathogenesis.
24686253: !Alzheimer Structural characterization and biological properties of the amyloidogenic elastin-like peptide (VGGVG)3. The peculiar and unique properties of elastin are due to the abundance of hydrophobic residues and of repetitive sequences as XGGZG (X, Z=V, L or A). Unexpectedly, these sequences not only provide elasticity to the whole protein, but are also able to form amyloid-like fibrils. Even though amyloid fibrils have  been associated for a long time to the development of serious disorders as Alzheimer's disease, recent evidence suggests that toxicity may be related to oligomeric species or to pre-fibrillar intermediates, rather than to mature fibrils. In addition, a number of studies highlighted the potential of "bio-inspired" materials based on amyloid-like nanostructures. The present study  has been undertaken with the aim to characterize a chemically synthesized elastin-like peptide (VGGVG)3. Structural and biological features were compared with those of peptides as poly(VGGVG) and VGGVG that, having the same amino acid  sequence, but different length and supramolecular structure have been previously  investigated for their amyloidogenic properties. Results demonstrate that a minimum sequence of 15 amino acids is sufficient to aggregate into short amyloid-like fibrils, whose formation is however strictly dependent on the specific VGGVG repeated sequence. Moreover, in the attempt to elucidate the relationship among aggregation properties, fibers morphology and biocompatibility, 3T3 fibroblasts were grown in the presence of VGGVG-containing  elastin-like peptides (ELPs) and analyzed for their ability to proliferate, attach and spread on ELPs-coated surfaces. Data clearly show that amyloid-like fibrils made of (VGGVG)3 are not cytotoxic at least up to the concentration of 100 mug/ml, even after several days of culture, and are a good support for cell attachment and spreading.
24685625: !Alzheimer Celastrol enhances cell viability and inhibits amyloid-beta production induced by lipopolysaccharide in vitro. BACKGROUND: Neuroinflammation is a notable hallmark of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis and can markedly exacerbate amyloid pathology. Celastrol, a pentacyclic-triterpene, has been found to possess anti-inflammatory properties. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to characterize the effects of celastrol on cell viability and amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide production induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration in H4 human neuroglioma cells stably transfected to overexpress human full length APP (H4-APP). METHODS: H4-APP cells  were exposed to 1, 10, and 100 nM of celastrol in the presence of 0.1 mug/ml or 100 mug/ml of LPS for 24 hours. The effects of celastrol were determined using MTT cell viability assay, immunohistochemistry, western blot, and ELISA. RESULTS: Cell viability tests revealed that a dose-dependent death of H4-APP cells following administration of LPS. Moreover, celastrol significantly reduced (p < 0.05) cell death induced by LPS compared to LPS alone. Furthermore, the administration of celastrol was associated with a significant reduction in LPS-stimulated Abeta production compared to LPS alone. Western blot and immunofluorescence analysis showed that exposure to celastrol increased HSP-70 and Bcl-2 expression but decreased NFkappaB activity, phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) at tyrosine 216 and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression, Abeta accumulation together with a reduction of superoxide and hydrogen peroxide generation. HSP-70 siRNA abolished celastrol mediated cytoprotection. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that celastrol reduced both LPS-induced cell death and Abeta production in vitro through increasing HSP-70 and Bcl-2 expression and reducing NFkappaB, COX-2, and GSK-3beta expression and oxidative stress.
24685507: !Alzheimer Two novel clerodane diterpenenes with NGF-potentiating activities from the twigs  of Croton yanhuii. Nerve growth factor (NGF) and analog reagents to promote the neurite outgrowth of nerve cells against the neuron degeneration are expected to be potentially useful for the medical treatment of Alzheimer's disease. In our focus on the discovery of bioactive diterpenes, we investigated the chemical constituents of the plant Croton yanhuii. This investigation led to the isolation and identification of two novel clerodane diterpenes (1 and 2). Their structures were elucidated on the basis of extensive 1D and 2D NMR (COSY, HMQC, HMBC, and NOESY) and mass (ESIMS and HR-ESIMS) spectroscopic data analyses. Further biological screenings showed that both of the compounds enhanced NGF-mediated neurite outgrowth from PC12 cells.
24680754: !Alzheimer A new liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry method for quantification of gangliosides in human plasma. Gangliosides are a family of glycosphingolipids characterized by mono- or polysialic acid-containing oligosaccharides linked through 1,3- and 1,4-beta glycosidic bonds with subtle differences in structure that are abundantly present in the central nervous systems of many living organisms. Their cellular surface expression and physiological malfunction are believed to be pathologically implicated in considerable neurological disorders, including Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases. Recently, studies have tentatively elucidated that mental retardation or physical stagnation deteriorates as the physiological profile of gangliosides becomes progressively and distinctively abnormal during the development of these typical neurodegenerative syndromes. In this work, a reverse-phase liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) assay using standard addition calibration for determination of GM2, GM3, GD2, and GD3 in human plasma has been developed and validated. The analytes and internal standard were extracted from human plasma using a simple protein precipitation procedure. Then the samples were analyzed by reverse-phase ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC)/MS/MS interfaced to mass spectrometry with electrospray ionization using a multiple reaction monitoring mode to obtain superior sensitivity and specificity. This assay was validated for extraction recovery, calibration linearity, precision, and accuracy. Our quick and sensitive method can be applied to monitor ganglioside levels in plasma from normal people  and neurodegenerative patients.
24676799: !Alzheimer Sample size determination in group-sequential clinical trials with two co-primary endpoints. We discuss sample size determination in group-sequential designs with two endpoints as co-primary. We derive the power and sample size within two decision-making frameworks. One is to claim the test intervention's benefit relative to control when superiority is achieved for the two endpoints at the same interim timepoint of the trial. The other is when superiority is achieved for the two endpoints at any interim timepoint, not necessarily simultaneously. We evaluate the behaviors of sample size and power with varying design elements and provide a real example to illustrate the proposed sample size methods. In addition, we discuss sample size recalculation based on observed data and evaluate the impact on the power and Type I error rate.
24662962: !Alzheimer Effects of naproxen on immune responses in a colchicine-induced rat model of Alzheimer's disease. BACKGROUND: The components of the immune system have been indicated to be linked  with the neurotoxicity in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The participation of the immune system in the neurodegeneration in a rat model of colchicine-induced AD has not been explored. METHODS: In the present study, hippocampal neurodegeneration along with reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitrite and TNF-alpha in the hippocampus and some systemic immune responses were measured after 15 and  21 days of intracerebroventricular colchicine injection in rats and again after oral administration of different doses of the anti-inflammatory drug naproxen in  AD rats. RESULTS: Chromatolysis and amyloid plaques were found along with higher  ROS, nitrite and TNF-alpha levels in the hippocampus of colchicine-induced AD rats, and these changes were prevented by naproxen in a dose-dependent manner. Alterations in immunological parameters [increased phagocytic activity of white blood cells and splenic polymorphonuclear cells (PMN), increased cytotoxicity and decreased leucocyte adhesive inhibition index (LAI) of splenic mononuclear cells  (MNC)] were also observed in colchicine-injected rats, which showed a dose-dependent recovery after oral administration of naproxen in AD rats. The number of plaques, chromatolysis of Nissl granules, TNF-alpha, nitrite and ROS levels in the hippocampus, phagocytic activity of splenic PMN and LAI of splenic  MNC in AD rats showed greater changes in the 21- than in the 15-day study, and the recovery of these parameters after administration of naproxen differed between the two study durations. CONCLUSION: The present study shows that colchicine-induced neurodegeneration is time dependent and mediated by cyclooxygenase-induced neuroinflammation, which is reflected in the systemic immunological responses.
24657571: !Alzheimer Synthesis and functional survey of new Tacrine analogs modified with nitroxides or their precursors. A series of new Tacrine analogs modified with nitroxides or pre-nitroxides on 9-amino group via methylene or piperazine spacers were synthesized; the nitroxide or its precursors were incorporated into the Tacrine scaffold. The new compounds  were tested for their hydroxyl radical and peroxyl radical scavenging ability, acetylcholinesterase inhibitor activity and protection against Abeta-induced cytotoxicity. Based on these assays, we conclude that Tacrine analogs connected to five and six-membered nitroxides via piperazine spacers (9b, 9b/HCl and 12) exhibited the best activity, providing direction for further development of additional candidates with dual functionality (anti Alzheimer's and antioxidant).
24656052: !Alzheimer Atherosclerosis and Alzheimer--diseases with a common cause? Inflammation, oxysterols, vasculature. BACKGROUND: Aging is accompanied by increasing vulnerability to pathologies such  as atherosclerosis (ATH) and Alzheimer disease (AD). Are these different pathologies, or different presentations with a similar underlying pathoetiology?  DISCUSSION: Both ATH and AD involve inflammation, macrophage infiltration, and occlusion of the vasculature. Allelic variants in common genes including APOE predispose to both diseases. In both there is strong evidence of disease association with viral and bacterial pathogens including herpes simplex and Chlamydophila. Furthermore, ablation of components of the immune system (or of bone marrow-derived macrophages alone) in animal models restricts disease development in both cases, arguing that both are accentuated by inflammatory/immune pathways. We discuss that amyloid beta, a distinguishing feature of AD, also plays a key role in ATH. Several drugs, at least in mouse models, are effective in preventing the development of both ATH and AD. Given similar age-dependence, genetic underpinnings, involvement of the vasculature, association with infection, Abeta involvement, the central role of macrophages, and drug overlap, we conclude that the two conditions reflect different manifestations of a common pathoetiology. MECHANISM: Infection and inflammation selectively induce the expression of cholesterol 25-hydroxylase (CH25H). Acutely, the production of 'immunosterol' 25-hydroxycholesterol (25OHC) defends against enveloped viruses. We present evidence that chronic macrophage CH25H upregulation leads to catalyzed esterification of sterols via 25OHC-driven allosteric activation of ACAT (acyl-CoA cholesterol acyltransferase/SOAT), intracellular accumulation of cholesteryl esters and lipid droplets, vascular occlusion, and overt disease. SUMMARY: We postulate that AD and ATH are both caused by chronic immunologic challenge that induces CH25H expression and protection against particular infectious agents, but at the expense of longer-term pathology.
24653693: !Alzheimer Pain Research Forum: application of scientific social media frameworks in neuroscience. BACKGROUND: Social media has the potential to accelerate the pace of biomedical research through online collaboration, discussions, and faster sharing of information. Focused web-based scientific social collaboratories such as the Alzheimer Research Forum have been successful in engaging scientists in open discussions of the latest research and identifying gaps in knowledge. However, until recently, tools to rapidly create such communities and provide high-bandwidth information exchange between collaboratories in related fields did not exist. METHODS: We have addressed this need by constructing a reusable framework to build online biomedical communities, based on Drupal, an open-source content management system. The framework incorporates elements of Semantic Web technology combined with social media. Here we present, as an exemplar of a web community built on our framework, the Pain Research Forum (PRF) (http://painresearchforum.org). PRF is a community of chronic pain researchers, established with the goal of fostering collaboration and communication among pain researchers. RESULTS: Launched in 2011, PRF has over 1300 registered members with permission to submit content. It currently hosts over 150 topical news articles on research; more than 30 active or archived forum discussions and journal club features; a webinar series; an editor-curated weekly updated listing of relevant  papers; and several other resources for the pain research community. All content  is licensed for reuse under a Creative Commons license; the software is freely available. The framework was reused to develop other sites, notably the Multiple  Sclerosis Discovery Forum (http://msdiscovery.org) and StemBook (http://stembook.org). DISCUSSION: Web-based collaboratories are a crucial integrative tool supporting rapid information transmission and translation in several important research areas. In this article, we discuss the success factors, lessons learned, and ongoing challenges in using PRF as a driving force  to develop tools for online collaboration in neuroscience. We also indicate ways  these tools can be applied to other areas and uses.
24650665: !Alzheimer Involvement of diacylglycerol produced by phospholipase D activation in Abeta-induced reduction of sAPPalpha secretion in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. We previously reported that the thiol proteinase inhibitor, E-64-d, ameliorated amyloid beta (Abeta)-induced reduction of soluble amyloid precursor protein alpha (sAPPalpha) secretion by reversing ceramide-induced protein kinase C down-regulation in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. In the present study, we showed that Abeta (1-42) peptide enhanced diacylglycerol (DAG) production by phospholipase D (PLD) activation in these cells. We subsequently examined whether PLD was involved in Abeta-induced reduction of sAPPalpha secretion and showed that 2 muM CAY10593, which selectively inhibits PLD2, ameliorated reduction of sAPPalpha secretion, whereas 50 nM CAY10593, which selectively inhibits PLD1, did not. Moreover, 50 microM propranolol, a phosphatidic acid phosphohydrolase inhibitor, also ameliorated Abeta-induced reduction of sAPPalpha secretion, suggesting that DAG may be responsible for Abeta-induced reduction of sAPPalpha.  We subsequently examined whether DAG affects sAPPalpha secretion and showed that  a DAG analog reduced sAPPalpha secretion in SH-SY5Y cells. In addition, DAG enhanced ceramide production by stimulating neutral sphingomyelinase (N-SMase) activity. We previously demonstrated that Abeta stimulates N-SMase activity in SH-SY5Y cells. Here, we showed that inhibition of PLD2 by 2 muM CAY10593 suppressed Abeta-induced N-SMase activation. Taken together, the results suggest  that DAG produced through the PLD pathway is involved in Abeta-induced reduction  of sAPPalpha secretion in SH-SY5Y cells.
24646317: !Alzheimer p53 functional inhibitors behaving like pifithrin-beta counteract the Alzheimer peptide non-beta-amyloid component effects in human SH-SY5Y cells. Alzheimer's disease (AD) develops from a complex setting of genetic and biochemical alterations, including an increased level of p53 in the brain. Here,  the robust and specific activation of p53 by the fibrillar non-beta-amyloid component (NAC) of AD was demonstrated in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. For  the first time, the increase in the level of p53 target gene transcription, the cell cycle arrest, and the induction of apoptosis elicited by NAC were evidenced. These effects were counterbalanced by pifithrin-beta, a small molecule interfering with the p53 functions. Using the structure of a pifithrin-beta analogue as a reference, a pharmacophore-based virtual screening of the ZINC database was performed. Among the resulting hits, 20 druglike heterocyclic compounds were selected and evaluated for their neuroprotective activity against  fibrillar NAC in the human SH-SY5Y cellular model. Three compounds exhibited neuroprotective effects. In particular, 2-(4-methoxyphenyl)-7-methyl-7H-pyrazolo[4,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine resulted in a promising lead compound for further development of anti-AD agents in terms of neuroprotection, reducing the rate of NAC-induced cell death with an  activity higher than that of pifithrin-beta, as a result of a more effective functional inhibition of p53 target gene transcription.
24638131: !Alzheimer Microglial priming in neurodegenerative disease. Under physiological conditions, the number and function of microglia--the resident macrophages of the CNS--is tightly controlled by the local microenvironment. In response to neurodegeneration and the accumulation of abnormally folded proteins, however, microglia multiply and adopt an activated state--a process referred to as priming. Studies using preclinical animal models  have shown that priming of microglia is driven by changes in their microenvironment and the release of molecules that drive their proliferation. Priming makes the microglia susceptible to a secondary inflammatory stimulus, which can then trigger an exaggerated inflammatory response. The secondary stimulus can arise within the CNS, but in elderly individuals, the secondary stimulus most commonly arises from a systemic disease with an inflammatory component. The concept of microglial priming, and the subsequent exaggerated response of these cells to secondary systemic inflammation, opens the way to treat neurodegenerative diseases by targeting systemic disease or interrupting the signalling pathways that mediate the CNS response to systemic inflammation. Both lifestyle changes and pharmacological therapies could, therefore, provide efficient means to slow down or halt neurodegeneration.
24637985: !Alzheimer Brown-Sequard, a restless mind. Brown-Sequard, a remarkable medical personality of the 19 th century, was born in a small island of the Indian Ocean. He travelled over the world exerting his skills: a successful physician, and an innovative researcher, with a very ample range of interests. His favored subject was the nervous system. The spinal cord was studied extensively, with novel and important discoveries on the sensory pathways. He identified cases with spinal cord hemisection, and described the clinical presentation corresponding to a syndrome which bears his name (Brown-Sequard syndrome), for which he is best known among neurologists. Regarding the brain, he proposed nine mental and physical functions (organs) related to dynamically interconnected cell clusters, in harmony with the " reseau de cellules anastomosees ", " activites dynamogeniques et inhibitrices ", and " action a distance " concepts. Finally, he is considered by some as the "father" of endocrinology, due to his studies on glands and their secretions.
24636189: !Alzheimer The possible role of stem cells in acupuncture treatment for neurodegenerative diseases: a literature review of basic studies. This review reports on recent findings concerning the effects of acupuncture and  electroacupuncture (EA) on stem cell mobilization and differentiation, in particular with regard to neurogenesis. Traditional Chinese acupuncture has a history of over 2,500 years and is becoming more popular worldwide. Evidence has  demonstrated that acupuncture may be of benefit in stroke rehabilitation, parkinsonism, dementia, and depression. This article reviews recent studies concerning the effects of acupuncture/EA on stem cell mobilization and on progenitor cell proliferation in the CNS. The reviewed evidence indicates that acupuncture/EA has beneficial effects in several neurodegenerative diseases, and  it may prove to be a nondrug method for mobilizing stem cells in the CNS.
24634197: !Alzheimer Radiocopper for the imaging of copper metabolism. The redox-active transition metal copper is an essential trace element for growth and development and serves as a structural or catalytic cofactor for many enzymes in a range of physiological processes. Mammalian copper homeostasis is tightly regulated, and an imbalance in copper metabolism is implicated in various pathological disorders. Radioactive copper isotopes, in particular (64) Cu (t1/2  = 12.7 h) and (67) Cu (t1/2 = 62.01 h), have made important contributions to the  understanding of copper metabolism in health and disease. This review gives a brief account of how radiolabelled copper(II) salts and bioreductive copper complexes have been used to trace copper uptake, transport and efflux in vitro and in vivo. Recently, positron emission tomography (PET) has emerged as a noninvasive tool to image copper metabolism in living subjects and (64) Cu-PET is investigated for the study of copper-related neurological disorders, genetic diseases and cancer.
24633750: !Alzheimer Angiotensin-converting enzyme overexpression in myelocytes enhances the immune response. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) plays an important role in blood pressure control. ACE also has effects on renal function, reproduction, hematopoiesis, and several aspects of the immune response. ACE 10/10 mice overexpress ACE in monocytic cells; macrophages from ACE 10/10 mice demonstrate increased polarization toward a proinflammatory phenotype. As a result, ACE 10/10 mice have a highly effective immune response following challenge with melanoma, bacterial infection, or Alzheimer disease. As shown in ACE 10/10 mice, enhanced monocytic function greatly contributes to the ability of the immune response to defend against a wide variety of antigenic and non-antigenic challenges.
24631516: !Alzheimer Madecassoside prevents Abeta(25-35)-induced inflammatory responses and autophagy  in neuronal cells through the class III PI3K/Beclin-1/Bcl-2 pathway. Inflammatory responses and autophagy have been implicated in the amyloid-beta (Abeta) aggregation in Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to recycling cellular waste and eliminating toxic protein aggregates. Madecassoside (Mad), a triterpenoid saponin compound, has been found to improve impaired cognitive function. However, little was known about the protection of Mad nerve cells against inflammation response and autophagy, as well as their underlying mechanism. In the present study, we investigated whether Mad could prevent Abeta25-35-induced inflammatory  responses and autophagy, as well as the possible mechanism. Transmission electron microscopy results showed that Mad could significantly reduce Abeta25-35-induced  autophagosomes in neural cells. Mad could also increase cell viability whereas decrease remarkably LDH leakage in Abeta25-35-induced neural cells. Both ELISA assay and western blot showed that Mad attenuated inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-10, IL-6 and COX-2  production. Moreover, western blot results showed that Mad could block the conversion of light chain3-I (LC3-I) to light chain3-II (LC3-II), reduce Beclin-1, whereas increase anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 level. The levels of Beclin-1 and hVps34 in control vector-transfected NG108-15 neural cells but not in Bcl-2 transfected NG108-15 neural cells were reduced by Mad. The levels of inflammatory cytokines including TNF-alpha and IL-6 productions decreased significantly by the treatment with Mad. These results demonstrated that Mad protected neural cells against inflammation and autophagy induced by Abeta25-35 through the class III PI3K/Beclin-1/Bcl-2 pathway. Our findings provide evidences for the beneficial effect of Mad on the treatment of AD.
24619869: !Alzheimer Cerebral fat embolism following hip hemiarthroplasty in the absence of a patent foramen ovale with almost complete resolution. We describe the first case of clinically significant neurological manifestations  of the fat embolism syndrome in the absence of both patent foramen ovale and cardiopulmonary resuscitation during hip hemiarthroplasty. This is an important differential diagnosis in postoperative neurological dysfunction requiring high index of suspicion. Management is supportive.
24612673: !Alzheimer Apolipoprotein D takes center stage in the stress response of the aging and degenerative brain. Apolipoprotein D (ApoD) is an ancient member of the lipocalin family with a high  degree of sequence conservation from insects to mammals. It is not structurally related to other major apolipoproteins and has been known as a small, soluble carrier protein of lipophilic molecules that is mostly expressed in neurons and glial cells within the central and peripheral nervous system. Recent data indicate that ApoD not only supplies cells with lipophilic molecules, but also controls the fate of these ligands by modulating their stability and oxidation status. Of particular interest is the binding of ApoD to arachidonic acid and its derivatives, which play a central role in healthy brain function. ApoD has been shown to act as a catalyst in the reduction of peroxidized eicosanoids and to attenuate lipid peroxidation in the brain. Manipulating its expression level in fruit flies and mice has demonstrated that ApoD has a favorable effect on both stress resistance and life span. The APOD gene is the gene that is upregulated the most in the aging human brain. Furthermore, ApoD levels in the nervous system are elevated in a large number of neurologic disorders including Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, and stroke. There is increasing evidence for a prominent  neuroprotective role of ApoD because of its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity. ApoD emerges as an evolutionarily conserved anti-stress protein that is induced by oxidative stress and inflammation and may prove to be an effective therapeutic agent against a variety of neuropathologies, and even against aging.
24610822: !Alzheimer Simultaneous quantitation of polygalaxanthone III and four ginsenosides by ultra-fast liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry in rat and beagle  dog plasma after oral administration of Kai-Xin-San: application to a comparative pharmacokinetic study. A fast, selective, and quantitative ultra-fast liquid chromatography with tandem  mass spectrometry method has been developed and validated for the simultaneous quantitation of polygalaxanthone III, ginsenoside Rb1, ginsenoside Rd, ginsenoside Re, and ginsenoside Rg1 in the plasma of rat and beagle dog after oral administration of Kai-Xin-San. After addition of the internal standard, salidroside, the plasma samples were extracted by liquid-liquid extraction and separated on a Venusil MP C18 column with methanol/0.01% acetic acid water as mobile phase. The tandem mass spectrometric detection was performed in the multiple reaction monitoring with turbo ion spray source in a switching ionization mode. The method was examined, and found to be precise and accurate with the linearity range of the compounds. The intra- and interday precision and  accuracy of the analytes were well within acceptance criteria (+/-15%). The mean  extraction recoveries of analytes and internal standard were all >75.0%. The validated method has been successfully applied to comparing pharmacokinetic profiles of analytes in rat and beagle dog plasma. The results indicated that no  significant differences were observed in pharmacokinetic parameters of ginsenoside Rg1, while the others had significant differences, which may due to the different mechanisms of absorption and metabolism.
24607730: !Alzheimer New Th2 adjuvants for preventive and active immunotherapy of neurodegenerative proteinopathies. Active immunotherapy of neurodegenerative proteinopathies, such as Alzheimer's disease, requires a Th2 antibody immune response with exclusion of damaging inflammatory Th1 immunity. Because these diseases affect the elderly whom, owing  to immunosenescence, are frequently immune compromised, a successful therapy would require immune agonists capable of eliciting Th2 immunity solely while ameliorating the immune decline linked to aging; an objective hampered by the scarcity of Th2 immune agonists. The fact that some helminth-derived glycans and  modified triterpene glycosides elicit Th2 immunity only, even when administered with antigens carrying T cell epitopes, presents new ways to improve the active immune therapy of proteinopathies. Of additional benefit is that these triterpene glycosides could amend some of the detrimental effects of the immunosenescence.
24590001: !Alzheimer Amphiphysin 2 (BIN1) in physiology and diseases. Amphiphysin 2, also named bridging integrator-1 (BIN1) or SH3P9, has been recently implicated in rare and common diseases affecting different tissues and physiological functions. BIN1 downregulation is linked to cancer progression and  also correlates with ventricular cardiomyopathy and arrhythmia preceding heart failure. Increased BIN1 expression is linked to increased susceptibility for late-onset Alzheimer's disease. In addition, altered splicing may account for the muscle component of myotonic dystrophies, while recessive germinal mutations cause centronuclear myopathy. Despite undoubtedly underlining the relevance of BIN1 in human diseases, the molecular and cellular bases leading to such different diseases are unclear at present. BIN1 is a key regulator of endocytosis and membrane recycling, cytoskeleton regulation, DNA repair, cell cycle progression, and apoptosis. In light of the recent findings on the molecular, cellular, and physiological roles of BIN1, we discuss potential pathological mechanisms and highlight common disease pathways and also tissue-specific regulation. Next challenges will be to validate BIN1 both as a prognostic marker  for the related diseases and as a potential therapeutic target.
24589379: !Alzheimer Current understandings and perspectives on non-cancer health effects of benzene:  a global concern. OBJECTIVE: Benzene, as a volatile organic compound, is known as one of the main air pollutants in the environment. The aim of this review is to summarize all available evidences on non-cancerous health effects of benzene providing an overview of possible association of exposure to benzene with human chronic diseases, specially, in those regions of the world where benzene concentration is being poorly monitored. METHODOLOGY: A bibliographic search of scientific databases including PubMed, Google Scholar, and Scirus was conducted with key words of "benzene toxic health effects", "environmental volatile organic compounds", "diabetes mellitus and environmental pollutants", "breast cancer and  environmental pollution", "prevalence of lung cancer", and "diabetes prevalence". More than 300 peer reviewed papers were examined. Experimental and epidemiologic  studies reporting health effects of benzene and volatile organic compounds were included in the study. RESULTS: Epidemiologic and experimental studies suggest that benzene exposure can lead to numerous non-cancerous health effects associated with functional aberration of vital systems in the body like reproductive, immune, nervous, endocrine, cardiovascular, and respiratory. CONCLUSION: Chronic diseases have become a health burden of global dimension with special emphasis in regions with poor monitoring over contents of benzene in petrochemicals. Benzene is a well known carcinogen of blood and its components, but the concern of benzene exposure is more than carcinogenicity of blood components and should be evaluated in both epidemiologic and experimental studies. Aspect of interactions and mechanism of toxicity in relation to human general health problems especially endocrine disturbances with particular reference to diabetes, breast and lung cancers should be followed up.
24588829: !Alzheimer Brain innate immunity in the regulation of neuroinflammation: therapeutic strategies by modulating CD200-CD200R interaction involve the cannabinoid system. The central nervous system (CNS) innate immune response includes an arsenal of molecules and receptors expressed by professional phagocytes, glial cells and neurons that is involved in host defence and clearance of toxic and dangerous cell debris. However, any uncontrolled innate immune responses within the CNS are widely recognized as playing a major role in the development of autoimmune disorders and neurodegeneration, with multiple sclerosis (MS) Alzheimer's disease (AD) being primary examples. Hence, it is important to identify the key regulatory mechanisms involved in the control of CNS innate immunity and which could be harnessed to explore novel therapeutic avenues. Neuroimmune regulatory proteins (NIReg) such as CD95L, CD200, CD47, sialic acid, complement regulatory proteins (CD55, CD46, fH, C3a), HMGB1, may control the adverse immune responses in health and diseases. In the absence of these regulators, when neurons die by apoptosis, become infected or damaged, microglia and infiltrating immune cells are free to cause injury as well as an adverse inflammatory response in acute and chronic settings. We will herein provide new emphasis on the role of the pair CD200-CD200R in MS and its experimental models: experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and Theiler's virus induced demyelinating disease (TMEV-IDD). The interest of the cannabinoid system as inhibitor of inflammation prompt us to introduce our findings about the role of endocannabinoids (eCBs) in  promoting CD200-CD200 receptor (CD200R) interaction and the benefits caused in TMEV-IDD. Finally, we also review the current data on CD200-CD200R interaction in AD, as well as, in the aging brain.
24588281: !Alzheimer Blockade of gap junction hemichannel protects secondary spinal cord injury from activated microglia-mediated glutamate exitoneurotoxicity. We previously demonstrated that activated microglia release excessive glutamate through gap junction hemichannels and identified a novel gap junction hemichannel blocker, INI-0602, that was proven to penetrate the blood-brain barrier and be an effective treatment in mouse models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer disease. Spinal cord injury causes tissue damage in two successive waves. The initial injury is mechanical and directly causes primary tissue damage, which induces subsequent ischemia, inflammation, and neurotoxic factor release resulting in the secondary tissue damage. These lead to activation of glial cells. Activated glial cells such as microglia and astrocytes are common pathological observations in the damaged lesion. Activated microglia release glutamate, the major neurotoxic factor released into the extracellular space after neural injury, which causes neuronal death at high concentration. In the present study, we demonstrate that reduction of glutamate-mediated exitotoxicity  via intraperitoneal administration of INI-0602 in the microenvironment of the injured spinal cord elicited neurobehavioral recovery and extensive suppression of glial scar formation by reducing secondary tissue damage. Further, this intervention stimulated anti-inflammatory cytokines, and subsequently elevated brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Thus, preventing microglial activation by a gap junction hemichannel blocker, INI-0602, may be a promising therapeutic strategy in spinal cord injury.
24587236: !Alzheimer Metabotyping of docosahexaenoic acid - treated Alzheimer's disease cell model. BACKGROUND: Despite the significant amount of work being carried out to investigate the therapeutic potential of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), the mechanism by which DHA affects amyloid-beta precursor protein (AbetaPP)-induced metabolic changes has not been studied. OBJECTIVE: To elucidate the metabolic phenotypes (metabotypes) associated with DHA therapy via metabonomic profiling of an AD cell model using gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC/TOFMS). METHODS: The lysate and supernatant samples of CHO-wt and CHO-AbetaPP695 cells treated with DHA and vehicle control were collected and prepared for GC/TOFMS metabonomics profiling.  The metabolic profiles were analyzed by multivariate data analysis techniques using SIMCA-P+ software. RESULTS: Both principal component analysis and subsequent partial least squares discriminant analysis revealed distinct metabolites associated with the DHA-treated and control groups. A list of statistically significant marker metabolites that characterized the metabotypes associated with DHA treatment was further identified. Increased levels of succinic acid, citric acid, malic acid and glycine and decreased levels of zymosterol, cholestadiene and arachidonic acid correlated with DHA treatment effect. DHA levels were also found to be increased upon treatment. CONCLUSION: Our study shows that DHA plays a role in mitigating AbetaPP-induced impairment in energy metabolism and inflammation by acting on tricarboxylic acid cycle, cholesterol biosynthesis pathway and fatty acid metabolism. The perturbations of  these metabolic pathways by DHA in CHO-wt and CHO-AbetaPP695 cells shed further mechanistic insights on its neuroprotective actions.
24585073: !Alzheimer DTB Select: 3 | March 2014. Every month, DTB scans sources of information on treatments, disease management and other healthcare topics for key items to bring to our readers' attention and  help them keep up to date. To do this, we produce succinct, contextualised summaries of the information concerned. We also include comments on, for example, the strengths of the information, whether it contains anomalies, ambiguities, apparent error or omissions, or whether or how it affects current practice.
24584938: !Alzheimer Computational and experimental studies on beta-sheet breakers targeting Abeta1-40 fibrils. In this work we present and compare the results of extensive molecular dynamics simulations of model systems comprising an Abeta1-40 peptide in water in interaction with short peptides (beta-sheet breakers) mimicking the 17-21 region  of the Abeta1-40 sequence. Various systems differing in the customized beta-sheet breaker structure have been studied. Specifically we have considered three kinds  of beta-sheet breakers, namely Ac-LPFFD-NH2 and two variants thereof, one obtained by substituting the acetyl group with the sulfonic amino acid taurine (Tau-LPFFD-NH2) and a second novel one in which the aspartic acid is substituted  by an asparagine (Ac-LPFFN-NH2). Thioflavin T fluorescence, circular dichroism, and mass spectrometry experiments have been performed indicating that beta-sheet  breakers are able to inhibit in vitro fibril formation and prevent the beta sheet folding of portions of the Abeta1-40 peptide. We show that molecular dynamics simulations and far UV circular dichroism provide consistent evidence that the new Ac-LPFFN-NH2 beta-sheet breaker is more effective than the other two in stabilizing the native alpha-helix structure of Abeta1-40. In agreement with these results thioflavin T fluorescence experiments confirm the higher efficiency in inhibiting Abeta1-40 aggregation. Furthermore, mass spectrometry data and molecular dynamics simulations consistently identified the 17-21 Abeta1-40 portion as the location of the interaction region between peptide and the Ac-LPFFN-NH2 beta-sheet breaker.
24581495: !Alzheimer Hsp90-Tau complex reveals molecular basis for specificity in chaperone action. Protein folding in the cell relies on the orchestrated action of conserved families of molecular chaperones, the Hsp70 and Hsp90 systems. Hsp70 acts early and Hsp90 late in the folding path, yet the molecular basis of this timing is enigmatic, mainly because the substrate specificity of Hsp90 is poorly understood. Here, we obtained a structural model of Hsp90 in complex with its natural disease-associated substrate, the intrinsically disordered Tau protein. Hsp90 binds to a broad region in Tau that includes the aggregation-prone repeats. Complementarily, a 106-A-long substrate-binding interface in Hsp90 enables many low-affinity contacts. This allows recognition of scattered hydrophobic residues  in late folding intermediates that remain after early burial of the Hsp70 sites.  Our model resolves the paradox of how Hsp90 specifically selects for late folding intermediates but also for some intrinsically disordered proteins-through the eyes of Hsp90 they look the same.
24577474: !Alzheimer Chronic aluminum intake causes Alzheimer's disease: applying Sir Austin Bradford  Hill's causality criteria. Industrialized societies produce many convenience foods with aluminum additives that enhance various food properties and use alum (aluminum sulfate or aluminum potassium sulfate) in water treatment to enable delivery of large volumes of drinking water to millions of urban consumers. The present causality analysis evaluates the extent to which the routine, life-long intake, and metabolism of aluminum compounds can account for Alzheimer's disease (AD), using Austin Bradford Hill's nine epidemiological and experimental causality criteria, including strength of the relationship, consistency, specificity, temporality, dose-dependent response, biological rationale, coherence with existing knowledge, experimental evidence, and analogy. Mechanisms that underlie the risk of low concentrations of aluminum relate to (1) aluminum's absorption rates, allowing the impression that aluminum is safe to ingest and as an additive in food and drinking water treatment, (2) aluminum's slow progressive uptake into the brain over a long prodromal phase, and (3) aluminum's similarity to iron, in terms of ionic size, allows aluminum to use iron-evolved mechanisms to enter the highly-active, iron-dependent cells responsible for memory processing. Aluminum particularly accumulates in these iron-dependent cells to toxic levels, dysregulating iron homeostasis and causing microtubule depletion, eventually producing changes that result in disconnection of neuronal afferents and efferents, loss of function and regional atrophy consistent with MRI findings in  AD brains. AD is a human form of chronic aluminum neurotoxicity. The causality analysis demonstrates that chronic aluminum intake causes AD.
26064851: !Alzheimer Mass Spectrometry-based Lipidomics and Its Application to Biomedical Research. Lipidomics, a branch of metabolomics, is the large-scale study of pathways and networks of all cellular lipids in biological systems such as cells, tissues or organisms. The recent advance in mass spectrometry technologies have enabled more comprehensive lipid profiling in the biological samples. In this review, we compared four representative lipid profiling technoligies including GC-MS, LC-MS, direct infusion-MS and imaging-MS. We also summarized representative lipid database, and further discussed the applications of lipidomics to the diagnostics of various diseases such as diabetes, obesity, hypertension, and Alzheimer diseases.
24570004: !Alzheimer Developmental regulation of synthesis and dimerization of the amyloidogenic protease inhibitor cystatin C in the hematopoietic system. The cysteine protease inhibitor cystatin C is thought to be secreted by most cells and eliminated in the kidneys, so its concentration in plasma is diagnostic of kidney function. Low extracellular cystatin C is linked to pathologic protease activity in cancer, arthritis, atherosclerosis, aortic aneurism, and emphysema. Cystatin C forms non-inhibitory dimers and aggregates by a mechanism known as domain swapping, a property that reportedly protects against Alzheimer disease but can also cause amyloid angiopathy. Despite these clinical associations, little is known about the regulation of cystatin C production, dimerization, and  secretion. We show that hematopoietic cells are major contributors to extracellular cystatin C levels in healthy mice. Among these cells, macrophages and dendritic cells (DC) are the predominant producers of cystatin C. Both cell types synthesize monomeric and dimeric cystatin C in vivo, but only secrete monomer. Dimerization occurs co-translationally in the endoplasmic reticulum and  is regulated by the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) derived from mitochondria. Drugs or stimuli that reduce the intracellular concentration of ROS inhibit cystatin C dimerization. The extracellular concentration of inhibitory cystatin C is thus partly dependent on the abundance of macrophages and DC, and the ROS levels. These results have implications for the diagnostic use of serum cystatin C as a marker of kidney function during inflammatory processes that induce changes in DC or macrophage abundance. They also suggest an important role for macrophages, DC, and ROS in diseases associated with the protease inhibitory  activity or amyloidogenic properties of cystatin C.
24567336: !Alzheimer The essential role of p53-up-regulated modulator of apoptosis (Puma) and its regulation by FoxO3a transcription factor in beta-amyloid-induced neuron death. Neurodegeneration underlies the pathology of Alzheimer disease (AD). The molecules responsible for such neurodegeneration in AD brain are mostly unknown.  Recent findings indicate that the BH3-only proteins of the Bcl-2 family play an essential role in various cell death paradigms, including neurodegeneration. Here we report that Puma (p53-up-regulated modulator of apoptosis), an important member of the BH3-only protein family, is up-regulated in neurons upon toxic beta-amyloid 1-42 (Abeta(1-42)) exposure both in vitro and in vivo. Down-regulation of Puma by specific siRNA provides significant protection against neuron death induced by Abeta(1-42). We further demonstrate that the activation of p53 and inhibition of PI3K/Akt pathways induce Puma. The transcription factor  FoxO3a, which is activated when PI3K/Akt signaling is inhibited, directly binds with the Puma gene and induces its expression upon exposure of neurons to oligomeric Abeta(1-42). Moreover, Puma cooperates with another BH3-only protein,  Bim, which is already implicated in AD. Our results thus suggest that Puma is activated by both p53 and PI3K/Akt/FoxO3a pathways and cooperates with Bim to induce neuron death in response to Abeta(1-42).
24567324: !Alzheimer Structure-function elucidation of a new alpha-conotoxin, Lo1a, from Conus longurionis. alpha-Conotoxins are peptide toxins found in the venom of marine cone snails and  potent antagonists of various subtypes of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). nAChRs are cholinergic receptors forming ligand-gated ion channels in the plasma membranes of certain neurons and the neuromuscular junction. Because nAChRs have an important role in regulating transmitter release, cell excitability, and neuronal integration, nAChR dysfunctions have been implicated in a variety of severe pathologies such as epilepsy, myasthenic syndromes, schizophrenia, Parkinson disease, and Alzheimer disease. To expand the knowledge  concerning cone snail toxins, we examined the venom of Conus longurionis. We isolated an 18-amino acid peptide named alpha-conotoxin Lo1a, which is active on  nAChRs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first characterization of a conotoxin from this species. The peptide was characterized by electrophysiological screening against several types of cloned nAChRs expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. The three-dimensional solution structure of the alpha-conotoxin Lo1a was determined by NMR spectroscopy. Lo1a, a member of the alpha4/7 family, blocks the response to acetylcholine in oocytes expressing alpha7 nAChRs with an IC50 of 3.24 +/- 0.7 muM. Furthermore, Lo1a shows a high selectivity for neuronal versus muscle subtype nAChRs. Because Lo1a has an unusual C terminus, we designed two mutants, Lo1a-DeltaD and Lo1a-RRR, to investigate the influence of the C-terminal residue. Lo1a-DeltaD has a C-terminal Asp deletion, whereas in Lo1a-RRR, a triple-Arg tail replaces the Asp. They blocked the neuronal nAChR alpha7 with a lower IC50 value, but remarkably, both adopted affinity for the muscle subtype alpha1beta1deltaepsilon.
24564336: !Alzheimer ProphNet: a generic prioritization method through propagation of information. BACKGROUND: Prioritization methods have become an useful tool for mining large amounts of data to suggest promising hypotheses in early research stages. Particularly, network-based prioritization tools use a network representation for the interactions between different biological entities to identify novel indirect relationships. However, current network-based prioritization tools are strongly tailored to specific domains of interest (e.g. gene-disease prioritization) and they do not allow to consider networks with more than two types of entities (e.g. genes and diseases). Therefore, the direct application of these methods to accomplish new prioritization tasks is limited. RESULTS: This work presents ProphNet, a generic network-based prioritization tool that allows to integrate an arbitrary number of interrelated biological entities to accomplish any prioritization task. We tested the performance of ProphNet in comparison with leading network-based prioritization methods, namely rcNet and DomainRBF, for gene-disease and domain-disease prioritization, respectively. The results obtained by ProphNet show a significant improvement in terms of sensitivity and specificity for both tasks. We also applied ProphNet to disease-gene prioritization on Alzheimer, Diabetes Mellitus Type 2 and Breast Cancer to validate the results and identify putative candidate genes involved in these diseases. CONCLUSIONS: ProphNet works on top of any heterogeneous network by integrating information of different types of biological entities to rank entities of a specific type according to their degree of relationship with a query set of entities of another type. Our method works by propagating information across data networks and measuring the correlation between the propagated values for a query and a target sets of entities. ProphNet is available at: http://genome2.ugr.es/prophnet. A Matlab implementation of the algorithm is also available at the website.
24560029: !Alzheimer The MultiTEP platform-based Alzheimer's disease epitope vaccine activates a broad repertoire of T helper cells in nonhuman primates. BACKGROUND: As a prelude to clinical trials we have characterized B- and T-cell immune responses in macaques to AD vaccine candidates: AV-1955 and its slightly modified version, AV-1959 (with 3 additional promiscuous Th epitopes). METHODS: T- and B-cell epitope mapping was performed using the ELISPOT assay and competition ELISA, respectively. RESULTS: AV-1955 and AV-1959 did not stimulate potentially harmful autoreactive T cells, but instead activated a broad but individualized repertoire of Th cells specific to the MultiTEP platform in macaques. Although both vaccines induced robust anti-Abeta antibody responses without producing antibodies specific to Th epitopes of MultiTEP platforms, analyses of cellular immune responses in macaques demonstrated that the addition  of Th epitopes in the case of AV-1959 created a more potent, superior vaccine. CONCLUSION: AV-1959 is a promising vaccine candidate capable of producing therapeutically potent anti-amyloid antibody in a broader population of vaccinated subjects with high MHC class II gene polymorphisms.
24557020: !Alzheimer Navigating the cell: how motors overcome roadblocks and traffic jams to efficiently transport cargo. Intracellular transport plays an essential role in maintaining the organization of cells. The importance of long-range, bi-directional transport is evidenced by  the fact that its failure goes hand in hand with several diseases including neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. The nanoscale cellular transport machinery consisting of cytoskeletal tracks and  motor-proteins is responsible for effectively delivering important materials to specific locations inside the cell. Motor-proteins manage to overcome several challenges in the crowded cellular environment to achieve well-coordinated and effective transport. In recent years, thanks to state-of-the-art single molecule  biophysical tools, we have started to gain insights into the cellular traffic rules. This perspective summarizes the challenges that motors face in navigating  the complex cytoskeleton and the lessons learned about transport in crowded environments from both bottom-up in vitro studies as well as top-down in vivo studies.
24556925: !Alzheimer Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in human genetic disease. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors represent a family of ligand-gated ion channels that are widely expressed in the central and peripheral nervous systems. To date, 16 genes encoding subunits of mammalian nicotinic acetylcholine receptors have been identified. The various subunits form homomeric or heteromeric receptor proteins, allowing for a complex and adaptable system of nicotinic neurotransmission. Mutations of nicotinic receptor genes can cause Mendelian disorders, most importantly congenital myasthenic syndromes, multiple pterygium syndromes, and nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsies. Haploinsufficiency of CHRNA7 predisposes to neuropsychiatric phenotypes in 15q13.3 deletion syndrome. The role of various nicotinic receptor genes is also discussed for complex disorders such  as addiction, schizophrenia, Alzheimer disease, and Parkinson disease.
24548007: !Alzheimer Oleic acid and linoleic acid from Tenebrio molitor larvae inhibit BACE1 activity  in vitro: molecular docking studies. In our ongoing research to find therapeutic compounds for Alzheimer's disease (AD) from natural resources, the inhibitory activity of the BACE1 enzyme by Tenebrio molitor larvae and its major compounds were evaluated. The T. molitor larvae extract and its fractions exhibited strong BACE1 suppression. The major components of hexane fraction possessing both high yield and strong BACE1 inhibition were determined by thin layer chromatography, gas chromatography, and  nuclear magnetic resonance analysis. A remarkable composition of unsaturated long chain fatty acids, including oleic acid and linoleic acid, were identified. Oleic acid, in particular, noncompetitively attenuated BACE1 activity with a half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(5)(0)) value of 61.31 muM and Ki value  of 34.3 muM. Furthermore, the fatty acids were stably interacted with BACE1 at different allosteric sites of the enzyme bound with the OH of CYS319 and the NH(3) of TYR320 for oleic acid and with the C=O group of GLN304 for linoleic acid. Here, we first revealed novel pharmacophore features of oleic acids and linoleic acid to BACE1 by in silico docking studies. The present findings would clearly suggest potential guidelines for designing novel BACE1 selective inhibitors.
24533816: !Alzheimer Phosphodiesterase as a new therapeutic target for the treatment of spinal cord injury and neurodegenerative diseases. Interest in Central Nervous System (CNS) inflammation has rapidly grown over the  past decade driven by the increasing evidence indicating that chronic inflammation and neuroinflammation in the brain may play an important role in the progressive neuronal cell death in many chronic CNS diseases, such as Alzheimer and Parkinson's diseases, traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury (SCI), as well as pathologies associated with CNS infections. In peripheral tissues, generally inflammation has a protective role limiting the survival and proliferation of invading pathogens, promoting tissue repair and recovery. This innate response normally resolves over a few weeks, accompanyied by tissue repair aided by macrophages recruited to the site. However, when the inflammatory response does not undergo resolution, it might turn into chronic inflammation. Any chronic inflammatory process can damage healthy tissue and the brain may be particularly vulnerable, since destroyed neurons can not be replaced. Recently, several reports have suggested that phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are new targets for central nervous system (CNS) diseases. All the PDEs are expressed in the CNS, making this gene family a particularly attractive source of new targets for the treatment of psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Significantly, all neurons express multiple PDEs, which differ in cyclic nucleotide specificity, affinity, regulatory control and subcellular compartmentalization. Therefore, PDEs inhibition represents a mechanism through which it could be possible to precisely modulate neuronal activity. In this article, we review the current state of art of PDEs in the CNS diseases associated with neuroinflammation.
24531479: !Alzheimer Identification of the first small-molecule ligand of the neuronal receptor sortilin and structure determination of the receptor-ligand complex. Sortilin is a type I membrane glycoprotein belonging to the vacuolar protein sorting 10 protein (Vps10p) family of sorting receptors and is most abundantly expressed in the central nervous system. Sortilin has emerged as a key player in  the regulation of neuronal viability and has been implicated as a possible therapeutic target in a range of disorders. Here, the identification of AF40431,  the first reported small-molecule ligand of sortilin, is reported. Crystals of the sortilin-AF40431 complex were obtained by co-crystallization and the structure of the complex was solved to 2.7 A resolution. AF40431 is bound in the  neurotensin-binding site of sortilin, with the leucine moiety of AF40431 mimicking the binding mode of the C-terminal leucine of neurotensin and the 4-methylumbelliferone moiety of AF40431 forming pi-stacking with a phenylalanine.
24525100: !Alzheimer Instant neurons: directed somatic cell reprogramming models of central nervous system disorders. Nuclear transplantation, cell fusion, and induced pluripotent stem cell studies have revealed a surprising degree of plasticity in mature mammalian cell fates. Somatic cell reprogramming also has been achieved more recently by the directed conversion of nonneuronal somatic cells, such as skin fibroblasts, to neuronal phenotypes. This approach appears particularly applicable to the in vitro modeling of human neurologic disorders. Central nervous system neurons are otherwise difficult to obtain from patients with neurologic disorders; however, nonhuman models may not reflect patient pathology. Somatic cell reprogramming may afford models of nonfamilial "sporadic" neurologic disorders, which are likely caused by multiple interacting genetic and nongenetic factors. Directed somatic cell reprogramming, which does not pass through typical in vivo developmental stages, toward many mature neuronal phenotypes has now been described. This article reviews the field and discusses the potential utilities of such models, such as for the development of personalized medicine strategies.
24524620: !Alzheimer Functional O-GlcNAc modifications: implications in molecular regulation and pathophysiology. O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) is a regulatory post-translational modification of intracellular proteins. The dynamic and inducible cycling of the  modification is governed by O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) and O-GlcNAcase (OGA) in response to UDP-GlcNAc levels in the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway (HBP). Due to its reliance on glucose flux and substrate availability, a major focus in the  field has been on how O-GlcNAc contributes to metabolic disease. For years this post-translational modification has been known to modify thousands of proteins implicated in various disorders, but direct functional connections have until recently remained elusive. New research is beginning to reveal the specific mechanisms through which O-GlcNAc influences cell dynamics and disease pathology  including clear examples of O-GlcNAc modification at a specific site on a given protein altering its biological functions. The following review intends to focus  primarily on studies in the last half decade linking O-GlcNAc modification of proteins with chromatin-directed gene regulation, developmental processes, and several metabolically related disorders including Alzheimer's, heart disease and  cancer. These studies illustrate the emerging importance of this post-translational modification in biological processes and multiple pathophysiologies.
24517390: !Alzheimer Acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase 1 - significance of single-nucleotide polymorphism at residue 526 and the role of Pro347 near the fifth transmembrane domain. Acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferases (ACATs), which are members of the membrane-bound O-acyltransferase family, catalyze the conversion of cholesterol to cholesteryl esters. Mammals have two isoenzymes: ACAT1 and ACAT2. Both enzymes are drug targets for treating human diseases. ACAT1 is present in various cell types. It contains nine transmembrane domains (TMDs), with the active site His460 located within TMD7, and the active site Asn421 located within the fourth large cytoplasmic loop. In human ACAT1, a single-nucleotide polymorphism exists for residue 526: the codon is either CAG for Gln, or CGG for Arg. Gln526/Arg526 is present within the C-terminal loop. Its biochemical significance is unknown. In addition, within the C-terminal half of ACAT1, numerous residues conserved with those of ACAT2 are present; the functions of these conserved residues are largely unknown. Here, we performed single-substitution mutagenesis experiments to investigate the roles of individual residues present in the C-terminal loop, including Gln526/Arg526, and the eight conserved Pro residues located near/in various TMDs. The results show that the enzyme activity of ACAT1 with Gln526 is less active than that of ACAT1 with Arg526 by 40%. In addition, several residues  in the C-terminal loop are important for maintaining proper ACAT1 protein stability. Other results show that Pro347 plays an important role in modulating enzyme catalysis. Overall, our results imply that the CAG/CGG polymorphism can be utilized to perform ACAT1 activity/human disease susceptibility studies, and that Pro347 located near TMD5 plays an important role in modulating enzyme catalysis.
24511465: !Alzheimer Simvastatin promotes adult hippocampal neurogenesis by enhancing Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Statins improve recovery from traumatic brain injury and show promise in preventing Alzheimer disease. However, the mechanisms by which statins may be therapeutic for neurological conditions are not fully understood. In this study,  we present the initial evidence that oral administration of simvastatin in mice enhances Wnt signaling in vivo. Concomitantly, simvastatin enhances neurogenesis  in cultured adult neural progenitor cells as well as in the dentate gyrus of adult mice. Finally, we find that statins enhance Wnt signaling through regulation of isoprenoid synthesis and not through cholesterol. These findings provide direct evidence that Wnt signaling is enhanced in vivo by simvastatin and that this elevation of Wnt signaling is required for the neurogenic effects of simvastatin. Collectively, these data add to the growing body of evidence that statins may have therapeutic value for treating certain neurological disorders.
24510122: !Alzheimer Sequential pH-driven dimerization and stabilization of the N-terminal domain enables rapid spider silk formation. The mechanisms controlling the conversion of spider silk proteins into insoluble  fibres, which happens in a fraction of a second and in a defined region of the silk glands, are still unresolved. The N-terminal domain changes conformation and forms a homodimer when pH is lowered from 7 to 6; however, the molecular details  still remain to be determined. Here we investigate site-directed mutants of the N-terminal domain from Euprosthenops australis major ampullate spidroin 1 and find that the charged residues D40, R60 and K65 mediate intersubunit electrostatic interactions. Protonation of E79 and E119 is required for structural conversions of the subunits into a dimer conformation, and subsequent  protonation of E84 around pH 5.7 leads to the formation of a fully stable dimer.  These residues are highly conserved, indicating that the now proposed three-step  mechanism prevents premature aggregation of spidroins and enables fast formation  of spider silk fibres in general.
24509645: !Alzheimer Applying the tools of chemistry (mass spectrometry and covalent modification by small molecule reagents) to the detection of prions and the study of their structure. Prions are molecular pathogens, able to convert a normal cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) into a prion (PrP(Sc)). The information necessary for this conversion is contained in the conformation of PrP(Sc). Mass spectrometry (MS) and small-molecule covalent reactions have been used to study prions. Mass spectrometry has been used to detect and quantitate prions in the attomole range  (10(-)(1)(8) mole). MS-based analysis showed that both possess identical amino acid sequences, one disulfide bond, a GPI anchor, asparagine-linked sugar antennae, and unoxidized methionines. Mass spectrometry has been used to define elements of the secondary and tertiary structure of wild-type PrP(Sc) and GPI-anchorless PrP(Sc). It has also been used to study the quaternary structure of the PrP(Sc) multimer. Small molecule reagents react differently with the same  lysine in the PrP(C) conformation than in the PrP(Sc) conformation. Such differences can be detected by Western blot using mAbs with lysine-containing epitopes, such as 3F4 and 6D11. This permits the detection of PrP(Sc) without the need for proteinase K pretreatment and can be used to distinguish among prion strains. These results illustrate how two important chemical tools, mass spectrometry and covalent modification by small molecules, are being applied to the detection and structural study of prions. Furthermore these tools are or can  be applied to the study of the other protein misfolding diseases such as Alzheimer Disease, Parkinson Disease, or ALS.
24508524: !Alzheimer Risperidone inhibits voltage-gated sodium channels. In contrast to several other antipsychotic drugs, the effects of the atypical antipsychotic risperidone on voltage-gated sodium channels have not been characterized yet, despite its wide clinical use. Here we performed whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings to analyze the effects of risperidone on voltage-dependent sodium currents of N1E-115 mouse neuroblastoma cells carried by either endogenous sodium channels or transfected NaV1.6 channels. Risperidone inhibited both endogenous and NaV1.6-mediated sodium currents at concentrations that are expected around active synaptic release sites owing to its strong accumulation in synaptic vesicles. When determined for pharmacologically isolated NaV1.6, risperidone inhibited peak inward currents with an IC50 of 49 microM. Channel block occurred in a state-dependent fashion with risperidone displaying a fourfold higher affinity for the inactivated state than for the resting state. As a consequence of the low state dependence, risperidone produced only a small, but significant leftward shift of the steady-state inactivation curve and it required concentrations >/= 30 microM to significantly slow the time course of recovery from inactivation. Risperidone (10 microM) gave rise to a pronounced use-dependent block when sodium currents were elicited by trains of brief voltage pulses at higher frequencies. Our data suggest that, compared to other antipsychotic drugs as well as to local anesthetics and sodium channel-targeting  anticonvulsants, risperidone displays an unusual blocking profile where a rather  low degree of state dependence is associated with a prominent use-dependent block.
24507774: !Alzheimer Association of low-frequency and rare coding-sequence variants with blood lipids  and coronary heart disease in 56,000 whites and blacks. Low-frequency coding DNA sequence variants in the proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 gene (PCSK9) lower plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), protect against risk of coronary heart disease (CHD), and have prompted the development of a new class of therapeutics. It is uncertain whether the PCSK9 example represents a paradigm or an isolated exception. We used the "Exome Array" to genotype >200,000 low-frequency and rare coding sequence variants across the genome in 56,538 individuals (42,208 European ancestry [EA] and 14,330 African ancestry [AA]) and tested these variants for association with  LDL-C, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and triglycerides. Although  we did not identify new genes associated with LDL-C, we did identify four low-frequency (frequencies between 0.1% and 2%) variants (ANGPTL8 rs145464906 [c.361C>T; p.Gln121*], PAFAH1B2 rs186808413 [c.482C>T; p.Ser161Leu], COL18A1 rs114139997 [c.331G>A; p.Gly111Arg], and PCSK7 rs142953140 [c.1511G>A; p.Arg504His]) with large effects on HDL-C and/or triglycerides. None of these four variants was associated with risk for CHD, suggesting that examples of low-frequency coding variants with robust effects on both lipids and CHD will be  limited.
24507620: !Alzheimer Immunostimulant patches containing Escherichia coli LT enhance immune responses to DNA- and recombinant protein-based Alzheimer's disease vaccines. Immunotherapeutic approaches to treating Alzheimer's disease (AD) using vaccination strategies must overcome the obstacle of achieving adequate responses to vaccination in the elderly. Here we demonstrate for the first time that application of the Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin adjuvant-laden immunostimulatory patches (LT-IS) dramatically enhances the onset and magnitude of immune responses to DNA- and protein-based vaccines for Alzheimer's disease following intradermal immunization via gene gun and conventional needles, respectively. Our studies suggest that the immune activation mediated by LT-IS offers improved potency for generating AD-specific vaccination responses that should be investigated as an adjuvant in the clinical arena.
24506877: !Alzheimer Turning reactive glia into functional neurons in the brain. Following brain injury, reactive glial cells can create scars that inhibit neural repair responses. In this issue of Cell Stem Cell, Guo et al. report that overexpression of NeuroD1 in vivo can directly reprogram reactive glial cells into glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons that integrate into the host's neural circuitry.
24504367: !Alzheimer Is personality associated with cancer incidence and mortality? An individual-participant meta-analysis of 2156 incident cancer cases among 42,843 men and women. BACKGROUND: The putative role of personality in cancer risk has been controversial, and the evidence remains inconclusive. METHODS: We pooled data from six prospective cohort studies (British Household Panel Survey; Health and Retirement Study; Household, Income, and Labour Dynamics in Australia; Midlife in the United Survey; Wisconsin Longitudinal Study Graduate; and Sibling samples) for an individual-participant meta-analysis to examine whether personality traits of the Five Factor Model (extraversion, neuroticism, agreeableness, conscientiousness, and openness to experience) were associated with the incidence of cancer and cancer mortality in 42,843 cancer-free men and women at baseline (mean age 52.2 years, 55.6% women). RESULTS: During an average follow-up of 5.4 years, there were 2156 incident cancer cases. In random-effects meta-analysis adjusted for age, sex, and race/ethnicity, none of the personality traits were associated with the incidence of all cancers or any of the six site-specific cancers included in the analysis (lung, colon, breast, prostate, skin, and leukaemia/lymphoma). In the three cohorts with cause-specific mortality data (421 cancer deaths among 21,835 participants), none of the personality traits were associated with cancer mortality. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that personality is not associated with increased risk of incident cancer or cancer-related mortality.
24503615: !Alzheimer Tau triggers tear secretion by interacting with muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in New Zealand white rabbits. In recent years, in vitro experiments have shown that the spread of Alzheimer's disease is caused by a non-conventional activation of muscarinic receptors by dephosphorylated extracellular tau protein. However, so far, in vivo data to support this hypothesis has not been obtained. The eye provides a good model where cholinergic (muscarinic) transmission can be analyzed. The role of muscarinic receptors in the stimulation of lacrimal gland secretion has already been described, and it has been suggested that acetylcholine is the main transmitter controlling tear secretion. In this project, we have studied the interaction between tau and muscarinic receptors by analyzing tear secretion in the eyes of white rabbits. Our results show that tau protein increases tear secretion by 47.2% in a similar way to a muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol (84.3%). The use of muscarinic antagonists indicated that tau interacts with M1 and mainly M3 muscarinic receptors. In summary, tau can bind muscarinic receptors in vivo and this may explain the spread of the pathology.
24503514: !Alzheimer The solution structure of the copper clioquinol complex. Clioquinol (5-chloro-7-iodo-8-hydroxyquinoline) recently has shown promising results in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and in cancer therapy, both of which also are thought to be due to clioquinol's ability as a lipophilic copper chelator. Previously, clioquinol was used as an anti-fungal and anti-protozoal drug that was responsible for an epidemic of subacute myelo-optic neuropathy (SMON) in Japan during the 1960s, probably a myeloneuropathy arising from a clioquinol-induced copper deficiency. Previous X-ray absorption spectroscopy of solutions of copper chelates of clioquinol suggested unusual coordination chemistry. Here we use a combination of electron paramagnetic, UV-visible and X-ray absorption spectroscopies to provide clarification of the chelation chemistry between clioquinol and copper. We find that the solution structures for the copper complexes formed with stoichiometric and excess clioquinol are conventional 8-hydroxyquinolate chelates. Thus, the promise of clioquinol in new  treatments for Alzheimer's disease and in cancer therapy is not likely to be due  to any novel chelation chemistry, but rather due to other factors including the high lipophilicity of the free ligand and chelate complexes.
24499319: !Alzheimer Phytochemical and medicinal importance of Ginkgo biloba L. Ginkgo biloba L., also popularly known as living fossil, possesses a variety of biological and pharmacological activities. The leaf extract of G. biloba L. (EGb  761) has been used for years to treat age-related memory-deficit problems, including Alzheimer's and dementia. Experimental and clinical studies have revealed its beneficial effects on a wide range of pathological conditions including hepatoprotective, photoprotective effects, DNA repair mechanism, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Recent studies have also suggested  that leaf extract of G. biloba L. may exert beneficial effects on cancer. This review focuses on recent scientific evidence of the reported medicinal effects of G. biloba L.
24498199: !Alzheimer A network based method for analysis of lncRNA-disease associations and prediction of lncRNAs implicated in diseases. Increasing evidence has indicated that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are implicated in and associated with many complex human diseases. Despite of the accumulation of lncRNA-disease associations, only a few studies had studied the roles of these associations in pathogenesis. In this paper, we investigated lncRNA-disease associations from a network view to understand the contribution of these lncRNAs to complex diseases. Specifically, we studied both the properties of the diseases in which the lncRNAs were implicated, and that of the lncRNAs associated with complex diseases. Regarding the fact that protein coding genes and lncRNAs are involved in human diseases, we constructed a coding-non-coding gene-disease bipartite network based on known associations between diseases and disease-causing genes. We then applied a propagation algorithm to uncover the hidden lncRNA-disease associations in this network. The algorithm was evaluated by leave-one-out cross validation on 103 diseases in which at least two genes were known to be involved, and achieved an AUC of 0.7881. Our algorithm successfully predicted 768 potential lncRNA-disease associations between 66 lncRNAs and 193 diseases. Furthermore, our results for Alzheimer's disease, pancreatic cancer, and gastric cancer were verified by other independent studies.
24495863: !Alzheimer Structure activity relationship studies of 3-arylsulfonyl-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-imines as potent 5-HT(6) antagonists. Comprehensive structure activity relationship (SAR) studies were conducted on a focused screening hit, 2-(methylthio)-3-(phenylsulfonyl)-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-imine (1, IC50: 4.0 nM), as 5-HT6 selective antagonists. Activity was improved some 2-4 fold when small, electron-donating groups were added to the central core as observed in 19, 20 and 26. Molecular docking of key compounds in a homology model of the human 5-HT6 receptor was used to rationalize our structure-activity relationship (SAR)  findings. In pharmacokinetic experiments, compound 1 displayed good brain uptake  in rats following intra-peritoneal administration, but limited oral bioavailability.
24493126: !Alzheimer An integrated study of the affinities of the Abeta16 peptide for Cu(I) and Cu(II): implications for the catalytic production of reactive oxygen species. A new fluorescent probe Abeta16wwa based upon the Abeta16 peptide has been developed with two orders of magnitude greater fluorescence intensity for sensitive detection of interactions with Cu(II). In combination with the Cu(I) probe Ferene S, it is confirmed that the Abeta16 peptide binds either Cu(I) or Cu(II) with comparable affinities at pH 7.4 (log K = -10.4; log K = -10.0). It follows from this property that the Cu-Abeta16 complex is a robust if slow catalyst for the aerial oxidation of ascorbate with H2O2 as primary product (initial rate, approximately 0.63 min(-1) for Cu-Abeta16 versus >2.5 min(-1) for  Cuaq(2+)). An integrated study of variants of this peptide identifies the major ligands and binding modes involved in its copper complexes in solution. The dependence of K upon pH is consistent with a two-coordinate Cu(I) site in which dynamic processes exchange Cu(I) between the three available pairs of imidazole sidechains provided by His6, His13 and His14. The N-terminal amine is not involved in Cu(I) binding but is a key ligand for Cu(II). Acetylation of the N-terminus alters the redox thermodynamic gradient for the Cu centre and suppresses its catalytic activity considerably. The data indicate the presence of dynamic processes that exchange Cu(II) between the three His ligands and backbone amide at physiological pH. His6 is identified as a key ligand for catalysis as its presence minimises the pre-organisation energy required for interchange of the two copper redox sites. These new thermodynamic data strengthen structural interpretations for the Cu-Abeta complexes and provide valuable insights into the molecular mechanism by which copper chemistry may induce oxidative stress in Alzheimer's disease.
24485162: !Alzheimer [Epigenetic heredity (deoxyribonucleic acid methylation): Clinical context in neurodegenerative disorders and ATXN2 gene]. Epigenetics is the group of changes in the phenotype which are related with the process independently of the primary DNA sequence. These changes are intimately related with changes in the gene expression level and its profile across the body. These are mediated by histone tail modifications, DNA methylation, micro-RNAs, with chromatin remodeling remaining as the foundation of epigenetic changes. DNA methylation involves the covalent addition of methyl group to cytosine of the DNA, which is mediated by methyltransferases enzymes. DNA methylation regulates gene expression by repressing transcription, while de-methylation activates gene transcription. Several human diseases are related with the epigenetic process: cancer, Alzheimer disease, stroke, Parkinson disease, and diabetes. We present here the basis of epigenetic inheritance and show the pathogenic mechanisms relating epigenetics in human diseases, specifically with regard to neurodegeneration. We discuss current concepts aimed  at understanding the contribution of epigenetics to human neurodegenerative diseases. We also discuss recent findings obtained in our and other centers regarding the ATXN2 gene that causes spinocerebellar ataxia 2 and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Epigenetics play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of human diseases and in several neurodegenerative disorders, and this knowledge will illuminate the pathways in the diagnostic and therapeutic field, which ultimately will be translated into the clinic context of neurodegenerative diseases.
24479629: !Alzheimer Isolation and characterisation of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors from Aquilaria  subintegra for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Aquilaria subintegra, locally known as "Gaharu", belongs to the Thymelaeceae family. This plant's leaves have been claimed to be effective for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by Malay traditional practitioner in Malaysia. In this research, the chloroform extracts of the leaves and stem of A. subintegra were tested for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activity. The Thin Layer Chromatography (TLC) results indicated the presence of phenols, flavonoids, terpenoids, and alkaloids compounds in the extracts. Analysis of the stem chloroform extracts with LCMS/MS displayed that it contains kaempferol 3,4,7-trimethyl ether. The AChE inhibitory activity of leaves and stem chloroform extracts and kaempferol were 80%, 93% and 85.8%, respectively. The Brine Shrimp Lethality Assay (BSLA) exhibited low to moderate toxicity of the chloroform extract from leaves (LC50=531.18 +/- 49.53 mug/ml), the stem chloroform extract (LC50=407.34 +/- 68.05 mug/ml) and kaempferol (LC50=762.41 +/- 45.09 mug/ml). The extracts and kaempferol were not cytotoxic to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), human normal gastric epithelial cell line (GES-1) and human normal hepatic cell line (WRL-68). The effect of leaf and stem chloroform extracts and kaempferol were determined in the Radial Arm Maze (RAM) after administration by oral gavage to ICR male and female mice with valium-impaired memory. Administration of kaempferol to the mice significantly reduced the number of repeated entries into the arms of maze in males and females. In conclusion, the inhibition of AChE by leaf and stem chloroform extracts of A. subintegra could be due to the presence of kaempferol. This extract is safe for use as a natural AChE inhibitor as an alternative to berberine for the treatment of AD.
24473150: !Alzheimer Copper, aluminum, iron and calcium inhibit human acetylcholinesterase in vitro. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is an important part of cholinergic nerves where it participates in termination of neurotransmission. AChE can be inhibited by e.g. some Alzheimer disease drugs, nerve agents, and secondary metabolites. In this work, metal salts aluminum chloride, calcium chloride, cupric chloride, ferric chloride, potassium chloride, magnesium chloride and sodium chloride were tested  for their ability to inhibit AChE. Standard Ellman assay based on human recombinant AChE was done and inhibition was measured using Dixon plot. No inhibition was proved for sodium, potassium and magnesium ions. However, aluminum, cupric, ferric and calcium ions were able to inhibit AChE via noncompetitive mechanism of inhibition. Though the inhibition is much weaker when compared to e.g. drugs with noncompetitive mechanism of action, biological relevance of the findings can be anticipated.
24472591: !Alzheimer An analysis of surgical smoke plume components, capture, and evacuation. Chronic exposure to surgical smoke can transmit viruses; lead to respiratory illness; and increase the risk of more serious conditions, including Alzheimer disease, collagen and cardiac diseases, and cancer. Despite this, surgical smoke  plume capture and evacuation devices are often used sporadically or not at all, and do not necessarily reduce costs per procedure. In addition, the current choices for smoke plume capture are varied, and health care providers may make decisions about what type of method to use based on marketing materials rather than facts, leaving most clinicians and managers frustrated and cynical about supporting the effort to capture surgical smoke plume. This article presents current data and information that purchasing teams can use to help choose the best available technology for their practice patterns. It also provides analysis  to help those responsible for choosing smoke evacuation systems make rational decisions in their quest to provide a clean, safe environment in the OR.
24467234: !Alzheimer Influence of electronic and formulation variables on transdermal iontophoresis of tacrine hydrochloride. Freshly excised rat skin and side-by-side permeation cells were used to study the effect of electronic and formulation variables on transdermal iontophoretic delivery of tacrine. Current strength at 0.1-0.3 mA was observed to be the driving force resulting in tacrine permation flux of 30.3-366.6 mug/cm(2)/h. Depot formation of tacrine and altered skin permeability resulted in post iontophoretic flux even after termination of applied current. Increase in the duration of current application did not show significant difference in tacrine permeation flux upto 6 h. Tacrine permeation was directly proportional to tacrine concentration upto 10 mg/ml but further increase in concentration (upto 20 mg/ml) exhibited permeation flux plateau. Buffer molarity had an inverse relationship on permeation flux and the presence of co-ions in formulation exhibited reduced permeation flux. Permeation flux decreased when pH of formulation was successively increased from 7.0 to 10.0 suggesting electromigration of tacrine. Alternate buffer systems including HEPES and Tris showed improved tacrine permeation due to their larger ion size compared to phosphate buffer ions. The results of this study show that transdermal tacrine permeation can be controlled  by electronic and formulation variables which would be useful for the development of transdermal iontophoretic delivery of tacrine for the treatment of Alzehimer's disease.
24465270: !Alzheimer MicroRNA-206: a promising theranostic marker. MicroRNAs (miRs) are small non-coding RNAs that negatively regulate gene expression by binding to the 3` untranslated regions (3`UTR) of their target mRNAs. MiRs were shown to play pivotal roles in tissue development and function and are also involved in the pathogenesis of various diseases including cancer. MicroRNA-206, which belongs to the group of so-called "myomiRs", is one of the most studied miRs thus far. In addition to being involved in skeletal muscle development and pathology, it has also been established that it is involved in the pathogenesis of numerous diseases including heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Alzheimer's disease and various types of cancers.  The aim of this review is to provide a complex overview of microRNA-206, including regulating its expression, a brief description of its known functions in skeletal muscle and a complex overview of its roles in the biology and pathology of other tissues, emphasizing its significant diagnostic and therapeutic potential.
24458838: !Alzheimer Blood-brain barrier permeability of bioactive withanamides present in Withania somnifera fruit extract. The neuroprotective effect of Withania somnifera L. Dunal fruit extract, in rodent models, is known. Withanamides, the primary active constituents in W.somnifera fruit extract exhibited neuroprotective effects against beta-amyloid-induced cytotoxicity in neuronal cell culture studies. Therefore, we investigated the blood-brain barrier permeability of withanamides in W.somnifera  fruit extract in mice using HPLC coupled with high resolution quadrupole time of  flight mass spectrometer (Q-TOF/MS) detection. Mice were administered with 250 mg/kg of W.somnifera extract by intraperitoneal injection, and the blood and brain samples analyzed by Q-TOF/MS detection. Four major withanamides were detected in brain and blood of mice administered with W.somnifera extract. The results suggested that the withanamides crossed the blood-brain barrier. These results may help to develop W.somnifera fruit extract as a preventive or therapeutic botanical drug for stress-induced neurological disorders.
24456080: !Alzheimer Retinoid X receptor ligands: a patent review (2007 - 2013). INTRODUCTION: Retinoid X receptors (RXRs) are nuclear receptors that act as ligand-dependent transcription factors. RXRs function as homodimers or as heterodimers with other nuclear receptors, such as retinoic acid receptors, PPARs, liver X receptors, farnesoid X receptor, vitamin D receptor or thyroid hormone receptors. RXR ligands (agonists or antagonists) show various physiological effects, depending on their partner receptors. RXR agonist bexarotene (Targretin(R)) is used for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma  in clinical practice. RXR agonists were also reported to be useful for treatment  of type 2 diabetes, autoimmune disease and Alzheimer's disease. RXR antagonists were also reported to be effective in type 2 diabetes treatment. AREAS COVERED: Here patent applications (2007 - 2013) concerning RXR ligands are summarized, and the usefulness of RXR ligands as pharmaceutical agents is discussed. EXPERT OPINION: RXR agonists show a wide variety of biological effects. However, they cause serious side effects, such as blood triglyceride elevation, hypothyroidism  and others. Thus, for clinical application of RXR agonists, abrogation of these side effects is required. RXR heterodimer-selective agonists and RXR partial agonists exhibiting desired effects without side effects are expected to find clinical application.
24440524: !Alzheimer Tau exon 2 responsive elements deregulated in myotonic dystrophy type I are proximal to exon 2 and synergistically regulated by MBNL1 and MBNL2. The splicing of the microtubule-associated protein Tau is regulated during development and is found to be deregulated in a growing number of pathological conditions such as myotonic dystrophy type I (DM1), in which a reduced number of  isoforms is expressed in the adult brain. DM1 is caused by a dynamic and unstable CTG repeat expansion in the DMPK gene, resulting in an RNA bearing long CUG repeats (n>50) that accumulates in nuclear foci and sequesters CUG-binding splicing factors of the muscle blind-like (MBNL) family, involved in the splicing of Tau pre-mRNA among others. However, the precise mechanism leading to Tau mis-splicing and the role of MBNL splicing factors in this process are poorly understood. We therefore used new Tau minigenes that we developed for this purpose to determine how MBNL1 and MBNL2 interact to regulate Tau exon 2 splicing. We demonstrate that an intronic region 250 nucleotides downstream of Tau exon 2 contains cis-regulatory splicing enhancers that are sensitive to MBNL  and that bind directly to MBNL1. Both MBNL1 and MBNL2 act as enhancers of Tau exon 2 inclusion. Intriguingly, the interaction of MBNL1 and MBNL2 is required to fully reverse the mis-splicing of Tau exon 2 induced by the trans-dominant effect of long CUG repeats, similar to the DM1 condition. In conclusion, both MBNL1 and  MBNL2 are involved in the regulation of Tau exon 2 splicing and the mis-splicing  of Tau in DM1 is due to the combined inactivation of both.
24439402: !Alzheimer Curcumin nanoformulations: a review of pharmaceutical properties and preclinical  studies and clinical data related to cancer treatment. Curcumin, a natural yellow phenolic compound, is present in many kinds of herbs,  particularly in Curcuma longa Linn. (turmeric). It is a natural antioxidant and has shown many pharmacological activities such as anti-inflammatory, anti-microbial, anti-cancer, and anti-Alzheimer in both preclinical and clinical  studies. Moreover, curcumin has hepatoprotective, nephroprotective, cardioprotective, neuroprotective, hypoglycemic, antirheumatic, and antidiabetic  activities and it also suppresses thrombosis and protects against myocardial infarction. Particularly, curcumin has demonstrated efficacy as an anticancer agent, but a limiting factor is its extremely low aqueous solubility which hampers its use as therapeutic agent. Therefore, many technologies have been developed and applied to overcome this limitation. In this review, we summarize the recent works on the design and development of nano-sized delivery systems for curcumin, including liposomes, polymeric nanoparticles and micelles, conjugates,  peptide carriers, cyclodextrins, solid dispersions, lipid nanoparticles and emulsions. Efficacy studies of curcumin nanoformulations using cancer cell lines  and in vivo models as well as up-to-date human clinical trials are also discussed.
24429454: !Alzheimer Global aphasia without hemiparesis caused by a dural arteriovenous fistula. A 61-year-old Japanese woman with chronic renal failure suddenly became silent at the end of hemodialysis. On a neurological examination, she was unable to respond to one-step commands, state the names of objects, repeat single words, read words aloud or write her name. Because she exhibited no paralysis of the extremities, we diagnosed her as having global aphasia without hemiparesis (GAWH). Cerebral angiography showed a dural arteriovenous fistula (AVF) in the left isolated transverse sinus with leptomeningeal venous drainage (Borden type 3, Lalwani grade 4). This case highlights dural AVF as an etiology of GAWH.
24424441: !Alzheimer Non-feminizing estrogens: a novel neuroprotective therapy. While the conflict between basic science evidence for estrogen neuroprotection and the lack of effectiveness in clinical trials is only now being resolved, it is clear that strategies for estrogen neuroprotection that avoid activation of ERs have the potential for clinical application. Herein we review the evidence from both in vitro and in vivo studies that describe high potency neuroprotection with non-feminizing estrogens. We have characterized many of the essential chemical features of non-feminizing estrogens that eliminate or reduce ER binding while maintaining or enhancing neuroprotection. Additionally, we provide evidence that these non-feminizing estrogens have efficacy in protecting the brain from AD neuropathology and traumatic brain injury. In conclusion, it appears that the non-feminizing estrogen strategy for neuroprotection is a viable option to achieve the beneficial neuroprotective effects of estrogens while eliminating the toxic off-target effects of chronic estrogen administration.
24418609: !Alzheimer gamma-Secretase modulators: current status and future directions. This chapter reviews the current status of gamma-secretase modulators, highlighting key compounds by each company involved in the area. The review focuses on the three main chemotypes: acids, imidazoles and related derivatives and natural products. A section on chemical biology and ligand-binding site elucidation studies is also included. The primary source of information is drawn  from peer reviewed literature as this permits analysis of PK-PD relationships and subsequent comment. Discussion of the patent literature is included for completeness. From this analysis, the key issues and challenges in the area are highlighted. The review concludes with a summary of the clinical development status and comment on future prospects of the field.
24417981: !Alzheimer Synthesis of new lipoic acid conjugates and evaluation of their free radical scavenging and neuroprotective activities. A series of new lipoic acid derivatives were designed and synthesized as multitarget ligands against Alzheimer's disease. In particular, analogues combining both lipoic acid and cysteine core structures were synthesized. The antioxidant properties of these compounds were evaluated by 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS(*+) ) radical cation  scavenging assays and ferrous ion chelation. The antioxidant potential of the synthesized compounds was also evaluated in a cellular context and compared to alpha-lipoic acid and its reduced form, dihydrolipoic acid. The antioxidant effects observed for these compounds in vitro confirmed the importance of free thiol functions for effective antioxidant capacities. However, these promising in vitro results were not mirrored by the antioxidant activity in T67 cell line. This suggests that multiple factors are at stake and warrant further investigations.
24414229: !Alzheimer Papaverine increases human serum albumin glycation. Glycation is a non-enzymatic reaction that is initiated by the primary addition of sugars to amino groups of proteins. In the early phase of glycation, the synthesis of intermediates leads to formation of Amadori compounds. In the last phase, advanced glycation end products (AGE) are irreversibly formed following a  complex cascade of reactions. It has recently been shown that glycation also affects diabetes-related complications and Alzheimer's disease. In this study, human serum albumin at a concentration of 10 mg/ml was incubated in PBS with 40 mM of glucose and in different concentrations of papaverine (25, 100, 250, 500 muM) for 42 days at 37 degrees C. HSA with no additives as well as with glucose 40 mM were incubated as a control and as a glycated sample, respectively. Following the incubation, the samples were prepared for circular dichroism, fluorescence and absorbance techniques. The results showed that in presence of papaverine and glucose, the glycation of HSA increased notably compared with the  glycated sample. In conclusion, in this work, we showed that papaverine affects HSA and increases its glycation level.
24413832: !Alzheimer Acetylcholinesterase inhibitory, antioxidant and phytochemical properties of selected medicinal plants of the Lamiaceae family. The present study aimed to evaluate acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory and antioxidant activities of Lamiaceae medicinal plants growing wild in Croatia. Using Ellman's colorimetric assay all tested ethanolic extracts and their hydroxycinnamic acid constituents demonstrated in vitro AChE inhibitory properties in a dose dependent manner. The extracts of Mentha x piperita, M. longifolia, Salvia officinalis, Satureja montana, Teucrium arduini, T. chamaedrys, T. montanum, T. polium and Thymus vulgaris at 1 mg/mL showed strong inhibitory activity against AChE. The antioxidant potential of the investigated Lamiaceae species was assessed by DPPH* scavenging activity and total antioxidant capacity assays, in comparison with hydroxycinnamic acids and trolox. The extracts differed greatly in their total hydroxycinnamic derivatives content, determined spectrophotometrically. Rosmarinic acid was found to be the predominant constituent in most of the investigated medicinal plants (by RP-HPLC) and had a substantial influence on their AChE inhibitory and antioxidant properties, with the exception of Teucrium species. These findings indicate that  Lamiaceae species are a rich source of various natural AChE inhibitors and antioxidants that could be useful in the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's  and other related diseases.
24412680: !Alzheimer Hydroxy-safflor yellow A inhibits neuroinflammation mediated by Abeta(1)(-)(4)(2) in BV-2 cells. Inflammation is an important contributor to the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Anti-inflammatory medication may offer promising treatment for AD.  Hydroxy-safflor yellow A (HSYA), a chemical component of the safflower yellow pigments, has been reported to exert potent immunosuppressive effects. This study examined the anti-inflammatory effects of HSYA in Abeta(1)(-)(4)(2)-treated BV-2  microglia cells. The mRNA levels of IL-1beta, IL-4, IL-10, TNF-alpha, COX-2 and iNOS were detected by real-time PCR. Western blotting was used to determine the protein expression of COX-2, TNF-alpha, iNOS, Janus Kinase 2 (JAK2), p-JAK2, signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) and p-STAT3. BV2-conditioned medium was used to treat SH-SY5Y cells and primary neuronal cells in indirect toxicity experiments. Cell viability and apoptosis were assessed using MTT assay and Annexin V/PI staining respectively. The results demonstrated  that HSYA significantly reduced the expression of the pro-inflammatory mediators  and inhibited Abeta(1)(-)(4)(2)-induced neuroinflammation. Moreover, HSYA protected primary cortical neurons and SH-SY5Y cells against microglia-mediated neurotoxicity. HSYA also enhanced the phosphorylation of JAK2/STAT3 pathway and inhibition of JAK2 by AG 490 attenuated the anti-inflammatory effects of HSYA. Overall, our findings suggested that HSYA inhibited Abeta(1)(-)(4)(2)-induced inflammation and conferred neuroprotection partially through JAK2/STAT3 pathway,  indicating that HSYA could be a potential drug for the treatment of AD.
24405708: !Alzheimer BACE1 activity regulates cell surface contactin-2 levels. BACKGROUND: Although BACE1 is a major therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease  (AD), potential side effects of BACE1 inhibition are not well characterized. BACE1 cleaves over 60 putative substrates, however the majority of these cleavages have not been characterized. Here we investigated BACE1-mediated cleavage of human contactin-2, a GPI-anchored cell adhesion molecule. RESULTS: Our initial protein sequence analysis showed that contactin-2 harbors a strong putative BACE1 cleavage site close to its GPI membrane linker domain. When we overexpressed BACE1 in CHO cells stably transfected with human contactin-2, we found increased release of soluble contactin-2 in the conditioned media. Conversely, pharmacological inhibition of BACE1 in CHO cells expressing human contactin-2 and mouse primary neurons decreased soluble contactin-2 secretion. The BACE1 cleavage site mutation 1008MM/AA dramatically impaired soluble contactin-2 release. We then asked whether contactin-2 release induced by BACE1 expression would concomitantly decrease cell surface levels of contactin-2. Using immunofluorescence and surface-biotinylation assays, we showed that BACE1 activity tightly regulates contactin-2 surface levels in CHO cells as well as in  mouse primary neurons. Finally, contactin-2 levels were decreased in Alzheimer's  disease brain samples correlating inversely with elevated BACE1 levels in the same samples. CONCLUSION: Our results clearly demonstrate that mouse and human contactin-2 are physiological substrates for BACE1. BACE1-mediated contactin-2 cleavage tightly regulates the surface expression of contactin-2 in neuronal cells. Given the role of contactin-2 in cell adhesion, neurite outgrowth and axon guidance, our data suggest that BACE1 may play an important role in these physiological processes by regulating contactin-2 surface levels.
24402873: !Alzheimer Lack of association between cyclooxygenase 2-765G/C gene polymorphism and breast  cancer risk in Ahvaz, west-south Iran. Cyclooxygenases are key enzymes in conversion of arachidonic acid into prostaglandin H2. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) increases prostaglandins in neoplastic tissue. COX-2 has important roles in cell proliferation cancers, angiogenesis, and alzheimer. COX-2 is up-regulated in several types of cancer, and it is hypothesized that COX-2 expression may be genetically influenced. Our main objective was to evaluated the association of polymorphism COX-2 with risk of breast cancer in khouzestan province, and the second objective of the study was to evaluate the association with biochemistry parameters. This study consisting of 150 patients with breast cancer and 120 normal DNA was extracted from the white blood cells. Polymorphism cox2 gene was detected by polymerase chain reaction according to the standard methods. The profile lipids and estrogen were  measured in two groups by standard methods. Chi square analysis showed that there was no association between breast cancer risk and COX-2 -765G>C genotype and alleles. Also, no association were observed between -765G>C polymorphism and biochemistry parameters. A multiple logistic regression model with cox2 genotypes and LDL and HDL as covariates revealed that there is no significant association between cox2 genotypes and risk of breast cancer, but higher values of LDL and HDL significantly increase risk of breast cancer.
24401672: !Alzheimer Implications of prion adaptation and evolution paradigm for human neurodegenerative diseases. There is a growing body of evidence indicating that number of human neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease, fronto-temporal dementias, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, propagate in the brain via prion-like intercellular induction of protein misfolding. Prions cause  lethal neurodegenerative diseases in humans, the most prevalent being sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD); they self-replicate and spread by converting the cellular form of prion protein (PrP(C)) to a misfolded pathogenic conformer (PrP(Sc)). The extensive phenotypic heterogeneity of human prion diseases is determined by polymorphisms in the prion protein gene, and by prion strain-specific conformation of PrP(Sc). Remarkably, even though informative nucleic acid is absent, prions may undergo rapid adaptation and evolution in cloned cells and upon crossing the species barrier. In the course of our investigation of this process, we isolated distinct populations of PrP(Sc) particles that frequently co-exist in sCJD. The human prion particles replicate independently and undergo competitive selection of those with lower initial conformational stability. Exposed to mutant substrate, the winning PrP(Sc) conformers are subject to further evolution by natural selection of the subpopulation with the highest replication rate due to the lowest stability. Thus, the evolution and adaptation of human prions is enabled by a dynamic collection of distinct populations of particles, whose evolution is governed by the selection of progressively less stable, faster replicating PrP(Sc) conformers. This fundamental biological mechanism may explain the drug resistance that some prions gained after exposure to compounds targeting PrP(Sc). Whether the phenotypic heterogeneity of other neurodegenerative diseases caused by protein misfolding is determined by the spectrum of misfolded conformers (strains) remains to be established. However, the prospect that these conformers  may evolve and adapt by a prion-like mechanism calls for the reevaluation of therapeutic strategies that target aggregates of misfolded proteins, and argues for new therapeutic approaches that will focus on prior pathogenetic steps.
24398134: !Alzheimer Implications of heparan sulfate and heparanase in neuroinflammation. Heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs), expressed on the cell surface and in the extracellular matrix of most animal tissues, have essential functions in development and homeostasis, and have been implicated in several pathological conditions. The functions of HSPGs are mainly mediated through interactions of the heparan sulfate (HS) polysaccharide side chains with different protein ligands. The molecular structure of HS is highly diverse, expressed in a cell-type specific manner. The flexible yet controlled structure of HS is primarily generated through a strictly regulated biosynthesis process and is further modified post-synthetically, such as desulfation by endosulfatases and fragmentation by heparanase. Heparanase is an endo-glucuronidase expressed in all tissues. The enzyme has been found up-regulated in a number of pathological conditions, implying a role in diseases mainly through degradation of HS. Emerging evidence demonstrates important roles of HS and heparanase in inflammatory reactions, particularly in the regulation of leukocyte activation and extravasation. Neuroinflammation is a common feature of various central nervous system disorders, thus it is a great interest to understand the implications of HS and heparanase in neuroinflammation.
24396150: !Alzheimer Aneuploidy: implications for protein homeostasis and disease. It has long been appreciated that aneuploidy - in which cells possess a karyotype that is not a multiple of the haploid complement - has a substantial impact on human health, but its effects at the subcellular level have only recently become  a focus of investigation. Here, we summarize new findings characterizing the impact of aneuploidy on protein quality control. Because aneuploidy has been associated with many diseases, foremost among them being cancer, and has also been linked to aging, we also offer our perspective on whether and how the effects of aneuploidy on protein quality control could contribute to these conditions. We argue that acquiring a deeper understanding of the relationship between aneuploidy, disease and aging could lead to the development of new anti-cancer and anti-aging treatments.
24395390: !Alzheimer Omega-3 fatty acids: a growing ocean of choices. There has been increasing interest in the health benefits of supplemental and/or  dietary omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), particularly in their role in disease prevention. This interest escalated once their effects on cardiovascular health were observed from numerous observational studies in populations whose diet consisted mainly of fish. Research has since been undertaken on omega-3 PUFAs to investigate their health benefits in a vast array  of medical conditions, including primary and secondary prevention. This article discusses the evidence and controversies concerning omega-3 PUFAs in various health conditions. In addition to the effects on cardiovascular health, omega-3 PUFAs have been shown to prevent the development of dementia, reduce systemic inflammatory diseases, prevent prostate cancer, and possibly have a role in the treatment of depression and bipolar disorder.
24393377: !Alzheimer Synthesis, characterization, and cytotoxicity studies of Cu(II), Zn(II), and Fe(III) complexes of N-derivatized 3-hydroxy-4-pyridiones. The deleterious role of metal ions in Alzheimer's disease has inspired the study  of various metal chelators. We previously showed the synthesis and in vitro activity of several bidentate hydroxypyridinone compounds, including 3-hydroxy-2-methyl-1-phenyl-4(1H)-pyridinone (1), 1-(4-aminophenyl)-3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4(1H)-pyridinone (2), and 1-(2-benzothiazolyl)-3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4(1H)-pyridinone (3). While the focus has been on the Cu(II) ion, the other biorelevant metals, Zn(II) and Fe(III) have been largely neglected. Herein, we report the synthesis of Zn(II) and Fe(III) complexes of ligands 1, 2, and 3, and their characterization by infrared (IR) spectroscopy, high resolution mass spectrometry (HR-MS), elemental analysis, and  NMR, where applicable. Solid state structures of Zn(1)2, Fe(1)3, and Cu(3)2 are analyzed with X-ray crystallography. The cytotoxicity of pro-ligands 1, 2, and 3, and the three metal complexes of 2 are examined in a neuronal cell line to determine the effect of metal chelation on toxicity of the compounds.
24381170: !Alzheimer Clusterin is a ligand for apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2) and very low density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and signals via the Reelin-signaling pathway. Clusterin, also known as apolipoprotein J, is a multifunctional glycoprotein with the capacity to interact with a wide range of molecules. Although clusterin has been implicated in a broad spectrum of physiological and pathological processes,  such as Alzheimer disease or cancer, its precise functions remain elusive. Here we report, that clusterin binds to apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2) and very  low density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and is internalized by cells expressing  either one of these receptors. Binding of clusterin to these receptors triggers a Reelin-like signal in cells expressing disabled-1 (Dab1). It induces phosphorylation of Dab1, which leads to activation of PI3K/Akt and n-cofilin. Cell proliferation and neuroblast chain formation in subventricular zone (SVZ) explants are compromised when clusterin, which is present in the subventricular zone, is blocked in vitro. These data suggest that in the subventricular zone where Reelin is not present but ApoER2, VLDLR, and Dab1, clusterin might be involved in maintaining neurogenesis in vivo.
24380849: !Alzheimer Age-dependent changes on TGFbeta1 Smad3 pathway modify the pattern of microglial  cell activation. Aging is the main risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Among other characteristics, it shows changes in inflammatory signaling that could affect the regulation of glial cell activation. We have shown that astrocytes prevent microglial cell cytotoxicity by mechanisms mediated by TGFbeta1. However, whereas TGFbeta1 is increased, glial cell activation persists in aging. To understand this apparent contradiction, we studied TGFbeta1-Smad3 signaling during aging and their effect on microglial cell function. TGFbeta1 induction and activation of Smad3 signaling in the hippocampus by inflammatory stimulation was greatly reduced in adult mice. We evaluated the effect of TGFbeta1-Smad3 pathway on the regulation of nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) secretion, and  phagocytosis of microglia from mice at different ages with and without in vivo treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce an inflammatory status. NO secretion was only induced on microglia from young mice exposed to LPS, and was potentiated by inflammatory preconditioning, whereas in adult mice the induction  of ROS was predominant. TGFbeta1 modulated induction of NO and ROS production in  young and adult microglia, respectively. Modulation was partially dependent on Smad3 pathway and was impaired by inflammatory preconditioning. Phagocytosis was  induced by inflammation and TGFbeta1 only in microglia cultures from young mice.  Induction by TGFbeta1 was also prevented by Smad3 inhibition. Our findings suggest that activation of the TGFbeta1-Smad3 pathway is impaired in aging. Age-related impairment of TGFbeta1-Smad3 can reduce protective activation while facilitating cytotoxic activation of microglia, potentiating microglia-mediated neurodegeneration.
24379109: !Alzheimer 1,8-cineole (eucalyptol) mitigates inflammation in amyloid Beta toxicated PC12 cells: relevance to Alzheimer's disease. Inflammatory process has a fundamental role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and insoluble amyloid beta deposits and neurofibrillary tangles provide the obvious stimuli for inflammation. The present study demonstrate the effect of pretreatment of 1,8-cineole (Cin) on inflammation induced by Abeta(25-35) in differentiated PC12 cells. The cells were treated with Cin at different doses for 24 h and then replaced by media containing Abeta(25-35) for another 24 h. The cell viability was decreased in Abeta(25-35) treated cells which was significantly restored by Cin pretreatment. Cin successfully reduced the mitochondrial membrane potential, ROS and NO levels in Abeta(25-35) treated cells. Cin also lowered the levels of proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 in Abeta(25-35) treated cells. Moreover, Cin also succeeded in  lowering the expression of NOS-2, COX-2 and NF-kappaB. This study suggests the protective effects of Cin on inflammation and provides additional evidence for its potential beneficial use in therapy as an anti-inflammatory agent in neurodegenerative disease.
24378048: !Alzheimer [Patient with acute renal injury presenting dabigatran overdose: Hemodialysis for surgery]. Dabigatran is a direct thrombin inhibitor indicated for stroke and systemic embolism prevention in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. No reversal agent exists, but hemodialysis has been proposed as dabigatran removal method. We report a case of an 80-year-old man presenting hemorrhage with dabigatran overdose caused by obstructive acute renal failure. Before nephrostomy, several hemodialysis sessions were necessary to remove dabigatran probably because of its large volume of distribution.
24374923: !Alzheimer Immunochemical detection of lipid hydroperoxide- and aldehyde-modified proteins in diseases. Polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) is easily peroxidized by free radicals and enzymes. When this occurs, it results in the compromised integrity of cellular membranes and leads to lipid hydroperoxide as a major reaction product, which is  decomposed into aldehyde. Lipid hydroperoxide-modified lysine is known to be an early product of the lipid peroxidation process, suggesting that it might be a PUFA-oxidative stress marker during the initial stage of oxidative stress. Lipid  hydroperoxides cause or enhance ROS-mediated DNA fragmentation. The alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes are end products of PUFA peroxidation. They are  highly reactive and readily attack and modify the protein amino acid residues into aldehyde-modified proteins. Lipid peroxidation-derived alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes are capable of inducing cellular stress-responsive processes such as cell signaling and apoptosis. The lipid hydroperoxide- and aldehyde-modified proteins have been immunohistochemically detected in diverse pathological situations such as atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's  disease, Parkinson's disease, and chemical material-induced liver injury and renal tubular injury in humans and experimental animals. These findings suggest that the expression of the lipid hydroperoxide- and aldehyde-modified proteins is closely associated with the pathogenesis of these diseases in humans and experimental animals.
24374297: !Alzheimer Non-protein amino acids and neurodegeneration: the enemy within. Animals, in common with plants and microorganisms, synthesise proteins from a pool of 20 protein amino acids (plus selenocysteine and pyrolysine) (Hendrickson  et al., 2004). This represents a small proportion (~2%) of the total number of amino acids known to exist in nature (Bell, 2003). Many 'non-protein' amino acids are synthesised by plants, and in some cases constitute part of their chemical armoury against pathogens, predators or other species competing for the same resources (Fowden et al., 1967). Microorganisms can also use selectively toxic amino acids to gain advantage over competing organisms (Nunn et al., 2010). Since non-protein amino acids (and imino acids) are present in legumes, fruits, seeds and nuts, they are ubiquitous in the diets of human populations around the world. Toxicity to humans is unlikely to have been the selective force for their evolution, but they have the clear potential to adversely affect human health. In this review we explore the links between exposure to non-protein amino acids and  neurodegenerative disorders in humans. Environmental factors play a major role in these complex disorders which are predominantly sporadic (Coppede et al., 2006).  The discovery of new genes associated with neurodegenerative diseases, many of which code for aggregation-prone proteins, continues at a spectacular pace but little progress is being made in identifying the environmental factors that impact on these disorders. We make the case that insidious entry of non-protein amino acids into the human food chain and their incorporation into protein might  be contributing significantly to neurodegenerative damage.
24373826: !Alzheimer Ferulic acid: pharmacological and toxicological aspects. Ferulic acid (FA) belongs to the family of phenolic acids and is very abundant in fruits and vegetables. Over the past years, several studies have shown that FA acts as a potent antioxidant by scavenging free radicals and enhancing the cell stress response through the up-regulation of cytoprotective systems, e.g. heme oxygenase-1, heat shock protein 70, extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and the proto-oncogene Akt. Furthermore, FA was shown to inhibit the expression and/or activity of cytotoxic enzymes, including inducible nitric oxide synthase,  caspases and cyclooxygenase-2. Based on this evidence, FA has been proposed as a  potential treatment for many disorders including Alzheimer's disease, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus and skin disease. However, despite the great abundance of preclinical research, only a few studies were carried out in humans, the majority of which used foods containing FA, and therefore the clinical efficacy of this mode of administration needs to be further documented.  New efforts and resources are needed in clinical research for the complete evaluation of FA therapeutic potential in chronic diseases.
26237255: !Alzheimer Maternal Germinal Trisomy 21 in Down Syndrome. It has now been over 50 years since it was discovered that Down syndrome is caused by an extra chromosome 21, i.e., trisomy 21. In the interim, it has become clear that in the majority of cases, the extra chromosome is inherited from the mother, and there is, in this respect, a strong maternal age effect. Numerous investigations have been devoted to clarifying the underlying mechanism, most recently suggesting that this situation is exceedingly complex, involving both biological and environmental factors. On the other hand, it has also been proposed that germinal trisomy 21 mosaicism, arising during the very early stages of maternal oogenesis with accumulation of trisomy 21 germ cells during subsequent development, may be the main predisposing factor. We present data here on the incidence of trisomy 21 mosaicism in a cohort of normal fetal ovarian samples, indicating that an accumulation of trisomy 21 germ cells does indeed take place during fetal oogenesis, i.e., from the first to the second trimester of pregnancy. We presume that this accumulation of trisomy 21 (T21) cells is caused by their delay in maturation and lagging behind the normal cells. We further presume that this trend continues during the third trimester of pregnancy and postnatally, up until ovulation, thereby explaining the maternal age effect in Down syndrome.
25796851: !Alzheimer [The value of transendoscopy thermometry of gastric mucosa in the evaluation of blood flow in patients with osteoarthrosis and atherosclerosis by duplex ultrasound of extracranial brachiocephalic arteries]. The pathogenesis of gastric mucosa lesions in elderly and senile people has many  factors. It's based on contradiction between protective factors (mucus secretion, prostaglandins, bicarbonate, microcirculation, regeneration, etc.) and aggression factors (hydrochloric acid, pepsin, bile acids, pancreatic enzymes, bacteria). In addition, such important factors as neurohumoral disorders, nutrition and vascularization of the gastric mucosa have attached. The aim of the study was to  evaluate the possible relations between microcirculation and data of gastric mucosa transendoscopy thermometry in elderly and senile patients with atherosclerosis confirmed by duplex ultrasound of extracranial brachiocephalic arteries.
24366863: !Alzheimer Oxidation-induced structural changes of ceruloplasmin foster NGR motif deamidation that promotes integrin binding and signaling. Asparagine deamidation occurs spontaneously in proteins during aging; deamidation of Asn-Gly-Arg (NGR) sites can lead to the formation of isoAsp-Gly-Arg (isoDGR),  a motif that can recognize the RGD-binding site of integrins. Ceruloplasmin (Cp), a ferroxidase present in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), contains two NGR sites in its sequence: one exposed on the protein surface ((568)NGR) and the other buried  in the tertiary structure ((962)NGR). Considering that Cp can undergo oxidative modifications in the CSF of neurodegenerative diseases, we investigated the effect of oxidation on the deamidation of both NGR motifs and, consequently, on the acquisition of integrin binding properties. We observed that the exposed (568)NGR site can deamidate under conditions mimicking accelerated Asn aging. In  contrast, the hidden (962)NGR site can deamidate exclusively when aging occurs under oxidative conditions, suggesting that oxidation-induced structural changes  foster deamidation at this site. NGR deamidation in Cp was associated with gain of integrin-binding function, intracellular signaling, and cell pro-adhesive activity. Finally, Cp aging in the CSF from Alzheimer disease patients, but not in control CSF, causes Cp deamidation with gain of integrin-binding function, suggesting that this transition might also occur in pathological conditions. In conclusion, both Cp NGR sites can deamidate during aging under oxidative conditions, likely as a consequence of oxidative-induced structural changes, thereby promoting a gain of function in integrin binding, signaling, and cell adhesion.
24363376: !Alzheimer JEPETTO: a Cytoscape plugin for gene set enrichment and topological analysis based on interaction networks. SUMMARY: JEPETTO (Java Enrichment of Pathways Extended To TOpology) is a Cytoscape 3.x plugin performing integrative human gene set analysis. It identifies functional associations between genes and known cellular pathways, and processes using protein interaction networks and topological analysis. The plugin integrates information from three separate web servers we published previously, specializing in enrichment analysis, pathways expansion and topological matching. This integration substantially simplifies the analysis of user gene sets and the  interpretation of the results. We demonstrate the utility of the JEPETTO plugin on a set of misregulated genes associated with Alzheimer's disease. AVAILABILITY: Source code and binaries are freely available for download at http://apps.cytoscape.org/apps/jepetto, implemented in Java and multi-platform. Installable directly via Cytoscape plugin manager. Released under the GNU General Public Licence.
24361548: !Alzheimer Immunogenicity of epitope vaccines targeting different B cell antigenic determinants of human alpha-synuclein: feasibility study. Immunotherapeutic approaches reducing alpha-synuclein deposits may provide therapeutic benefit for Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB). Immunization with full-length human alpha-synuclein (halpha-Syn) protein in a Parkinson's disease mouse model decreased the accumulation of the aggregated forms of this protein in neurons and reduced neurodegeneration. To enhance the immunogenicity of candidate vaccines and to avoid the risk of autoreactive anti-halpha-Syn T-helper (Th) cell responses, we generated three peptide-based epitope vaccines composed of different B-cell epitopes of halpha-Syn fused with a "non-self" Th epitope from tetanus toxin (P30). Immunization of mice with these epitope vaccines produced high titers of anti-halpha-Syn antibodies that bound to Lewy bodies (LBs) and Lewy neurites (LNs) in brain tissue from DLB cases and induced robust Th cell responses to P30, but not to halpha-Syn. Further development of these first generation epitope vaccines may facilitate induction of anti-halpha-Syn immunotherapy without producing potentially harmful autoreactive Th cell responses.
24360558: !Alzheimer Synthesis of long-chain fatty acid derivatives as a novel anti-Alzheimer's agent. In order to develop new drugs for Alzheimer's disease, we prepared 17 fatty acid  derivatives with different chain lengths and different numbers and positions of double bonds by using Wittig reaction and stereospecific hydrogenation of triple  bonds as key reactions. Among them, (4Z,15Z)-octadecadienoic acid (10) and (23Z,34Z)-heptatriacontadienoic acid (16) showed the most potent neurite outgrowth activities on Abeta(25-35)-treated rat cortical neurons, which activities were comparable to that of a positive control, NGF. Both fatty acids 10 and 16 possess two (Z)-double bonds at the n-3 and n-14 positions, which might be important for the neurite outgrowth activity.
24359503: !Alzheimer Regulator of calcineurin 1 gene transcription is regulated by nuclear factor-kappaB. Regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1) has been implicated in pathogenesis of neurodegeneration and various cancers. Recently, we showed that RCAN1 expression  was elevated in Down Syndrome and Alzheimer's disease and its expression transpose over induced neuronal apoptosis. As NF-kappaB is an important transcription factor involved in cell survival and RCAN1 played vital roles in cell viability, we examined whether NF-kappaB regulates RCAN1 gene expression. Our results here showed that the RCAN1 isoform 4 gene transcription can be activated by NF-kappaB signaling. NF-kappaB activated RCAN1 isoform 4 gene promoter. Luciferase assay, electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and chromatin immunoprecipitation identified a NF-kappaB responsive element in the region of -576-554bp of the RCAN1 isoform 4 promoter. Activation of RCAN1 gene expression by NF-kappaB is independent from the calcineurin-NFAT signaling since  the NF-kappaB responsive element was distinct from the NFAT binding sites that was previously identified in the region of -350-166bp. Indeed, activation of calcineurin-NFAT signaling decreased NF-kappaB transcriptional activity, while activation of NF-kappaB elevated NFAT transcriptional activity. RCAN1 isoform 4 gene transcription was repressed by its own protein expression in a negative feedback loop. Our findings about RCAN1 gene transcription regulated by NF-kappaB further supported the vital roles of RCAN1 in cellular functions and its involvement in AD pathogenesis.
24345324: !Alzheimer Complex regulation of acute and chronic neuroinflammatory responses in mouse models deficient for nuclear factor kappa B p50 subunit. Inflammation is a major mechanism of acute brain injury and chronic neurodegeneration. This neuroinflammation is known to be substantially regulated  by the transcription factor NF-kappaB, which is predominantly found in the form of heterodimer of p65 (RelA) and p50 subunit, with p50/p50 homodimers being also  common. The p65 subunit has a transactivation domain, whereas p50 is chiefly involved in DNA binding. Binding of the p65/p50 heterodimers is thought to induce expression of numerous proinflammatory genes in microglia. Here we show that cultured microglia deficient for the gene (Nfkb1) encoding p50 subunit show reduced induction of proinflammatory mediators, increased expression of anti-inflammatory genes, and increased expression of CD45, an immunoregulatory molecule, in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure, but increased capacity to take up beta-amyloid (Abeta) which is associated with enhanced release of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha). However, Nfkb1 deficiency strongly increases leukocyte infiltration and the expression of proinflammatory genes in response to intrahippocampal administration of LPS. Also, when crossing  Nfkb1 deficient mice with APdE9 transgenic mice the expression of proinflammatory genes was strongly enhanced, whereas Abeta burden was slightly but significantly  reduced. These alterations in expression of inflammatory mediators in Nfkb1 deficient mice were associated with reduced expression of CD45. Our data demonstrates a crucial and complex role p50 subunit of NF-kappaB in brain inflammation, especially in regulating the phenotype of microglia after acute and chronic inflammatory insults relevant to clinical conditions, contributing to both pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory responses of microglia, infiltration  of leukocytes, and clearance of Abeta in Alzheimer's disease.
24345046: !Alzheimer Resveratrol in peanuts. Peanuts are important dietary food source of resveratrol with potent antioxidant  properties implicated in reducing risk of cancer, cardiovascular and Alzheimer's  disease, and delaying aging. Resveratrol is a naturally occurring stilbene phytoalexin phenolic compound produced in response to a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses. This paper is a review of trans-resveratrol and related stilbenes from peanuts--their chemical structures, mechanisms for their biosynthesis, and concentrations in comparison with other major food sources. It  will also discuss trans-resveratrol's absorption, bioavailability, and major health benefits; processes to enhance their biosynthesis in peanuts by biotic and abiotic stresses; process optimization for enhanced levels in peanuts and their potential food applications; and methods used for its extraction and analysis.
24344333: !Alzheimer ApoER2 processing by presenilin-1 modulates reelin expression. The reelin signaling protein and its downstream components have been associated with synaptic plasticity and neurotransmission. The reelin signaling pathway begins with the binding of reelin to the transmembrane lipoprotein receptor apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2), which in turns induces the sequential cleavage of ApoER2 by the sequential action of alpha- and gamma-secretases. Using conditional-knockout mice of the catalytic component of the gamma-secretase complex, presenilin 1 (PS1), we demonstrated increased brain ApoER2 and reelin protein and transcript levels, with no changes in the number of reelin-positive cells. Using the human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line, we showed that ApoER2 processing occurs in the presence of PS1, producing an intracellular ApoER2 C-terminal fragment. In addition, the pharmacologic inhibition of gamma-secretase in SH-SY5Y cells led to increased reelin levels. Overexpression of ApoER2 decreased reelin mRNA levels in these cells. A luciferase reporter gene assay and nuclear fractionation confirmed that increased amounts of intracellular fragment  of ApoER2 suppressed reelin expression at a transcriptional level. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments corroborated that the intracellular fragment of ApoER2 bound to the RELN promoter region. Our study suggests that PS1/gamma-secretase-dependent processing of the reelin receptor ApoER2 inhibits reelin expression and may regulate its signaling.
24343761: !Alzheimer Safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of the novel gamma-secretase modulator, E2212, in healthy human subjects. E2212, a novel gamma-secretase modulator, is under development for the treatment  of Alzheimer's disease. The safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of single ascending oral doses (10-250 mg, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized) of E2212 were evaluated. In this phase I clinical trial, E2212 was found to be well tolerated in single doses. Maximum tolerated dose was not achieved up to 250 mg. Most AEs were mild to moderate in severity with no identifiable dose related pattern. There were no clinically significant findings on physical and ophthalmologic examinations as well as vital signs, laboratory, ECG and C-SSRS assessments. E2212 was rapidly absorbed, with median tmax values ranging from 0.5 to 1.0 h. E2212 exhibited biphasic disposition with  the terminal t1/2 of 12.5-19.0 h. Renal excretion was the minor pathway for E2212 elimination. Increased PD response (reduction in plasma concentrations of Abeta(x-42)) was observed with increasing doses. The maximum PD response was observed in the highest dose 250 mg cohort, with DeltaAUAC(0-24 h) of 44.1% and Amax of 53.6%. These results support further clinical development of E2212.
24333375: !Alzheimer Effects of chemokine receptor signalling on cognition-like, emotion-like and sociability behaviours of CCR6 and CCR7 knockout mice. Inflammation is regarded as an important mechanism of neuropsychiatric disorders. Chemokines, which are a part of the immune system, have effects on various aspects of brain function, but little is known about their effects on behaviour.  We have compared the cognition-like behaviour (learning and spatial memory) of CCR6(-/-) and CCR7(-/-) mice with wild type (WT) C57BL/6 mice, in the Barnes maze, as well as a range of other behaviours, including exploratory, anxiety and  depression-like behaviour, using a battery of tests. Levels of cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 were also measured. In the Barnes maze, CCR7(-/-) mice were shown to take longer to learn the location of the escape box on the 1st of 4 days of training. In the behavioural battery, CCR6(-/-) mice showed higher locomotor activity and lower anxiety in the open field test, and a lack of preference for social novelty in a sociability test. CCR7(-/-) mice behaved much  like WT mice, although showed higher anxiety in Elevated Zero Maze. While baseline saccharin preference in a 2-bottle choice test, a test for anhedonia depression-like behaviour, was equal in all strains at baseline, weekly tests showed that both CCR6(-/-) and CCR7(-/-) mice developed a decreased preference for saccharin compared to WT over time. There were no differences between strains in any of the cytokines measured. These results suggest that chemokine receptors  may play a role in cognition and learning behaviour, as well as anxiety and other behaviours, although the biological mechanisms are still unclear.
24327518: !Alzheimer Inhibition of GSK-3 induces differentiation and impaired glucose metabolism in renal cancer. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), a constitutively active serine/threonine kinase, is a key regulator of numerous cellular processes ranging from glycogen metabolism to cell-cycle regulation and proliferation. Consistent with its involvement in many pathways, it has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of  various human diseases, including type II diabetes, Alzheimer disease, bipolar disorder, inflammation, and cancer. Consequently, it is recognized as an attractive target for the development of new drugs. In the present study, we investigated the effect of both pharmacologic and genetic inhibition of GSK-3 in  two different renal cancer cell lines. We have shown potent antiproliferative activity of 9-ING-41, a maleimide-based GSK-3 inhibitor. The antiproliferative activity is most likely caused by G(0)-G(1) and G(2)-M phase arrest as evident from cell-cycle analysis. We have established that inhibition of GSK-3 imparted a differentiated phenotype in renal cancer cells. We have also shown that GSK-3 inhibition induced autophagy, likely as a result of imbalanced energy homeostasis caused by impaired glucose metabolism. In addition, we have demonstrated the antitumor activity of 9-ING-41 in two different subcutaneous xenograft renal cell carcinoma tumor models. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing autophagy induction due to GSK-3 inhibition in renal cancer cells.
24323769: !Alzheimer Membrane-type 1 metalloproteinase is upregulated in microglia/brain macrophages in neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory diseases. We previously reported that glioma cells induce the expression of membrane-type 1 metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP or MMP-14) in tumor-associated microglia/macrophages and promote tumor growth, whereas MMP-14 expression in microglia under physiological conditions is very low. Here, we show that the increase in MMP-14 expression is also found in microglia/macrophages associated with neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory pathologies in mouse models as well as in human biopsies or post-mortem tissue. We found that microglial/macrophage MMP-14  expression was upregulated in Alzheimer's disease tissue, in active lesions of multiple sclerosis, and in tissue from stage II stroke as well as in the corresponding mouse models for the human diseases. In contrast, we observed no upregulation for MMP-14 in microglia/macrophages in the early phase of stroke or  in the corresponding mouse model, in human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) tissue or in a mouse model of ALS as well as in human cases of acute brain trauma. These data indicate that MMP-14 expression is not a general marker for activated microglia/macrophages but is upregulated in defined stages of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases and that there is generally a good match between mouse models and human brain pathologies.
24316057: !Alzheimer MAM (mitochondria-associated membranes) in mammalian cells: lipids and beyond. One mechanism by which communication between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondria is achieved is by close juxtaposition between these organelles via mitochondria-associated membranes (MAM). The MAM consist of a region of the ER that is enriched in several lipid biosynthetic enzyme activities and becomes reversibly tethered to mitochondria. Specific proteins are localized, sometimes transiently, in the MAM. Several of these proteins have been implicated in tethering the MAM to mitochondria. In mammalian cells, formation of these contact sites between MAM and mitochondria appears to be required for key cellular events including the transport of calcium from the ER to mitochondria, the import of phosphatidylserine into mitochondria from the ER for decarboxylation to phosphatidylethanolamine, the formation of autophagosomes, regulation of the morphology, dynamics and functions of mitochondria, and cell survival. This review focuses on the functions proposed for MAM in mediating these events in mammalian cells. In light of the apparent involvement of MAM in multiple fundamental cellular processes, recent studies indicate that impaired contact between MAM and mitochondria might underlie the pathology of several human neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, MAM has been implicated in modulating glucose homeostasis and insulin resistance, as well as in some viral infections.
24315728: !Alzheimer Age and duration of inflammatory environment differentially affect the neuroimmune response and catecholaminergic neurons in the midbrain and brainstem. Neuroinflammation and degeneration of ascending catecholaminergic systems occur early in the neurodegenerative process. Age and the duration of a pro-inflammatory environment induced by continuous intraventricular lipopolysaccharide (LPS) differentially affect the expression profile of pro- and anti-inflammatory genes and proteins as well as the number of activated microglia (express major histocompatibility complex II; MHC II) and the integrity and density of ascending catecholaminergic neural systems originating from the locus  coeruleus (LC) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) in rats. LPS infusion increased gene expression and/or protein levels for both pro- and anti-inflammatory biomarkers. Although LPS infusion stimulated a robust increase  in IL-1ss gene and protein expression, this increase was blunted with age. LPS infusion also increased the density of activated microglia cells throughout the midbrain and brainstem. Corresponding to the development of a pro-inflammatory environment, LC and SNpc neurons immunopositive for tyrosine-hydroxylase (the rate-limiting synthetic enzyme for dopamine and norepinephrine) decreased in number, along with a decrease in tyrosine-hydroxylase gene expression in the midbrain and/or brainstem region. Our data support the concept that continuous exposure to a pro-inflammatory environment drives exaggerated changes in the production and release of inflammatory mediators that interact with age to impair functional capacity of the SNpc and LC.
24311544: !Alzheimer Plant polyphenols in the treatment of age-associated diseases: revealing the pleiotropic effects of icariin by network analysis. Polyphenols are a broad class of compounds. Some are ingested in substantial quantities from nutritional sources, more are produced by medicinal plants, and some of them are taken as drugs. It is becoming clear, that a single polyphenol is impacting several cellular pathways. Thus, a network approach is becoming feasible, describing the interaction of a single polyphenol with cellular networks. Here we have selected icariin to draw a prototypic network of icariin activities. Icariin appears to be a promising drug to treat major age-related diseases, like neurodegeneration, memory and depressive disorders, chronic inflammation, diabetes, and osteoporosis. It interacts with several relevant pathways, like PDE, TGF-ss, MAPK, PPAR, NOS, IGF, Sirtuin, and others. Such networks will be useful to future comparative studies of complex effects of polyphenols.
24309505: !Alzheimer Concise and high-yield synthesis of T808 and T808P for radiosynthesis of [(18)F]-T808, a PET tau tracer for Alzheimer's disease. The authentic standard T808 and its corresponding mesylate precursor T808P were synthesized in six steps using ethyl vinyl ether and trichlorocetyl chloride as starting materials. The overall chemical yields of T808 and T808P were 35% and 52%, respectively. [(18)F]-T808 was synthesized from T808P by the nucleophilic substitution with K[(18)F]F/Kryptofix 2.2.2 and isolated by HPLC combined with solid-phase extraction (SPE) purification in 35-45% radiochemical yield with 37-370GBq/mumol specific activity at end of bombardment (EOB).
24296976: !Alzheimer Association of metabolically healthy obesity with depressive symptoms: pooled analysis of eight studies. The hypothesis of metabolically healthy obesity posits that adverse health effects of obesity are largely avoided when obesity is accompanied by a favorable metabolic profile. We tested this hypothesis with depressive symptoms as the outcome using cross-sectional data on obesity, metabolic health and depressive symptoms. Data were extracted from eight studies and pooled for individual-participant meta-analysis with 30,337 men and women aged 15-105 years  (mean age=46.1). Clinic measures included height, weight and metabolic risk factors (high blood pressure, high triglycerides, low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high C-reactive protein and high glycated hemoglobin). Depressive symptoms were assessed using clinical interview or standardized rating scales. The pooled sample comprised 7673 (25%) obese participants (body mass index 30 kg  m(-2)). Compared to all non-obese individuals, the OR for depressive symptoms was higher in metabolically unhealthy obese individuals with two or more metabolic risk factors (1.45; 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.30, 1.61) and for metabolically healthy obese with 1 metabolic risk factor (1.19; 95% CI=1.03, 1.37), adjusted for sex, age and race/ethnicity. Metabolically unhealthy obesity  was associated with higher depression risk (OR=1.23; 95% CI=1.05, 1.45) compared  with metabolically healthy obesity. These associations were consistent across studies with no evidence for heterogeneity in estimates (all I(2)-values<4%). In  conclusion, obese persons with a favorable metabolic profile have a slightly increased risk of depressive symptoms compared with non-obese, but the risk is greater when obesity is combined with an adverse metabolic profile. These findings suggest that metabolically healthy obesity is not a completely benign condition in relation to depression risk.
24296089: !Alzheimer Eucommia ulmoides Oliv.: ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry and pharmacology of an important traditional Chinese medicine. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Eucommia ulmoides Oliv. (Family Eucommiaceae), also known as Du-zhong (Chinese: ), Tuchong (in Japanese), is the sole species of the genus Eucommia. The leaf, stem, and bark as well as staminate flower of Eucommia ulmoides have been traditionally used to cure many diseases in China, Japan, Korea, among others. The aim of this review is to comprehensively outline  the botanical description, ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, biological activities, and toxicology of Eucommia ulmoides and to discuss possible trends for further study of Eucommia ulmoides. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information on Eucommia ulmoides was gathered via the internet (using Pub Med, Elsevier, Baidu Scholar, Google Scholar, Medline Plus, ACS, CNKI, and Web of Science) and from books in local libraries. RESULTS: One-hundred twelve compounds of Eucommia ulmoides, including the main active constituents, lignans and iridoids, have been isolated and identified. In vitro and in vivo studies indicated that monomer compounds and extracts from Eucommia ulmoides possess wide-ranging pharmacological actions, especially in treating hypertension, hyperlipemia, diabetes, obesity, sexual dysfunction, osteoporosis, Alzheimer's disease, aging,  lupus-like syndrome, and immunoregulation. CONCLUSIONS: Eucommia ulmoides has been used as a source of traditional medicine and as a beneficial health food. Phytochemical and pharmacological studies of Eucommia ulmoides have received much interest, and extracts and active compounds continue to be isolated and proven to exert various effects. Further toxicity and clinical studies are warranted to establish more detailed data on crude extracts and pure compounds, enabling more  convenient preparations for patients. Therefore, this review on the ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, biological activities, and toxicity of Eucommia ulmoides will provide helpful data for further studies as well as the commercial exploitation of this traditional medicine.
24293237: !Alzheimer Proteome characterization of splenocytes from an Abetapp/ps-1 Alzheimer's disease model. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the sixth leading cause of US deaths. In addition to  neurodegenerative deficits in AD, changes in the immune system have also been observed. Proteomic analysis of specific immune cell populations may help gain insights into mechanisms of peripheral immunity in AD. Herein, we report proteome characterization for two subsets of splenocytes (i.e. CD90+ cells and a heterogeneous pool of CD90- cells) from a double transgenic mutant amyloid precursor protein/presenilin-1 (Abetapp/ps-1) AD mouse model. Overall, 906 proteins were identified from both cell types with 275 and 334 proteins uniquely  identified as CD90+ and CD90- cells, respectively. Proteins identified in CD90+ and CD90- cells were significantly involved in 18 and 19 KEGG pathways, respectively. Amongst these, pathways associated with AD and antigen processing and presentation were identified in CD90+ and CD90- subsets, respectively. This is the first study to provide a reference proteome map for splenocyte populations in Abetapp/ps-1 double transgenic mice which will be helpful for future studies focused on understanding peripheral changes in this model. All MS data have been  deposited in the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000203 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD000203).
24293102: !Alzheimer Regulation of neurotropic signaling by the inducible, NF-kB-sensitive miRNA-125b  in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in primary human neuronal-glial (HNG) cells. Inducible microRNAs (miRNAs) perform critical regulatory roles in central nervous system (CNS) development, aging, health, and disease. Using miRNA arrays, RNA sequencing, enhanced Northern dot blot hybridization technologies, Western immunoblot, and bioinformatics analysis, we have studied miRNA abundance and complexity in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain tissues compared to age-matched controls. In both short post-mortem AD and in stressed primary human neuronal-glial (HNG) cells, we observe a consistent up-regulation of several brain-enriched miRNAs that are under transcriptional control by the pro-inflammatory transcription factor NF-kB. These include miRNA-9, miRNA-34a, miRNA-125b, miRNA-146a, and miRNA-155. Of the inducible miRNAs in this subfamily, miRNA-125b is among the most abundant and significantly induced miRNA species in  human brain cells and tissues. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that an up-regulated miRNA-125b could potentially target the 3'untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding (a) a 15-lipoxygenase (15-LOX; ALOX15; chr 17p13.3), utilized in the conversion of docosahexaneoic acid into neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), and (b) the vitamin D3 receptor (VDR; VD3R; chr12q13.11) of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily. 15-LOX and VDR are key  neuromolecular factors essential in lipid-mediated signaling, neurotrophic support, defense against reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (reactive oxygen and nitrogen species), and neuroprotection in the CNS. Pathogenic effects appear  to be mediated via specific interaction of miRNA-125b with the 3'-UTR region of the 15-LOX and VDR messenger RNAs (mRNAs). In AD hippocampal CA1 and in stressed  HNG cells, 15-LOX and VDR down-regulation and a deficiency in neurotrophic support may therefore be explained by the actions of a single inducible, pro-inflammatory miRNA-125b. We will review the recent data on the pathogenic actions of this up-regulated miRNA-125b in AD and discuss potential therapeutic approaches using either anti-NF-kB or anti-miRNA-125b strategies. These may be of clinical relevance in the restoration of 15-LOX and VDR expression back to control levels and the re-establishment of homeostatic neurotrophic signaling in  the CNS.
24291721: !Alzheimer Adduct formation in liquid chromatography-triple quadrupole mass spectrometric measurement of bryostatin 1. Bryostatin 1, a potential anti-Alzheimer drug, is effective at subnanomolar concentrations. Measurement is complicated by the formation of low m/z degradation products and the formation of adducts with various cations, which make accurate quantitation difficult. Adduct formation caused the sample matrix or mobile phase to partition bryostatin 1 into products of different mass. Degradation of the 927 [M+Na](+) ion to a 869m/z product was strongly influenced  by ionization conditions. We validated a bryostatin 1 assay in biological tissues using capillary column HPLC with nanospray ionization (NSI) in a triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer in selected reaction monitoring (SRM) mode. Adduct formation was controlled by adding 1mM acetic acid and 0.1mM sodium acetate to the HPLC buffer, maximizing the formation of the [M+Na](+) ion. Efficient removal of contaminating cholesterol from the sample during solvent extraction was also critical. The increased sensitivity provided by NSI and capillary-bore columns and the elimination of signal partitioning due to adduct formation and degradation in the ionization source enabled a detection limit of 1x10(-18)mol of bryostatin 1 and a LLOQ of 3x10(-18)mol from 1mul of sample. Bryostatin 1 at low pmol/l concentrations enabled measurement in brain and other  tissues without the use of radioactive labels. Despite bryostatin 1's high molecular weight, considerable brain access was observed, with peak brain concentrations exceeding 8% of the peak blood plasma concentrations. Bryostatin 1 readily crosses the blood-brain barrier, reaching peak concentrations of 0.2nM, and specifically activates and translocates brain PKCvarepsilon.
24291393: !Alzheimer Effects of C-glycosylation on anti-diabetic, anti-Alzheimer's disease and anti-inflammatory potential of apigenin. Apigenin has gained particular interests in recent years as a beneficial and health promoting agent because of its low intrinsic toxicity. Vitexin and isovitexin, naturally occurring C-glycosylated derivatives of apigenin, have been known to possess potent anti-diabetic, anti-Alzheimer's disease (anti-AD), and anti-inflammatory activities. The present study was designed to investigate the anti-diabetic, anti-AD, and anti-inflammatory potential of apigenin and its two C-glycosylated derivatives, vitexin and isovitexin by in vitro assays including rat lens aldose reductase (RLAR), human recombinant aldose reductase (HRAR), advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs), protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B), acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), beta-site amyloid precursor (APP) cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), and nitric oxide (NO), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 cells. Among them, isovitexin was found as the most potent inhibitor against RLAR, HRAR, AGE, AChE, and BChE while vitexin showed the most potent PTP1B inhibitory activity. Despite the relatively weak anti-diabetic  and anti-AD potentials, apigenin showed powerful antiinflammatory activity by inhibiting NO production and iNOS and COX-2 expression while vitexin and isovitexin were inactive. Therefore, it could be speculated that C-glycosylation  of apigenin at different positions might be closely linked to relative intensity  of anti-diabetic, anti-AD, and anti-inflammatory potentials.
24291096: !Alzheimer Ryanodine receptors as leak channels. Ryanodine receptors are Ca(2+) release channels of internal stores. This review focuses on those situations and conditions that transform RyRs from a finely regulated ion channel to an unregulated Ca(2+) leak channel and the pathological  consequences of this alteration. In skeletal muscle, mutations in either CaV1.1 channel or RyR1 results in a leaky behavior of the latter. In heart cells, RyR2 functions normally as a Ca(2+) leak channel during diastole within certain limits, the enhancement of this activity leads to arrhythmogenic situations that  are tackled with different pharmacological strategies. In smooth muscle, RyRs are involved more in reducing excitability than in stimulating contraction so the leak activity of RyRs in the form of Ca(2+) sparks, locally activates Ca(2+)-dependent potassium channels to reduce excitability. In neurons the enhanced activity of RyRs is associated with the development of different neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer and Huntington diseases. It appears then that the activity of RyRs as leak channels can have both physiological and pathological consequences depending on the cell type and the metabolic condition.
24290604: !Alzheimer Genistein antagonizes inflammatory damage induced by beta-amyloid peptide in microglia through TLR4 and NF-kappaB. OBJECTIVES: Microglia activation and neuroinflammation have been associated with  the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB-mediated signal pathways exert key modulating roles in the inflammatory processes. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether genistein (Gen) has a neuroprotective effect against inflammatory damage induced by beta-amyloid peptide25-35 (Abeta25-35) through the TLR4 and NF-kappaB-mediated signal pathways. METHODS: BV-2 microglia cells were preincubated with Gen for 2 h and then treated with 25  muM Abeta25-35 for another 24 h. The expression of inflammatory mediators, TLR4 and NF-kappaB and the activity of NF-kappaB were measured. RESULTS: The results showed that Gen could attenuate the cytotoxicity and inflammatory damage induced  by Abeta25-35. Gen also significantly reversed Abeta25-35-induced up-regulation of TLR4 and NF-kappaB expression and the DNA binding and transcriptional activities of NF-kappaB. CONCLUSION: These results indicated that Gen could alleviate the inflammation caused by Abeta25-35 treatment, which might be associated with the regulation of the TLR4/NF-kappaB signal pathway.
24283221: !Alzheimer MicroRNA-323-3p with clinical potential in rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer's disease and ectopic pregnancy. INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a group of noncoding RNAs, approximately 20  - 22 nucleotides in length, that repress target gene expression through mRNA degradation and translation inhibition. The gene encoding miR-323-3p, which is a  biomarker in immune and inflammatory responses, exists in a miRNA cluster in chromosomal region 14q32.31. It has been shown that miR-323-3p associates with the pathogenesis of several diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer's disease and ectopic pregnancy. AREAS COVERED: This review provides a current view on the association of miR-323-3p with several human diseases and is focused on the recent studies of miR-323-3p regulation, discussing its potential as an epigenetic biomarker and therapeutic target for these diseases. In particular, the mechanisms of miR-323-3p in these diseases and how miR-323-3p is regulated are also discussed. EXPERT OPINION: Although the exact role of miR-323-3p in these diseases has not been fully elucidated, targeting miR-323-3p may serve as a promising therapy strategy.
24275679: !Alzheimer The impact of pre-analytical variables on the stability of neurofilament proteins in CSF, determined by a novel validated SinglePlex Luminex assay and ELISA. BACKGROUND: Neurofilament (Nf) proteins have been shown to be promising biomarkers for monitoring and predicting disease progression for various neurological diseases. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of pre-analytical variables on the concentration of neurofilament heavy (NfH) and neurofilament light (NfL) proteins. METHODS: For NfH an in-house newly-developed  and validated SinglePlex Luminex assay was used; ELISA was used to analyze NfL. RESULTS: For the NfL ELISA assay, the intra- and inter-assay variation was respectively, 1.5% and 16.7%. Analytical performance of the NfH SinglePlex Luminex assay in terms of sensitivity (6.6pg/mL), recovery in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (between 90 and 104%), linearity (from 6.6-1250pg/mL), and inter- and intra-assay variation (<8%) were good. Concentrations of both NfL and NfH appeared not negatively affected by blood contamination, repeated freeze-thaw cycles (up to 4), delayed processing (up to 24hours) and during long-term storage at -20 degrees C, 4 degrees C, and room temperature. A decrease in concentration  was observed during storage of both neurofilament proteins up to 21days at 37 degrees C, which was significant by day 5. CONCLUSIONS: The newly developed NfH SinglePlex Luminex assay has a good sensitivity and is robust. Moreover, both NfH and NfL are stable under the most prevalent pre-analytical variations.
24274269: !Alzheimer Ultrahigh resolution mass spectrometry-based metabolic characterization reveals cerebellum as a disturbed region in two animal models. In the previous reports about cognitive dysfunction, cerebellum was thought to be a less affected tissue by genetic or environmental alterations in comparison to other tissues in the brain including hippocampus under the same conditions. In this work, we investigated two types of metabolomic alterations inside the cerebellum tissue. The first one addressed the differences in the metabolomics profiles between Transgenic (Tg) CRND8 of Alzheimer's disease mice and non-transgenic (non-Tg) littermates. The second one addressed the metabolic differences between wild type mice exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and wild type mice which are not exposed to this toxic compound. For these two investigations, ultrahigh resolution Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (FT-ICR/MS) was implemented. As a result, the significant changes of each comparison were tentatively annotated by the high mass accuracy generated from the measurements in the negative ion mode. The biosynthesis of amino acids was also enhanced pronouncedly, and perturbation of purine metabolism was also observed in Tg mice compared to non-Tg littermates. In another animal model, the reduced levels of amino acids were found whereas the intermediate levels in purine metabolism and fatty acids including fatty acid conjugated metabolites were elevated in cerebellar tissues of mice exposed to TCDD compared to control group. Collectively, it was demonstrated that FT-ICR/MS  was a powerful tool for interpretation of the elemental compositions of the peaks, revealing that the metabolic perturbations in cerebellar tissues of mice were induced by either genetic manipulation or environmental factor. Therefore, the non-targeted approach, alternatively, provides various metabolic phenotypes for the systems-level mirror of the complex etiology of neurotoxicity in the cerebellum.
24274264: !Alzheimer Label-free voltammetric detection of MicroRNAs at multi-channel screen printed array of electrodes comparison to graphite sensors. The multi-channel screen-printed array of electrodes (MUX-SPE16) was used in our  study for the first time for electrochemical monitoring of nucleic acid hybridization related to different miRNA sequences (miRNA-16, miRNA-15a and miRNA-660, i.e, the biomarkers for Alzheimer disease). The MUX-SPE16 was also used for the first time herein for the label-free electrochemical detection of nucleic acid hybridization combined magnetic beads (MB) assay in comparison to the disposable pencil graphite electrode (PGE). Under the principle of the magnetic beads assay, the biotinylated inosine substituted DNA probe was firstly  immobilized onto streptavidin coated MB, and then, the hybridization process between probe and its complementary miRNA sequence was performed at MB surface. The voltammetric transduction was performed using differential pulse voltammetry  (DPV) technique in combination with the single-use graphite sensor technologies;  PGE and MUX-SPE16 for miRNA detection by measuring the guanine oxidation signal without using any external indicator. The features of single-use sensor technologies, PGE and MUX-SPE16, were discussed concerning to their reproducibility, detection limit, and selectivity compared to the results in the  earlier studies presenting the electrochemical miRNA detection related to different miRNA sequences.
24262988: !Alzheimer Evaluation of blood-brain barrier and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier permeability of 2-phenoxy-indan-1-one derivatives using in vitro cell models. 2-Phenoxy-indan-1-one derivatives (PIOs) are a series of novel central-acting cholinesterase inhibitors for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The adequate distribution of PIOs to the central nervous system (CNS) is essential for its effectiveness. However, articles related with their permeability in terms of CNS penetration across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier (BCSFB) have not been found. This study was undertaken to evaluate  the in vitro BBB and BCSFB transport of PIOs using Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK), MDCK-MDR1 and Z310 cell line models. As a result, the transepithelial transport of PIOs did not differ between MDCK and MDCK-MDR1, and the result suggested that PIOs were not substrates for P-gp, which means that multidrug resistance (MDR) function would not affect PIOs absorption and brain distribution. High permeability of PIOs in Z310 was found and it suggested that PIOs had high brain uptake potential. The experiment also showed that PIOs had inhibitory effects on the MDR1-mediated transport of Rhodamine123 with an IC50 value of 40-54 muM. And we suggested that 5,6-dimethoxy-1-indanone might be the pharmacophoric moiety of PIOs that interacts with the binding site of P-gp.
24249638: !Alzheimer Amyloid precursor protein alpha- and beta-cleaved ectodomains exert opposing control of cholesterol homeostasis via SREBP2. Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is ubiquitously expressed. Studies in neuronal cells have implicated APP or its fragments as negative regulators of cholesterol  metabolism. In the current study, APP acted, via its alpha-cleavage, as a positive regulator of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-2 (SREBP2) signaling in human astrocytic cells (U251MG), hepatic cells (HepG2), and primary  fibroblasts, leading to an approximate 30% increase in SRE-dependent gene expression and, consequently, enhanced cholesterol biosynthesis and LDL receptor  levels. This effect was mediated via the secretory ectodomain APPsalpha. The beta-cleaved ectodomain, in turn, repressed SRE-dependent gene expression by up to approximately 30%. This resulted in decreased cholesterol synthesis and LDL receptor content, establishing a physiological feedback loop in cholesterol-loaded cells, where APP undergoes preferential beta-cleavage. Patients with familial Alzheimer's disease had decreased circulating lathosterol, reflecting hepatic cholesterol synthesis, and their fibroblasts had reduced LDL receptor content, which was alleviated by decreasing beta-cleavage. These results show that APP regulates cholesterol metabolism in cells relevant for whole-body cholesterol balance and reveal that APP alpha- and beta-cleavages produce opposing paracrine regulators of SREBP2 signaling.
24247244: !Alzheimer A new paradigm for enzymatic control of alpha-cleavage and beta-cleavage of the prion protein. The cellular form of the prion protein (PrP(C)) is found in both full-length and  several different cleaved forms in vivo. Although the precise functions of the PrP(C) proteolytic products are not known, cleavage between the unstructured N-terminal domain and the structured C-terminal domain at Lys-109 downward arrowHis-110 (mouse sequence), termed alpha-cleavage, has been shown to produce the anti-apoptotic N1 and the scrapie-resistant C1 peptide fragments. beta-Cleavage, residing adjacent to the octarepeat domain and N-terminal to the alpha-cleavage site, is thought to arise from the action of reactive oxygen species produced from redox cycling of coordinated copper. We sought to elucidate the role of key members of the ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase) enzyme  family, as well as Cu(2+) redox cycling, in recombinant mouse PrP (MoPrP) cleavage through LC/MS analysis. Our findings show that although Cu(2+) redox-generated reactive oxygen species do produce fragmentation corresponding to beta-cleavage, ADAM8 also cleaves MoPrP in the octarepeat domain in a Cu(2+)- and Zn(2+)-dependent manner. Additional cleavage by ADAM8 was observed at the previously proposed location of alpha-cleavage, Lys-109 downward arrowHis-110 (MoPrP sequencing); however, upon addition of Cu(2+), the location of alpha-cleavage shifted by several amino acids toward the C terminus. ADAM10 and ADAM17 have also been implicated in alpha-cleavage at Lys-109 downward arrowHis-110; however, we observed that they instead cleaved MoPrP at a novel location, Ala-119 downward arrowVal-120, with additional cleavage by ADAM10 at Gly-227 downward arrowArg-228 near the C terminus. Together, our results show that MoPrP cleavage is far more complex than previously thought and suggest a mechanism by which PrP(C) fragmentation responds to Cu(2+) and Zn(2+).
24211396: !Alzheimer Traditional usage, phytochemistry and pharmacology of the South African medicinal plant Boophone disticha (L.f.) Herb. (Amaryllidaceae). ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Boophone disticha is the most common member of the South African Amaryllidaceae used extensively in traditional medicine of the  various indigenous population groups, including the Sotho, Xhosa and Zulu as well as the San. This survey was carried out to identify and highlight areas relevant  to the traditional usage of Boophone disticha. Pharmacological aspects were examined with the purpose of reconciling these with the traditional usage of the  plant. In relation to phytochemical make-up, particular attention was paid on how its alkaloid constitution might corroborate the various biological effects manifested by the plant. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information gathering involved the use of four different database platforms, including Google Scholar, ScienceDirect, SciFinder((R)) and Scopus. Arrangement and detailing of this information is as reflected in the various sections of the paper. RESULTS: Sixteen categories were identified under which Boophone disticha finds use in traditional medicine. These were shown to include general usage purposes, such as 'cultural and dietary', 'well-being', 'personal injury', 'divinatory purposes', 'psychoactive properties' and 'veterinary uses'. Furthermore, traditional usage was seen to involve six body systems, including functions pertaining to the circulatory, gastrointestinal, muscular, neurological, respiratory and urinary systems. The four remaining categories relate to use for inflammatory conditions, cancer, malaria and tuberculosis. Overall, three areas were discernible in which  Boophone disticha finds most usage, which are (i) ailments pertaining to the CNS, (ii) wounds and infections, and (iii) inflammatory conditions. In addition, several aspects pertaining to the toxic properties of the plant are discussed, including genotoxicity, mutagenicity and neurotoxicity. CONCLUSION: The widespread ethnic usage of Boophone disticha has justified its standing as a flagship for the Amaryllidaceae and its relevance to South African traditional medicine. Furthermore, its promising pharmacological and phytochemical profiles have stimulated significant interest in the clinical realm, especially in the areas of cancer and motor neuron disease chemotherapy. These collective properties should prove useful in steering the progress of the plant towards a wider audience.
24210759: !Alzheimer Structural interactions between inhibitor and substrate docking sites give insight into mechanisms of human PS1 complexes. Presenilin-mediated endoproteolysis of transmembrane proteins plays a key role in physiological signaling and in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease and some cancers. Numerous inhibitors have been found via library screens, but their structural mechanisms remain unknown. We used several biophysical techniques to investigate the structure of human presenilin complexes and the effects of peptidomimetic gamma-secretase inhibitors. The complexes are bilobed. The head contains nicastrin ectodomain. The membrane-embedded base has a central channel and a lateral cleft, which may represent the initial substrate docking site. Inhibitor binding induces widespread structural changes, including rotation of the head and closure of the lateral cleft. These changes block substrate access to the catalytic pocket and inhibit the enzyme. Intriguingly, peptide substrate docking has reciprocal effects on the inhibitor binding site. Similar reciprocal  shifts may underlie the mechanisms of other inhibitors and of the "lateral gate"  through which substrates access to the catalytic site.
24200971: !Alzheimer GSI promotes vincristine-induced apoptosis by enhancing multi-polar spindle formation. Gamma secretase inhibitors (GSI), cell-permeable small-molecule inhibitors of gamma secretase activity, had been originally developed for the treatment of Alzheimer disease. In recent years, it has been exploited in cancer research to inhibit Notch signaling that is aberrantly activated in various cancers. We previously found that GSI could synergize with anti-microtubule agent, vincristine (VCR) in a Notch-independent manner. Here, we delineate the underlying cell cycle-related mechanism using HeLa cells, which have strong mitotic checkpoints. GSI enhanced VCR-induced cell death, although GSI alone did  not affect cell viability at all. GSI augmented VCR-induced mitotic arrest in a dose-dependent manner, which was preceded by apoptotic cell death, as shown by an increase in Annexin V-positive and caspase-positive cell population. Furthermore, GSI amplified multi-polar spindle formation triggered by VCR. Altogether, we show the evidence that GSI enhances VCR-induced apoptosis in HeLa cells via multi-polar mitotic spindle formation, independent of Notch signaling. These data suggest that one or more GS substrates, yet to be identified, in a post-GS processed form, may play a role in maintaining functional centrosomes/mitotic spindles. More significantly, the synergistic effect of GSI in combination with VCR could be exploited in clinical setting to improve the efficacy of VCR.
24190951: !Alzheimer Age- and sex-related risk factors for influenza-associated mortality in the United States between 1997-2007. Limited information on age- and sex-specific estimates of influenza-associated death with different underlying causes is currently available. We regressed weekly age- and sex-specific US mortality outcomes underlying several causes between 1997 and 2007 to incidence proxies for influenza A/H3N2, A/H1N1, and B that combine data on influenza-like illness consultations and respiratory specimen testing, adjusting for seasonal baselines and time trends. Adults older  than 75 years of age had the highest average annual rate of influenza-associated  mortality, with 141.15 deaths per 100,000 people (95% confidence interval (CI): 118.3, 163.9), whereas children under 18 had the lowest average mortality rate, with 0.41 deaths per 100,000 people (95% CI: 0.23, 0.60). In addition to respiratory and circulatory causes, mortality with underlying cancer, diabetes, renal disease, and Alzheimer disease had a contribution from influenza in adult age groups, whereas mortality with underlying septicemia had a contribution from  influenza in children. For adults, within several age groups and for several underlying causes, the rate of influenza-associated mortality was somewhat higher in men than in women. Of note, in men 50-64 years of age, our estimate for the average annual rate of influenza-associated cancer mortality per 100,000 persons  (1.90, 95% CI: 1.20, 2.62) is similar to the corresponding rate of influenza-associated respiratory deaths (1.81, 95% CI: 1.42, 2.21). Age, sex, and underlying health conditions should be considered when planning influenza vaccination and treatment strategies.
24184575: !Alzheimer TAM receptor tyrosine kinases: expression, disease and oncogenesis in the central nervous system. Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) are cell surface proteins that tightly regulate  a variety of downstream intra-cellular processes; ligand-receptor interactions result in cascades of signaling events leading to growth, proliferation, differentiation and migration. There are 58 described RTKs, which are further categorized into 20 different RTK families. When dysregulated or overexpressed, these RTKs are implicated in disordered growth, development, and oncogenesis. The TAM family of RTKs, consisting of Tyro3, Axl, and MerTK, is prominently expressed during the development and function of the central nervous system (CNS). Aberrant expression and dysregulated activation of TAM family members has been demonstrated in a variety of CNS-related disorders and diseases, including the most common but least treatable brain cancer in children and adults: glioblastoma multiforme.
24184094: !Alzheimer O-GlcNAcylation in cellular functions and human diseases. O-GlcNAcylation is dynamic and a ubiquitous post-translational modification. O-GlcNAcylated proteins influence fundamental functions of proteins such as protein-protein interactions, altering protein stability, and changing protein activity. Thus, aberrant regulation of O-GlcNAcylation contributes to the etiology of chronic diseases of aging, including cancer, cardiovascular disease,  metabolic disorders, and Alzheimer's disease. Diverse cellular signaling systems  are involved in pathogenesis of these diseases. O-GlcNAcylated proteins occur in  many different tissues and cellular compartments and affect specific cell signaling. This review focuses on the O-GlcNAcylation in basic cellular functions and human diseases.
24172649: !Alzheimer Revisiting the roles of progesterone and allopregnanolone in the nervous system:  resurgence of the progesterone receptors. Progesterone is commonly considered as a female reproductive hormone and is well-known for its role in pregnancy. It is less well appreciated that progesterone and its metabolite allopregnanolone are also male hormones, as they  are produced in both sexes by the adrenal glands. In addition, they are synthesized within the nervous system. Progesterone and allopregnanolone are associated with adaptation to stress, and increased production of progesterone within the brain may be part of the response of neural cells to injury. Progesterone receptors (PR) are widely distributed throughout the brain, but their study has been mainly limited to the hypothalamus and reproductive functions, and the extra-hypothalamic receptors have been neglected. This lack of information about brain functions of PR is unexpected, as the protective and trophic effects of progesterone are much investigated, and as the therapeutic potential of progesterone as a neuroprotective and promyelinating agent is currently being assessed in clinical trials. The little attention devoted to the  brain functions of PR may relate to the widely accepted assumption that non-reproductive actions of progesterone may be mainly mediated by allopregnanolone, which does not bind to PR, but acts as a potent positive modulator of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A) receptors. The aim of this review is to critically discuss effects of progesterone on the nervous system via PR, and of allopregnanolone via its modulation of GABA(A) receptors, with main focus on the brain.
24161280: !Alzheimer Sphingolipid profiles are altered in prefrontal cortex of rats under acute hyperglycemia. Diabetes type 1 is a common autoimmune disease manifesting by insulin deficiency  and hyperglycemia, which can lead to dementia-like brain dysfunctions. The factors triggering the pathological processes in hyperglycemic brain remain unknown. We reported in this study that brain areas with different susceptibility to diabetes (prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum) revealed differential alterations in ceramide (Cer) and sphingomyelin (SM) profiles in rats with streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia. Employing gas-liquid  chromatography, we found that level of total Cer increased significantly only in  the PFC of diabetic animals, which also exhibited a broad spectrum of sphingolipid (SLs) changes, such as elevations of Cer-C16:0, -C18:0, -C20:0, -C22:0, -C18:1, -C24:1 and SM-C16:0 and -C18:1. In opposite, only minor changes were noted in other examined structures. In addition, de novo synthesis pathway could play a role in generation of Cer containing monounsaturated fatty acids in  PFC during hyperglycemia. In turn, simultaneous accumulation of Cers and their SM counterparts may suggest that overproduced Cers are converted to SMs to avoid excessive Cer-mediated cytotoxicity. We conclude that broad changes in SLs compositions in PFC induced by hyperglycemia may provoke membrane rearrangements  in some cell populations, which can disturb cellular signaling and cause tissue damage.
24157626: !Alzheimer The therapeutic effects of human adipose-derived stem cells in Alzheimer's disease mouse models. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible neurodegenerative disease, still lacking proper clinical treatment. Therefore, many researchers have focused on the possibility of therapeutic use of stem cells for AD. Adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs), mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) isolated from adipose tissue, are well known for their pluripotency and their ability to differentiate into multiple tissue types and have immune modulatory properties similar to those of MSCs from other origins. Because of their biological properties, ASCs can be considered for cell therapy and neuroregeneration. Our recent results clearly showed the therapeutic potential of these cells after transplantation into Tg2576 mice (an AD mouse model). Intravenously or intracerebrally transplanted human ASCs (hASCs) greatly improved the memory impairment and the neuropathology, suggesting that hASCs have a high therapeutic potential for AD.
24145049: !Alzheimer Afferent and efferent immunological pathways of the brain. Anatomy, function and  failure. Immunological privilege appears to be a product of unique lymphatic drainage systems for the brain and receptor-mediated entry of inflammatory cells through the blood-brain barrier. Most organs of the body have well-defined lymphatic vessels that carry extracellular fluid, antigen presenting cells, lymphocytes, neoplastic cells and even bacteria to regional lymph nodes. The brain has no such conventional lymphatics, but has perivascular pathways that drain interstitial fluid (ISF) from brain parenchyma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from the subarachnoid space to cervical lymph nodes. ISF and solutes drain along narrow, approximately 100 nm-thick basement membranes within the walls of cerebral capillaries and arteries to cervical lymph nodes; this pathway does not allow traffic of lymphocytes or antigen presenting cells from brain to lymph nodes. Although CSF drains into blood through arachnoid villi, CSF also drains from the  subarachnoid space through channels in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone into nasal lymphatics and thence to cervical lymph nodes. This pathway does allow the traffic of lymphocytes and antigen presenting cells from CSF to cervical lymph nodes. Efferent pathways by which lymphocytes enter the brain are regulated by selected integrins on lymphocytes and selective receptors on vascular endothelial cells. Here we review: (1) the structure and function of afferent lymphatic drainage of ISF and CSF, (2) mechanisms involved in the efferent pathways by which lymphocytes enter the brain and (3) the failure of lymphatic drainage of the brain parenchyma with age and the role of such failure in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
24121965: !Alzheimer Pathogen-free husbandry conditions alleviate behavioral deficits and neurodegeneration in AD10 anti-NGF mice. It has been suggested that systemic infection, occurring during aging and chronic neurodegenerative diseases, can evoke an immune response that aggravates the progression of neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. It has been shown that the AD11 neurodegeneration mouse model, expressing a recombinant anti-nerve growth factor (NGF) antibody, shows a milder phenotype when housed in murine pathogen-free (MPF) conditions with respect to AD11 mice reared in conventional (CV) housing. AD10 mice, a variant of the anti-NGF AD11 model, expressing only an immunoglobulin light chain for the transgenic anti-NGF antibody, in the absence of the corresponding transgenic antibody chain VH, exhibit a complex neurodegenerative phenotype, similar to that of AD11 mice. Here we show that the  AD10 transgenic mice, housed in murine pathogen-free conditions (MPF-AD10 mice),  also display a milder behavioral and neurodegenerative phenotype compared to the  corresponding mice kept under conventional housing conditions (CV-AD10). As a first step toward the identification of mechanisms underlying this difference, a  differential gene expression profiling was performed on brains from CV-AD10 and MPF-AD10 mice, showing a decrease of the immune response and neuroinflammation gene expression in MPF-AD10 mice. Results suggest that the activation of the immune response gene expression in the CV-AD10, in a microbially unprotected environment, might contribute to a more severe and progressive neurodegenerative  phenotype, compared to the MPF mice.
24121112: !Alzheimer Allopregnanolone: state of the art. Allopregnanolone, a neuroactive steroid derived from progesterone, is synthesized within the nervous tissue, by means of specific enzymes. Contrary to progesterone and its first metabolite dihydroprogesterone, allopregnanolone is able to interact with GABA-A receptor and not with the classical progesterone receptor. This suggests that the effect of progesterone administration may be due to activation of progesterone receptor, or of GABA-A receptor, or both. However, this is rarely considered in the experimental studies. Here we summarize and discuss the hot topics involving the actions of allopregnanolone within the nervous tissue. One major role of this neuroactive steroid is neuroprotection in  case of lesion, ischemia or peripheral neuropathies (i.e., diabetes). In addition, allopregnanolone may reduce the symptoms of neurodegenerative diseases  (e.g., Alzheimer, Parkinson, Niemann-Pick type C, multiple sclerosis) in animal models and now translational studies are developed for its therapeutic use. Allopregnanolone may exert a beneficial effect also in case of neuropathic pain and it is also a potential candidate for the treatment of mood and anxiety disorders. Finally, this neuroactive steroid seems to have important physiological roles in the early differentiation of some neural circuits (in particular at hippocampal level), and to reduce stress during pregnancy. In conclusion, it appears that allopregnanolone is a key regulator of physiological  functions and may have interesting therapeutic perspectives for neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders.
24117490: !Alzheimer Inflammation induces multinucleation of Microglia via PKC inhibition of cytokinesis, generating highly phagocytic multinucleated giant cells. Microglia are brain macrophages, which can undergo multinucleation to give rise to multinucleated giant cells that accumulate with ageing and some brain pathologies. However, the origin, regulation and function of multinucleate microglia remain unclear. We found that inflammatory stimuli, including lipopolysaccharide, amyloid beta, alpha-synuclein, tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interferon gamma, but not interleukin-4, induced multinucleation of cultured  microglia: primary rat cortical microglia and the murine microglial cell line BV-2. Inflammation-induced multinucleation was prevented by a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor Go6976 (100 nM) and replicated by a PKC activator phorbol myristate acetate (160 nM). Multinucleation was reversible and not because of cell fusion or phagocytosis, but rather failure of cytokinesis. Time-lapse imaging revealed that some dividing cells failed to abscise, even after formation of long cytoplasmic bridges, followed by retraction of bridge and reversal of cleavage furrow to form multinucleate cells. Multinucleate microglia were larger  and 2-4 fold more likely to phagocytose large beads and both dead and live PC12 cells. We conclude that multinucleate microglia are reversibly generated by inflammation via PKC inhibition of cytokinesis, and may have specialized functions/dysfunctions including the phagocytosis of other cells. Inflammation resulted in the accumulation of multiple nuclei per cell in cultured microglia. This multinucleation was reversible and due to a PKC-dependent block of the last  step of cell division. Multinucleate microglia were larger and had a greater capacity to phagocytose other cells, suggesting they might remove neurons in the  brain.
24090990: !Alzheimer Controlled assembly: a prerequisite for the use of recombinant spider silk in regenerative medicine? Recent biotechnological progress has enabled the production of spider silk proteins, spidroins, in heterologous hosts. Matrices based on recombinant spidroins support stem cell growth and are well tolerated when implanted in living tissue, thus the material is highly attractive for use in regenerative medicine. However, the matrices made are far from natural silk in terms of mechanical properties and are either spontaneously assembled, which results in heterogeneous products, or spun from harsh solvents with the concomitant risk of  harmful remnants in the final products. If we could mimic the spider's aqueous silk spinning process we would likely obtain a material that had reproducible and better characteristics and that more easily could be transferred to clinical practice. Herein, the knowledge of the spiders' silk production system and the prerequisites for artificial spinning and assembly of recombinant proteins are reviewed and discussed in a biomedical context.
24085630: !Alzheimer Chemical constituents and their acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory and antioxidant  activities from leaves of Acanthopanax henryi: potential complementary source against Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this study was to investigate chemical constituents of the leaves of Acanthopanax henryi, and their antioxidant, acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory activities. Caffeoyl quinic acid derivates and flavonoids were obtained from A. henry, through column chromatography technologies, and the content of major constituents was determined by the HPLC-UV method. Anti-oxidant activity of the isolated metabolites was evaluated by free radical scavenging (DPPH, ABTS radicals) and superoxide anion scavenging. The results showed that di-caffeoyl quinic acid derivates had stronger antioxidant activity than positive controls (ascorbic acid, trolox and allopurinol). Acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory activity was estimated on the constituents, among which, quercetin, 4-caffeoyl-quinic acid and 4,5-caffeoyl quinic acid were found to have strong acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory activity with IC50 values ranging from 62.6 to 121.9 muM. The present study showed that some of the tested constituents from the leaves of A. henryi exhibit strong antioxidant and acetyl cholinesterase inhibitory effects. This suggest that the leaves of A. henryi can be used as a new natural complementary source of acetyl cholinesterase inhibitors and anti-oxidant agents, thus being a promising potential complementary source against Alzheimer's disease.
24081375: !Alzheimer Differential expression of neuroblastoma cellular proteome due to AICD overexpression. Amyloid-beta protein precursor intracellular domain (AICD), which exerts intracellular effects by interacting with proteins involved in a plethora of biological processes, is a key player behind the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Keeping in mind that overwhelming presence of AICD would mimic AD-like conditions in neuroblastoma cell lines, we hypothesized alteration in the proteomic expression pattern in these cells in the presence of AICD compared to their normal proteome. The rationale behind the study was to distinguish between  symptomatic pathophysiological effects as opposed to any artifactual consequence  due to protein overload in the cell lines. Using 2D-DIGE analysis and MALDI-MS identifications in neuro2A (mouse) and SHSY5Y (human) cell lines, we have identified several proteins belonging to different functional classes and involved in several biological pathways including protein folding, cytoskeletal dynamics, metabolism, and stress. Many of these were being upregulated or downregulated due to AICD effects and could be correlated directly with AD phenotypes.
24067533: !Alzheimer Functional screening in Drosophila identifies Alzheimer's disease susceptibility  genes and implicates Tau-mediated mechanisms. Using a Drosophila model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we systematically evaluated 67 candidate genes based on AD-associated genomic loci (P < 10(-4)) from published human genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Genetic manipulation of 87 homologous fly genes was tested for modulation of neurotoxicity caused by human Tau, which forms neurofibrillary tangle pathology in AD. RNA interference (RNAi) targeting 9 genes enhanced Tau neurotoxicity, and in most cases reciprocal activation of gene expression suppressed Tau toxicity. Our screen implicates cindr, the fly ortholog of the human CD2AP AD susceptibility gene, as a modulator of Tau-mediated disease mechanisms. Importantly, we also identify the fly orthologs of FERMT2 and CELF1 as Tau modifiers, and these loci have been independently validated as AD susceptibility loci in the latest GWAS meta-analysis. Both CD2AP and FERMT2 have been previously implicated with roles in cell adhesion, and our screen additionally identifies a fly homolog of the human integrin adhesion receptors, ITGAM and ITGA9, as a modifier of Tau neurotoxicity. Our results highlight cell adhesion pathways as important in Tau toxicity and AD susceptibility and demonstrate the power of model organism genetic screens for the functional follow-up of human GWAS.
24059310: !Alzheimer How do periodontal infections affect the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease? Chronic infection can cause slow progressive dementia, cortical atrophy and amyloid deposition in the atrophic form of general paresis. Due to the fact that  specific bacterial ligands can increase the expression of proinflammatory molecules that can activate innate and adaptive immune systems, inflammation may  play a significant role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Furthermore, there is a significant association between AD and various types of spirochete. Periodontitis is a prevalent and persistent peripheral infection that is associated with gram-negative anaerobic bacteria and is capable of showing localized and systemic infections in the host. Periodontal disease related pathogens and their inflammatory products contribute to systemic inflammation and the pathogenesis of AD. In this minireview, we propose a hypothetical link between periodontitis, type 2 diabetes and AD. We also present the possible mechanistic links between periodontitis-related inflammation, type 2 diabetes and AD. Since this condition is treatable, periodontitis may be a readily-modifiable  risk factor for AD.
24037034: !Alzheimer Trends in diet and Alzheimer's disease during the nutrition transition in Japan and developing countries. BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) rates in Japan and developing countries have risen rapidly in recent years. Researchers have associated factors such as the Western diet, obesity, alcohol consumption, and smoking with risk of AD. OBJECTIVE: This paper evaluates whether the dietary transition might explain the  rising trend of AD prevalence in Japan and in developing countries, evaluating other factors when possible. METHODS: This study used two approaches to see whether dietary or other changes could explain AD trends in Japan and developing  countries. One approach involved comparing trends of AD in Japan with changes in  national dietary supply factors, alcohol consumption, and lung cancer mortality rates from zero to 25 years before the prevalence data. The second compared AD prevalence values for eight developing countries with dietary supply factors from zero to 25 years before the prevalence data. RESULTS: For Japan, alcohol consumption, animal product, meat and rice supply, and lung cancer rates correlated highly with AD prevalence data, with the strongest correlation for a lag of 15-25 years. In the eight-country study, total energy and animal fat correlated highly with AD prevalence data, with a lag of 15-20 years. Mechanisms  to explain the findings include increased obesity for the eight countries, and increases in cholesterol, saturated fat, and iron from increases in animal products and meat supply for Japan. CONCLUSION: Evidently AD rates will continue  rising in non-Western countries for some time unless we address major risk factors involving diet, obesity, and smoking.
24011544: !Alzheimer Familial Alzheimer's disease coding mutations reduce Presenilin-1 expression in a novel genomic locus reporter model. We have generated a physiologically relevant bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-based genomic DNA expression model to study PS1 gene expression and function. The PS1-WT-BAC construct restored gamma-secretase function, whereas the mutant PS1 BACs demonstrated partial to complete loss of enzymatic activity when  stably expressed in a PS double knock-out clonal cell line. We then engineered WT and mutant human PS1-BAC-Luciferase whole genomic locus reporter transgenes, which we transiently transduced in mouse and human non-neuronal and neuronal-like cells, respectively. PS1 DeltaE9 and C410Y FAD were found to lower PS1 gene expression in both cell lines, whereas PS1-M146V showed a neuron-specific effect. The nonclinical gamma-secretase inactive PS1-D257A mutation did not alter gene expression in either cell line. This is the first time that pathogenic coding mutations in the PS1 gene have been shown to lower PS1 gene expression. These findings may represent a pathologic mechanism for PS1 FAD mutations independent of their effects on gamma-secretase activity and demonstrate how dominant PS1 mutations may exert their pathogenic effects by a loss-of-function mechanism.
24004341: !Alzheimer Bioenergetic medicine. Here we discuss a specific therapeutic strategy we call 'bioenergetic medicine'.  Bioenergetic medicine refers to the manipulation of bioenergetic fluxes to positively affect health. Bioenergetic medicine approaches rely heavily on the law of mass action, and impact systems that monitor and respond to the manipulated flux. Since classically defined energy metabolism pathways intersect  and intertwine, targeting one flux also tends to change other fluxes, which complicates treatment design. Such indirect effects, fortunately, are to some extent predictable, and from a therapeutic perspective may also be desirable. Bioenergetic medicine-based interventions already exist for some diseases, and because bioenergetic medicine interventions are presently feasible, new approaches to treat certain conditions, including some neurodegenerative conditions and cancers, are beginning to transition from the laboratory to the clinic.
23981537: !Alzheimer Metabolic features of the cell danger response. The cell danger response (CDR) is the evolutionarily conserved metabolic response that protects cells and hosts from harm. It is triggered by encounters with chemical, physical, or biological threats that exceed the cellular capacity for homeostasis. The resulting metabolic mismatch between available resources and functional capacity produces a cascade of changes in cellular electron flow, oxygen consumption, redox, membrane fluidity, lipid dynamics, bioenergetics, carbon and sulfur resource allocation, protein folding and aggregation, vitamin availability, metal homeostasis, indole, pterin, 1-carbon and polyamine metabolism, and polymer formation. The first wave of danger signals consists of the release of metabolic intermediates like ATP and ADP, Krebs cycle intermediates, oxygen, and reactive oxygen species (ROS), and is sustained by purinergic signaling. After the danger has been eliminated or neutralized, a choreographed sequence of anti-inflammatory and regenerative pathways is activated to reverse the CDR and to heal. When the CDR persists abnormally, whole body metabolism and the gut microbiome are disturbed, the collective performance  of multiple organ systems is impaired, behavior is changed, and chronic disease results. Metabolic memory of past stress encounters is stored in the form of altered mitochondrial and cellular macromolecule content, resulting in an increase in functional reserve capacity through a process known as mitocellular hormesis. The systemic form of the CDR, and its magnified form, the purinergic life-threat response (PLTR), are under direct control by ancient pathways in the  brain that are ultimately coordinated by centers in the brainstem. Chemosensory integration of whole body metabolism occurs in the brainstem and is a prerequisite for normal brain, motor, vestibular, sensory, social, and speech development. An understanding of the CDR permits us to reframe old concepts of pathogenesis for a broad array of chronic, developmental, autoimmune, and degenerative disorders. These disorders include autism spectrum disorders (ASD),  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), asthma, atopy, gluten and many other food and chemical sensitivity syndromes, emphysema, Tourette's syndrome, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), traumatic brain injury (TBI), epilepsy, suicidal  ideation, organ transplant biology, diabetes, kidney, liver, and heart disease, cancer, Alzheimer and Parkinson disease, and autoimmune disorders like lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and primary sclerosing cholangitis.
23943274: !Alzheimer Herbal therapeutics that block the oncogenic kinase PAK1: a practical approach towards PAK1-dependent diseases and longevity. Over 35 years research on PAKs, RAC/CDC42(p21)-activated kinases, comes of age, and in particular PAK1 has been well known to be responsible for a variety of diseases such as cancer (mainly solid tumors), Alzheimer's disease, acquired immune deficiency syndrome and other viral/bacterial infections, inflammatory diseases (asthma and arthritis), diabetes (type 2), neurofibromatosis, tuberous sclerosis, epilepsy, depression, schizophrenia, learning disability, autism, etc. Although several distinct synthetic PAK1-blockers have been recently developed, no FDA-approved PAK1 blockers are available on the market as yet. Thus, patients  suffering from these PAK1-dependent diseases have to rely on solely a variety of  herbal therapeutics such as propolis and curcumin that block PAK1 without affecting normal cell growth. Furthermore, several recent studies revealed that some of these herbal therapeutics significantly extend the lifespan of nematodes  (C. elegans) and fruit flies (Drosophila), and PAK1-deficient worm lives longer than the wild type. Here, I outline mainly pathological phenotypes of hyper-activated PAK1 and a list of herbal therapeutics that block PAK1, but cause no side (harmful) effect on healthy people or animals.
23900790: !Alzheimer A common structural scaffold in CTD phosphatases that supports distinct catalytic mechanisms. The phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of the carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) subunit is a critical regulatory checkpoint for transcription and mRNA processing. This CTD is unique to eukaryotic organisms and it contains multiple tandem-repeats with the consensus sequence Tyr(1) -Ser(2) -Pro(3) -Thr(4) -Ser(5) -Pro(6) -Ser(7) . Traditionally,  CTD phosphatases that use metal-ion-independent (cysteine-based) and metal-ion-assisted (aspartate-based) catalytic mechanisms have been considered to belong to two independent groups. However, using structural comparisons we have identified a common structural scaffold in these two groups of CTD phosphatases.  This common scaffold accommodates different catalytic processes with the same substrate specificity, in this case phospho-serine/threonine residues flanked by  prolines. Furthermore, this scaffold provides a structural connection between two groups of protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs): Cys-based (classes I, II, and III) and Asp-based (class IV) PTPs. Redundancy in catalytic mechanisms is not infrequent and may arise in specific biological settings. To better understand the activity of the CTD phosphatases, we combined our structural analyses with data on CTD phosphatase expression in different human and mouse tissues. The results suggest that aspartate- and cysteine-based CTD-dephosphorylation acts in  concert during cellular stress, when high levels of reactive oxygen species can inhibit the nucleophilic function of the catalytic cysteine, as occurs in mental  and neurodegenerative disorders like schizophrenia, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Moreover, these findings have significant implications for the study of the RNAPII-CTD dephosphorylation in eukaryotes.
23899502: !Alzheimer Interaction of membrane/lipid rafts with the cytoskeleton: impact on signaling and function: membrane/lipid rafts, mediators of cytoskeletal arrangement and cell signaling. The plasma membrane in eukaryotic cells contains microdomains that are enriched in certain glycosphingolipids, gangliosides, and sterols (such as cholesterol) to form membrane/lipid rafts (MLR). These regions exist as caveolae, morphologically observable flask-like invaginations, or as a less easily detectable planar form.  MLR are scaffolds for many molecular entities, including signaling receptors and  ion channels that communicate extracellular stimuli to the intracellular milieu.  Much evidence indicates that this organization and/or the clustering of MLR into  more active signaling platforms depends upon interactions with and dynamic rearrangement of the cytoskeleton. Several cytoskeletal components and binding partners, as well as enzymes that regulate the cytoskeleton, localize to MLR and  help regulate lateral diffusion of membrane proteins and lipids in response to extracellular events (e.g., receptor activation, shear stress, electrical conductance, and nutrient demand). MLR regulate cellular polarity, adherence to the extracellular matrix, signaling events (including ones that affect growth and migration), and are sites of cellular entry of certain pathogens, toxins and nanoparticles. The dynamic interaction between MLR and the underlying cytoskeleton thus regulates many facets of the function of eukaryotic cells and their adaptation to changing environments. Here, we review general features of MLR and caveolae and their role in several aspects of cellular function, including polarity of endothelial and epithelial cells, cell migration, mechanotransduction, lymphocyte activation, neuronal growth and signaling, and a  variety of disease settings. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Reciprocal influences between cell cytoskeleton and membrane channels, receptors  and transporters. Guest Editor: Jean Claude Herve.
23880505: !Alzheimer Encapsulated cell therapy for neurodegenerative diseases: from promise to product. Delivering therapeutic molecules, including trophic factor proteins, across the blood brain barrier to the brain parenchyma to treat chronic neurodegenerative diseases remains one of the great challenges in biology. To be effective, delivery needs to occur in a long-term and stable manner at sufficient quantities directly to the target region in a manner that is selective but yet covers enough of the target site to be efficacious. One promising approach uses cellular implants that produce and deliver therapeutic molecules directly to the brain region of interest. Implanted cells can be precisely positioned into the desired  region and can be protected from host immunological attack by encapsulating them  and by surrounding them within an immunoisolatory, semipermeable capsule. In this approach, cells are enclosed within a semiporous capsule with a perm selective membrane barrier that admits oxygen and required nutrients and releases bioactive cell secretions while restricting passage of larger cytotoxic agents from the host immune defense system. Recent advances in human cell line development have increased the levels of secreted therapeutic molecules from encapsulated cells, and membrane extrusion techniques have led to the first ever clinical demonstrations of long-term survival and function of encapsulated cells in the brain parenchyma. As such, cell encapsulation is capable of providing a targeted, continuous, de novo synthesized source of very high levels of therapeutic molecules that can be distributed over significant portions of the brain.
23879547: !Alzheimer Structural and functional insights into the anti-BACE1 Fab fragment that recognizes the BACE1 exosite. A molecular modeling study giving structural, functional, and mutagenesis insights into the anti-BACE1 Fab fragment that recognizes the BACE1 exosite is reported. Our results allow extending experimental data resulting from X-ray diffraction experiments in order to examine unknown aspects for the Fab-BACE1 recognition and its binding mode. Thus, the study performed here allows extending the inherently static nature of crystallographic structures in order to gain a deeper understanding of the structural and dynamical basis at the atomic level. The characteristics and strength of the interatomic interactions involved in the  immune complex formation are exhaustively analyzed. The results might explain how the anti-BACE1 Fab fragment and other BACE1 exosite binders are capable to produce an allosteric modulation of the BACE1 activity. Our site-directed mutagenesis study indicated that the functional anti-BACE1 paratope, residues Tyr32 (H1), Trp50 (H2), Arg98 (H3), Phe101 (H3), Trp104 (H3) and Tyr94 (L3), strongly dominates the binding energetics with the BACE1 exosite. The mutational  studies described in this work might accelerate the development of new BACE1 exosite binders with interesting pharmacological activity.
23876085: !Alzheimer The impact of neuroimmune changes on development of amyloid pathology; relevance  to Alzheimer's disease. Neuroinflammatory changes are a characteristic of several, if not all, neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease and are typified by increased microglial activation. Microglia express several receptors making them  highly reactive and plastic cells, and, at least in vitro, they adopt different phenotypes in a manner analogous to their peripheral counterparts, macrophages. Microglia also express numerous cell surface proteins enabling them to interact with cells and the evidence indicates that maintenance of microglia in a quiescent state relies, at least to some extent, on an interaction with neurons by means of specific ligand-receptor pairs, for example CD200-CD200R. It is clear that microglia also interact with T cells and recent evidence indicates that co-incubation of microglia with T helper type 1 cells markedly increases their activation. Under normal conditions, small numbers of activated T cells gain entry to the brain and are involved in immune surveillance but infiltration of significant numbers of T cells occurs in disease and following injury. The consequences of T cell infiltration appear to depend on the conditions, with descriptions of both neurodestructive and neuroprotective effects in animal models of different diseases. This review will discuss the modulatory effect of T cells on microglia and the impact of infiltration of T cells into the brain with  a focus on Alzheimer's disease, and will propose that infiltration of interferon-gamma-producing cells may be an important factor in triggering inflammation that is pathogenic and destructive.
23848536: !Alzheimer 4-Hydroxynonenal in the pathogenesis and progression of human diseases. Metastable aldehydes produced by lipid peroxidation act as 'toxic second messengers' that extend the injurious potential of free radicals. 4-hydroxy 2-nonenal (HNE), a highly toxic and most abundant stable end product of lipid peroxidation, has been implicated in the tissue damage, dysfunction, injury associated with aging and other pathological states such as cancer, Alzheimer, diabetes, cardiovascular and inflammatory complications. Further, HNE has been considered as a oxidative stress marker and it act as a secondary signaling molecule to regulates a number of cell signaling pathways. Biological activity of HNE depends on its intracellular concentration, which can differentially modulate cell death, growth and differentiation. Therefore, the mechanisms responsible for maintaining the intracellular levels of HNE are most important, not only in the defense against oxidative stress but also in the pathophysiology of a number of disease processes. In this review, we discussed the significance of HNE in mediating various disease processes and how regulation of its metabolism could be therapeutically effective.
23707056: !Alzheimer Mortality among 24,865 workers exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in three electrical capacitor manufacturing plants: a ten-year update. The objective of this analysis was to evaluate mortality among a cohort of 24,865 capacitor-manufacturing workers exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) at plants in Indiana, Massachusetts, and New York and followed for mortality through 2008. Cumulative PCB exposure was estimated using plant-specific job-exposure matrices. External comparisons to US and state-specific populations used standardized mortality ratios, adjusted for gender, race, age and calendar year.  Among long-term workers employed 3 months or longer, within-cohort comparisons used standardized rate ratios and multivariable Poisson regression modeling. Through 2008, more than one million person-years at risk and 8749 deaths were accrued. Among long-term employees, all-cause and all-cancer mortality were not elevated; of the a priori outcomes assessed only melanoma mortality was elevated. Mortality was elevated for some outcomes of a priori interest among subgroups of  long-term workers: all cancer, intestinal cancer and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (women); melanoma (men); melanoma and brain and nervous system cancer (Indiana plant); and melanoma and multiple myeloma (New York plant). Standardized rates of stomach and uterine cancer and multiple myeloma mortality increased with estimated cumulative PCB exposure. Poisson regression modeling showed significant associations with estimated cumulative PCB exposure for prostate and stomach cancer mortality. For other outcomes of a priori interest--rectal, liver, ovarian, breast, and thyroid cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, Alzheimer disease, and Parkinson disease--neither elevated mortality nor positive associations with PCB  exposure were observed. Associations between estimated cumulative PCB exposure and stomach, uterine, and prostate cancer and myeloma mortality confirmed our previous positive findings.
23590716: !Alzheimer Curcumin and curcumin-like molecules: from spice to drugs. Curcumin is the major yellow pigment extracted from turmeric, a commonly used spice in Asian cuisine and extensively employed in ayurvedic herbal remedies. A number of studies have shown that curcumin can be a prevention and a chemotherapeutic agent for colon, skin, oral and intestinal cancers. Curcumin is  also well known for its antiinflammatory and antioxidant properties, showing high reactivity towards peroxyl radicals, and thus acting as a free radical scavenger. Recently, experimental studies have demonstrated that curcumin might be used in the prevention and the cure of Alzheimer's disease. Indeed, curcumin injected peripherally in vivo into aged Tg mice crossed the blood-brain barrier and bound  to amyloid plaques, reducing amyloid levels and plaque formation decisively. The  present review will resume the most recent developments in the medicinal chemistry of curcumin and curcumin-like molecules.
23583830: !Alzheimer Create and preserve: proteostasis in development and aging is governed by Cdc48/p97/VCP. The AAA-ATPase Cdc48 (also called p97 or VCP) acts as a key regulator in proteolytic pathways, coordinating recruitment and targeting of substrate proteins to the 26S proteasome or lysosomal degradation. However, in contrast to  the well-known function in ubiquitin-dependent cellular processes, the physiological relevance of Cdc48 in organismic development and maintenance of protein homeostasis is less understood. Therefore, studies on multicellular model organisms help to decipher how Cdc48-dependent proteolysis is regulated in time and space to meet developmental requirements. Given the importance of developmental regulation and tissue maintenance, defects in Cdc48 activity have been linked to several human pathologies including protein aggregation diseases.  Thus, addressing the underlying disease mechanisms not only contributes to our understanding on the organism-wide function of Cdc48 but also facilitates the design of specific medical therapies. In this review, we will portray the role of Cdc48 in the context of multicellular organisms, pointing out its importance for  developmental processes, tissue surveillance, and disease prevention. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Ubiquitin-Proteasome System. Guest Editors: Thomas Sommer and Dieter H. Wolf.
23551178: !Alzheimer Immunohistochemical detection of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 and 5 in human multiple sclerosis lesions. AIMS: Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor (S1PR) modulating therapies are currently  in the clinic or undergoing investigation for multiple sclerosis (MS) treatment.  However, the expression of S1PRs is still unclear in the central nervous system under normal conditions and during neuroinflammation. METHODS: Using immunohistochemistry we examined tissues from both grey and white matter MS lesions for sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1P1 ) and 5 (S1P5 ) expression.  Tissues from Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases were also examined. RESULTS: S1P1 expression was restricted to astrocytes and endothelial cells in control tissues  and a decrease in endothelial cell expression was found in white matter MS lesions. In grey matter MS lesions, astrocyte expression was lost in active lesions, while in quiescent lesions it was restored to normal expression levels.  CNPase colocalization studies demonstrated S1P5 expression on myelin and both were reduced in demyelinated lesions. In AD tissues we found no difference in S1P1 expression. CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate a differential modulation of  S1PRs in MS lesions, which may have an impact on S1PR-directed therapies.
23311593: !Alzheimer Effect of polymer, plasticizer and filler on orally disintegrating film. CONTEXT: Difficulty in swallowing tablets or capsules has been identified as one  of the contributing factors to non-compliance of geriatric patients. Although orally disintegrating tablet was designed for fast disintegration in mouth, the fear of taking solid tablets and the risk of choking for certain patient populations still exist. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to develop and characterize orally disintegrating film (ODF), which was prepared using different combinations of polymers, plasticizers and fillers. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Effects of hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC), polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG 400), glycerin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP), mannitol and microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) on physical property of ODF formed were studied. The ODF was prepared using the solvent casting method. RESULTS: Increase in HPMC concentration formed ODF with greater tensile strength. Incorporation of plasticizer (PEG 400 and glycerin) reduced tensile strength but increased elasticity of the ODF formed. PVP increased both tensile strength and elasticity  of the ODF. Increase in MCC:mannitol ratio reduced the tensile strength and elasticity of the ODF. Disintegration time of film decreased corresponding to decrease in tensile strength of the film. Formulation R with the optimum tensile  strength (13.10 N/mm(2)), bending flexibility (40 times) and disintegration time  (41.50 s) was chosen as final formulation. A total of 80% of the drug was released within five minutes and the ODF was stable at least for one year actual  condition. CONCLUSION: An ODF containing donepezil HCl was developed and characterized. The donepezil HCl ODF has the potential to improve the compliance  of Alzheimer disease patients.
23246214: !Alzheimer The role of glial cells in Alzheimer disease: potential therapeutic implications. INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer (AD) disease is a complex neurodegenerative disease characterised by inflammation, neurotoxicity, oxidative stress, and reactive gliosis. Microglia and astrocytes not only act as antigen-presenting cells, but also function as effector cells releasing pro-inflammatory molecules that promote excitotoxicity and neurodegeneration. OBJECTIVE: In the present review we discuss the role of glia, specifically microglia and astrocytes, in the pathophysiology of AD and possible therapeutic implications. DEVELOPMENT: The growing body of evidence suggesting that microglia and astrocytes play a pathogenic role and activate inflammation pathways, the neurotoxic factors released by these cells when activated, and the way these factors may disrupt the homeostasis of the central nervous system all support the hypothesis that glia-induced inflammation  exacerbates AD. CONCLUSIONS: Inhibiting inflammation by deactivating glial cells  may reduce the production of factors which contribute to neurotoxicity, and therefore result in clinical improvement. Microglia and astrocytes are therapeutic targets for the development of new drugs to combat this disease. Therapeutic strategies designed to counter the detrimental effects of overactivation of these cell populations should be investigated.
26578751: !GIMB Feeding the brain and nurturing the mind: Linking nutrition and the gut microbiota to brain development. The human gut contains a microbial community composed of tens of trillions of organisms that normally assemble during the first 2-3 y of postnatal life. We propose that brain development needs to be viewed in the context of the developmental biology of this "microbial organ" and its capacity to metabolize the various diets we consume. We hypothesize that the persistent cognitive abnormalities seen in children with undernutrition are related in part to their persistent gut microbiota immaturity and that specific regions of the brain that  normally exhibit persistent juvenile (neotenous) patterns of gene expression, including those critically involved in various higher cognitive functions such as the brain's default mode network, may be particularly vulnerable to the effects of microbiota immaturity in undernourished children. Furthermore, we postulate that understanding the interrelationships between microbiota and brain metabolism in childhood undernutrition could provide insights about responses to injury seen in adults. We discuss approaches that can be used to test these hypotheses, their ramifications for optimizing nutritional recommendations that promote healthy brain development and function, and the potential societal implications of this area of investigation.
26577887: !GIMB Magnetic resonance spectroscopy reveals oral Lactobacillus promotion of increases in brain GABA, N-acetyl aspartate and glutamate. The gut microbiome has been shown to regulate the development and functions of the enteric and central nervous systems. Its involvement in the regulation of behavior has attracted particular attention because of its potential translational importance in clinical disorders, however little is known about the pathways involved. We previously have demonstrated that administration of Lactobacillus rhamnosus (JB-1) to healthy male BALB/c mice, promotes consistent changes in GABA-A and -B receptor sub-types in specific brain regions, accompanied by reductions in anxiety and depression-related behaviors. In the present study, using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), we quantitatively assessed two clinically validated biomarkers of brain activity and function, glutamate+glutamine (Glx) and total N-acetyl aspartate+N-acetylaspartylglutamic acid (tNAA), as well as GABA, the chief brain inhibitory neurotransmitter. Mice received 109 JB-1 per day for 28days and were subjected to MRS weekly and again 4weeks after cessation of treatment to ascertain temporal changes in these neurometabolites. Baseline concentrations for Glx, tNAA and GABA were equal to 10.4+/-0.3mM, 8.7+/-0.1mM, and 1.2+/-0.1mM, respectively. Delayed increases were  first seen for Glx (~10%) and NAA (~37%) at 2weeks which persisted only to the end of treatment. However, Glx was still elevated 4weeks after treatment had ceased. Significantly elevated GABA (~25%) was only seen at 4weeks. These results suggest specific metabolic pathways in our pursuit of mechanisms of action of psychoactive bacteria. They also offer through application of standard clinical neurodiagnostic techniques, translational opportunities to assess biomarkers accompanying behavioral changes induced by alterations in the gut microbiome.
26557831: !GIMB Medical Therapy of Active Ulcerative Colitis. BACKGROUND: Medical therapy of mild and moderate ulcerative colitis (UC) of any extent is evidence-based and standardized by national and international guidelines. However, patients with steroid-refractory UC still represent a challenge. METHODS: A literature search using PubMed (search terms: ulcerative colitis, therapy, new, 1-2008-2015) resulted in 821 publications. For the current article, 88 citations were extracted including 36 randomized controlled studies,  18 reviews, and 8 meta-analyses. RESULTS: In steroid-refractory UC, early intensive therapy using anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antibodies or the calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine and tacrolimus is indicated in any case to prevent progression to a toxic megacolon and/or to avoid proctocolectomy. In patients with chronic disease activity, treatment with anti-TNF antibodies has a  higher level of evidence than azathioprine therapy and should therefore be preferred. However, there is a subgroup of UC patients who may achieve prolonged  steroid-free remission on azathioprine monotherapy. The importance of vedolizumab, a newly registered inhibiting antibody against integrin, has not yet been fully clarified since direct comparison studies are lacking, in particular in relation to anti-TNF antibodies. CONCLUSION: There is a great need for additional innovative therapies, especially in cases of primary non-response or secondary loss of response to anti-TNF antibodies. New small molecules (Janus kinase inhibitors) are promising with an acceptable safety profile and efficacy in UC. Further, strategies that target the intestinal microbiome are currently considered for patients with active or relapsing UC, and may in the future open up new therapeutic options.
26554714: !GIMB Plasma levels of trimethylamine-N-oxide are confounded by impaired kidney function and poor metabolic control. BACKGROUND: After ingestion of phosphatidylcholine, l-carnitine or betaine, trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) is formed by gut microbiota and liver enzymes. Elevated TMAO plasma levels were associated with increased cardiovascular risk and other diseases. Also betaine and choline itself were recently associated with increased cardiovascular risk. METHODS: A newly developed LC-HRMS method was applied to measure the plasma concentrations of TMAO, betaine and choline in a cohort of 339 patients undergoing coronary angiography for the evaluation of suspected coronary artery disease. RESULTS: Betaine concentrations in males were  significantly higher than in females (42.0 vs. 35.9 mumol/L; p < 0.001). Plasma concentrations of TMAO but not of betaine or choline were higher in patients with diabetes compared to euglycemic patients (2.39 vs. 0.980 mumol/L; p = 0.001) as well as in patients with metabolic syndrome as compared to patients without metabolic syndrome (2.37 vs. 1.43 mumol/L; p = 0.002). Plasma concentrations of TMAO or choline increased significantly with decreasing renal function (Spearman's rho: -0.281; p < 0.001). However, plasma levels of TMAO or betaine were associated with neither a history of myocardial infarction nor the angiographically assessed presence of coronary heart disease, nor incident cardiovascular events during 8 years of follow-up. Plasma levels of choline were  significantly lower in patients with a history of acute myocardial infarction as  compared to those without such history (10.0 vs. 10.8 mumol/L; p = 0.045). CONCLUSIONS: Plasma levels of TMAO are confounded by impaired kidney function and poor metabolic control but are not associated with the history, presence or incidence of symptoms or events of coronary heart disease.
26523278: !GIMB Neuroprotective Effects of Clostridium butyricum against Vascular Dementia in Mice via Metabolic Butyrate. Probiotics actively participate in neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the role  of gut microbiota in brain disorders and vascular dementia (VaD) remains unclear. We used a mouse model of VaD induced by a permanent right unilateral common carotid arteries occlusion (rUCCAO) to investigate the neuroprotective effects and possible underlying mechanisms of Clostridium butyricum. Following rUCCAO, C. butyricum was intragastrically administered for 6 successive weeks. Cognitive function was estimated. Morphological examination was performed by electron microscopy and hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) staining. The BDNF-PI3K/Akt pathway-related proteins were assessed by western blot and immunohistochemistry.  The diversity of gut microbiota and the levels of butyrate in the feces and the brains were determined. The results showed that C. butyricum significantly attenuated the cognitive dysfunction and histopathological changes in VaD mice. C. butyricum not only increased the levels of BDNF and Bcl-2 and decreased level  of Bax but also induced Akt phosphorylation (p-Akt) and ultimately reduced neuronal apoptosis. Moreover, C. butyricum could regulate the gut microbiota and  restore the butyrate content in the feces and the brains. These results suggest that C. butyricum might be effective in the treatment of VaD by regulating the gut-brain axis and that it can be considered a new therapeutic strategy against VaD.
26520194: !GIMB [Epidemiology, follow-up, monitoring and other aspects of inflammatory bowel disease]. There are no important new data on the aetiology of inflammatory bowel disease. However, some new data were presented on the possible importance of certain nutrients or drugs in the genesis of the disease, as well as other data related to genetic features and their relationship with the microbiota. A highly interesting study suggested the strong potential of serological studies in predicting the course of Crohn's disease. The value of magnetic resonance imaging and the potential of low-radiation-dose tomography were reaffirmed in the monitoring and follow-up of patients and their treatments. Studies also confirmed the utility confirmed of new (and more comfortable) methods of home measurement of faecal calprotectin levels. In individualized therapy, attempts are being made to increase the practical application of new results on anti-TNF levels and their antibodies, for example, by identifying the utility of non-trough levels. We believe that the results presented on the impact of the disease on patients themselves were especially important, from their own perspective and in diverse setting. This impact is important both for patients (not only because of the repercussions of the disease on their quality of life but also on their mental health, disability, stress, and financial situation, etc.) and for their families. Finally, interesting results were presented of well-performed studies on colorectal cancer prevention in inflammatory bowel disease. These results confirm chromoendoscopy as a key technique but suggest that technological advances could change this situation, thus simplifying prevention.
26520057: !GIMB The clinical presentation of coeliac disease in 1030 Swedish children: Changing features over the past four decades. BACKGROUND: The features of paediatric coeliac disease have changed in recent decades. We hypothesised that the age at diagnosis might continue to increase, whereas the severity of symptoms should decrease. METHODS: In the present study,  filed data on 1030 paediatric patients diagnosed with coeliac disease between 1973 and 2013 were analysed. The information available covered 99.8% of small bowel biopsies and included information on sex, age and clinical symptoms. RESULTS: The age at diagnosis increased significantly, from a mean of 2.2 years during the first 10 years to 8.2 years in recent years. The proportion of children with severe symptoms declined from 92.8% to 78%, as did the proportion of biopsies characterised by severe pathology. In recent years, the monosymptomatic form of coeliac disease has been more common, and the number of patients detected at screening has increased. The frequency of patients with gastrointestinal symptoms, extra-intestinal symptoms, and failure to thrive and/or short stature at presentation decreased. CONCLUSIONS: The mean age of newly diagnosed patients has increased over the last 15 years. Currently, coeliac disease shows a less severe picture in terms of symptoms and intestinal pathology. Younger children suffer primarily from gastrointestinal symptoms and growth failure, and adolescents from extra-intestinal manifestations.
26496305: !GIMB Serological Screening for Celiac Disease in Adult Chinese Patients With Diarrhea  Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome. Celiac disease (CD) is common in Caucasians, but thought to be rare in Asians. Our aim was to determine the prevalence of CD in Chinese patients with chronic diarrhea predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D).From July 2010 to August 2012, 395 adult patients with IBS-D and 363 age and sex-matched healthy controls  were recruited in Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University and Xiaogan Central Hospital in Hubei province, central China. Patients with IBS-D were diagnosed according to the Rome III criteria. Serum Immunoglobulin (IgA/IgG) anti-human tissue transglutaminase (anti-htTG)-deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) antibodies were measured in a single ELISA (QUANTA Lite h-tTG/DGP Screen). Upper endoscopy with duodenal biopsies and HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1 genotyping were performed in seropositive subjects and a gluten-free diet was prescribed.Seven IBS-D patients  (7/395, 1.77%) and 2 healthy controls (2/363, 0.55%), were positive for anti-htTG/DGP antibodies. Of these 9 cases, 1 was lost to follow-up, 3 were suspected to have CD and 5 were eventually diagnosed as CD with intestinal histological lesions classified as Marsh Type II in 2 and Type III in 3. Of these 5 diagnosed CD patients, 4 (4/395, 1.01%) were from the IBS-D group and 1 (1/363, 0.28%) from the healthy control had asymptomatic CD. Two Type III CD patients with relatively high titers in the serologic assay were homozygous and heterozygous for haplotype HLA-DQA1*03-DQB1*03:03 (HLA-DQ9.3), respectively.In the present study, CD was present in 1.01% of patients with IBS-D and in 0.28% of the control group. We like to suggest that the haplotype HLA-DQA1*03-DQB1*03:03 (HLA-DQ9.3), which is common in Chinese, is a new susceptibility factor for CD in China. Larger screening and genetic studies are needed in the Chinese population  of different regions.
26479726: !GIMB Type 2 Diabetes Biomarkers of Human Gut Microbiota Selected via Iterative Sure Independent Screening Method. Type 2 diabetes, which is a complex metabolic disease influenced by genetic and environment, has become a worldwide problem. Previous published results focused on genetic components through genome-wide association studies that just interpret this disease to some extent. Recently, two research groups published metagenome-wide association studies (MGWAS) result that found meta-biomarkers related with type 2 diabetes. However, One key problem of analyzing genomic data  is that how to deal with the ultra-high dimensionality of features. From a statistical viewpoint it is challenging to filter true factors in high dimensional data. Various methods and techniques have been proposed on this issue, which can only achieve limited prediction performance and poor interpretability. New statistical procedure with higher performance and clear interpretability is appealing in analyzing high dimensional data. To address this problem, we apply an excellent statistical variable selection procedure called iterative sure independence screening to gene profiles that obtained from metagenome sequencing, and 48/24 meta-markers were selected in Chinese/European cohorts as predictors with 0.97/0.99 accuracy in AUC (area under the curve), which showed a better performance than other model selection methods, respectively. These results demonstrate the power and utility of data mining technologies within the large-scale and ultra-high dimensional genomic-related dataset for diagnostic and predictive markers identifying.
26457003: !GIMB Elevated Blood Ammonia Level Is a Potential Biological Risk Factor of Behavioral  Disorders in Prisoners. Hydrothion (H2S) and ammonia (NH3) can be toxic for the human central nervous system and cause psychological disturbances and behavioral disorders. In order to evaluate the association between the two potential toxicants and mental health, in this study, we compare a male prisoner and control population. Forty-nine male prisoners and 52 control volunteers took part in the study. An aggressive behavior assessment, the Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS), and the State-Trait  Anxiety Inventory (STAI) were used to characterize the participants' mental health status. Venous blood was collected for detection of H2S and NH3. The results indicated that blood NH3 was significantly higher in male prisoners than  in controls. However, blood H2S was significantly lower. Blood NH3 was also significantly and positively correlated with prisoners. In the multivariate adjusted models, after controlling for age, education, marital status, and BMI, we found a positive association between NH3 and prisoners, but not blood H2S. While the functions of the two toxicants were quite different, blood NH3 may be a potential biological risk factor for behavioral disorders and blood H2S showed neuroprotection. Additionally, the impact of other factors such as diet and gut bacteria should be considered when evaluating risk for behavioral disorders.
26454487: !GIMB A new case definition of Neuro-Inflammatory and Oxidative Fatigue (NIOF), a neuroprogressive disorder, formerly known as chronic fatigue syndrome or Myalgic  Encephalomyelitis: results of multivariate pattern recognition methods and external validation by neuro-immune biomarkers. BACKGROUND: Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) or Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (ME) is characterized by neuro-psychiatric (e.g. depression, irritability, sleep disorders, autonomic symptoms and neurocognitive defects) and physio-somatic (fatigue, a flu-like malaise, hyperalgesia, irritable bowel, muscle pain and tension) symptoms. New ME/CFS case definitions based on consensus criteria among  experts are largely inadequate, e.g. those of the US Institute of Medicine . OBJECTIVES: The aim of the present study was to delineate a new case definition of ME/CFS based on pattern recognition methods and using neuro-immune, inflammatory, oxidative and nitrosative stress (neuro-IO&NS) biomarkers as external validating criteria. METHODS: We measured the 12-item Fibromyalgia and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Rating (FF) Scale in 196 subjects with CFS (CDC criteria) and 83 with chronic fatigue. The "Neuro-IO&NS" biomarkers were: IgM / IgA responses against LPS of gut commensal bacteria (leaky gut), IgM responses to O&NS modified neoepitopes, autoimmunity to serotonin, plasma interleukin-1 (IL-1) and serum neopterin. RESULTS: Cluster analysis showed the presence of two well-separated clusters with highly significant differences in symptoms and biomarkers. The cluster with higher scores on all FF items was externally validated against all IO&NS biomarkers and therefore this diagnostic group was labeled "Neuro-IO&NS Fatigue" or "Neuro-Inflammatory and Oxidative Fatigue" (NIOF). An algorithm was constructed which defined NIOF as chronic fatigue and 4  or more of the following 6 symptoms: muscle tension, memory disturbances, sleep disorders, irritable bowel, headache or a flu-like malaise. There was a significant overlap between NIOF and CFS although NIOF criteria were much more restrictive. Factor analysis showed two factors, the first a fatigue-hyperalgesia (fibromyalgic complaints) and the second a fatigue-depression factor.
26445114: !GIMB Gut microbiota interacts with brain microstructure and function. CONTEXT: Evidence from animals suggests that gut microbiota affects brain structure and function but evidence in humans is scarce. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate potential interactions among gut microbiota composition, brain microstructure and cognitive tests in obese and non obese subjects. DESIGN: Cross-sectional study. SETTING: A tertiary hospital. PARTICIPANTS: Twenty consecutive obese and 19 non-obese subjects similar in age and sex. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Gut microbiota  (16S bacterial gene pyrosequencing), brain microstructure (diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) of brain white and grey matter and R2* sequences in MRI) and cognitive tests. RESULTS: Hierarchical clustering revealed a specific gut microbiota-brain map profile for obese individuals who could be discriminated from non-obese subjects (accuracy of 0.81). Strikingly, Shannon index was linked  to R2* and fractional anisotropy of the hypothalamus, caudate nucleus and hippocampus, suggesting sparing of these brain structures with increased bacterial biodiversity. Microbiota profile also clustered with cognitive function. The relative abundance of Actinobacteria phylum was linked not only to  MRI DTI variables in the thalamus, hypothalamus and amygdala but also to cognitive test scores related to speed, attention, and cognitive flexibility. CONCLUSIONS: In sum, obesity status affects microbiota-brain microstructure and function crosstalk.
26439212: !GIMB Osteomyelitis in adult patients on long-term parenteral nutrition: 2745 patient-years of experience in a national referral centre. BACKGROUND & AIMS: Osteomyelitis (OM) is a rare complication of catheter related  sepsis after central venous catheter (CVC) use. The prevalence, characteristics and diagnosis of OM in patients with intestinal failure (IF) receiving long term  parenteral nutrition (PN) through CVCs have not previously been described. METHODS: This was a retrospective study from a prospectively maintained database  of patients referred to a National IF centre. Age, IF aetiology, past medical history, time on PN, OM site and organism(s) cultured were recorded. Patients were divided into 2 groups: OM occurring in the setting of acute (Type 2) IF (AIF) or chronic (Type 3) IF (CIF). Diagnosis of OM was made clinically and supported by radiological and/or microbial evidence. RESULTS: 21 cases of OM occurred in 17 patients (7 male (41%)) between 1994 and 2014. 0 cases were observed between 1994 and 1999, 1 case between 2000 and 2004, 6 cases between 2005 and 2009 and 14 cases between 2010 and 2014. There were 11 cases in 7 patients with CIF managed at the IFU between 1994 and 2014; the latter yielded a  period prevalence for OM of 0.9% when compared to the 794 HPN patients managed by the IFU over this period. There were 10 cases of OM in 10 patients with AIF; patients with AIF had spent less time on PN before developing OM, compared to patients with CIF; despite this, the rate of preceding CVC infections was higher  in the AIF (5.6/1000 catheter days) than in the CIF (0.3/1000 catheter days) group, as a result of patients with AIF contracting CVC infections prior to specialist referral. Patients with AIF had more severe OM compared to those with  CIF, according to the Cierny Mader classification. All patients received at least 6 weeks antimicrobial chemotherapy. 4/10 (40%) AIF cases and 2/11 (18%) CIF cases required surgical intervention. No patient died from OM or its treatment. CONCLUSION: OM is a rare complication of IF and its treatment, but is being diagnosed more frequently than before and should be noted as a potential focus of sepsis in patients with IF, because it may lead to considerable morbidity.
26438800: !GIMB Gut microbiota and brain function: An evolving field in neuroscience. There is a growing appreciation of the importance of gut microbiota to health and disease. This has been driven by advances in sequencing technology and the recent findings demonstrating the important role of microbiota in common health disorders such as obesity. Moreover, the potential role of gut microbiota in influencing brain function, behaviour, and mental health has attracted the attention of neuroscientists and psychiatrists. At the 29th CINP World Congress held in Vancouver, BC, Canada in June 2014, a group of experts presented the symposium, "Gut microbiota and brain function: Relevance to psychiatric disorders" to review the latest findings in how gut microbiota may play a role in brain function, behaviour, and disease. The symposium covered a broad range of topics including gut microbiota and neuroendocrine function, the influence of gut microbiota on behaviour, probiotics as regulators of brain and behaviour, and imaging the gut-brain axis in humans. This report provides an overview of these presentations.
26413854: !GIMB Microbiota-dependent marker TMAO is elevated in silent ischemia but is not associated with first-time myocardial infarction in HIV infection. disease (CHD) beyond that explained by traditional risk factors, and altered gut  microbiota has been proposed as a potential trigger. Trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) is a pro-atherogenic substance formed in the liver from trimethylamine, exclusively generated by gut microbiota from dietary phosphatidylcholine. We aimed to investigate if TMAO is associated with subclinical and clinical CHD in HIV-infection. METHODS: Two previously described cohorts were examined: 1. Cross-sectional cohort of HIV-infected persons and uninfected controls with known atherosclerotic plaque burden as assessed by myocardial perfusion scintigraphy, coronary artery calcium score (CACS), and intima media thickness (IMT), and 2. Nested case-control study of HIV-infected persons with first-time myocardial infarction (MI) compared to HIV-infected persons without MI, assessed at four time points from before initiation of antiretroviral treatment (ART) to last sample before the case's MI (median 51, range 0-239 days). RESULTS: There was no  difference in plasma TMAO when comparing HIV-infected persons and uninfected controls. TMAO was elevated in HIV-infected persons with myocardial perfusion defects, but was not associated with CACS score, IMT, or Framingham risk score. In the nested case control study, plasma TMAO was not associated with first-time  MI. However, TMAO increased after ART introduction and was associated with use of protease inhibitors in both cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: TMAO was elevated in HIV-infected persons with myocardial perfusion defects, but was not associated with first-time MI. Our data question TMAO as a useful biomarker of cardiovascular risk in HIV-infection, at least in ART-treated individuals. OBJECTIVES: HIV-infection is associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) beyond that explained by traditional risk factors, and altered gut  microbiota has been proposed as a potential trigger. Trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) is a pro-atherogenic substance formed in the liver from trimethylamine, exclusively generated by gut microbiota from dietary phosphatidylcholine. We aimed to investigate if TMAO is associated with subclinical and clinical CHD in HIV-infection. METHODS: Two previously described cohorts were examined: 1. Cross-sectional cohort of HIV-infected persons and uninfected controls with known atherosclerotic plaque burden as assessed by myocardial perfusion scintigraphy, coronary artery calcium score (CACS), and intima media thickness (IMT), and 2. Nested case-control study of HIV-infected persons with first-time myocardial infarction (MI) compared to HIV-infected persons without MI, assessed at four time points from before initiation of antiretroviral treatment (ART) to last sample before the case's MI (median 51, range 0-239 days). RESULTS: There was no  difference in plasma TMAO when comparing HIV-infected persons and uninfected controls. TMAO was elevated in HIV-infected persons with myocardial perfusion defects, but was not associated with CACS score, IMT, or Framingham risk score. In the nested case control study, plasma TMAO was not associated with first-time  MI. However, TMAO increased after ART introduction and was associated with use of protease inhibitors in both cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: TMAO was elevated in HIV-infected persons with myocardial perfusion defects, but was not associated with first-time MI. Our data question TMAO as a useful biomarker of cardiovascular risk in HIV-infection, at least in ART-treated individuals.
26411174: !GIMB The Addition of High-Risk HPV Testing to Anal Cytology Increases the Identification of Anal Dysplasia in HIV-Infected Patients. BACKGROUND: Anal dysplasia (AD) is prevalent in HIV-infected patients. Screening  for AD is recommended for high-risk groups, including HIV-infected patients. We evaluated screening algorithms for AD using cytology, high-risk human papillomavirus (HRH) testing, or both. METHODS: HIV-infected patients were offered AD screening by both anal cytology and PCR-based detection of HRH. Patients with abnormal cytology (AC) or HRH genotypes were referred to the same oncologic surgeon for high-resolution anoscopy (HRA). RESULTS: Ninety patients underwent screening (84% men who have sex with men). Forty-four patients (52.6%)  had abnormal screens (31.5% AC, 46% HRH). Twenty-six patients with AC and/or positive HRH had HRA. AC and nadir CD4+ cell count of < 200 cells/mm3 were predictors of abnormal histology on HRA by univariate analysis (OR 4.5 and 2.5, respectively). Using a log-linear model, we estimated that for every 49 cases with two normal screening tests, one case of AD would be missed. Conclusions: Universal screening for AD in an HIV+ population yielded a high percentage of abnormal findings. Addition of HRH to cytology screening increased positive screens by 24%. Larger studies are needed to determine the ideal screening method.
26408987: !GIMB Administration of Lactobacillus helveticus NS8 improves behavioral, cognitive, and biochemical aberrations caused by chronic restraint stress. Increasing numbers of studies have suggested that the gut microbiota is involved  in the pathophysiology of stress-related disorders. Chronic stress can cause behavioral, cognitive, biochemical, and gut microbiota aberrations. Gut bacteria  can communicate with the host through the microbiota-gut-brain axis (which mainly includes the immune, neuroendocrine, and neural pathways) to influence brain and  behavior. It is hypothesized that administration of probiotics can improve chronic-stress-induced depression. In order to examine this hypothesis, the chronic restraint stress depression model was established in this study. Adult specific pathogen free (SPF) Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to 21days of restraint stress followed by behavioral testing (including the sucrose preference test (SPT), elevated-plus maze test, open-field test (OFT), object recognition test (ORT), and object placement test (OPT)) and biochemical analysis. Supplemental Lactobacillus helveticus NS8 was provided every day during stress until the end of experiment, and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) citalopram (CIT) served as a positive control. Results showed that L. helveticus  NS8 improved chronic restraint stress-induced behavioral (anxiety and depression) and cognitive dysfunction, showing an effect similar to and better than that of CIT. L. helveticus NS8 also resulted in lower plasma corticosterone (CORT) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels, higher plasma interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels, restored hippocampal serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) levels, and more hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression than in chronic stress rats. Taken together, these results indicate an anti-depressant effect of L. helveticus NS8 in rats subjected to chronic restraint stress depression and that this effect could be due to the microbiota-gut-brain axis. They also suggest the therapeutic potential of L. helveticus NS8 in stress-related and possibly other kinds of depression.
26402520: !GIMB Nutritional Aspects of Depression. Several nutrition, food and dietary compounds have been suggested to be involved  in the onset and maintenance of depressive disorders and in the severity of depressive symptoms. Nutritional compounds might modulate depression associated biomarkers and parallel the development of depression, obesity and diabetes. In this context, recent studies revealed new mediators of both energy homeostasis and mood changes (i.e. IGF-1, NPY, BDNF, ghrelin, leptin, CCK, GLP-1, AGE, glucose metabolism and microbiota) acting in gut brain circuits. In this context  several healthy foods such as olive oil, fish, fruits, vegetables, nuts, legumes, poultry, dairy and unprocessed meat have been inversely associated with depression risk and even have been postulated to improve depressive symptoms. In  contrast, unhealthy western dietary patterns including the consumption of sweetened beverage, refined food, fried food, processed meat, refined grain, and  high fat diary, biscuits, snacking and pastries have been shown to be associated  with an increased risk of depression in longitudinal studies. However, it is always difficult to conclude a real prospective causal relationship from these mostly retrospective studies as depressed individuals might also change their eating habits secondarily to their depression. Additionally specific selected nutritional compounds, e.g. calcium, chromium, folate, PUFAs, vitamin D, B12, zinc, magnesium and D-serine have been postulated to be used as ad-on strategies  in antidepressant treatment. In this context, dietary and lifestyle interventions may be a desirable, effective, pragmatical and non-stigmatizing prevention and treatment strategy for depression. At last, several medications (pioglitazone, metformin, exenatide, atorvastatin, gram-negative antibiotics), which have traditionally been used to treat metabolic disorders showed a certain potential to treat depression in first randomized controlled clinical trials.
26378866: !GIMB Safety and tolerability evaluation of the use of Montanide ISA51 as vaccine adjuvant: A systematic review. Montanide ISA51 (ISA 51) is a vaccine adjuvant which has been tested in therapeutic and prophylactic vaccine trials. The aim of this review is to present a comprehensive examination of the safety and tolerability of ISA 51 containing vaccines. A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed, EMBASE and clinicaltrials.gov . Eligible studies were categorized into: (A) uncontrolled studies with non-healthy subjects, (B) controlled studies with non-healthy subjects, and (C) controlled studies with healthy subjects. Reported adverse events (AEs) were assessed. 91 studies were included in our review. Generally observed AEs included injection site reaction; injection site pain; myalgia; headache; gastro-intestinal disorders; fatigue and fever - regardless of the administration route and subject characteristic. Specific AEs, e.g. injection site reactions and rash, were more frequently reported from subjects receiving ISA 51-adjuvanted vaccines than from subjects receiving antigen or ISA 51 only. The reported AEs were mainly mild to moderate in intensity. Serious AEs (SAEs) were reported in 27% of the uncontrolled trials and 2 trials conducted with healthy subjects. Notably, 2 other trials conducted with healthy subjects were stopped due to unacceptable AEs. Some studies indicate that the mixing procedure  of antigen and adjuvant might influence the occurrence of AEs. Reports on SAEs and premature termination of 2 trials advise caution when using ISA 51. Yet, AEs  might be preventable by proper mixing of vaccine and adjuvant to a stable emulsion. Trials including an active control group are needed for a fair evaluation of adjuvant safety.
26374599: !GIMB Insulin resistance and vascular dysfunction in chronic kidney disease: mechanisms and therapeutic interventions. Insulin resistance (IR) is a novel cardiovascular risk factor that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Beyond its metabolic effects, insulin can potentially mediate the increased risk for CVD through its vasoactive properties. This review examines key clinical data and potential mechanisms linking IR and cardiovascular risk in CKD. While lifestyle interventions and pharmacotherapies with known insulin-sensitizing properties are promising therapeutic targets to reduce the CVD burden in this population, clinical trial data on the effect of insulin sensitization on vascular function in CKD are either lacking or conflicting and are limited by small sample size and short duration of intervention. Affirming the role of IR in lowering CVD risk in CKD will require prospective randomized controlled studies with sufficient sample size and hard clinical outcomes. Future research efforts should be directed at assessing the efficacy, safety and mechanisms by which novel insulin sensitizers such as bile acid sequestrant, selective and dual peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor modulators and modulators of gut microbiota and uraemic toxins alter vascular function in patients with CKD.
26370263: !GIMB Systematic review of evidence to support the theory of psychobiotics. CONTEXT: The theory that supplemented probiotic bacteria could affect psychological outcomes has recently been outlined in narrative reviews; to date,  however, this area of research has not been systematically reviewed. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this review was to compare the effects of probiotics with those  of placebo on psychological outcomes and symptoms of psychiatric disorders. DATA  SOURCES: The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, Embase, PubMed, PsycINFO, and PsycARTICLES databases were searched electronically for studies published up to July 17, 2014. Reference lists of relevant articles were  searched manually. STUDY SELECTION: Only double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled human trials that used a standardized, validated scale to assess the effects of probiotic interventions compared with placebo on psychological outcomes or symptoms of psychiatric disorders were included. DATA EXTRACTION: Two researchers independently assessed trials and evaluated them for  methodological quality. Data were extracted from the included studies using a data extraction form. DATA SYNTHESIS: Ten trials met the inclusion criteria. Overall, there is very limited evidence for the efficacy of probiotic interventions in psychological outcomes. The evidence base is incomplete and lacks applicability. CONCLUSIONS: More trials are necessary before any inferences can be made about the efficacy of probiotics in mental health applications.
26359672: !GIMB Comparison of three commercial fecal calprotectin ELISA test kits used in patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease. OBJECTIVE: Fecal calprotectin is a noninvasive marker of intestinal inflammation  used to distinguish between functional and organic bowel diseases and to evaluate disease activity among patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD). The goal of this study was to compare three different ELISA tests measuring calprotectin in their accuracy to detect IBD and to distinguish between IBD patients with active or inactive disease. MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study includes in total 148 fecal samples, 96 from patients with a previously confirmed IBD diagnosis and 52 from healthy controls, aged from 25 to 86 and 18 to 67 years, respectively. Disease activity in the patients was established using the following clinical activity indices: the Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index (SCCAI), the Harvey  Bradshaw Index (HBI) and the Modified Pouchitis Disease Activity Index (MPDAI). Three ELISA calprotectin tests (EK-CAL, CALPRO and HK325) were performed on fecal specimens and results compared. RESULTS: The CALPRO calprotectin ELISA test was shown to have the best specificity of 96% compared to the HK325 and the EK-CAL calprotectin ELISA tests with 28% specificity and 74% specificity, respectively.  A significant correlation between clinical activity indices and fecal calprotectin was found in patients with ulcerative colitis (p < 0.05***) and in patients with an ileoanal pouch (p < 0.05), but not in patients with Crohn's disease (p = 0.11). CONCLUSION: The CALPRO ELISA test performed best in measuring calprotectin in feces.
26288277: !GIMB Low Level Engraftment and Improvement following a Single Colonoscopic Administration of Fecal Microbiota to Patients with Ulcerative Colitis. OBJECTIVE: Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is an investigational treatment for diseases thought to involve alterations in the intestinal microbiota including ulcerative colitis (UC). Case reports have described therapeutic benefit of FMT in patients with UC, possibly due to changes in the microbiota. We measured the degree to which the transplanted microbiota engraft following FMT in patients with UC using a donor similarity index (DSI). METHODS: Seven patients with mild to moderate UC (UC disease activity index scores 3-10) received a single colonoscopic administration of FMT. Metagenomic sequence data from stool were analyzed using an alignment-free comparison tool, to measure the DSI, and a  phylogenetic analysis tool, to characterize taxonomic changes. Clinical, endoscopic, histologic, and fecal calprotectin outcome measures were also collected. RESULTS: One of 5 patients from whom sequencing data were available achieved the primary endpoint of 50% donor similarity at week 4; an additional 2  patients achieved 40% donor similarity. One patient with 40% donor similarity achieved clinical and histologic remission 1 month after FMT. However, these were lost by 2-3 months, and loss correlated with a decrease in DSI. The remaining patients did not demonstrate clinical response or remission. Histology scores improved in all but 1 patient. No patients remained in remission at 3 months after FMT. CONCLUSIONS: Following a single colonoscopic fecal transplant, a DSI of 40-50% is achieved in about two-thirds of recipients. This level of engraftment correlated with a temporary clinical improvement in only 1/5 patients. Larger sample sizes could further validate this method for measuring engraftment, and changes in transplant frequency or method might improve microbiota engraftment and efficacy. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01742754.
26221003: !GIMB Dietary intake of inulin-type fructans in active and inactive Crohn's disease and healthy controls: a case-control study. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Prebiotic inulin-type fructans are widely consumed in the diet and may have contrasting effects in Crohn's disease by stimulating gut microbiota and/or by generating functional gastrointestinal symptoms. The aim of  this study was to measure fructan and oligofructose intakes in patients with active and inactive Crohn's disease compared with healthy controls. METHODS: Patients with active Crohn's disease (n = 98), inactive Crohn's (n = 99) and healthy controls (n = 106) were recruited to a case-control study. Dietary intake of inulin-type fructans was measured using a specific food frequency questionnaire and was compared between the three groups and between patients with different disease phenotypes (Montreal classification). Associations between intakes and disease activity (Harvey-Bradshaw Index, HBI) were also undertaken. RESULTS: Patients with active Crohn's disease had lower fructan intakes (median 2.9 g/d, interquartile range [IQR] 1.8) than those with inactive Crohn's (3.6 g/d, 2.1, p = 0.036) or controls (3.9 g/d, 2.1, p = 0.003) and lower oligofructose intakes (2.8 g/d, 1.8) than those with inactive Crohn's (3.5 g/d, 2.2, p = 0.048) or controls (3.8 g/d, 2.1, p = 0.003). There were no differences  in intakes related to disease site or behaviour. There were negative correlations between HBI well-being score and fructan intake (rho = -0.154, p = 0.03) and oligofructose intake (rho = -0.156, p = 0.028) and for the HBI abdominal pain score and fructan (rho = -0.164, p = 0.021) and oligofructose intake (rho = -0.157, p = 0.027). CONCLUSIONS: Patients with active Crohn's disease consume lower quantities of fructans and oligofructose than their inactive counterparts and healthy controls. The impact of lower intakes of prebiotic fructans on gut microbiota is unknown and warrants further research.
26190966: !GIMB Role of neuroinflammation in the emotional and cognitive alterations displayed by animal models of obesity. Obesity is associated with a high prevalence of mood disorders and cognitive dysfunctions in addition to being a significant risk factor for important health  complications such as cardiovascular diseases and type 2 diabetes. Identifying the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying these health issues is a major public health challenge. Based on recent findings, from studies conducted on animal models of obesity, it has been proposed that inflammatory processes may participate in both the peripheral and brain disorders associated with the obesity condition including the development of emotional and cognitive alterations. This is supported by the fact that obesity is characterized by peripheral low-grade inflammation, originating from increased adipose tissue mass and/or dysbiosis (changes in gut microbiota environment), both of which contribute to increased susceptibility to immune-mediated diseases. In this review, we provide converging evidence showing that obesity is associated with exacerbated neuroinflammation leading to dysfunction in vulnerable brain regions  associated with mood regulation, learning, and memory such as the hippocampus. These findings give new insights to the pathophysiological mechanisms contributing to the development of brain disorders in the context of obesity and  provide valuable data for introducing new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of neuropsychiatric complications often reported in obese patients.
26186531: !GIMB Plasma-metabolite-biomarkers for the therapeutic response in depressed patients by the traditional Chinese medicine formula Xiaoyaosan: A (1)H NMR-based metabolomics approach. BACKGROUND: Depression is one of the most prevalent and serious mental disorders. Xiaoyaosan, a well-known Chinese prescription, has been widely used for the treatment of depression in China. Both clinical studies and animal experiments indicate that Xiaoyaosan has an obvious antidepressant activity. Additionally, a  large number of candidate biomarkers have emerged that can be used for early disease detection and for monitoring ongoing treatment response to therapy because of their correlations with the characteristics of the disease. However, there have been few reports on biomarkers that measure the treatment response to  the clinical use of Xiaoyaosan using a metabolomics approach. The current study is aimed at discovering biomarkers and biochemical pathways to facilitate the diagnosis of depression and the efficient evaluation of Xiaoyaosan using plasma metabolomics profiles based on (1)H NMR. METHODS: Sixteen depressed patients diagnosed by standard methods (HAMD and CGI-SI) and sixteen healthy volunteers were recruited. (1)H NMR-based metabolomics techniques and multivariate statistical methods were used to analyze the plasma metabolites of the depressed  patients before and after treatment and to compare them with healthy controls. RESULTS: The plasma levels of trimethylamine oxide, glutamine and lactate in depressed patients increased significantly (p</=0.05) compared with healthy controls, whereas the levels of phenylalanine, valine, alanine, glycine, leucine, citrate, choline, lipids and glucose decreased significantly (p</=0.05). Additionally, alanine, choline, trimethylamine oxide, glutamine, lactate and glucose were returned to normal levels after Xiaoyaosan treatment. These statistically significant perturbations are involved in energy metabolism, amino  acid metabolism and gut microbiota metabolism. LIMITATIONS: Additional experimentation with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) or liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) is required to confirm our findings. CONCLUSIONS: Application of these biomarkers in clinical practice may help to optimize the diagnosis of depression and to evaluate the efficacy of Xiaoyaosan.  Metabolomics is promising as a biomarker discovery tool.
26181430: !GIMB Body Mass Index, Genetic Susceptibility, and Risk of Complications Among Individuals with Crohn's Disease. BACKGROUND: Obesity is associated with systemic and intestine-specific inflammation and alterations in gut microbiota, which in turn impact mucosal immunity. Nonetheless, a specific role of obesity and its interaction with genetics in the progression of Crohn's disease (CD) is unclear. METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study of patients with CD enrolled in Prospective Registry in Inflammatory Bowel Disease Study at Massachusetts General Hospital (PRISM). Information on diagnosis of CD and its complications were collected and  confirmed through review of medical records. A genetic risk score was calculated  using previously reported single-nucleotide polymorphisms-associated genome-wide  with CD susceptibility. We used logistic regression to estimate the effect of body mass index (BMI) and its interaction with genetic risk on risk of CD complications. RESULTS: Among 846 patients with CD, 350 required surgery, 242 with penetrating disease, 182 with stricturing disease, and 226 with perianal disease. There were no associations between obesity (BMI >/= 30 kg/m) and risk of perianal disease, stricturing disease, or surgery. Compared with normal-weight individuals with BMI < 25 kg/m, obesity was associated with lower risk of penetrating disease (odds ratio [OR = 0.56; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.31-0.99). This association persists among a subgroup of participants with available BMI before development of penetrating disease (OR = 0.40; 95% CI, 0.16-0.88). There were no interactions between BMI and genetic risk score on risk of CD complications (all Pinteraction > 0.28). CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that obesity does not negatively impact long-term progression of CD, even after accounting for genetic predisposition.
26163607: !GIMB Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors: A Clinicopathologic and Risk Stratification Study of 255 Cases from Pakistan and Review of Literature. PURPOSE: To describe the clinicopathological features of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) diagnosed in our section and to perform risk stratification of our  cases by assigning them to specific risk categories and groups for disease progression based on proposals by Fletcher et al and Miettinen and Lasota. MATERIALS AND RESULTS: We retrieved 255 cases of GIST diagnosed between 2003 and  2014. Over 59% were male. The age range was 16 to 83 years with a mean of 51 years. Over 70% occurred between 40 and 70 years of age. Average diameter of tumors was 10 cms. The stomach was the most common site accounting for about 40%. EGISTs constituted about 16%. On histologic examination, spindle cell morphology  was seen in almost of 85% cases. CD117 was the most useful immunohistochemical antibody, positive in 98%. Risk stratification was possible for 220 cases. Based  on Fletcher's consensus proposal, 62.3 gastric, 81.8% duodenal, 68% small intestinal, 72% colorectal and 89% EGISTs were assigned to the high risk category; while based on Miettinen and Lasota's algorithm, about 48% gastric, 100% duodenal, 76% small intestinal, 100% colorectal and 100% EGISTs in our study were associated with high risk for disease progression, tumor metastasis and tumor related death. Follow up was available in 95 patients; 26 were dead and 69  alive at follow up. Most of the patients who died had high risk disease and on average death occurred just a few months to a maximum of one to two years after initial surgical resection. CONCLUSIONS: Epidemiological and morphologic findings in our study were similar to international published data. The majority of cases  in our study belonged to the high risk category.
26098103: !GIMB Dissecting Allele Architecture of Early Onset IBD Using High-Density Genotyping. BACKGROUND: The inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are common, complex disorders in which genetic and environmental factors are believed to interact leading to chronic inflammatory responses against the gut microbiota. Earlier genetic studies performed in mostly adult population of European descent identified 163 loci affecting IBD risk, but most have relatively modest effect sizes, and altogether explain only ~20% of the genetic susceptibility. Pediatric onset represents about 25% of overall incident cases in IBD, characterized by distinct  disease physiology, course and risks. The goal of this study is to compare the allelic architecture of early onset IBD with adult onset in population of European descent. METHODS: We performed a fine mapping association study of early onset IBD using high-density Immunochip genotyping on 1008 pediatric-onset IBD cases (801 Crohn's disease; 121 ulcerative colitis and 86 IBD undetermined) and 1633 healthy controls. Of the 158 SNP genotypes obtained (out of the 163 identified in adult onset), this study replicated 4% (5 SNPs out of 136) of the SNPs identified in the Crohn's disease (CD) cases and 0.8% (1 SNP out of 128) in  the ulcerative colitis (UC) cases. Replicated SNPs implicated the well known NOD2 and IL23R. The point estimate for the odds ratio (ORs) for NOD2 was above and outside the confidence intervals reported in adult onset. A polygenic liability score weakly predicted the age of onset for a larger collection of CD cases (p< 0.03, R2= 0.007), but not for the smaller number of UC cases. CONCLUSIONS: The allelic architecture of common susceptibility variants for early onset IBD is similar to that of adult onset. This immunochip genotyping study failed to identify additional common variants that may explain the distinct phenotype that  characterize early onset IBD. A comprehensive dissection of genetic loci is necessary to further characterize the genetic architecture of early onset IBD.
26049770: !GIMB What the Gut Can Teach Us About Migraine. During gestation, cells of the brain and gut develop almost simultaneously into the central nervous system (CNS) and enteric nervous system (ENS), respectively.  They remain connected via the vagal nerve lifelong. While it is well known that the brain sends signal to the gut, communication is in fact bidirectional. Just as the brain can modulate gut functioning, the gut, and likely what we ingest, can in fact influence our brain functioning. We will first review both gastrointestinal (GI) function and migraine pathophysiology and then discuss evidence linking the migraine brain to various GI disorders. Lastly, we discuss the effects of gut microbiota on brain functioning and speculate how the gut and  particularly diet may affect migraine.
25970936: !GIMB Current concepts in minimal hepatic encephalopathy. Minimal hepatic encephalopathy (MHE) defines the presence of neurocognitive impairments in patients with cirrhosis or portal-systemic shunting that show a normal neurologic and psychiatric status on clinical examination. Although ammonia has the central role in MHE pathogenesis, factors such as infection, oxidative stress, manganese or intestinal bacterial overgrowth contribute to the  development of the neurocognitive deficits associated with this disease. Many methods have proven useful in identifying MHE but because of the major drawbacks  (standardization requirements, high price, sophisticated equipment, and limited access) a gold-standard test is still missing. Although beneficial, the treatment of MHE is not routinely recommended and should be taken into consideration in patients at risk for accidents and in those with cognitive complaints or decline  in work performance.
25944654: !GIMB Effects of Uremic Toxins from the Gut Microbiota on Bone: A Brief Look at Chronic Kidney Disease. Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) frequently have mineral and bone disorders (CKD-MBD) that are caused by several mechanisms. Recent research has suggested that uremic toxins from the gut such as p-cresyl sulfate (PCS) and indoxyl sulfate (IS) could also be involved in the development of bone disease in patients with CKD. IS and PCS are produced by microbiota in the gut, carried into the plasma bound to serum albumin, and are normally excreted into the urine. However, in patients with CKD, there is an accumulation of high levels of these uremic toxins. The exact mechanisms of action of uremic toxins in bone disease remain unclear. The purpose of this brief review is to discuss the link between uremic toxins (IS and PCS) and bone mineral disease in chronic kidney disease.
25914466: !GIMB Predisposing factors for positive D-Xylose breath test for evaluation of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth: a retrospective study of 932 patients. AIM: To investigate, in the largest cohort to date, patient characteristics and associated risk factors for developing small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) using the D-Xylose breath test (XBT). METHODS: We performed a retrospective cross-sectional study to analyze patient characteristics who underwent the XBT for evaluation of SIBO. Diagnostic testing with the XBT was performed based on a clinical suspicion for SIBO in patients with symptoms of bloating, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, weight loss, diarrhea, and/or constipation. Consecutive electronic medical records of 932 patients who completed the XBT at the University of Florida between 2005 and 2009 were reviewed. A two-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) was used to test for several associations including age, gender, and body mass index (BMI) with a +XBT. A two-way ANOVA was also performed to control for the differences and interaction with age and between genders. A similar analysis was repeated for BMI. Associations between medical conditions and prior surgical histories were conducted using the Mantel-Haenszel method for 2 by 2 contingency tables, stratified for gender. Reported odds ratio estimates reflect the odds of the prevalence of a condition within the +XBT group to that of the -XBT group. P values of less than 0.05 (two-sided) were considered statistically significant. RESULTS: In the 932 consecutive eligible subjects studied, 513 had a positive XBT. A positive association was found between female gender and a positive XBT (P = 0.0025), and females with a positive test were, on average, greater than 5 years older than those with a negative test (P = 0.024). The mean BMI of positive XBT subjects was normal (24.5) and significantly lower than the subjects with a negative XBT (29.5) (P = 0.0050). A positive XBT was associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) (OR = 1.35; 95%CI: 1.02-1.80, P = 0.04), peptic ulcer disease (PUD) (OR = 2.61; 95%CI: 1.48-4.59, P < 0.01), gastroparesis (GP) (OR = 2.04; 95%CI: 1.21-3.41, P < 0.01) and steroid use (OR = 1.35; 95%CI: 1.02-1.80, P = 0.01). Irritable bowel syndrome, independent proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) usage, or previous abdominal surgery was not significantly associated with  a positive XBT. No single subdivision by gender or PPI use was associated with a  significant difference in the odds ratios between any of the subsets. CONCLUSION: Female gender, lower BMI, steroid use, PUD, GERD (independent of PPI use), and GP were more prevalent in patients with SIBO, determined by a positive XBT. Increasing age was associated with SIBO in females, but not in males.
25906546: !GIMB [Clinical characteristics of patients with a double pylori]. Double pylorus (DP), is a form of gastroduodenal fistula, which consists of a short accessory canal from the gastic antrum to the duodenal bulb, and mostly occrus in the background of peptic ulcer disease. Prevalence, as well long-term follow-up of patients with DP is less elucidated in western countries. Aim of our study was to analyse demografic, clinical and endoscopic characteristics in our case-series. During 2008-2013. a total of 23836 upper endoscopies were performed  in 16759 patients. DP was diagnosed in 6 patients (prevalence of 0.04%). The follow-up period was f 8 to 72 months. In 87% DP was a complication of the upper  gastrointestinal bleeding. In 83% cases opening of the fistula was on lesser curvature of gastric antrumu. During follow-up period the fistula healing did not occur in any of our patients. DP is a very rare entity, with a benign course of the disease Associated comorbidity and use of ulceriform medications plays important role in persistence of DP, wheras possible eradication of Helicobacter  infection in this background remains elusive.
25897019: !GIMB Cross-immunogenicity: antibodies to infliximab in Remicade-treated patients with  IBD similarly recognise the biosimilar Remsima. OBJECTIVE: The cross-immunogenicity of the recently approved infliximab-biosimilar Remsima (CT-P13) with the originator drug Remicade is still unknown. DESIGN: Sera of patients with IBD with or without measurable anti-Remicade antibodies to infliximab (ATI) were tested for their cross-reactivity to two batches of Remsima. Experiments were repeated after deglycosylation of Remicade/Remsima, IgG purification, excipients' dialysis and monomer purification by size exclusion chromatography. Anti-Remicade antibodies were tested for their functional inhibition of TNF-alpha binding by Remsima/Remicade by competition assay. Cross-reactivity of anti-adalimumab antibodies with Remicade/Remsima was also investigated. RESULTS: 125 patients' and controls' sera were tested (median age 31 years, IQR 24.5-39.5). All 56 anti-Remicade ATI-negative controls (14 healthy individuals, 42 patients with IBD) were also negative for anti-Remsima ATI. All 69 positive anti-Remicade IBD sera were cross-reactive with Remsima. ATI titres against Remicade or Remsima were strongly correlated (r values between 0.92 and 0.99, p<0.001 for all experiments, Spearman's correlation test). The background ELISA signal for Remsima was slightly higher compared with Remicade in negative controls (1.25+/-0.6 microg/mL vs 0.76+/-0.5 microg/mL, respectively, p<0.001), and persisted after deglycosylation, dialysis or protein size filtration, but abolished by IgG purification and significantly diminished by monomer purification. Anti-Remicade ATIs of patients with IBD (n=10) exerted similar functional inhibition on Remsima or Remicade TNF-alpha binding capacity (p=NS for all inhibition curve points). Antibodies-to-adalimumab in adalimumab-treated patients with IBD (n=7) did not cross-react with either Remicade or Remsima. CONCLUSIONS: Anti-Remicade antibodies in patients with IBD recognise and functionally inhibit Remsima to a similar degree, suggesting similar immunogenicity and shared immunodominant epitopes on these two infliximab agents. In contrast, anti-adalimumab antibodies do not cross-react with Remsima or Remicade.
25866138: !GIMB Primary sclerosing cholangitis - the Norwegian experience. Research related to primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) has since 1980 been a major activity at the Oslo University Hospital Rikshospitalet. The purpose of this publication is to describe the development of this research, the impact of this research on the clinical handling of the patients, and finally to describe what we believe are the most urgent, remaining problems to be solved. During the  early years, our research dealt primarily with clinical aspects of the disease. The concomitant inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) seen in most patients with PSC was a major interest and we also started looking into genetic associations of PSC. Prognosis, malignancy development and treatment with special emphasis on transplantation have later been dealt with. These activities has had impact on several aspects of PSC management; when and how to diagnose PSC and variant forms of PSC, how to handle IBD in PSC and how to deal with the increased rate of malignancy? The problems remaining to be solved are many. What is the role of the gut and the gut microbiota in the development of PSC? Do the PSC patients have an underlying disturbance in the bile homeostasis? And how does the characteristic type of fibrosis in PSC develop? The genetic studies have supported a role for the adaptive immune system in the disease development, but how should this be dealt with? Importantly, the development of malignancy in PSC is still not understood, and we lack appropriate medical treatment for our patients.
25865191: !GIMB Is there interaction between gut microbial profile and cardiovascular risk in chronic kidney disease patients? AIM: To evaluate the gut microbial profile in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients and evaluate the possible relationship with inflammation and cardiovascular risk. PATIENTS & METHODS: Markers inflammation plasma and bacterial community profile (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) were analyzed. RESULTS: The average number of bands was not different in healthy individuals and CKD patients. The number of bands was negatively associated with  plasma levels of VCAM-1 in patients. Flavobacteriaceae bacterium and Listeria monocytogenes were found in patients and Lachnospiraceae bacterium and Butyrivibrio crossotus in healthy individuals. CONCLUSION: Although CKD patients  did not present altered gut microbial profile, the sequencing of bands suggested  a different microbiota between groups. The result suggests a possible relationship between gut microbiota and cardiovascular risk in CKD patients.
25851437: !GIMB Menstrual cycle, sex hormones in female inflammatory bowel disease patients with  and without surgery. Healthy women at reproductive age experience a cyclical alteration of gastrointestinal (GI) symptomatology during their menstrual cycle. Additionally,  the majority of healthy women also complain of worsening of GI symptoms either during the premenstrual or menstrual phase. Despite conflicting evidence, studies suggest that sex hormones may increase GI transit time during the luteal phase. Similar phenomenon is also observed in women with underlying inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The mechanism underlying this complex pathophysiology is still not completely understood. However, a possible influence of sex hormones on the brain-gut-microbiota axis is hypothesized. The diagnosis of IBD is associated with a delay in menarche as well as menstrual function irregularities including alterations in cycle length and the duration of flow. There is little data on the effect of menopause on IBD disease activity and conflicting data on the effect of IBD diagnosis on the onset of menopause. The role of contraceptives and hormone replacement therapies on the development or disease activity of IBD has not been  yet established. Moreover, IBD patients with concomitant dysmenorrhea report heightened pain during menses. The effect of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in treating primary dysmenorrhea on the disease course of IBD is unknown. In addition, the effect of IBD medications including immunomodulators and biologics on menstrual function remains unclear. Also, the role of IBD surgery on menstrual irregularities needs to be fully elucidated. Hence, understanding the influence of menstrual function on IBD disease activity and vice versa and the maintenance of normal menstrual function in those patients is important in improving overall reproductive health and fertility and outcome of IBD.
25849831: !GIMB Association of microbial translocation biomarkers with clinical outcome in controllers HIV-infected patients. BACKGROUND: A proportion of patients who spontaneously control viral load (controllers) experienced clinical progression. We hypothesized that microbial translocation would independently determine the rate of disease progression in controllers. METHODS: sCD14, lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) and EndoCab levels were assessed in 114 antiretroviral-naive patients with CD4(+) T cells above 500 cells/mul (including 63 controllers and 51 noncontrollers). The independent predictive value of these markers on time to progression to the combined endpoint of AIDS, non-AIDS event, initiation of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) or CD4(+) cell count less than 500 cells/mul was assessed using a Cox regression model. RESULTS: Most of the patients progressed to a combined endpoint (60%). Clinical progression in controllers was significantly lower than in noncontrollers (P = 0.02). Controllers with lower than the median baseline CD4(+) T-cell count and higher than the median baseline  viral load, sCD14 and EndoCab levels had a worse prognosis (P < 0.0001, P = 0.007, P = 0.05 and P = 0.012), while noncontrollers with higher than the median  baseline LBP level also had a worse prognosis (P = 0.019). sCD14 and LBP increased and EndoCab decreased over time [from baseline (median values: 1486, 17604 ng/ml and 68 MMU/ml, respectively, to the date of event or the last determination (median values: 1663, 20230 ng/ml and 49 MMU/ml), respectively] in  controllers (P = 0.04, 0.08 and 0.0006, respectively). CONCLUSION: Microbial translocation seems to be an important determinant of clinical progression in HIV-infected controllers independently of viremia. Measures to improve the intestinal mucosa damage or decrease translocation could influence the outcome in these patients.
25826362: !GIMB New perspectives on the development of antiobesity drugs. After many years of research, obesity is still a disease with an unmet medical need. Very few compounds have been approved, acting mainly on neuromediators; researches, in recent years, pointed toward compounds potentially safer than first-generation antiobesity drugs, able to interact with one or more (multitarget therapy) receptors for substances produced by the gut, adipose tissue and other targets outside CNS. Other holistic approaches, such as those involving gut microbiota and plant extracts, appeared recently in the literature, and undoubtedly will contribute to the discovery of a valuable therapy for this disease. This review deals with the positive results and the pitfalls obtained following these approaches, with a view on their clinical trial studies.
25822311: !GIMB Multidimensional clinical phenotyping of an adult cystic fibrosis patient population. BACKGROUND: Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a multi-systemic disease resulting from mutations in the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator (CFTR) gene and has major manifestations in the sino-pulmonary, and gastro-intestinal tracts. Clinical phenotypes were generated using 26 common clinical variables to generate classes that overlapped quantiles of lung function and were based on multiple aspects of CF systemic disease. METHODS: The variables included age, gender, CFTR mutations, FEV1% predicted, FVC% predicted, height, weight, Brasfield chest xray  score, pancreatic sufficiency status and clinical microbiology results. Complete  datasets were compiled on 211 subjects. Phenotypes were identified using a proximity matrix generated by the unsupervised Random Forests algorithm and subsequent clustering by the Partitioning around Medoids (PAM) algorithm. The final phenotypic classes were then characterized and compared to a similar dataset obtained three years earlier. FINDINGS: Clinical phenotypes were identified using a clustering strategy that generated four and five phenotypes. Each strategy identified 1) a low lung health scores phenotype, 2) a younger, well-nourished, male-dominated class, 3) various high lung health score phenotypes that varied in terms of age, gender and nutritional status. This multidimensional clinical phenotyping strategy identified classes with expected microbiology results and low risk clinical phenotypes with pancreatic sufficiency. INTERPRETATION: This study demonstrated regional adult CF clinical phenotypes using non-parametric, continuous, ordinal and categorical data with a  minimal amount of subjective data to identify clinically relevant phenotypes. These studies identified the relative stability of the phenotypes, demonstrated specific phenotypes consistent with published findings and identified others needing further study.
25808540: !GIMB Impact of antibiotic exposure on the risk of colorectal cancer. PURPOSE: Gut microbiota has been postulated to serve as a significant promoter of CRC formation, and colonic dysbiosis was previously reported in CRC tissue. Our aim was to evaluate the association between the type and cumulative duration of antibiotic exposure and CRC risk. METHODS: We conducted a nested case-control study using a large population-based database from the UK. Cases were defined as  those with any medical code of CRC. Subjects with known familial CRC syndromes or IBD were excluded from the study. For every case, four eligible controls matched  on age, sex, practice site, and duration of follow-up before index date were selected using incidence-density sampling. Exposure of interest was antibiotic therapy before index date. Adjusted ORs and 95%CIs were estimated using conditional logistic regression analysis. RESULTS: A total of 20,990 cases and 82,054 controls were identified. The adjusted OR for CRC among subjects first exposed to penicillins >10 years prior to index date was 1.11 (95%CI 1.02-1.20).  The risk increased significantly with the number of penicillin exposures up to 1.20 (95%CI 1.11-1.31) for >10 courses. The risk also increased with the average  number of penicillin treatments per-year (exposure intensity) with an OR of 1.04  (95%CI 1.01-1.08) per one additional treatment per year. Exposure to anti-viral or anti-fungal therapy was not associated with CRC risk. CONCLUSIONS: Past exposure to multiple courses of penicillins is related to a modest elevation in CRC risk.
25801839: !GIMB Lewy Bodies: A Spectator or Salient Killer? Lewy bodies (LBs) are characteristic hallmarks of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, their role in the pathology of PD is not established yet. Are they primary events in the neurodegenerative process or only secondary phenomena? Are  they signs of protecting neurons from toxicity or are they toxic per se? How are  they are formed? Are LBs targets for therapeutic strategies? Addressing these questions may be of pivotal importance to unravel the basic mechanisms of neurodegeneration in PD. On the basis of current evidence, we intend to elucidate the possible role of LBs as triggers and/or markers of disease progression in PD. We present evidence for the morphogenesis of brain stem and cortical LBs, the role in neuronal cell death mechanisms, which seem to be correlated with the adhesion of LBs to and finally disruption of their inner neuronal membrane. Taken as such, LBs would be salient killers of nerve cells. However, they may also play a neuroprotective role in the early phases of neuronal pathology (LBs as a spectator), yet harmful to neuronal stability in later stages of LB development.  Generation of LB pathology in the periphery (early subclinical Braak stage) might be due to reactive oxygen species (ROS) due to (chronic) bacteria-induced and/or  otherwise intestinal inflammation, both leading to alpha-synuclein structural changes, oligomerization, seeding and propagation in a prion-like mechanism. If so, LB generation is a secondary process following ROS/inflammation pathology. Therapeutic implication based on LB pathology include drug development to inhibit protein misfolding, templating and transmission or vaccination against LBs, neuron regeneration strategies, anti-inflammatory and anti-biotic drugs as well as nutritional specialities to prevent intestine intoxications. In conclusion, evidence suggests LBs to be secondary hallmarks of PD pathology, induced by ROS/inflammation or other pathological triggers able to modify protein (alpha-synuclein) steric/chemical properties. Therapeutic strategies based on LB  pathologies are devoted to reduce neuron cell death mechanisms in their time course and severity.
25780308: !GIMB Effectiveness of probiotics in irritable bowel syndrome: Updated systematic review with meta-analysis. AIM: To investigate the efficacy of probiotics in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)  patients. METHODS: PubMed, Cochrane library, Scopus, Google Scholar, and Clinicaltrial.gov databases were searched for literature published between September 2007 and December 2013. The applied Mesh terms were "probiotics," "irritable bowel syndrome," and "irritable bowel syndrome treatment." The collected data contained24 clinical trials, of which 15 were eligible for meta-analysis and nine were reviewed systematically. All studies were randomized  placebo-controlled trials in patients with IBS that investigated the efficacy of  probiotics in IBS improvement. The Jadad score was used to assess the methodological quality of trials. The quality scale ranges from 0 to 5 points, with a score </= 2 indicating a low quality report, and a score of >/= 3 indicating a high quality report. Relative risk (RR), standardized effect size, and 95%CI were calculated using the DerSimonian-Laird method. The Cochran Q test  was used to test heterogeneity with P < 0.05. Funnel plots were constructed and Egger's and Begg-Mazumdar tests were performed to assess publication bias. RESULTS: A total of 1793 patients were included in the meta-analysis. The RR of responders to therapies based on abdominal pain score in IBS patients for two included trials comparing probiotics to placebo was 1.96 (95%CI: 1.14-3.36; P = 0.01). RR of responders to therapies based on a global symptom score in IBS patients for two included trials comparing probiotics with placebo was 2.43 (95%CI: 1.13-5.21; P = 0.02). For adequate improvement of general symptoms in IBS patients, the RR of seven included trials (six studies) comparing probiotics with placebo was 2.14 (95%CI: 1.08-4.26; P = 0.03). Distension, bloating, and flatulence were evaluated using an IBS severity scoring system in three trials (two studies) to compare the effect of probiotic therapy in IBS patients with placebo, the standardized effect size of mean differences for probiotics therapy  was -2.57 (95%CI: -13.05--7.92). CONCLUSION: Probiotics reduce pain and symptom severity scores. The results demonstrate the beneficial effects of probiotics in  IBS patients in comparison with placebo.
25759970: !GIMB Perianal Sepsis in Hematologic Malignancy: MR Imaging Appearances and Distinction from Cryptoglandular Infection in Immunocompetent Patients. PURPOSE: To use magnetic resonance (MR) imaging to document the appearance of perianal infection in patients with a hematologic malignancy (HM) compared with that in immunocompetent control patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: After an ethical waiver was obtained, 38 patients with an HM were matched by age and sex to 38 control patients with no history of immunocompromise or Crohn disease. Both groups had undergone MR imaging for perianal symptoms and/or systemic sepsis. Two radiologists who were blinded to the diagnosis independently reviewed the MR images and recorded the size and distribution of abscesses and/or fistula tracts, the extent of perianal edema, and the likely diagnosis. Groups were compared by using the Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon, chi(2), or Fisher exact test. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed to estimate the ability of MR imaging to help distinguish patients with an HM from control patients. RESULTS: Patients with an HM had significantly greater perianal edema than did control patients (mean arc angle of anal canal involved, 220 degrees vs 60 degrees ; P <  .001). However, they had significantly lower rates of fistula (15 [39.5%] vs 35 [92.1%] of 38; P < .001). Abscesses were similar in frequency (10 [26.3%] vs 17 [44.7%] of 38; P = .15) and were unrelated to the degree of neutropenia (P = .71) or the use of chemotherapy (P = .10). Surgical treatment was rarely required in patients with an HM, either during the acute illness (four [10.5%] of 38) or thereafter (three [7.9%] of 38). MR imaging had an excellent ability to help discriminate patients with HM from immunocompetent patients (areas under the ROC  curve, 0.91 and 0.97). CONCLUSION: Perianal infection in patients with an HM is more likely to cause diffuse perianal edema and is less likely to cause fistulas  than in immunocompetent patients. MR imaging can help distinguish patients with an HM from those without immunocompromise.
25743457: !GIMB Barrett's oesophagus: can meaningful screening and surveillance guidelines be formulated based on new data and rejigging the old paradigm? Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) and Barrett's oesophagus (BO) have been  considered to be the most important known risk factors for oesophageal adenocarcinoma (OAC). It has been the fastest growing cancer in the Western World and has occurred against a backdrop of progressive reduction in the risk estimate of malignancy associated with BO and no reduction in mortality from OAC using the prevailing screening and surveillance guidelines. The recently published link between high risk HPV and Barrett's dysplasia/cancer may be the 'missing' strong  risk factor responsible for the significant rise of OAC since the 1970's, as has  been the case with head and neck tumours, another viral associated cancer. P53 immunohistochemistry has been proposed as a good molecular marker for predicting  disease progression in BD. Nevertheless, significant negative staining for this mutation in BD remains a major hurdle to widespread routine clinical use as a sole molecular marker. Recent data raises the distinct possibility of at least 2  (probably more) carcinogenic pathways operating in OAC. One is HPV mediated devoid largely of p53 mutations and the other p53 dependent. The joint use of both these markers as part of a molecular panel may represent the best bet yet of detecting the high risk group of progressors to OAC. Patients who are positive for either or both biomarkers i.e p53 or/and transcriptional markers of HPV may warrant more intensive screening. In future, genome wide technology may provide molecular signatures to aid diagnosis and risk stratification in BO.
25741143: !GIMB Diagnosis of ectopic pancreas by endoscopic ultrasound with fine-needle aspiration. AIM: To study the clinical, endoscopic, sonographic, and cytologic features of ectopic pancreas (EP). METHODS: This was a retrospective study performed at an academic referral center including two hospitals. Institutional review board approval was obtained. Patients referred to the University Hospital or Denver Health Medical Center Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Lab for gastroduodenal subepithelial lesions (SEL) with a final diagnosis of EP between January 2009 and December 2013 were identified. Patients in this group were selected for the study if they underwent endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) with fine-needle aspiration (FNA) or deep biopsy. A review of the medical record was performed specifically to review the following information: presenting symptoms, endoscopic and EUS findings, computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging findings, pathology results, procedure-related adverse events, and subsequent treatments after EUS-FNA. EUS with FNA or deep submucosal biopsy was performed in all patients on  an outpatient basais by one of two physicians (Attwell A, Fukami N). Review of all subsequent clinic notes and operative reports was performed in order to determine follow-up and final diagnoses. RESULTS: Between July 2009 and December  2013, 10 patients [3 males, 7 females, median age 52 (26-64) years] underwent EUS for a gastroduodenal SEL and were diagnosed with EP. One patient was symptomatic. Six (60%) lesions were in the antrum, 3 (30%) in the body, and 1 (10%) in the duodenum. A mucosal dimple was noted in 6 (60%). Mean lesion size was 17 (8-25) mm. Gastrointestinal wall involvement: muscularis mucosae, 10%; submucosa, 70%; muscularis propria, 60%; and serosa, 10%. Nine (90%) lesions were hypoechoic and  5 (50%) were homogenous. A duct was seen in 5 (50%). FNA was attempted in 9 (90%) and successful in 8 (80%) patients after 4 (2-6) passes. Cytology showed acini or ducts in 7 of 8 (88%). Superficial biopsies in 7 patients (70%) showed normal gastric mucosa. Deep endoscopic biopsies were taken in 2 patients and diagnostic  in one. One patient (10%) developed pancreatitis after EUS-FNA. Two patients (20%) underwent surgery to relieve symptoms or confirm the diagnosis. The main limitation of the study was the fact that it was retrospective and performed at a single medical center. CONCLUSION: EUS features of EP include antral location, mucosal dimple, location in layers 3-4, and lesional duct, and FNA or biopsy is accurate and effective.
25705750: !GIMB Adding fuel to the fire: the impact of stress on the ageing brain. Both ageing and chronic stress are associated with altered brain plasticity, dysregulation of the immune system, and an increased risk of developing brain disorders; all of which have consequences for cognitive and emotional processing. Here we examine the similarities between behavioural changes during ageing and stress altered behaviours (anxiety, depressive-like behaviour, cognition, and sociability) in rodents and humans. The molecular mechanisms hypothesised to mediate age-related changes in brain function including dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, dysregulation of neurotransmission and neurotrophic factor signalling, increased inflammatory state, genetic and epigenetic changes, oxidative stress, metabolic changes, and changes in the microbiota-gut-brain axis are discussed. Finally, we explore how the already stressed aged brain psychologically and physiologically responds to external stressors.
25672169: !GIMB Importance of microscopic stool examination in patients with diarrhoea. BACKGROUND: Loose motion is a common symptom in patients reporting to our hospital. As it is a small set up where only facility for microscopic stool examination is available, we designed this study to know how much microscopic stool examination can help us in management of patients with diarrhoea. METHODS:  This cross-sectional descriptive study was conducted from January 2010 to April 2012, at Thall Scout Hospital, Hangoo, Khyber Pukhtoon Khwa, Pakistan. All the patients presenting with acute diarrhoea were included in the study. Patients older than 12 years of age were labelled as adults and those 12 years or younger  as child. Stool specimens were collected using proper procedure and were examined microscopically. RESULTS: Of 494 stool specimens examined, 117 (23.68%) were positive for parasites or their ova, 34 (6.88%) had numerous pus and red blood cells and 343 (69.43%) patients had only stool of loose/soft consistency. Of 117  stool specimens positive for parasites, Giardia lamblia was detected in 67 (57.26%) patients, Entamoeba histolytica in 22 (18.80%) patients, H. nana in 10 (8.55%) patients, Tenea saginata in 8(6.84%) patients, hook worm in 6 (5.13%) patients, ascarids in 2 (1.71%) and Trichuris trichura in 2 (1.71%) patients. CONCLUSION: Among the parasitic causes of diarrhoea, giardia is the most common cause in our study with entameoba the second most common cause.
25599331: !GIMB Gut microbiota-dependent trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) pathway contributes to both development of renal insufficiency and mortality risk in chronic kidney disease. RATIONALE: Trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), a gut microbial-dependent metabolite of dietary choline, phosphatidylcholine (lecithin), and l-carnitine, is elevated in  chronic kidney diseases (CKD) and associated with coronary artery disease pathogenesis. OBJECTIVE: To both investigate the clinical prognostic value of TMAO in subjects with versus without CKD, and test the hypothesis that TMAO plays a direct contributory role in the development and progression of renal dysfunction. METHODS AND RESULTS: We first examined the relationship between fasting plasma TMAO and all-cause mortality over 5-year follow-up in 521 stable subjects with CKD (estimated glomerular filtration rate, <60 mL/min per 1.73 m(2)). Median TMAO level among CKD subjects was 7.9 mumol/L (interquartile range, 5.2-12.4 mumol/L), which was markedly higher (P<0.001) than in non-CKD subjects (n=3166). Within CKD subjects, higher (fourth versus first quartile) plasma TMAO  level was associated with a 2.8-fold increased mortality risk. After adjustments  for traditional risk factors, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, estimated glomerular filtration rate, elevated TMAO levels remained predictive of 5-year mortality risk (hazard ratio, 1.93; 95% confidence interval, 1.13-3.29; P<0.05).  TMAO provided significant incremental prognostic value (net reclassification index, 17.26%; P<0.001 and differences in area under receiver operator characteristic curve, 63.26% versus 65.95%; P=0.036). Among non-CKD subjects, elevated TMAO levels portend poorer prognosis within cohorts of high and low cystatin C. In animal models, elevated dietary choline or TMAO directly led to progressive renal tubulointerstitial fibrosis and dysfunction. CONCLUSIONS: Plasma TMAO levels are both elevated in patients with CKD and portend poorer long-term survival. Chronic dietary exposures that increase TMAO directly contributes to progressive renal fibrosis and dysfunction in animal models.
25589730: !GIMB Mechanisms of molecular mimicry involving the microbiota in neurodegeneration. The concept of molecular mimicry was established to explain commonalities of structure which developed in response to evolutionary pressures. Most examples of molecular mimicry in medicine have involved homologies of primary protein structure which cause disease. Molecular mimicry can be expanded beyond amino acid sequence to include microRNA and proteomic effects which are either pathogenic or salutogenic (beneficial) in regard to Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and related disorders. Viruses of animal or plant origin may mimic nucleotide sequences of microRNAs and influence protein expression. Both Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases involve the formation of transmissible self-propagating prion-like proteins. However, the initiating factors responsible for creation of these misfolded nucleating factors are unknown. Amyloid patterns  of protein folding are highly conserved through evolution and are widely distributed in the world. Similarities of tertiary protein structure may be involved in the creation of these prion-like agents through molecular mimicry. Cross-seeding of amyloid misfolding, altered proteostasis, and oxidative stress may be induced by amyloid proteins residing in bacteria in our microbiota in the  gut and in the diet. Pathways of molecular mimicry induced processes induced by bacterial amyloid in neurodegeneration may involve TLR 2/1, CD14, and NFkappaB, among others. Furthermore, priming of the innate immune system by the microbiota  may enhance the inflammatory response to cerebral amyloids (such as amyloid-beta  and alpha-synuclein). This paper describes the specific molecular pathways of these cross-seeding and neuroinflammatory processes. Evolutionary conservation of proteins provides the opportunity for conserved sequences and structures to influence neurological disease through molecular mimicry.
25586058: !GIMB Baseline quantitative hepatitis B core antibody titre alone strongly predicts HBeAg seroconversion across chronic hepatitis B patients treated with peginterferon or nucleos(t)ide analogues. OBJECTIVE: The investigation regarding the clinical significance of quantitative  hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc) during chronic hepatitis B (CHB) treatment is limited. The aim of this study was to determine the performance of anti-HBc as a predictor for hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion in HBeAg-positive CHB patients treated with peginterferon (Peg-IFN) or nucleos(t)ide analogues (NUCs), respectively. DESIGN: This was a retrospective cohort study consisting of 231 and 560 patients enrolled in two phase IV, multicentre, randomised, controlled trials treated with Peg-IFN or NUC-based therapy for up to 2 years, respectively. Quantitative anti-HBc evaluation was conducted for all the available samples in the two trials by using a newly developed double-sandwich anti-HBc immunoassay. RESULTS: At the end of trials, 99 (42.9%) and 137 (24.5%) patients achieved HBeAg seroconversion in the Peg-IFN and NUC cohorts, respectively. We defined 4.4 log10 IU/mL, with a maximum sum of sensitivity and specificity, as the optimal cut-off value of baseline anti-HBc level to predict HBeAg seroconversion for both Peg-IFN and NUC. Patients with baseline anti-HBc >/=4.4 log10 IU/mL and baseline HBV DNA <9 log10 copies/mL had 65.8% (50/76) and  37.1% (52/140) rates of HBeAg seroconversion in the Peg-IFN and NUC cohorts, respectively. In pooled analysis, other than treatment strategy, the baseline anti-HBc level was the best independent predictor for HBeAg seroconversion (OR 2.178; 95% CI 1.577 to 3.009; p<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Baseline anti-HBc titre is a useful predictor of Peg-IFN and NUC therapy efficacy in HBeAg-positive CHB patients, which could be used for optimising the antiviral therapy of CHB.
25574107: !GIMB Long-term follow-up of distal intestinal obstruction syndrome in cystic fibrosis. AIM: To investigate the long-term follow-up of distal intestinal obstruction syndrome (DIOS) in Israeli cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. METHODS: This is a multi-center, comparative, retrospective study in which we reviewed the medical records of all CF patients from three major CF centers in Israel who were treated in the period from 1980 to 2012. Patients diagnosed with DIOS were defined as the study group. The patients were diagnosed with DIOS based on their clinical presentation and typical findings on either abdominal X-ray or computerized tomography scan. For the control group, CF patients with no DIOS were matched to  the patients in the study group for age, sex, and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) mutations. For both groups, the collected data included age, sex, CFTR genotype, weight, height, and body mass index. Clinical data included respiratory function tests in the last five years prior to the study, respiratory function test immediately before and after the DIOS event, number of hospitalizations, sputum culture results, and CF-related conditions diagnosed according to the CF clinical practice guidelines. In the study group, data on the DIOS treatment and tendency for DIOS recurrence were also analyzed. RESULTS: The medical charts for a total of 350 CF patients were reviewed. Of the  350 CF patients, 26 (7.4%) were diagnosed with DIOS. The control group included 31 CF patients with no DIOS diagnosis. The mean follow-up period was 21.6 +/- 8.2 years. The total of DIOS episodes in the follow-up period was 60. The distribution of DIOS episodes was as follows: 6/26 (23.1%) study patients had one episode of DIOS in their lifetime, 7/26 (26.9%) had two episodes, 7/26 (26.9%) had three episodes, and 6/26 (23.1%) had four or more episodes. Compared to the control group, DIOS patients had a significantly higher incidence of meconium ileus in the past (65.4% vs 0%, respectively, P < 0.02), more Aspergillus spp. colonization (34.6% vs 3.2%, respectively, P < 0.02), and a higher number of hospitalizations due to respiratory exacerbations (8.6 vs 6.2 mean total hospitalizations per follow-up period, respectively, P < 0.02). No other significant differences were found between the control and study groups. The conservative treatment of DIOS, which mainly includes hydration and stool softeners, was successful in 82% of the episodes. The survival rate was similar for both groups. CONCLUSION: CF patients with DIOS suffer from recurrent hospitalizations and airway pathogen acquisition. Although recurrence of DIOS is  common, conservative treatment is successful in most patients.
25565500: !GIMB Plaque burden in HIV-infected patients is associated with serum intestinal microbiota-generated trimethylamine. OBJECTIVE: Some intestinal microbiota-generated metabolites of phosphatidylcholine are recognized to be proatherogenic. As the HIV population is vulnerable to cardiovascular disease and can develop intestinal dysbiosis associated with systemic inflammation, we investigated the novel relationship between microbiota-derived metabolites of phosphatidylcholine and coronary atherosclerosis in HIV. DESIGN/METHODS: One hundred and fifty-five HIV-infected and 67 non-HIV-infected individuals without known history of cardiovascular disease were previously recruited to assess coronary plaque by computed tomography angiography. In the current study, we evaluate whether serum choline,  trimethylamine (TMA), or trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) levels are associated with plaque features. RESULTS: Young, asymptomatic HIV-infected patients (age 47 +/- 7 years) demonstrated significantly higher prevalence of plaque (53 vs. 35%, P = 0.01) and number of total plaque segments (1.8 +/- 2.5 vs. 1.2 +/- 2.2, P = 0.03) when compared with well matched noninfected individuals with similar comorbidities. TMA was significantly associated with calcium score (r = 0.22, P = 0.006), number of total (r = 0.20, P = 0.02) and calcified (r = 0.18, P = 0.03) plaque segments, and calcium plaque volume (r = 0.19, P = 0.02) and mass (r = 0.22, P = 0.009) in the HIV cohort only. In multivariate modeling among HIV-infected patients, TMA remained significantly associated with calcium score (P = 0.008), number of total (P = 0.005) and calcified (P = 0.02) plaque segments, and calcium plaque volume (P = 0.01) and mass (P = 0.007), independent  of Framingham risk score. In contrast, there was no association of TMAO to coronary plaque features in either cohort. CONCLUSION: A link between TMA and atherosclerosis has not previously been established. The current study suggests that TMA may be a nontraditional risk factor related to the number of plaque segments and severity of calcified plaque burden in HIV.
25545766: !GIMB Investigating the long-term effect of subchronic phencyclidine-treatment on novel object recognition and the association between the gut microbiota and behavior in the animal model of schizophrenia. Subchronic phencyclidine (subPCP) treatment induces schizophrenic-like behavior in rodents, including cognitive deficits and increased locomotor sensitivity towards acute administration of PCP. Evidence is accumulating that the gut microbiota (GM) influences behavior through modulation of the microbiota-gut-brain axis, and hence, part of the variation within this animal model may derive from variation in the GM. The aims of this study was to investigate first, the duration of subPCP-induced cognitive impairment in the novel object recognition test, and second, the possible effect of subchronic PCP-treatment on the GM, and the association between the GM and the behavioral parameters. The association was further investigated by antibiotic reduction of the GM. Male Lister Hooded rats were dosed twice daily i.p. with either 5mg/kg PCP or sterile isotonic saline for seven days followed by a seven-day washout period. Rats were tested in the novel object recognition and the locomotor activity assays immediately after, three weeks after, or six weeks after washout, and the fecal GM was analyzed by high throughput sequencing. Antibiotic- and control-treated rats were tested in the same manner following washout. In conclusion, subPCP-treatment impaired novel object recognition up to three weeks  after washout, whereas locomotor sensitivity was increased for at least six weeks after washout. Differences in the core gut microbiome immediately after washout suggested subPCP treatment to alter the GM. GM profiles correlated to memory performance. Administration of ampicillin abolished the subPCP-induced memory deficit. It thus seems reasonable to speculate that the GM influences memory performance, contributing to variation within the model.
25459686: !GIMB Intestinal microbiota-dependent phosphatidylcholine metabolites, diastolic dysfunction, and adverse clinical outcomes in chronic systolic heart failure. BACKGROUND: Trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) has been linked to increased cardiovascular risk. We aimed to determine the prognostic value of TMAO and its dietary precursors, choline and betaine, in heart failure (HF). METHODS AND RESULTS: In 112 patients with chronic systolic HF with comprehensive echocardiographic evaluation, we measured plasma TMAO, choline, and betaine by mass spectrometry. Median (interquartile range) TMAO levels, choline, and betaine levels were 5.8 (3.6-12.1) mumol/L, 10.9 (8.4-14.0) mumol/L, and 43.8 (37.1-53.0) mumol/L, respectively, and were correlated with each other (all P < .0001 for both). TMAO levels were significantly higher in patients with diabetes mellitus (9.4 [4.9-13.2] vs 4.8 [3.4-9.8] mumol/L; P = .005) and in subjects with New York Heart Association functional class III or greater (7.0 [4.7-14.8] vs 4.7 [3.4-11.3] mumol/L; P = .02). Elevated TMAO, choline, and betaine levels were each associated with higher plasma N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels and more advanced left ventricular diastolic dysfunction, but  not systolic dysfunction or inflammatory and endothelial biomarkers. Higher choline (hazard ratio [HR] 1.64, 95% CI 1.22-2.20; P = .001), betaine (HR 1.51, 95% CI 1.10-2.08; P = .01), and TMAO (HR 1.48, 95% CI 1.10-1.96; P = .01) predicted increased risk for 5-year adverse clinical events (death/transplantation). Only higher TMAO levels predicted incident adverse clinical events independently from age, estimated glomerular filtration rate, mitral E/septal Ea, and NT-proBNP levels (HR 1.46, 95% CI 1.03-2.14; P = .03). CONCLUSION: Elevated plasma TMAO, choline, and betaine levels are each associated with more advanced left ventricular diastolic dysfunction and portend poorer long-term adverse clinical outcomes in chronic systolic HF. However, only higher  plasma TMAO was associated with poor prognosis after adjustment for cardiorenal indices.
25444145: !GIMB Prognostic value of elevated levels of intestinal microbe-generated metabolite trimethylamine-N-oxide in patients with heart failure: refining the gut hypothesis. BACKGROUND: Altered intestinal function is prevalent in patients with heart failure (HF), but its role in adverse outcomes is unclear. OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the potential pathophysiological contributions of intestinal microbiota in HF. METHODS: We examined the relationship between fasting plasma trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) and all-cause mortality over a 5-year follow-up in  720 patients with stable HF. RESULTS: The median TMAO level was 5.0 muM, which was higher than in subjects without HF (3.5 muM; p < 0.001). There was modest but significant correlation between TMAO concentrations and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels (r = 0.23; p < 0.001). Higher plasma TMAO levels were associated with a 3.4-fold increased mortality risk. Following adjustments for traditional risk factors and BNP levels, elevated TMAO levels remained predictive of 5-year mortality risk (hazard ratio [HR]: 2.2; 95% CI: 1.42 to 3.43; p < 0.001), as well as following the addition of estimated glomerular filtration rate to the model (HR: 1.75; 95% CI: 1.07 to 2.86; p < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: High TMAO  levels were observed in patients with HF, and elevated TMAO levels portended higher long-term mortality risk independent of traditional risk factors and cardiorenal indexes.
25403367: !GIMB Altered duodenal microbiota composition in celiac disease patients suffering from persistent symptoms on a long-term gluten-free diet. OBJECTIVES: A significant fraction of celiac disease patients suffer from persistent symptoms despite a long-term gluten-free diet (GFD) and normalized small bowel mucosa. The commonly suggested reasons, such as inadvertent gluten-intake or presence of other gastrointestinal disease, do not explain the symptoms in all these patients. Recently, alterations in intestinal microbiota have been associated with autoimmune disorders, including celiac disease. This led us to test a hypothesis that abnormal intestinal microbiota may be associated with persisting gastrointestinal symptoms in treated celiac disease patients. METHODS: Duodenal microbiota was analyzed in 18 GFD-treated patients suffering from persistent symptoms and 18 treated patients without symptoms by 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. The celiac disease patients had been following a strict GFD  for several years and had restored small bowel mucosa and negative celiac autoantibodies. Their symptoms on GFD were assessed with Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale. RESULTS: The results of several clustering methods showed that the  treated celiac disease patients with persistent symptoms were colonized by different duodenal microbiota in comparison with patients without symptoms. The treated patients with persistent symptoms had a higher relative abundance of Proteobacteria (P=0.04) and a lower abundance of Bacteroidetes (P=0.01) and Firmicutes (P=0.05). Moreover, their microbial richness was reduced. The results  indicated intestinal dysbiosis in patients with persistent symptoms even while adhering to a strict GFD. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that dysbiosis of microbiota is associated with persistent gastrointestinal symptoms in treated celiac disease patients and open new possibilities to treat this subgroup of patients.
25396737: !GIMB Lactobacillus casei-01 facilitates the ameliorative effects of proanthocyanidins  extracted from lotus seedpod on learning and memory impairment in scopolamine-induced amnesia mice. Learning and memory abilities are associated with alterations in gut function. The two-way proanthocyanidins-microbiota interaction in vivo enhances the physiological activities of proanthocyanidins and promotes the regulation of gut  function. Proanthocyanidins extracted from lotus seedpod (LSPC) have shown the memory-enhancing ability. However, there has been no literature about whether Lactobacillus casei-01 (LC) enhances the ameliorative effects of LSPC on learning and memory abilities. In this study, learning and memory abilities of scopolamine-induced amnesia mice were evaluated by Y-maze test after 20-day administration of LC (10(9) cfu/kg body weight (BW)), LSPC (low dose was 60 mg/kg BW (L-LSPC) and high dose was 90 mg/kg BW (H-LSPC)), or LSPC and LC combinations  (L-LSPC+LC and H-LSPC+LC). Alterations in antioxidant defense ability and oxidative damage of brain, serum and colon, and brain cholinergic system were investigated as the possible mechanisms. As a result, the error times of H-LSPC+LC group were reduced by 41.59% and 68.75% relative to those of H-LSPC and LC groups respectively. LSPC and LC combinations ameliorated scopolamine-induced  memory impairment by improving total antioxidant capacity (TAOC) level, glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD) activities of brain, serum and colon, suppressing malondialdehyde (MDA) level of brain, serum and colon, and inhibiting brain acetylcholinesterase (AchE), myeloperoxidase, total nitric oxide synthase and neural nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activities, and nNOS mRNA level. Moreover, LC facilitated the ameliorative effects of H-LSPC on GSH-Px activity of colon, TAOC level, GSH-Px activity and ratio of T-SOD to MDA of brain and serum, and the inhibitory effects of H-LSPC on serum MDA level, brain nNOS mRNA level and AchE activity. These results indicated that LC promoted the memory-enhancing effect of LSPC in scopolamine-induced amnesia mice.
25387415: !GIMB IV. The cognitive implications of obesity and nutrition in childhood. The prevalence of childhood obesity in the United States has tripled since the 1980s and is strongly linked to the early onset of several metabolic diseases. Recent studies indicate that lower cognitive function may be another complication of childhood obesity. This review considers the research to date on the role of obesity and nutrition on childhood cognition and brain health. Although a handful of studies point to a maladaptive relationship between obesity and aspects of cognitive control, remarkably little is known regarding the impact of fat mass on brain development and cognitive function. Further, missing from the literature is the role of nutrition in the obesity-cognition interaction. Nutrition may directly or indirectly influence cognitive performance via several pathways including provision of key substrates for optimal brain health, modulation of gut microbiota, and alterations in systemic energy balance. However, in the absence of malnutrition, the functional benefits of specific nutrient intake on particular cognitive domains are not well characterized. Here, we examine the literature linking childhood obesity and cognition while considering the effects  of nutritional intake. Possible mechanisms for these relationships are discussed  and suggestions are made for future study topics. Although childhood obesity prevalence rates in some developed countries have recently stabilized, significant disparities remain among groups based on sex and socioeconomic status. Given that the elevated prevalence of pediatric overweight and obesity may persist for the foreseeable future, it is crucial to develop a comprehensive  understanding of the influence of obesity and nutrition on cognition and brain health in the pediatric population.
25382824: !GIMB Microbiota-dependent metabolite trimethylamine-N-oxide is associated with disease severity and survival of patients with chronic heart failure. OBJECTIVES: Recent metabolomic, experimental and clinical studies have demonstrated that trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), a microbiota-dependent metabolite from dietary phosphatidylcholine and carnitine, is a strong predictor  of coronary artery disease (CAD). This finding suggests a link between the gut microbiota and atherosclerosis. The potential impact of TMAO in chronic heart failure (HF) is unknown. We hypothesized that TMAO levels would provide prognostic information about adverse outcomes in chronic HF. DESIGN: Prospective, observational study including 155 consecutive patients with chronic HF. In addition, 100 patients with stable CAD without HF and 33 matched healthy individuals were included as controls. Plasma levels of TMAO and its precursors choline and betaine were measured, and associations with symptoms, aetiology and  transplant-free survival in the patients with HF were explored. RESULTS: Plasma levels of TMAO (P = 0.01), choline (P < 0.001) and betaine (P < 0.001) were elevated in patients with chronic HF compared to control subjects, with the highest levels in patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) classes III and IV. Furthermore, TMAO levels were highest in individuals with ischaemic HF, followed by those with stable CAD and nonischaemic HF. TMAO, but not choline or betaine, was associated with reduced transplant-free survival: approximately 50%  of patients in the upper tertile of TMAO levels died or received a heart transplant during 5.2 years of follow-up (unadjusted Cox-regression: hazard ratio 2.24, 95% confidence interval 1.28-3.92, P = 0.005). CONCLUSIONS: TMAO levels were elevated in patients with HF and associated with NYHA class, ischaemic aetiology and adverse outcomes. Future studies should focus on gut microbiota, dietary composition and intestinal dysfunction in relation to TMAO levels and clinical outcome in HF.
25353827: !GIMB Robust hypothesis tests for detecting statistical evidence of two-dimensional and three-dimensional interactions in single-molecule measurements. Experimental advances have improved the two- (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) spatial resolution that can be extracted from in vivo single-molecule measurements. This enables researchers to quantitatively infer the magnitude and  directionality of forces experienced by biomolecules in their native environment. Situations where such force information is relevant range from mitosis to directed transport of protein cargo along cytoskeletal structures. Models commonly applied to quantify single-molecule dynamics assume that effective forces and velocity in the x,y (or x,y,z) directions are statistically independent, but this assumption is physically unrealistic in many situations. We present a hypothesis testing approach capable of determining if there is evidence of statistical dependence between positional coordinates in experimentally measured trajectories; if the hypothesis of independence between spatial coordinates is rejected, then a new model accounting for 2D (3D) interactions can and should be considered. Our hypothesis testing technique is robust, meaning it  can detect interactions, even if the noise statistics are not well captured by the model. The approach is demonstrated on control simulations and on experimental data (directed transport of intraflagellar transport protein 88 homolog in the primary cilium).
25344727: !GIMB Protective and restorative potency of Vitamin D on persistent biochemical autistic features induced in propionic acid-intoxicated rat pups. BACKGROUND: Reducing exposure to toxic environmental agents is a critical area of intervention. Prenatal or postnatal exposure to certain chemicals has been documented to increase the risk of autism spectrum disorder. Propionic acid (PA)  found in some foods and formed as a metabolic product of gut microbiota has been  reported to mediate the effects of autism. Results from animal studies may help to identify environmental contaminants and drugs that produce or prevent neurotoxicity, and may thereby aid in the treatment of neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism. The present study investigated the protective and/or therapeutic effects of vitamin D against brain intoxication induced by propionic  acid (PPA) in rats. METHODS: Twenty-eight young male Western Albino rats were enrolled in the present study. They were grouped into four equal groups of 7. The control group received only phosphate buffered saline; the oral buffered PPA-treated group received a neurotoxic dose of 250 mg/kg body weight/day for 3 days; and the Vitamin D-protected group received 1000 IU/kg/day of alpha, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D (3) (1, 25-VD) for two weeks, after which the rats were injected with PPA 250 mg/Kg body weight/day for 3 days. The fourth group received PPA 250 mg/Kg body weight/day for 3 days followed by alpha, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D (3) (1, 25-VD) for two weeks (Vitamin D therapeutic effect). Vitamin D and calcium were measured in the plasma of the four studied groups. Serotonin, interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), glutathione-s-transferase activity and DNA double helix breaks were assayed in the brain tissue of the rats for all groups. RESULTS: The obtained data showed that the PPA-treated group demonstrated higher  plasma vitamin D levels compared to the control rats, together with multiple signs of brain toxicity, as indicated by a depletion of serotonin (5HT), an increase in IFN-gamma and inhibition of glutathione-s-transferase activity as three biomarkers of brain dysfunction. Additionally, Comet DNA assays showed remarkably higher tail length, tail DNA % damage and tail moment as a neurotoxic  effect of PPA. CONCLUSIONS: Vitamin D showed a greater protective than therapeutic effect on PPA-induced neurotoxicity in rats, as there was a remarkable amelioration of the impaired biochemically measured parameters representing neurochemical, inflammation, and detoxification processes.
25339806: !GIMB Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and aging: epidemiology to management. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is common in the elderly, in whom it carries a more substantial burden of hepatic (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma) and extra-hepatic manifestations and complications (cardiovascular disease, extrahepatic neoplasms) than in younger age groups. Therefore, proper identification and management of this condition is  a major task for clinical geriatricians and geriatric hepatologists. In this paper, the epidemiology and pathophysiology of this condition are reviewed, and a full discussion of the link between NAFLD and the aspects that are peculiar to elderly individuals is provided; these aspects include frailty, multimorbidity, polypharmacy and dementia. The proper treatment strategy will have to consider the peculiarities of geriatric patients, so a multidisciplinary approach is mandatory. Non-pharmacological treatment (diet and physical exercise) has to be tailored individually considering the physical limitations of most elderly people and the need for an adequate caloric supply. Similarly, the choice of drug treatment must carefully balance the benefits and risks in terms of adverse events and pharmacological interactions in the common context of both multiple health conditions and polypharmacy. In conclusion, further epidemiological and pathophysiological insight is warranted. More accurate understanding of the molecular mechanisms of geriatric NAFLD will help in identifying the most appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic approach for individual elderly patients.
25336488: !GIMB Sonographic findings in patients with Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever. OBJECTIVES: Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever (CCHF) has been endemic in Turkey since 2002. Some radiologic findings are considered common by clinicians and radiologists. In this regard, we aimed to assess the sonographic findings in patents with CCHF in a pilot study to obtain basic knowledge for planning further controlled studies. METHODS: An observational descriptive study was planned. Patients with a CCHF diagnosis monitored by the infectious diseases department of a tertiary care hospital were included. Sonographic examinations were conducted by 2 radiologists for each patient, and the findings were recorded. RESULTS: Twenty-five patients with CCHF were included. Hepatomegaly (40%), splenomegaly (28%), paraceliac lymphadenopathy (48%), gallbladder wall thickening (36%), increased echogenicity in the renal parenchyma (40%), and fluid/effusion in the perihepatic, perisplenic, pleural, and hepatorenal recesses of the subhepatic space (Morison pouch) as well as between the intestinal loops (52%) were the primary findings. A decrease in the gallbladder wall thickening and limited resorption of intraperitoneal and pleural effusion were noted during follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: Hepatosplenomegaly, paraceliac lymphadenopathy, and gallbladder wall thickening as well as intraperitoneal and pleural effusion were the primary findings in CCHF, and they became prominent on the third day of the disease in some patients. The relationship between sonographic findings and disease severity will be investigated in an upcoming study.
25291129: !GIMB Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in patients with chronic pancreatitis. GOALS: To assess the prevalence of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) in chronic pancreatitis (CP), and analyze factors related with SIBO in CP. BACKGROUND: SIBO is to be considered a factor that worsens symptoms and nutritional status in patients with CP. However, the few studies evaluating the rate of SIBO in CP patients used nonuniform and nonstandardized procedures, and reported a wide range of positivity (0% to 92%). Those studies often investigated CP patients with previous resection surgery (cause of SIBO per se). STUDY: CP patients and controls evaluated for SIBO by the H2 glucose breath test with a standard protocol. For CP patients, the relationship between test results, abdominal symptoms, and clinical and biochemical variables was analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 43 CP patients and 43 controls were enrolled. Of the CP patients, 8 had advanced disease (defined by M-ANNHEIM index) and none had undergone previous surgery. The glucose breath test positivity rate was higher in the CP patients than in the controls (21% vs. 14%), albeit without a significant difference (P=0.57). Mean fasting H2 excretion and mean H2 excretion at 120 minutes also had a trend toward higher levels in CP patients. There were no clinical differences between CP patients with or without SIBO, but there were nutritional differences  for lower levels of vitamin D and higher levels of folate in these patients with  SIBO. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that SIBO is not uncommon in uncomplicated CP patients. The lack of a significant difference compared with controls might be due to the study being underpowered. SIBO in CP patients does not seem to be related to peculiar clinical features, but it might affect nutritional status.
25287170: !GIMB Long-term outcomes and dynamics of mutants associated with lamivudine-adefovir rescue therapy in patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B. BACKGROUND/AIMS: To investigate the association between the baseline profiles and dynamics of hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA polymerase gene mutations and the long-term virological response of lamivudine (LAM)-adefovir (ADV) combination therapy in patients with LAM-resistant chronic hepatitis B. METHODS: Seventy-five patients who received LAM-ADV combination therapy for more than 12 months were analyzed. Restriction fragment mass polymorphism assays were used to detect and monitor the dynamics of LAM- and ADV-resistant mutations. RESULTS: The median duration of LAMADV combination therapy was 26 months (range, 12 to 58 months). The baseline mutation profiles, rtM204I (p=0.992), rtM204I/V (p=0.177), and rtL180M (p=0.051), were not correlated with the cumulative virological response,  and the baseline HBV DNA level (p=0.032) was the only independent predictive factor for cumulative virological response. Tests for LAM- and ADV-resistant mutations were performed in 12 suboptimal responders in weeks 48 and 96. The population of rtM204 mutants persisted or increased in 8 of 12 patients, and rtA181T mutants newly emerged as a minor population in four patients until 96 weeks. Nevertheless, the viral loads progressively decreased during rescue therapy, and these dynamics did not correlate with virological response. CONCLUSIONS: The baseline profile and dynamics of LAM-resistant mutations during  LAM-ADV combination therapy are not associated with a virological response.
25278708: !GIMB Identification of pathologic features associated with "ulcerative colitis-like" Crohn's disease. AIM: To identify pathologic features associated with this "ulcerative colitis (UC)-like" subgroup of Crohn's disease (CD). METHODS: Seventeen subjects diagnosed as having UC who underwent proctocolectomy (RPC) from 2003-2007 and subsequently developed CD of the ileal pouch were identified. UC was diagnosed based on pre-operative clinical, endoscopic, and pathologic studies. Eighteen patients who underwent RPC for UC within the same time period without subsequently developing CD were randomly selected and used as controls. Pathology reports and histological slides were reviewed for a wide range of gross and microscopic pathological features, as well as extent of disease. The demographics, gross description and histopathology of the resection specimens were reviewed and compared between the two groups. RESULTS: Patients with "UC-like" CD were on average 13 years younger than those with "true" UC (P < 0.01). More severe disease in the proximal involved region and active ileitis with/without architectural distortion were observed in 6 of 17 (35%) and 7 of 17  (41%) "UC-like" CD cases, respectively, but in none of the "true" UC cases (P < 0.05). Active appendicitis occurred in 8 of 16 (50%) "UC-like" CD cases but in only two (11%) "true" UC cases (P < 0.05). Conspicuous lamina propria neutrophils were more specific for "UC-like" CD (76% vs 22%, P < 0.05). In addition, prominent lymphoid aggregates tended to be more common in "UC-like" CD (P = 0.07). The "true" UC group contained a greater number of cases with severe activity (78% vs 47%). Therefore, the features more commonly seen in "UC-like" CD were not due to a more severe disease process. Crohn's granulomas and transmural  inflammation in non-ulcerated areas were absent in both groups. CONCLUSION: More  severe disease in the proximal involved region, terminal ileum involvement, active appendicitis, and prominent lamina propria neutrophils may be morphological factors associated with "UC-like" CD.
25248313: !GIMB Faecal gas analysis by electronic nose as novel, non-invasive method for assessment of active and quiescent paediatric inflammatory bowel disease: Proof of principle study. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and its two phenotypes ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD) are essentially assessed by endoscopy, both in initial diagnostic work-up and during follow-up. This carries  a high burden, especially on paediatric patients. Faecal volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are considered potential non-invasive biomarkers for intestinal  diseases linked to gut microbiota alterations. We hypothesized that faecal VOC analysis by electronic nose allows discrimination of children with CD, UC and controls during active disease and remission. METHODS: Faecal VOC patterns of children with newly diagnosed IBD and controls were studied by an electronic nose (Cyranose 320(R)), at baseline and upon achieving remission at 6-weeks of follow-up. Disease activity was assessed by global physician's assessment, substantiated by serum C-reactive protein and faecal calprotectin. Internally cross-validated receiver-operator-characteristic curves and corresponding sensitivity and specificity for detection of IBD were calculated RESULTS: Faecal  VOC profiles of patients with UC (26) and CD (29) differed from controls (28); in active disease (AUC+/-95% CI, p-value, sensitivity, specificity: 1.00+/-0.00; p<0.001, 100%, 100%) and (0.85+/-0.05, p<0.001, 86%, 67%) and in clinical remission (0.94+/-0.06, p<0.001, 94%, 94%) and (0.94+/-0.06, p<0.001, 94%, 94%),  respectively. Furthermore, CD-patients differed from UC-patients during active disease (0.96+/-0.03; p<0.001, 97%, 92%), and upon achieving clinical remission (0.81+/-0.08, p=0.002, 88%, 72%). CONCLUSION: Faecal VOC analysis allowed discrimination of paediatric patients with IBD from controls, both during active  disease and remission. It therefore has potential as non-invasive test, in both diagnostic work-up and assessment of disease activity in IBD.
25238468: !GIMB [Psoas abscess as a differential diagnosis in emergency department]. BACKGROUND: A psoas (or iliopsoas) abscess is a rare clinical entity with a wide  etiological range. It is defined as a collection of pus that begins and extends through the iliopsoas muscle and can reach up to the inguinal region. METHODS: We performed a retrospective descriptive study by reviewing medical records from the General Surgery department of Reina Sofia's General University Hospital. Information was collected from patients diagnosed with psoas abscess who were admitted to the General Surgery department from 2006 to 2011. RESULTS: Five cases were reported for 6 years: four males (80%) and one female (20%). Average age was 51.6 years (range: 35--75). All were admitted to the hospital through the Emergency Department. Lumbar pain, fever and rash were clinical features in three patients. Two patients initiated with septic shock. Each patient had computed tomography performed, which confirmed the diagnosis. Causes of the abscess were as follows: one perforated colon neoplasm, two left hip osteomyelitis, one Crohn's disease and one primary abscess. Surgery was the treatment in three cases and placement of pigtail drainage was the treatment in two patients. Two patients were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit and ultimately died. CONCLUSION: In our  case series report, it is seen that treatment delay developed to septic shock and death. We should consider this entity in emergency practice in order to carry out timely treatment.
25232265: !GIMB Resolution of acute gastroenteritis symptoms in children and adults treated with  a novel polyphenol-based prebiotic. AIM: To test efficacy and durability of a polyphenol-based prebiotic treatment for acute gastroenteritis in a 300 patient double-blinded clinical study. METHODS: A two-arm randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical study  was conducted at two public health centers in Managua, Nicaragua. Potential subjects who qualified based on inclusion and exclusion criteria were randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms. Two thirds of the subjects (n = 200) received a single titrated 0.5-2 ounce liquid dose of a novel polyphenol-based prebiotic (Aliva(TM)) diluted with 2 to eight ounces of oral rehydration solution (ORS). One third of the subjects (n = 100) were randomized to receive two liquid  ounces of a taste and color-matched placebo diluted in eight ounces of ORS. The outcome variables measured included stool consistency, stomach discomfort, gas and bloating, and heartburn/indigestion. The study subjects ranked their stool consistency and the severity of their subjective symptoms at specified intervals  from immediately prior to treatment, to five days post treatment. All subjects recorded their symptoms in a study diary. The study subjects also recorded the time and consistencies of all stools in their study diary. Stool consistency was  compared to the picture and descriptions on the Bristol Stool Chart, and any stool rated greater than Type 4 was considered unformed. The clinical study team  reviewed the study diaries with subjects during daily follow-up calls and close-out visits, and recorded the data in case report forms. RESULTS: After receiving a single dose, Aliva treated subjects reported shorter median time to their last unformed stool (1 h 50 min) than placebo treated subjects (67 h 50 min.), a statistically significant difference [95%CI: -3178-(-2018), P = 0.000].  Aliva treated subjects also reported shorter median their time to last unformed stool (TTLUS) (1 hrs 50 min) than placebo treated subjects (67 h 50 min), which was also a statistically significant difference (P = 0.000).The percentage of subjects recording TTLUS was greater for those who received Aliva vs placebo at 30 min (P = 0.027), 2 h (P = 0.000), 24 h (P = 0.000), 48 h (P = 0.000), 72 h (P  = 0.000), and 5 d (P = 0.000) post dose. There were 146 study subjects 14 years old or older, which was the criteria set for reliable self-reporting of subjective symptoms. Of those 146 subjects, 142 reported stomach pain and discomfort during screening. From 90 minutes [95%CI: -1.8-(-0.01), P = 0.048] through 5 d [95%CI: -3.4-(-1.9), P = 0.000), the subjects treated with Aliva experienced significantly less stomach pain and discomfort than those who received placebo. Of those same 146 participants, 114 subjects reported gas and bloating during screening. Similarly, subjects who received Aliva experienced significantly less gas and bloating from 2 h [95%CI: -1.7-(-0.39), P = 0.030] through 5 d (95%CI: -2.0-0.42, P = 0.005) compared with the placebo arm. CONCLUSION: In this double-blind, randomized clinical study, subjects with acute  gastroenteritis receiving Aliva prebiotic showed significant and sustained improvement of multiple symptoms vs those receiving placebo.
25223604: !GIMB Fecal microbiota transplantation as therapy for inflammatory bowel disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) has gained interest as a novel treatment option for inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). While publications describing FMT as therapy for IBD have more than doubled since 2012, research that investigates FMT treatment efficacy has been scarce. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy of FMT as treatment  for patients with IBD. METHODS: A systematic literature search was performed through May 2014. Inclusion criteria required FMT as the primary therapeutic agent. Clinical remission (CR) and/or mucosal healing were defined as primary outcomes. Studies were excluded if they did not report clinical outcomes or included patients with infections. RESULTS: Eighteen studies (9 cohort studies, 8 case studies and 1 randomized controlled trial) were included. 122 patients were  described (79 ulcerative colitis (UC); 39 Crohn's disease (CD); 4 IBD unclassified). Overall, 45% (54/119) of patients achieved CR during follow-up. Among the cohort studies, the pooled proportion of patients that achieved CR was  36.2% (95% CI 17.4%-60.4%), with a moderate risk of heterogeneity (Cochran's Q, P=0.011; I(2)=37%). Subgroup analyses demonstrated a pooled estimate of clinical  remission of 22% (95% CI 10.4%-40.8%) for UC (P=0.37; I(2)=0%) and 60.5% (95% CI  28.4%-85.6%) for CD (P=0.05; I(2)=37%). Six studies performed microbiota analysis. CONCLUSIONS: This analysis suggests that FMT is a safe, but variably efficacious treatment for IBD. More randomized controlled trials are needed and should investigate frequency of FMT administration, donor selection and standardization of microbiome analysis.
25197003: !GIMB Five-year cumulative incidence of invasive anal cancer among HIV-infected patients according to baseline anal cytology results: an inception cohort analysis. OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to estimate the cumulative incidence of, and rates of progression to, invasive anal cancer (IAC) according to baseline anal cytology screening category in an unselected HIV clinical care cohort in the antiretroviral era. METHODS: A retrospective cohort analysis of HIV-infected patients under care at the University of California at San Diego Owen Clinic was  carried out. Patients were eligible for this analysis if they had at least two anal cytohistological results available for longitudinal analysis. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate the cumulative incidence of IAC over time according to baseline cytology category [less than high-grade intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) versus HSIL]. Cox regression analysis was used to adjust for the following covariates: antiretroviral use, level of HIV viraemia, smoking status and infrared photocoagulation (IRC) ablation therapy. RESULTS: Between 2000 and 2012, we followed 2804 HIV-infected patients for a median of 4 years under a clinic protocol requiring baseline anal cytology screening. Incident IAC was diagnosed in 23 patients. Patients with a baseline HSIL anal cytology had an estimated 5-year probability of progression to IAC of 1.7% and an estimated annual progression risk of 1 in 263. None of the examined covariates was significantly associated with IAC incidence when examined in separate unadjusted Cox models. CONCLUSIONS: HIV-infected patients with a baseline HSIL anal cytology had a 5-year cumulative incidence of IAC of 1.65%, with an upper 95% confidence bound of 4.5%. This population-based study provides quantitative risk estimates that may be used for counselling patients regarding management options for abnormal cytology results.
25196096: !GIMB Molecular identification of giardia intestinalis in patients with dyspepsia. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Giardia intestinalis triggers symptoms of functional dyspepsia.  The aim of this study was to distinguish genotypes of G. intestinalis isolated from dyspeptic patients to evaluate their correlation with dyspeptic symptoms. METHODS: In total, 120 dyspeptic subjects were investigated by upper endoscopy, including gastric and duodenal biopsies for histopathological examination, and parasitological examination of their stools and duodenal aspirates was performed. The patients were classified into five groups: group I (G. intestinalis) included 19 patients, group II (Helicobacter pylori) included 36 patients, group III (coeliac disease) included 3 patients, group IV (mixed G. intestinalis and H. pylori infection) included 4 patients, and group V (unexplained aetiology) included 58 patients. Genotyping of G. intestinalis was performed for groups I and IV using PCR-RFLP. The urease test was performed for H. pylori. Serum anti-gliadin, anti-endomysial and anti-transglutaminase antibody estimation was performed for the diagnosis of coeliac disease. RESULTS: Genotype A of G. intestinalis was detected in the stool samples of 68.42% (13/19) and the duodenal aspirates of 42.1% (8/19) of dyspeptic patients harbouring the parasite. Genotype B was detected in 31.58% (6/19) of cases in stool samples and in 3 cases in duodenal aspirates. CONCLUSIONS: H. pylori, G. intestinalis and coeliac disease are common causes of dyspepsia. G. intestinalis genotype A demonstrated a greater association with dyspeptic symptoms.
25167923: !GIMB Role of stress, depression, and aging in cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease. Late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder and the most common cause of progressive cognitive dysfunction and dementia. Despite  considerable progress in elucidating the molecular pathology of this disease, we  are not yet close to unraveling its etiopathogenesis. A battery of neurotoxic modifiers may underpin neurocognitive pathology via deleterious heterogeneous pathologic impact in brain regions, including the hippocampus. Three important neurotoxic factors being addressed here include aging, stress, and depression. Unraveling "upstream pathologies" due to these disparate neurotoxic entities, vis-a-vis cognitive impairment involving hippocampal dysfunction, is of paramount importance. Persistent systemic inflammation triggers and sustains neuroinflammation. The latter targets several brain regions including the hippocampus causing upregulation of amyloid beta and neurofibrillary tangles, synaptic and neuronal degeneration, gray matter volume atrophy, and progressive cognitive decline. However, what is the fundamental source of this peripheral inflammation in aging, stress, and depression? This chapter highlights and delineates the inflammatory involvement-i.e., from its inception from gut to systemic inflammation to neuroinflammation. It highlights an upregulated cascade  in which gut-microbiota-related dysbiosis generates lipopolysaccharides (LPS), which enhances inflammation and gut's leakiness, and through a Web of interactions, it induces stress and depression. This may increase neuronal dysfunction and apoptosis, promote learning and memory impairment, and enhance vulnerability to cognitive decline.
25143343: !GIMB A genomic and clinical prognostic index for hepatitis C-related early-stage cirrhosis that predicts clinical deterioration. OBJECTIVE: The number of patients with HCV-related cirrhosis is increasing, leading to a rising risk of complications and death. Prognostic stratification in patients with early-stage cirrhosis is still challenging. We aimed to develop and validate a clinically useful prognostic index based on genomic and clinical variables to identify patients at high risk of disease progression. DESIGN: We developed a prognostic index, comprised of a 186-gene signature validated in our  previous genome-wide profiling study, bilirubin (>1 mg/dL) and platelet count (<100,000/mm(3)), in an Italian HCV cirrhosis cohort (training cohort, n=216, median follow-up 10 years). The gene signature test was implemented using a digital transcript counting (nCounter) assay specifically developed for clinical  use and the prognostic index was evaluated using archived specimens from an independent cohort of HCV-related cirrhosis in the USA (validation cohort, n=145, median follow-up 8 years). RESULTS: In the training cohort, the prognostic index  was associated with hepatic decompensation (HR=2.71, p=0.003), overall death (HR=6.00, p<0.001), hepatocellular carcinoma (HR=3.31, p=0.001) and progression of Child-Turcotte-Pugh class (HR=6.70, p<0.001). The patients in the validation cohort were stratified into high-risk (16%), intermediate-risk (42%) or low-risk  (42%) groups by the prognostic index. The high-risk group had a significantly increased risk of hepatic decompensation (HR=7.36, p<0.001), overall death (HR=3.57, p=0.002), liver-related death (HR=6.49, p<0.001) and all liver-related  adverse events (HR=4.98, p<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: A genomic and clinical prognostic index readily available for clinical use was successfully validated, warranting further clinical evaluation for prognostic prediction and clinical trial stratification and enrichment for preventive interventions.
25141579: !GIMB [Endoscopic and histopathological findings of the upper gastrointestinal tract in patients with functional and organic dyspepsia]. INTRODUCTION: Endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal tract (upper GI) with macroscopic and histopathological evaluation provides essential tool to  differentiate the organic and functional causes of dyspepsia. The distinction, however, is often smooth and not fully defined. The aim of this study was to assess the frequency and type of the macroscopic and histopathological changes in the upper GI endoscopy in patients with symptoms of dyspepsia. MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective study was performed on 212 patients with dyspepsia, at the age of 18-84 years, including 60 patients to 45 years of age (group I) and 152 patients older than 45 (group II) who underwent gastroscopy. The severity of  esophagitis was classified according to the Los Angeles Classification and gastritis according the updated Sydney system. Biopsy specimens were taken from the gastric and duodenum for histopathological examination. The presence of H. pylori infection has been established on the basis of histopathological examination and positive rapid urease test. RESULTS: Reflux esophagitis was found in 18 patients (8.5%), slightly more common in people over 45 years of age (group I--5%, group II--9.2%). The mild forms of esophagitis occurred most frequently. A more advanced form of inflammation and Barrett's esophagus was found only in patients over 45 years of age. Normal gastric and duodenal mucosa was revealed in 30% of patients in group I and 9.2% in group II. The most common endoscopic lesion was gastritis, mostly erythematous-exudative and less often atrophic. The  presence of H. pylori infection was varied in the different types of inflammation. H. pylori infection occurred most frequently in the case of erosive and follicular gastropathy. The most common location of H. pylori infec- frequent in older patients. Peptic ulcer was found in 4.7% of patients (group I--5%, group II--4.6%). In one patient (61 years old) stomach cancer was diagnosed and in one  patient (<45 years old) Crohn's disease of the upper GI was diagnosed. The majority of patients had normal duodenal mucosa. In 3.3% of patients (group I--8.3%, group II--1.3%), who had not previously diagnosed celiac disease, histopathological changes typical of celiac disease has been shown. In all patients, in whom biopsy specimens were taken from normal duodenal mucosa (14% of patients), histopathological examination revealed the presence of non-specific inflammation, regardless of the coexistence of H. pylori infection. CONCLUSION: Regardless of the severity of lesions of the upper GI endoscopy in patients with  dyspepsia, it is advisable to take biopsy from the gastric and duodenal mucosa, which allows for an individualized management of these patients. Celiac disease should be considered in the diagnosis of the causes of dyspepsia. Further studies of microscopic duodenitis in patients with dyspepsia are needed.
25091346: !GIMB Effect of a new synbiotic supplement on symptoms, stool consistency, intestinal transit time and gut microbiota in patients with severe functional constipation:  a pilot randomized double-blind, controlled trial. BACKGROUND: Data on the benefits of synbiotics in functional constipation are conflicting. The aim of this study was to assess whether the administration of the synbiotic supplement Psyllogel Megafermenti((R)) normalized stool consistency and decreased intestinal transit time (ITT) in patients with severe functional constipation, based on its ability to impact on the gut microbiota. METHODS: We conducted a pilot randomized, double-blind, controlled trial. After a 2-week run-in period, patients from a tertiary care setting with severe functional constipation fulfilling the Rome III Diagnostic Criteria in the past year were randomly assigned to receive by mouth 2 bags/day of Psyllogel Megafermenti((R)) (Group A) or 2.8 g of maltodextrin twice daily (Group B) for 8 weeks. Primary endpoints were increase of bowel evacuations with normal stool consistency and volume, and ITT reduction. Secondary endpoints included symptom improvement according to the Rome III Diagnostic Criteria, reduction of the Agachan-Wexner score and changes in gut microbiota composition. RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients completed the study: 17 were allocated to Group A and 12 to Group B. A statistically significant increase in stools with normal consistency was observed only in Group A (p = 0.001), even when considering patients with normal stools </=50 % of time at baseline. In Group A, a significant reduction in ITT was also  found (p = 0.022). According to polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiling of stool samples, 50 % of the patients treated with synbiotics harbored all the probiotic species of the study product. CONCLUSIONS:  An 8-week treatment with Psyllogel Megafermenti((R)) improved the main clinical parameters of functional constipation in patients extremely homogeneous for disorder severity and underlying pathophysiology ( Eudract.ema.europa.eu , No. 2008-000913-30).
25087692: !GIMB Association between specific mucosa-associated microbiota in Crohn's disease at the time of resection and subsequent disease recurrence: a pilot study. BACKGROUND AND AIM: Crohn's disease pathogenesis involves alterations in the gut  microbiota. We characterized the mucosa-associated microbiota at the time of surgical resection and 6 months later to identify bacterial profiles associated with recurrence and remission. METHODS: Tissue samples were collected from surgical resection specimens in 12 Crohn's disease patients, and at 6 months postoperative colonoscopy from the neoterminal ileum and anastomosis. Endoscopic  recurrence was assessed using the Rutgeerts score. Microbiota was characterized using microarray and 454 pyrosequencing. Longitudinal comparisons were made within patients, and cross-sectional comparisons made with colonoscopic biopsies  from the terminal ileum and cecum of 10 healthy subjects. RESULTS: Microbiota of  healthy subjects had high diversity and was dominated by the Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Proteobacteria phyla. Biodiversity was lower in Crohn's disease patients at the time of surgery, increased after surgery, but still differed from healthy subjects. Crohn's disease patients with recurrent disease retained a microbiota favoring proteolytic-fueled fermentation and lactic acid-producing bacteria, including Enterococcus and Veillonella spp., while those maintaining remission demonstrated predominant saccharolytic Bacteroides, Prevotella, and Parabacteroides spp., and saccharolytic, butyrate-producing Firmicutes. CONCLUSION: In Crohn's disease, the mucosa-associated microbiota diversity is reduced at the time of surgery, but also differs between patients with different clinical outcomes at 6 months. These findings may provide prognostic information at the time of surgery, allowing identification of patients at increased risk of recurrence, and provide basis for a more targeted approach for therapeutic interventions after surgery.
24997042: !GIMB Microbiota-gut-brain axis and cognitive function. Recent studies have demonstrated a clear association between changes in the microbiota and cognitive behavior. Intestinal dysbiosis, as modeled using GF mice (containing no microbiota), bacterial infection with an enteric pathogen, and administration of probiotics, can modulate cognitive behavior including learning  and memory. This chapter will highlight recent findings in both human and animal  studies indicating how changes in the composition and diversity of the microbiota can impact behavior and brain physiology in both disease states and in health. Cognitive behavior can not only be affected in cases of intestinal disease, but also manifests changes in extra-intestinal disease conditions.
24996842: !GIMB SYNbiotics Easing Renal failure by improving Gut microbiologY (SYNERGY): a protocol of placebo-controlled randomised cross-over trial. BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence suggests modulating the microbiota in the large bowel of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) through pre- and/probiotic supplementation may inhibit the development of key nephrovascular toxins. To date, quality intervention trials investigating this novel treatment in CKD are lacking. The aim of SYNERGY is to assess the effectiveness of synbiotics (co-administration of pre- and probiotics) as a potential treatment targeting the synthesis of uremic toxins, specifically, indoxyl sulphate (IS) and p-cresyl sulphate (PCS). METHODS/DESIGN: Thirty-seven patients with moderate to severe CKD (Stage IV and V, pre-dialysis) will be recruited to a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised cross-over trial. Patients will be provided with synbiotic therapy or placebo for 6 weeks, with a 4 week washout before cross-over. The primary outcome is serum IS, total and free (unbound) concentrations, measured using ultra-performance liquid chromatography. Secondary outcomes include serum PCS, total and free (unbound) concentrations; cardiovascular risk, measured by serum lipopolysaccharides, serum trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) and inflammation and oxidative stress markers; kidney damage, measured by 24 hour proteinuria and albuminuria, estimated glomerular filtration rate and renal tubule damage (urinary kidney injury molecule-1); patients' self assessed quality of life; and gastrointestinal symptoms. In addition, the effects on the community structure of the stool microbiota will be explored in a subset of patients to validate the mechanistic rationale underpinning the synbiotic therapy. DISCUSSION: IS and PCS are two novel uremic toxins implicated in both cardiovascular disease (CVD) and progression of CKD. Preliminary studies indicate that synbiotic therapy maybe a promising strategy when considering a targeted, tolerable and cost-efficient therapy for lowering serum IS and PCS concentrations. This trial will provide high quality 'proof-of-concept' data to elucidate both the efficacy of synbiotic  therapy for lowering the toxins and whether reductions in serum IS and PCS translate into clinical benefits. Considering the potential of pre- and probiotics to not only shift toxin levels, but to also impede CVD and CKD progression, SYNERGY will provide vital insight into the effectiveness of this innocuous nutritional therapy. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Universal Trial Number: U1111-1142-4363. Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry Number: ACTRN12613000493741, date registered: 2nd May 2013.
24978103: !GIMB Thinking outside the brain for cognitive improvement: Is peripheral immunomodulation on the way? Cognitive impairment is a devastating condition commonly observed with normal aging and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Although  major efforts to prevent or slow down cognitive decline are largely focused within the central nervous system (CNS), it has become clear that signals from the systemic milieu are closely associated with the dysfunctional brain. In particular, the bidirectional crosstalk between the CNS and peripheral immune system plays a decisive role in shaping neuronal survival and function via neuroimmune, neuroendocrinal and bioenergetic mechanisms. Importantly, it is emerging that some neuroprotective and cognition-strengthening drugs may work by  targeting the brain-periphery interactions, which could be intriguingly achieved  without entering the CNS. We describe here how recent advances in dissecting cognitive deficits from a systems-perspective have contributed to a non-neurocentric understanding of its pathogenesis and treatment strategy. We also discuss the therapeutic and diagnostic implications of these exciting progresses and consider some key issues in the clinical translation. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neuroimmunology and Synaptic Function'.
24969283: !GIMB Is rifaximin effective in maintaining remission in Crohn's disease? BACKGROUND: Recent studies indicate that persistent intestinal inflammation in patients with Crohn's disease (CD) might be caused by abnormal intestinal microbiota. This hypothesis may suggest a beneficial effect of antibiotics in CD  therapy. So far, guidelines do not recommend antibiotics except in the treatment  of complicated CD, and there are few studies on the effects of rifaximin in these patients. METHODS: Between December 2011 and December 2012, we performed a blinded randomized trial in 168 patients with a previous history of moderately active CD concerning the efficacy of rifaximin. All the patients had previously achieved remission with standard therapy (prednisone/budesonide). Data from patients receiving 800 mg of rifaximin (83 patients) twice a day for 12 weeks were compared with those from patients who received placebo (83 patients). The primary endpoint was maintaining remission during the follow-up. RESULTS: All the patients (100%; 83/83) on 800 mg of rifaximin were in remission after 12 weeks of treatment in comparison with 84% (70/83) of the placebo group. This significant difference was also persistent at the 24-week follow-up [78% (65/83) vs. 41% (34/83), respectively]. The last evaluation performed at 48 weeks revealed disease activity in 45% (38/83) of the patients of the rifaximin group, i.e. a significant decrease compared with the placebo group [75% (63 of 83)]. CONCLUSIONS: Remission previously obtained with standard treatment can be sustained in patients with moderately active CD after the administration of 800 mg of rifaximin.
24948202: !GIMB Preventing the progression of chronic kidney disease: two case reports and review of the literature. A variety of therapeutic modalities are available to alter the abnormalities seen in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). A comprehensive plan can now be developed to slow the progression of CKD. Two clinical cases of delay in the need for renal replacement therapy are described. This delay was achieved by using recognized recommendations for optimal diabetes therapy (HbA1c target 7 %), goals for blood pressure levels, reduction of proteinuria, and the proper use of ACEI/ARB therapies. Recent recommendations include BP <140/90 mmHg for patients <60 years old and <150/90 mmHg for older patients unless they have CKD or diabetes. Limits on dietary sodium and protein intake and body weight reduction will decrease proteinuria. Proper treatment for elevated serum phosphorous and parathyroid hormone levels is now appreciated as well as the benefits of therapy  for dyslipidemias and anemia. Concerns regarding unfavorable outcomes with excess ESA therapy have led to hemoglobin goals in the 10-12 g/dL range. Finally, new therapeutic considerations for the treatment of acidosis and hyperuricemia are presented with data available to suggest that increasing serum bicarbonate to >22 mmol/L is beneficial, while serum uric acid therapeutic goals are still uncertain. Also, two as yet insufficiently understood approaches to altering the  course of CKD (FGF-23 level reduction and balancing gut microbiota) are noted.
24929795: !GIMB Effect of short-term synbiotic treatment on plasma p-cresol levels in patients with chronic renal failure: a randomized clinical trial. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: In patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), alterations in gut microbiome are posited to be responsible for gastrointestinal symptoms and generation of p-cresol, a uremic toxin that has been associated with CKD progression and cardiovascular mortality. This pilot study investigated whether Probinul-neutro(R), a synbiotic that normalizes intestinal microflora, may lower  plasma p-cresol concentrations and reduce gastrointestinal symptoms in non-dialyzed CKD patients. METHODS AND RESULTS: This was a double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial. Thirty patients on 3-4 CKD stages were randomized to receive either Probinul neutro(R) or placebo for 4 weeks. Total plasma p-cresol concentration was assessed at baseline, and 15 and 30 days after  treatment start. At the same study times, ease and frequency of defecation, upper and lower abdominal pain, stool shape, borborygmi, and flatus were quantified by  subjective assessment questionnaires. Compared to baseline total plasma p-cresol  median concentrations on 15th and 30th day were significantly lower in patients receiving Probinul-neutro(R) (2.31 and 0.78 vs. 3.05 mug/ml, p < 0.05; n = 18); no changes of plasma p-cresol concentrations were recorded in placebo-treated patients. No significant changes in gastrointestinal symptoms were observed during the study both in Probinul-neutro(R)-treated and placebo-treated patients. CONCLUSION: Probinul-neutro(R) lowered total plasma p-cresol concentrations but did not ameliorate gastrointestinal symptoms in non-dialyzed CKD patients. Because high plasma concentrations of p-cresol in early phases of CKD are predictive of progression to end-stage renal disease, the results of our study suggest that synbiotics deserve attention as possible tools to delay CKD progression towards end-stage renal disease (ESRD). CLINICALTRIALSGOV IDENTIFIER: NCT02008331.
24912660: !GIMB Cardiovascular disease relates to intestinal uptake of p-cresol in patients with  chronic kidney disease. BACKGROUND: Serum p-cresyl sulfate (PCS) associates with cardiovascular disease in patients with chronic kidney disease. PCS concentrations are determined by intestinal uptake of p-cresol, human metabolism to PCS and renal clearance. Whether intestinal uptake of p-cresol itself is directly associated with cardiovascular disease in patients with renal dysfunction has not been studied to date. METHODS: We performed a prospective study in patients with chronic kidney disease stage 1 - 5 (NCT00441623). Intestinal uptake of p-cresol, under steady state conditions, was estimated from 24 h urinary excretion of PCS. Primary endpoint was time to first cardiovascular event, i.e., cardiac death, myocardial  infarction/ischemia, ventricular arrhythmia, cardiovascular surgery, ischemic stroke or symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. Statistical analysis was done  using Kaplan-Meier estimates and Cox proportional hazard analyses. RESULTS: In a  cohort of 200 patients, median 24 h urinary excretion of PCS amounted to 457.47 mumol (IQR 252.68 - 697.17). After a median follow-up of 52 months, 25 patients reached the primary endpoint (tertile 1/2/3: 5/6/14 events, log rank P 0.037). Higher urinary excretion of PCS was directly associated with cardiovascular events (univariate hazard ratio per 100 mumol increase: 1.112, P 0.002). In multivariate analysis, urinary excretion of PCS remained a predictor of cardiovascular events, independent of eGFR (hazard ratio 1.120, P 0.002). CONCLUSIONS: In patients with chronic kidney disease, intestinal uptake of p-cresol associates with cardiovascular disease independent of renal function. The intestinal generation and absorption of p-cresol may be therapeutic targets to reduce cardiovascular disease risk in patients with renal dysfunction.
24900788: !GIMB Diversity-oriented synthesis yields a new drug lead for treatment of chagas disease. A phenotypic high-throughput screen using approximately 100,000 compounds prepared using Diversity-Oriented Synthesis yielded stereoisomeric compounds with nanomolar growth-inhibition activity against the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, the  etiological agent of Chagas disease. After evaluating stereochemical dependence on solubility, plasma protein binding and microsomal stability, the SSS analogue  (5) was chosen for structure-activity relationship studies. The p-phenoxy benzyl  group appended to the secondary amine could be replaced with halobenzyl groups without loss in potency. The exocyclic primary alcohol is not needed for activity but the isonicotinamide substructure is required for activity. Most importantly,  these compounds are trypanocidal and hence are attractive as drug leads for both  acute and chronic stages of Chagas disease. Analogue (5) was nominated as the molecular libraries probe ML341 and is available through the Molecular Libraries  Probe Production Centers Network.
24874459: !GIMB Mode of delivery and risk of inflammatory bowel disease in the offspring: systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies. BACKGROUND: The incidence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is increasing worldwide; however, pathogenesis is not fully understood. The global cesarean section (CS) rate is also rising, and evidence suggests that mode of delivery may influence colonization of the offspring gut microbiota, predisposing offspring to IBD. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between mode of delivery and risk of IBD. METHODS: The electronic databases, Embase, CINAHL, and Medline (1948 to present) were searched, reference lists were checked, and no restrictions were assigned. Full texts of potentially relevant articles were evaluated, and included articles were assessed for quality. Raw data were used to calculate unadjusted odds ratios reflecting the risk of developing IBD in those delivered by cesarean. A meta-analysis was performed using RevMan 5 software to obtain a pooled measure of effect. Sensitivity analyses were performed to identify results according to specific study designs. RESULTS: Seven eligible studies were included; 4 were retrospective cohort design and 3 were case-control studies. The total number of children born by CS in the meta-analysis was 1354, and 11,355 were delivered vaginally. The proportion of IBD in the CS group was 0.249% compared with 0.322% in the vaginal delivery group. The pooled odds ratio  of developing IBD when delivered by CS was 1.00 (95% confidence interval, 0.75-1.33). CONCLUSIONS: This analysis observed no significant difference in risk of IBD in offspring delivered by CS compared with those born vaginally.
24869615: !GIMB CAGS and ACS evidence based reviews in surgery. Is a diverting loop ileostomy and colonic lavage an alternative to colectomy for the treatment of severe Clostridium difficile-associated disease? The term "evidence-based medicine" was first coined by Sackett and colleagues as  "the conscientious, explicit and judicious use of current best evidence in making decisions about the care of individual patients."1 The key to practising evidencebased medicine is applying the best current knowledge to decisions in individual patients. Medical knowledge is continually and rapidly expanding. For  clinicians to practise evidence-based medicine, they must have the skills to read and interpret the medical literature so that they can determine the validity, reliability, credibility and utility of individual articles. These skills are known as critical appraisal skills, and they require some knowledge of biostatistics, clinical epidemiology, decision analysis and economics, and clinical knowledge. Evidence Based Reviews in Surgery (EBRS) is a program jointly sponsored by the Canadian Association of General Surgeons (CAGS) and the American College of Surgeons (ACS). The primary objective of EBRS is to help practising surgeons improve their critical appraisal skills. During the academic year, 8 clinical articles are chosen for review and discussion. They are selected for their clinical relevance to general surgeons and because they cover a spectrum of issues im -port ant to surgeons, including causation or risk factors for disease, natural history or prognosis of disease, how to quantify disease, diagnostic tests, early diagnosis and the effectiveness of treatment. A methodological article guides the reader in critical appraisal of the clinical article. Methodological and clinical reviews of the article are performed by experts in the relevant areas and posted on the EBRS website, where they are archived indefinitely. In addition, a listserv allows participants to discuss the monthly  article. Surgeons who participate in the monthly packages can obtain Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada Maintenance of Certification credits and/or continuing medical education credits for the current article only by reading the monthly articles, participating in the listserv discussion, reading the methodological and clinical reviews and completing the monthly online evaluation and multiple choice questions. We hope readers will find EBRS useful in improving their critical appraisal skills and in keeping abreast of new developments in general surgery. Four reviews are published in condensed versions in the Canadian Journal of Surgery, 4 are published in the Journal of the American College of Surgeons and 4 are published in Diseases of the Colon and Rectum. For further information about EBRS, please refer to the CAGS or ACS websites. Questions and comments can be directed to the program administrator, Marg McKenzie, at mmckenzie@mtsinai.on.ca.
24858189: !GIMB Prevalence, morbidity, and mortality patterns of typhoid ileal perforation as seen at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital Enugu Nigeria: an 8-year review. BACKGROUND: Some recent studies have reported a decrease in mortality from typhoid ileal perforation. The present report aims to determine the prevalence, morbidity, and mortality of this disease in patients mostly drawn from a rural area. METHODS: This is a retrospective study of 50 patients treated between January 1999 and December 2007 at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, Nigeria. The variables studied included patient demographics, clinical features, intraoperative findings, complications, and mortality. Statistical analysis was done with SPSS version 13. RESULTS: Of the 50 patients included in the study, 22 were males with the highest rate in patients aged 20 years and younger. Fever was the commonest symptom and at initial presentation, the mean pulse and respiratory rates were significantly higher in the patients who subsequently died than in those who survived (P < 0.05). All the perforations occurred in the ileum; 62 % of the patients had solitary perforations, 28 % had double perforations, and 10 % had three or more. Fifty-eight perforations were treated by simple closure in two layers, 4 patients had ileal resection and anastomosis, and 2 underwent right hemicolectomy. The mean interval between operation and death was 1.7 days. The overall mortality rate was 30 %, but among  those with three or more perforations, mortality was 100 %. CONCLUSIONS: Typhoid  ileal perforation still carries a high mortality especially in rural areas. Those with tachycardia and tachypnea at presentation and those with three or more perforations are at a higher risk of dying from the disease.
24853844: !GIMB Frequent occurrence of fever in patients who have undergone endoscopic submucosal dissection for colorectal tumor, but bacteremia is not a significant cause. BACKGROUND: We examined the incidence of and factors associated with fever, as well as the frequency of bacteremia, in patients who had undergone endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for colorectal tumor. METHOD: A total of 199 patients (120 male and 79 female) were included. The patients were classified into two groups based on the body temperature on the day after ESD treatment: group A, body temperature <37 degrees C; and group B, body temperature >/=37 degrees C. The following factors were analyzed to determine their potential association with post-ESD fever: gender, age, tumor size, form, location, and presence or absence  of intraoperative perforation. In addition, blood samples from 50 patients were obtained for blood culture and 16S rRNA gene analysis by polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: Group A included 106 patients (70 male and 36 female), with a  median age of 63 years. Group B included 93 patients (50 male and 43 female), with a median age of 70 years. The incidence of post-ESD fever in the entire cohort was 46.7%. Univariate analysis based on comparison between groups A and B  showed that the following factors were significantly associated with post-ESD fever: age [mean +/- standard deviation (SD)], 64.5 +/- 9.2 versus 68.5 +/- 10.8  years, P = 0.006; and tumor size (mean +/- SD) 30.6 +/- 10.8 versus 39.1 +/- 16.6 mm, P < 0.001. Logistic regression analysis for post-ESD fever also found that age {odds ratio 1.04 (95% CI [1.01-1.07], P = 0.009)} and lesion size {odds ratio 1.05 (95% CI [1.03-1.08], P = 0.0002)} were closely associated with post-ESD fever. Of the 50 patients who had blood samples cultured and 16S rRNA gene analyzed, bacteria in blood culture and the 16S rRNA gene were not detectable in  any of the samples from the 50 patients. CONCLUSIONS: This study indicated that older patients and patients with large tumors were more likely to develop post-ESD fever, but there was a low probability that bacteremia was the cause of  fever.
24815676: !GIMB Reliable prediction of clinical outcome in patients with chronic HCV infection and compensated advanced hepatic fibrosis: a validated model using objective and  readily available clinical parameters. OBJECTIVE: Reliable tools to predict long-term outcome among patients with well compensated advanced liver disease due to chronic HCV infection are lacking. DESIGN: Risk scores for mortality and for cirrhosis-related complications were constructed with Cox regression analysis in a derivation cohort and evaluated in  a validation cohort, both including patients with chronic HCV infection and advanced fibrosis. RESULTS: In the derivation cohort, 100/405 patients died during a median 8.1 (IQR 5.7-11.1) years of follow-up. Multivariate Cox analyses  showed age (HR=1.06, 95% CI 1.04 to 1.09, p<0.001), male sex (HR=1.91, 95% CI 1.10 to 3.29, p=0.021), platelet count (HR=0.91, 95% CI 0.87 to 0.95, p<0.001) and log10 aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase ratio (HR=1.30, 95% CI 1.12 to 1.51, p=0.001) were independently associated with mortality (C statistic=0.78, 95% CI 0.72 to 0.83). In the validation cohort, 58/296 patients with cirrhosis died during a median of 6.6 (IQR 4.4-9.0) years. Among patients with estimated 5-year mortality risks <5%, 5-10% and >10%, the observed 5-year mortality rates in the derivation cohort and validation cohort were 0.9% (95% CI  0.0 to 2.7) and 2.6% (95% CI 0.0 to 6.1), 8.1% (95% CI 1.8 to 14.4) and 8.0% (95% CI 1.3 to 14.7), 21.8% (95% CI 13.2 to 30.4) and 20.9% (95% CI 13.6 to 28.1), respectively (C statistic in validation cohort = 0.76, 95% CI 0.69 to 0.83). The  risk score for cirrhosis-related complications also incorporated HCV genotype (C  statistic = 0.80, 95% CI 0.76 to 0.83 in the derivation cohort; and 0.74, 95% CI  0.68 to 0.79 in the validation cohort). CONCLUSIONS: Prognosis of patients with chronic HCV infection and compensated advanced liver disease can be accurately assessed with risk scores including readily available objective clinical parameters.
24811052: !GIMB Serological studies in inflammatory bowel disease: how important are they? PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Serum antibodies have the potential role to assist in the diagnosis, disease stratification and prognostication of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Understanding antibody formation might provide insight into the dysregulated immunological response to the gut microbiota in IBD. This review summarizes recent evidence regarding the role of serology in IBD. RECENT FINDINGS: There is accumulating evidence from cross-sectional and longitudinal studies and from recent meta-analyses that supports the value of serological markers in identifying patients with complicated disease phenotype and increased  risk of surgery in patients with Crohn's disease. Anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibody remains the most accurate single marker, and recently identified exocrine pancreas antibodies (GP2 and CUZD1) have been suggested as evidence for  a role of antibodies in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease. SUMMARY: Despite these various developments, the use of the serum antibodies remains complementary in clinical practice. New markers are being currently evaluated that may reflect  events relevant to the pathogenesis of IBD.
24803814: !GIMB Routine diagnosis of intestinal tuberculosis and Crohn's disease in Southern India. AIM: To investigate whether routinely measured clinical variables could aid in differentiating intestinal tuberculosis (ITB) from Crohn's disease (CD). METHODS: ITB and CD patients were prospectively included at four South Indian medical centres from October 2009 to July 2012. Routine investigations included case history, physical examination, blood biochemistry, ileocolonoscopy and histopathological examination of biopsies. Patients were followed-up after 2 and  6 mo of treatment. The diagnosis of ITB or CD was re-evaluated after 2 mo of antituberculous chemotherapy or immune suppressive therapy respectively, based on improvement in signs, symptoms and laboratory variables. This study was considered to be an exploratory analysis. Clinical, endoscopic and histopathological features recorded at the time of inclusion were subject to univariate analyses. Disease variables with sufficient number of recordings and P < 0.05 were entered into logistic regression models, adjusted for known confounders. Finally, we calculated the odds ratios with respective confidence intervals for variables associated with either ITB or CD. RESULTS: This study included 38 ITB and 37 CD patients. Overall, ITB patients had the lowest body mass index (19.6 vs 22.7, P = 0.01) and more commonly reported weight loss (73% vs 38%, P < 0.01), watery diarrhoea (64% vs 33%, P = 0.01) and rural domicile (58% vs 35%, P < 0.05). Endoscopy typically showed mucosal nodularity (17/31 vs 2/37, P < 0.01) and histopathology more frequently showed granulomas (10/30 vs 2/35, P < 0.01). The CD patients more frequently reported malaise (87% vs 64%, P  = 0.03), nausea (84% vs 56%, P = 0.01), pain in the right lower abdominal quadrant on examination (90% vs 54%, P < 0.01) and urban domicile (65% vs 42%, P  < 0.05). In CD, endoscopy typically showed involvement of multiple intestinal segments (27/37 vs 9/31, P < 0.01). Using logistic regression analysis we found weight loss and nodularity of the mucosa were independently associated with ITB,  with adjusted odds ratios of 8.6 (95%CI: 2.1-35.6) and 18.9 (95%CI: 3.5-102.8) respectively. Right lower abdominal quadrant pain on examination and involvement  of >/= 3 intestinal segments were independently associated with CD with adjusted  odds ratios of 10.1 (95%CI: 2.0-51.3) and 5.9 (95%CI: 1.7-20.6), respectively. CONCLUSION: Weight loss and mucosal nodularity were associated with ITB. Abdominal pain and excessive intestinal involvement were associated with CD. ITB  and CD were equally common.
24753353: !GIMB Gut feelings about smoking and coffee in Parkinson's disease. Strong epidemiologic evidence suggests that smokers and coffee drinkers have a lower risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). The explanation for this finding is still unknown, and the discussion has focused on two main hypotheses. The first suggests that PD patients have premorbid personality traits associated with dislike for coffee-drinking and smoking. The second posits that caffeine and nicotine are neuroprotective. We propose an alternative third hypothesis, in which both cigarette and coffee consumption change the composition of the microbiota in the gut in a way that mitigates intestinal inflammation. This, in turn, would lead to less misfolding of the protein alpha-synuclein in enteric nerves, reducing the risk of PD by minimizing propagation of the protein aggregates to the central nervous system, where they otherwise can induce neurodegeneration.
24751327: !GIMB Protein-bound uremic toxins, inflammation and oxidative stress: a cross-sectional study in stage 3-4 chronic kidney disease. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Indoxyl sulfate (IS) and p-cresyl sulfate (PCS) are nephro-  and cardiovascular toxins, produced solely by the gut microbiota, which have pro-inflammatory and pro-oxidative properties in vitro. We undertook this study to investigate the associations between IS and PCS and both inflammation and oxidative stress in the chronic kidney disease (CKD) population. METHODS: In this cross-sectional observational cohort study, participants with stage 3-4 CKD who enrolled in a randomized controlled trial of cardiovascular risk modification underwent baseline measurements of serum total and free IS and PCS (measured by ultraperformance liquid chromotography), inflammatory markers (interferon gamma [IFN-gamma], interleukin-6 [IL-6] and tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha]), antioxidant and oxidative stress markers (plasma glutathione peroxidase [GPx] activity, total antioxidant capacity [TAC] and F2-isoprostanes) and pulse wave velocity (PWV), a marker of arterial stiffness. RESULTS: There were 149 CKD patients (59% male; age 60 +/- 10 years; 44% diabetic) with a mean eGFR of 40 +/- 9 mL/min/1.73 m(2) (range 25-59). Serum free and total IS were independently associated with serum IL-6, TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, whereas serum free and total PCS were independently associated with serum IL-6 and PWV. Free IS and PCS were additionally independently associated with serum GPx but not with TAC or F2-isoprostanes. CONCLUSIONS: IS and PCS were associated with elevated levels of  selected inflammatory markers and an antioxidant in CKD patients. PCS was also associated with increased arterial stiffness. Inflammation and oxidative stress may contribute to the nephro- and cardiovascular toxicities of IS and PCS. Intervention studies targeting production of IS and PCS by dietary manipulation and the subsequent effect on cardiovascular-related outcomes are warranted in the CKD population.
24748976: !GIMB Characterization of gut microbiota profiles by disease activity in patients with  Crohn's disease using data mining analysis of terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms. The gut microbiota plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease (CD). In this study, we analyzed the disease activity and associated fecal microbiota profiles in 160 CD patients and 121 healthy individuals. Fecal samples from the CD patients were collected during three different clinical phases, the active (n=66), remission-achieved (n=51) and remission-maintained (n=43) phases. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and data mining analysis using the Classification and Regression Tree (C&RT) approach were performed. Data mining provided a decision tree that clearly identified the  various subject groups (nodes). The majority of the healthy individuals were divided into Node-5 and Node-8. Healthy subjects comprised 99% of Node-5 (91 of 92) and 84% of Node-8 (21 of 25 subjects). Node-3 was characterized by CD (136 of 160 CD subjects) and was divided into Node-6 and Node-7. Node-6 (n=103) was characterized by subjects in the active phase (n=48; 46%) and remission-achieved  phase (n=39; 38%) and Node-7 was characterized by the remission-maintained phase  (21 of 37 subjects; 57%). Finally, Node-6 was divided into Node-9 and Node-10. Node-9 (n=78) was characterized by subjects in the active phase (n=43; 55%) and Node-10 (n=25) was characterized by subjects in the remission-maintained phase (n=16; 64%). Differences in the gut microbiota associated with disease activity of CD patients were identified. Thus, data mining analysis appears to be an ideal tool for the characterization of the gut microbiota in inflammatory bowel disease.
24747448: !GIMB To swab or not to swab? A prospective analysis of 341 SICU VRE screens. BACKGROUND: Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE) screening is routine practice in many intensive care units despite the question of its clinical significance. The value of VRE screening at predicting subsequent VRE or other hospital-acquired infection (HAI) is unknown. The purpose of this investigation was to examine the rate of subsequent VRE HAI in patients undergoing VRE screening. METHODS: This study was conducted in a 24-bed surgical intensive care  unit (SICU) at a Level I trauma center. Patients admitted to the SICU between February and August 2011 who had rectal swab for VRE screening within 72 hours were followed prospectively for the development of VRE and other HAIs. Demographics, clinical characteristics, and infection rates were compared between VRE-positive and VRE-negative patients. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) of VRE screening for  predicting subsequent VRE HAI were calculated. RESULTS: A total of 341 patients had VRE screening within 72 hours of SICU admission, with 32 VRE-positive (9%) and 309 VRE-negative (91%) patients. VRE-positive patients had a higher incidence of any HAI (78% vs. 35%, p < 0.001). Eight VRE-positive patients (25%) developed  VRE HAI compared with only 3 VRE-negative patients (1%) (p < 0.001). VRE screening had a 73% sensitivity, 93% specificity, 25% PPV, and 99% NPV for determining subsequent VRE HAI. CONCLUSION: VRE colonization was present in 9% of SICU patients at admission. Negative VRE screen result had a high specificity and NPV for the development of subsequent VRE HAI. Empiric treatment of VRE infection may be unnecessary in VRE-negative patients. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic/epidemiologic study, level III. Therapeutic study, level IV.
24735654: !GIMB The Roots of Autism and ADHD Twin Study in Sweden (RATSS). Neurodevelopmental disorders affect a substantial minority of the general population. Their origins are still largely unknown, but a complex interplay of genetic and environmental factors causing disturbances of the central nervous system's maturation and a variety of higher cognitive skills is presumed. Only limited research of rather small sample size and narrow scope has been conducted  in neurodevelopmental disorders using a twin-differences design. The Roots of Autism and ADHD Twin Study in Sweden (RATSS) is an ongoing project targeting monozygotic twins discordant for categorical or dimensional autistic and inattentive/hyperactive-impulsive phenotypes as well as other neurodevelopmental  disorders, and typically developing twin controls. Included pairs are 9 years of  age or older, and comprehensively assessed for psychopathology, medical history,  neuropsychology, and dysmorphology, as well as structural, functional, and molecular brain imaging. Specimens are collected for induced pluripotent (iPS) and neuroepithelial stem cells, genetic, gut bacteria, protein-/monoamine, and electron microscopy analyses. RATSS's objective is to generate a launch pad for novel surveys to understand the complexity of genotype-environment-phenotype interactions in autism spectrum disorder and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). By October 2013, RATSS had collected data from 55 twin pairs, among them 10 monozygotic pairs discordant for autism spectrum disorder, seven for ADHD, and four for other neurodevelopmental disorders. This article describes the design, recruitment, data collection, measures, collected pairs' characteristics, as well as ongoing and planned analyses in RATSS. Potential gains of the study comprise the identification of environmentally mediated biomarkers, the emergence of candidates for drug development, translational modeling, and new leads for prevention of incapacitating outcomes.
24726430: !GIMB Hypothesis: a role for EBV-induced molecular mimicry in Parkinson's disease. Current concepts regarding the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease support a model whereby environmental factors conspire with a permissive genetic background to initiate the disease. The identity of the responsible environmental trigger has remained elusive. There is incontrovertible evidence that aggregation of the  neuronal protein alpha-synuclein is central to disease pathogenesis. A novel hypothesis of Parkinson's pathogenesis, articulated by Braak and colleagues, implicates a pathogen acting in the olfactory mucosa and gastrointestinal tract as the inciting agent. In this point-of-view article, we hypothesize that alpha-synuclein aggregation in Parkinson's disease is an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced autoimmune phenomenon. Specifically, we have shown evidence for molecular mimicry between the C-terminal region of alpha-synuclein and a repeat region in the latent membrane protein 1 encoded by EBV. We hypothesize that, in genetically-susceptible individuals, anti-EBV latent membrane protein antibodies  targeting the critical repeat region cross react with the homologous epitope on alpha-synuclein and induce its oligomerization. Consistent with the Braak's proposed pattern of spread, we contend that axon terminals in the lamina propria  of the gut are among the initial targets, with subsequent spread of pathology to  the CNS. While at this time, we can only provide evidence from the literature and preliminary findings from our own laboratory, we hope that our hypothesis will stimulate the development of tractable experimental systems that can be exploited to test it. Further support for an EBV-induced immune pathogenesis for Parkinson's disease could have profound therapeutic implications.
24720679: !GIMB Retreatment of HCV with ABT-450/r-ombitasvir and dasabuvir with ribavirin. BACKGROUND: In this phase 3 trial we evaluated the efficacy and safety of the interferon-free combination of ABT-450 with ritonavir (ABT-450/r), ombitasvir (also known as ABT-267), dasabuvir (also known as ABT-333), and ribavirin for the retreatment of HCV in patients who were previously treated with peginterferon-ribavirin. METHODS: We enrolled patients with HCV genotype 1 infection and no cirrhosis who had previously been treated with peginterferon-ribavirin and had a relapse, a partial response, or a null response. Patients were randomly assigned in a 3:1 ratio to receive coformulated  ABT-450/r-ombitasvir (at a once-daily dose of 150 mg of ABT-450, 100 mg of ritonavir, and 25 mg of ombitasvir) and dasabuvir (250 mg twice daily) with ribavirin (1000 or 1200 mg daily) or matching placebos during the 12-week double-blind period. The primary end point was the rate of sustained virologic response 12 weeks after the end of study treatment. The primary efficacy analysis compared this rate among patients assigned to the active regimen with a historical response rate (65%) among previously treated patients with HCV genotype 1 infection and no cirrhosis who had received retreatment with telaprevir and peginterferon-ribavirin. RESULTS: A total of 394 patients received at least one study-drug dose. In the active-regimen group, 286 of 297 patients had a sustained virologic response at post-treatment week 12, for an overall rate of 96.3% (95% confidence interval, 94.2 to 98.4). This rate was noninferior and superior to the historical control rate. Rates were 95.3% among patients with a prior relapse (82 of 86 patients), 100% among patients with a prior partial response (65 of 65 patients), and 95.2% among patients with a prior null response (139 of 146 patients). Pruritus occurred more frequently with the active regimen  (in 13.8% of patients) than with placebo (5.2%, P=0.03). Three patients in the active-regimen group (1.0%) discontinued the study drugs owing to adverse events. Hemoglobin values of grade 2 (8.0 to <10.0 g per deciliter) and grade 3 (6.5 to <8.0 g per deciliter) occurred in 4.7% and 0.3% of patients in the active-regimen group, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Rates of response to a 12-week interferon-free  combination regimen were more than 95% among previously treated patients with HCV genotype 1 infection, including patients with a prior null response. (Funded by AbbVie; SAPPHIRE-II ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01715415.).
24716676: !GIMB Prevalence and predictors of Lymphogranuloma venereum in a high risk population attending a STD outpatients clinic in Italy. BACKGROUND: We evaluated LGV prevalence and predictors in a high risk population  attending a STI Outpatients Clinic in the North of Italy. METHODS: A total of 108 patients (99 MSM and 9 women), with a history of unsafe anal sexual intercourses, were enrolled. Anorectal swabs and urine samples were tested for Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) DNA detection by Versant CT/GC DNA 1.0 Assay (Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Terrytown, USA). RFLP analysis was used for CT molecular typing. RESULTS: L2 CT genotype was identified in 13/108 (12%) rectal swabs. All LGV cases were from MSM, declaring high-risk sexual behaviour and complaining anorectal symptoms. Patients first attending the STI Outpatient Clinic received a significant earlier LGV diagnosis than those first seeking care from general practitioners or gastroenterologists (P = 0.0046). LGV prevalence and characteristics found in our population are in agreement with international reports. Statistical analysis showed that LGV positive patients were older (P = 0.0008) and presented more STIs (P = 0.0023) than LGV negative ones, in particular due to syphilis (P < 0.001), HIV (P < 0.001) and HBV (P = 0.001).Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that HIV and syphilis infections are strong risk factors for LGV presence (respectively, P = 0.001 and  P = 0.010). CONCLUSIONS: Even if our results do not provide sufficient evidence to recommend routine screening of anorectal swabs in high-risk population, they strongly suggest to perform CT NAAT tests and genotyping on rectal specimens in presence of ulcerative proctitis in HIV and/or syphilis-positive MSM. In this context, CT DNA detection by Versant CT/GC DNA 1.0 Assay, followed by RFLP analysis for molecular typing demonstrated to be an excellent diagnostic algorithm for LGV identification.
24688254: !GIMB The correlation of routine tear function tests and conjunctival impression cytology in dry eye syndrome. PURPOSE: To establish the strength of the association between routine tear function tests and conjunctival impression cytology (CIC) and to determine whether they simulate the morphological and cytological changes that occur on the ocular surface in dry eye. What are the sensitivity, specificity and positive predictive values of these tests when CIC is considered the gold standard? METHODS: The tear film profile included tear film break up time (TBUT), Schirmer's-1, Rose Bengal scores (RBS), and impression cytology. CIC samples were obtained from the inferior bulbar conjunctiva and stained with periodic acid-Schiff and counter stained with hematoxylin and eosin. RESULTS: The mean Schirmer's value was 11.66 +/- 5.90 in patients and 17.17 +/- 2.97 in controls (p < 0.001). The mean TBUT in participants was 8.88 +/- 3.54 and 13.53 +/- 2.12 in controls (p < 0.001). Patients had a mean goblet cell density (GCD) of 490 +/- 213, while the value for controls was 1,462 +/- 661 (p < 0.001). Abnormal CIC was observed in 46.7% cases of dry eye and in 32.8% of controls. The correlation coefficient (L) for Schirmer's was 0.2 and 0.24 for participants and controls, respectively, while TBUT values were 0.26 and 0.38, RBS were 0.5 and 0.5, and GCD was 0.8 and 0.6 in cases and controls, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: GCD, RBS, and TBUT were better predictors of morphological and cytological changes in the conjunctiva than Schirmer's in dry eye syndrome. The sensitivity of tear function tests in diagnosing dry eye was TBUT > Schirmer's > RBS, and the specificity was  Schirmer's > TBUT > RBS in decreasing order when CIC was considered the gold standard.
24641100: !GIMB A study of the methodological and clinical validity of the combined lactulose hydrogen breath test with scintigraphic oro-cecal transit test for diagnosing small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in IBS patients. BACKGROUND: Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) may be a cause of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS); however, current investigations have important limitations. We aimed to identify clinically relevant diagnostic criteria for SIBO based on lactulose hydrogen breath test (LHBT) alone and combined with scintigraphic measurement of oro-cecal transit (SOCT). METHODS: Results of LHBT/SOCT investigation from 89 IBS patients and 13 healthy volunteers were included in a systematic analysis of six published criteria for SIBO diagnosis. Clinical relevance of competing criteria was determined by assessing (i) prevalence of SIBO in IBS patients and healthy volunteers (ii) if SIBO diagnosis  predicted improvement in IBS symptoms in a prospective, pilot therapeutic trial of a non-absorbable antibiotic (rifaximin 600 mg b.d.) in IBS patients. KEY RESULTS: Reproducibility of SIBO diagnosis by combined LHBT/SOCT was near perfect. A >/=5 ppm H2 increase prior to appearance of cecal contrast was detected in more IBS patients than healthy volunteers (35/89 vs 1/13; p = 0.026), but not for other diagnostic criteria. IBS patients with SIBO, compared to those  without SIBO, reported significantly greater improvement in abdominal symptoms following rifaximin therapy (p < 0.002 overall IBS symptom severity). This improvement was most marked in D-IBS patients in whom all symptoms improved, including stool frequency and consistency (all p < 0.004). CONCLUSIONS & INFERENCES: Combined LHBT/SOCT testing using a H2 5 ppm cutoff may identify a subgroup of IBS patients with SIBO. Pilot data examining the clinical response to rifaximin suggest that this subset of IBS patients may benefit more than those with a normal test.
24636517: !GIMB Absence of the gut microbiota enhances anxiety-like behavior and neuroendocrine response to acute stress in rats. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Establishment of the gut microbiota is one of the most important events in early life and emerging evidence indicates that the gut microbiota influences several aspects of brain functioning, including reactivity  to stress. To better understand how the gut microbiota contributes to a vulnerability to the stress-related psychiatric disorders, we investigated the relationship between the gut microbiota, anxiety-like behavior and HPA axis activity in stress-sensitive rodents. We also analyzed the monoamine neurotransmitters in the brain upper structures involved in the regulation of stress and anxiety. METHODS: Germfree (GF) and specific pathogen free (SPF) F344  male rats were first subjected to neurological tests to rule out sensorimotor impairments as confounding factors. Then, we examined the behavior responses of rats to social interaction and open-field tests. Serum corticosterone concentrations, CRF mRNA expression levels in the hypothalamus, glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNA expression levels in the hippocampus, and monoamine concentrations in the frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum were compared in rats that were either exposed to the open-field stress or not. RESULTS: GF rats spent less time sniffing an unknown partner than SPF rats in the social interaction test, and displayed a lower number of visits to the aversive central  area, and an increase in latency time, time spent in the corners and number of defecations in the open-field test. In response to the open-field stress, serum corticosterone concentrations were 2.8-fold higher in GF than in SPF rats. Compared to that of SPF rats, GF rats showed elevated CRF mRNA expression in the  hypothalamus and reduced GR mRNA expression in the hippocampus. GF rats also had  a lower dopaminergic turnover rate in the frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum than SPF rats. CONCLUSIONS: In stress-sensitive F344 rats, absence of the gut microbiota exacerbates the neuroendocrine and behavioral responses to acute stress and the results coexist with alterations of the dopaminergic turnover rate in brain upper structures that are known to regulate reactivity to  stress and anxiety-like behavior.
24632770: !GIMB GastroPanel(R) test for non-invasive diagnosis of atrophic gastritis in patients  with dyspepsia. AIM: Atrophic gastritis (AG), first step in the cascade leading to gastric adenocarcinoma, is related to Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. Currently, the gold standard for the diagnosis of AG is esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) with histological examination of the biopsy specimens. However, since the latter are taken in random order and the distribution of AG is often patchy, histology is only representative of mucosal status. Considering this limitation, a test named GastroPanel(R), that measures the blood concentrations of pepsinogen I and II, gastrin-17 and H. pylori antibodies, has been developed as a potential non-invasive biopsy. Aim of this study has been to assess the accuracy of GastroPanel(R) in patients with AG. METHODS: Forty-seven dyspeptic patients (24 males, mean age 52.2+/-9.3 years), in follow-up for antral or diffuse AG, were enrolled. All underwent at least two EGDs with random biopsies and blood collection for GastroPanel(R) parameters examination. RESULTS: Of the 47 patients, 16 (34.1%) had histological diagnosis of antral and 31 (65.9%) multifocal AG; 17 (36.2%) patients had mild and 30 (63.8%) had moderate-severe AG. H. pylori was detected in 39 (82.9%) and intestinal metaplasia was found in all patients. GastroPanel(R) showed 82.9% sensitivity for the diagnosis of AG and 53.8% for the diagnosis of H. pylori infection. The prediction of advanced atrophy was not sufficiently accurate, neither in patients with antral nor in those with multifocal AG. CONCLUSION: GastroPanel(R) can be useful for detecting patients with AG. However, it does not reflect the severity of atrophy.
24629207: !GIMB Equol producers can have low leptin levels among prediabetic and diabetic females. OBJECTIVES: Soy isoflavones have received great attention for their beneficial effects on health and disease, i.e., in patients with diabetes. Equol is a biologically active isoflavone-related metabolite with interindividual differences in its production. The current study investigated the relationship between an equol-producing state and the levels of adipocytokine markers in a prediabetic and diabetic population. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A total of 79 subjects (34 males/45 females) in a prediabetic or diabetic state recruited from the general population were examined regarding their ability to produce equol using urine samples. Clinical data, such as age, smoking as well as anthropometric and  biochemical variables, including body mass index (BMI), lipids, insulin, glucose, hemoglobin A1c, leptin and adiponectin, were recorded. RESULTS: Equol producers exhibited lower leptin and leptin/BMI than non-producers among females. Simple correlation tests and stepwise multiple regression analyses revealed a significant inverse correlation between the leptin/BMI and equol-production. This relationship was not found in males. CONCLUSIONS: Female equol producers can have favorable metabolic traits in relation to leptin metabolism in this population. Further studies are needed to confirm these results.
24627606: !GIMB Antiviral therapy in cytomegalovirus-positive ulcerative colitis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. AIM: To evaluate the impact of antiviral treatment on cytomegalovirus (CMV)-positive ulcerative colitis patients. METHODS: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis (MA) of comparative cohort and case-control studies published between January 1966 and March 2013. Studies focusing on colectomy series and studies including only less than 3 patients in the treated or non-treated arm were excluded. The primary outcome was colectomy within 30 d of diagnosis. Secondary outcomes included colectomy during the follow-up period Subgroup analyses by method of detection of CMV, study design, risk of bias and country of origin were performed. Quality of studies was evaluated according to modified New-Castle Ottawa Scale. RESULTS: After full-text review, nine studies with a total of 176 patients were included in our MA. All the included studies were of low to moderate quality. Patients who have received antiviral treatment had a higher risk of 30-d colectomy (OR = 2.40; 95%CI: 1.05-5.50; I(2) = 37.2%).  A subgroup analysis including only patients in whom CMV diagnosis was based did not demonstrate a significant difference between the groups (OR = 3.41; 95%CI: 0.39-29.83; I(2) = 56.9%). Analysis of long-term colectomy rates was possible for 6 studies including 110 patients. No statistically significant difference was found between the treated and untreated groups (OR = 1.71; 95%CI: 0.71-4.13; 6 studies, I(2) = 0%). Analysis of mortality rate was not possible due to a very limited number of cases. Stratification of the outcomes by disease severity was not possible. CONCLUSION: No positive association between antiviral treatment and a favorable outcome was demonstrated. These findings should be interpreted cautiously due to primary studies' quality and potential biases.
24627602: !GIMB ATG16L1 and NOD2 polymorphisms enhance phagocytosis in monocytes of Crohn's disease patients. AIM: To investigate if the presence of relevant genetic polymorphisms has effect  on the effectual clearance of bacteria by monocytes and granulocytes in patients  with Crohn's disease (CD). METHODS: In this study, we assessed the differential responses in phagocytosis by measuring the phagocytic activity and the percentage of active phagocytic monocytes and granulocytes in inflammatory bowel disease patients as well as healthy controls. As both autophagy related like 1 (ATG16L1)  and immunity-related guanosine triphosphatase gene are autophagy genes associated with CD and more recently nucleotide-binding ligomerization domain-containing protein 2 (NOD2) has been identified as a potent inducer of autophagy we genotyped the patients for these variants and correlated this to the phagocytic reaction. The genotyping was done with restriction fragment length polymorphisms  analysis and the phagocytosis was determined with the pHrodo Escherichia coli Bioparticles Phagocytosis kit for flowcytometry. RESULTS: In this study, we demonstrate that analysis of the monocyte and granulocyte populations of patients with CD and ulcerative colitis showed a comparable phagocytic activity (ratio of  mean fluorescence intensity) between the patient groups and the healthy controls. CD patients show a significantly higher phagocytic capacity (ratio mean percentage of phagocytic cells) compared to healthy controls (51.91% +/- 2.85% vs 37.67% +/- 7.06%, P = 0.05). The extend of disease was not of influence. However, variants of ATG16L1 (WT: 2.03 +/- 0.19 vs homozygoot variant: 4.38 +/- 0.37, P <  0.009) as well as NOD2 (C-ins) (heterozygous variant: 42.08 +/- 2.94 vs homozygous variant: 75.58 +/- 4.34 (P = 0.05) are associated with the phagocytic  activity in patients with CD. CONCLUSION: Monocytes of CD patients show enhanced  phagocytosis associated with the presence of ATG16L1 and NOD2 variants. This could be part of the pathophysiological mechanism resulting in the disease.
24608416: !GIMB Dental caries, prevalence and risk factors in patients with Crohn's disease. OBJECTIVE: The present study tested the hypothesis that patients with Crohn's disease (CD) have a higher prevalence and risk for caries compared to people without CD. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Patients with CD were divided into groups; 71 patients (50.7 +/- 13.9 years) who had gone through resective intestinal surgery  and 79 patients (42.0 +/- 14.4 years) who had not. The patients were compared to  75 controls (48.6 +/- 13.4 years) regarding DMF-T and DMF-S, Lactobacilli (LB), Streptococcus mutans (SM), salivary flow and dental plaque. Statistical methods including ANOVA or Chi-square test for calculation of demographic differences between groups, analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) to compare the clinical variable  and Post hoc analyses were done with Fischers Least Significant Difference test or Chi-square. Non-parametric Spearman's correlation matrix coefficient was estimated between clinical variables and disease duration. RESULTS: CD patients who had been subjected to resective surgery had a higher DMF-S score (50.7 versus 36.5; p = 0.01) compared to the control group after adjusting for age, gender and smoking. These patients had higher counts of SM (1.5 versus 0.9; p = 0.04) and LB (10000.0 versus 1000.0; p = 0.01), and more dental plaque (53.7 versus 22.6; p =  0.001). CD patients reported a more frequent consumption of sweetened drinks between meals compared to controls (p = 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The present study shows that patients with CD who had undergone resective surgery had a higher DMFs score, and higher salivary counts of Lactobacilli and Streptococcus mutans compared to the control group.
24590688: !GIMB Enhancement of functional connectivity, working memory and inhibitory control on  multi-modal brain MR imaging with Rifaximin in Cirrhosis: implications for the gut-liver-brain axis. Minimal hepatic encephalopathy (MHE) impairs daily functioning in cirrhosis, but  its functional brain impact is not completely understood. To evaluate the effect  of rifaximin, a gut-specific antibiotic, on the gut-liver-brain axis in MHE. HYPOTHESIS: Rifaximin will reduce endotoxemia, enhance cognition, increase activation during working memory(N-back) and reduce activation needed for inhibitory control tasks. METHODS: Cirrhotics with MHE underwent baseline endotoxin and cognitive testing, then underwent fMRI, diffusion tensor imaging and MR spectroscopy(MRS). On fMRI, two tasks; N-back (outcome: correct responses) and inhibitory control tests(outcomes: lure inhibition) were performed. All procedures were repeated after 8 weeks of rifaximin. RESULTS were compared before/after rifaximin. RESULTS: 20 MHE patients (59.7 years) were included; sixteen completed pre/post-rifaximin scanning with 92% medication compliance. Pre-rifaximin patients had cognitive impairment. At trial-end, there was a significantly higher correct 2-back responses, ICT lure inhibitions and reduced endotoxemia(p = 0.002). This was accompanied by significantly higher activation from baseline in subcortical structures (thalamus, caudate, insula and hippocampus) and left parietal operculum (LPO) during N-back, decrease in fronto-parietal activation required for inhibiting lures, including LPO during ICT compared to baseline values. Connectivity studies in N-back showed significant shifts in linkages after therapy in fronto-parietal regions with a reduction in fractional anisotropy (FA) but not mean diffusivity (MD), and no change in MRS metabolites at the end of the trial. A significant improvement in cognition including working memory and inhibitory control, and fractional anisotropy without effect on MD or MRS, through modulation of fronto-parietal and subcortical activation and connectivity was seen after open-label rifaximin therapy in MHE.
24568717: !GIMB Selected biomarkers as predictive tools in testing efficacy of melatonin and coenzyme Q on propionic acid - induced neurotoxicity in rodent model of autism. BACKGROUND: Exposures to environmental toxins are now thought to contribute to the development of autism spectrum disorder. Propionic acid (PA) found as a metabolic product of gut bacteria has been reported to mimic/mediate the neurotoxic effects of autism. Results from animal studies may guide investigations on human populations toward identifying environmental contaminants that produce or drugs that protect from neurotoxicity. Forty-eight young male Western Albino rats were used in the present study. They were grouped into six equal groups 8 rats each. The first group received a neurotoxic dose of buffered  PA (250 mg/Kg body weight/day for 3 consecutive days). The second group received  only phosphate buffered saline (control group). The third and fourth groups were  intoxicated with PA as described above followed by treatment with either coenzyme Q (4.5 mg/kg body weight) or melatonin (10 mg/kg body weight) for one week (therapeutically treated groups). The fifth and sixth groups were administered both compounds for one week prior to PA (protected groups). Heat shock protein70  (Hsp70), Gamma amino-butyric acid (GABA), serotonin, dopamine, oxytocin and interferon gamma-inducible protein 16 together with Comet DNA assay were measured in brain tissues of the six studied groups. RESULTS: The obtained data showed that PA caused multiple signs of brain toxicity revealed in depletion of GABA, serotonin, and dopamine, are which important neurotransmitters that reflect brain function, interferon gamma-inducible protein 16 and oxytocin. A high significant  increase in tail length, tail DNA% damage and tail moment was reported indicating the genotoxic effect of PA. Administration of melatonin or coenzyme Q showed both protective and therapeutic effects on PA-treated rats demonstrated in a remarkable amelioration of most of the measured parameters. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, melatonin and coenzyme Q have potential protective and restorative effects against PA-induced brain injury, confirmed by improvement in biochemical  markers and DNA double strand breaks.
24556151: !GIMB Cytomegalovirus colitis in intensive care unit patients: difficulties in clinical diagnosis. PURPOSE: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection occurs increasingly in critically ill patients in intensive care units (ICUs). We reported CMV colitis which has rarely been recognized in the ICU patients. METHODS: CMV DNA was detected by polymerase  chain reaction (PCR) for blood and/or stool samples. Definite diagnosis of CMV colitis required histopathology or CMV immunohistochemical staining of colorectal biopsies. We reviewed ICU patients characterized by positive blood or stool CMV-PCR with colorectal bleeding or water diarrhea. RESULTS: We identified 18 patients (biopsy-proved, n=8; probable cases, n=10). The most common comorbidities were chronic renal disease, diabetes mellitus, and coronary artery  disease. Stool CMV-PCR was positive in 7 of 10 patients (2 of 3 biopsy-proved and 5 of 7 probable cases). Colonoscopy was performed for 15 patients, revealing ulcerative or polypoid lesions. The endoscopists obtained colonic biopsies from 9 patients. Yet, the pathologists reported CMV colitis for 4 patients. Additional 4 patients were confirmed using immunohistochemical stain by the request of clinical physicians. Pseudomembranous colitis was found in 4 patients. CONCLUSION: Diagnosis of CMV colitis seems difficult in clinical practice and need persistent communication between clinicians. The positive stool CMV-PCR result was a useful hint for adding immunohistochemical stain in mucosal biopsies to make a definite diagnosis of CMV colitis.
24516700: !GIMB The simple predictors of pseudomembranous colitis in patients with hospital-acquired diarrhea: a prospective observational study. BACKGROUND/AIMS: As the incidence rate of and mortality from pseudomembranous colitis (PMC) are increasing worldwide, it is important to study the simple predictive risk factors for PMC among patients with hospital-acquired diarrhea (HAD). This study focused on identifying the clinical risk factors that can easily predict PMC. METHODS: The presumed HAD patients were prospectively recruited at the Hallym University Kangdong Sacred Heart Hospital. RESULTS: Age of 70 and older (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 1.76; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.12 to 0.75), use of proton pump inhibitors (adjusted OR, 4.07; 95% CI, 2.512 to 6.57), use of cephalosporins (adjusted OR, 2.99; 95% CI, 1.82 to 4.94), and underlying cancer (adjusted OR, 1.72; 95% CI, 1.04 to 2.82) were independent risk factors for PMC in the multivariate logistic regression analysis. The prevalence  of PMC was very low in the patients with HAD who exhibited no risk factors. CONCLUSIONS: The risk factors for PMC in patients with HAD included cephalosporin use, proton pump inhibitor use, old age, and cancer. Considering the strongly negative predictive values of these risk factors, endoscopic evaluation can be delayed in patients with HAD without risk of developing PMC.
24497336: !GIMB Prognostic value of choline and betaine depends on intestinal microbiota-generated metabolite trimethylamine-N-oxide. AIMS: Recent metabolomics and animal model studies show trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), an intestinal microbiota-dependent metabolite formed from dietary trimethylamine-containing nutrients such as phosphatidylcholine (PC), choline, and carnitine, is linked to coronary artery disease pathogenesis. Our aim was to  examine the prognostic value of systemic choline and betaine levels in stable cardiac patients. METHODS AND RESULTS: We examined the relationship between fasting plasma choline and betaine levels and risk of major adverse cardiac events (MACE = death, myocardial infraction, stroke) in relation to TMAO over 3 years of follow-up in 3903 sequential stable subjects undergoing elective diagnostic coronary angiography. In our study cohort, median (IQR) TMAO, choline, and betaine levels were 3.7 (2.4-6.2)muM, 9.8 (7.9-12.2)muM, and 41.1 (32.5-52.1)muM, respectively. Modest but statistically significant correlations were noted between TMAO and choline (r = 0.33, P < 0.001) and less between TMAO and betaine (r = 0.09, P < 0.001). Higher plasma choline and betaine levels were  associated with a 1.9-fold and 1.4-fold increased risk of MACE, respectively (Quartiles 4 vs. 1; P < 0.01, each). Following adjustments for traditional cardiovascular risk factors and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, elevated choline [1.34 (1.03-1.74), P < 0.05], and betaine levels [1.33 (1.03-1.73), P < 0.05] each predicted increased MACE risk. Neither choline nor betaine predicted MACE risk when TMAO was added to the adjustment model, and choline and betaine predicted future risk for MACE only when TMAO was elevated. CONCLUSION: Elevated  plasma levels of choline and betaine are each associated with incident MACE risk  independent of traditional risk factors. However, high choline and betaine levels are only associated with higher risk of future MACE with concomitant increase in  TMAO.
24333791: !GIMB Cognitive decline, dietary factors and gut-brain interactions. Cognitive decline in elderly people often derives from the interaction between aging-related changes and age-related diseases and covers a large spectrum of clinical manifestations, from intact cognition through mild cognitive impairment  and dementia. Epidemiological evidence supports the hypothesis that modifiable lifestyle-related factors are associated with cognitive decline, opening new avenues for prevention. Diet in particular has become the object of intense research in relation to cognitive aging and neurodegenerative disease. We reviewed the most recent findings in this rapidly expanding field. Some nutrients, such as vitamins and fatty acids, have been studied longer than others, but strong scientific evidence of an association is lacking even for these compounds. Specific dietary patterns, like the Mediterranean diet, may be more beneficial than a high consumption of single nutrients or specific food items. A strong link between vascular risk factors and dementia has been shown, and the association of diet with several vascular and metabolic diseases is well  known. Other plausible mechanisms underlying the relationship between diet and cognitive decline, such as inflammation and oxidative stress, have been established. In addition to the traditional etiological pathways, new hypotheses, such as the role of the intestinal microbiome in cognitive function, have been suggested and warrant further investigation.
24268527: !GIMB ABO histo-blood group might modulate predisposition to Crohn's disease and affect disease behavior. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: ABO encodes a glycosyltranferase which determines the major  human histo-blood group. The FUT2 fucosyltransferase allows expression of ABO antigens on the gastrointestinal mucosa and in bodily secretions (secretor phenotype). A nonsense allele in FUT2 represents a susceptibility variant for Crohn's disease, and both the secretor and ABO blood group status affect the composition of the gut microbiota. Thus, we evaluated if variants in ABO might represent good candidates as Crohn's disease susceptibility loci. METHODS: We recruited two case-control cohorts, from Italy (n=1301) and Belgium (n=2331). Subjects were genotyped for one SNP in FUT2 and two variants in ABO. RESULTS: No  effect on Crohn's disease risk was detected for ABO variants, whereas an association was observed between the FUT2 polymorphism and Crohn's disease susceptibility in the Belgian sample, but not in the Italian cohort. The effect of histo-blood groups was evaluated using group O as the reference. Most non-O groups had odds ratios (ORs) higher than 1 in both cohorts, and combined analysis of the two samples indicated a predisposing effect for the A and B groups (OR=1.17, 95% CI: 1.02-1.32 and OR=1.33, 95% CI: 1.09-1.58, respectively). In Crohn's disease patients, the non-O blood group and the non-secretor status were  associated with higher risk of developing a stricturing or penetrating disease. CONCLUSIONS: ABO histo-blood group might confer susceptibility to Crohn's disease and modulate disease severity.
24162593: !GIMB HBsAg seroclearance after nucleoside analogue therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis B: clinical outcomes and durability. OBJECTIVE: Little is known about the long-term clinical outcome and durability of HBsAg seroclearance following nucleos(t)ide analogue (NUC) therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). DESIGN: During a median follow-up period of 6 years (33 567 patient-years) of 5409 CHB patients who were initially treated with lamivudine or entecavir, a total of 110 achieved HBsAg seroclearance (0.33% annual seroclearance rate) and were included in this study. RESULTS: Baseline alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level >5 times of upper limit of normal was associated with higher probability of HBsAg seroclearance (HR 1.80, p<0.01), while HBeAg positivity (HR 0.46, p<0.01), high HBV DNA level (log(10) IU/mL; HR 0.61, p<0.01), and cirrhosis (HR 0.48, p<0.01) were inversely associated with the probability of HBsAg seroclearance by multivariable analysis. During follow-up for 287 patient-years after HBsAg seroclearance, only two patients with baseline  cirrhosis developed hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or died (0.7% annual risk), which was of a significantly lower rate compared with propensity score-matched patients without HBsAg seroclearance (HR 0.09, p<0.01). HBsAg reversion and/or HBV DNA reversion occurred in 18 patients, most of which were transient with extremely low serum levels of HBsAg (0.05-1.00 IU/mL) and HBV DNA (17-1818 IU/mL). None required retreatment. The cumulative probability of anti-HBs seroconversion (detection of anti-HBs) at 4 years was 67.4% by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Selection for lamivudine-resistance HBV mutants during treatment was not associated with composite reversion (p=0.66). CONCLUSIONS: HBsAg seroclearance achieved after NUC treatment was associated with favourable clinical outcomes and was durable in most cases during long-term follow-up.
24106984: !GIMB Clinical differences in Clostridium difficile infection based on age: a multicenter study. Advancing age is a well-known risk factor for Clostridium difficile infection (CDI). However, age-specific clinical differences in CDI are uncertain. A retrospective comparative analysis was performed based on age in 1367 patients with CDI in Korea. Most clinical features were similar in the two age groups studied, however malignancy was more common in the older group (age >/= 65 y) (p  < 0.001), while chemotherapy and transplantation were more common in the younger  group (age < 65 y) (p < 0.001). Endoscopic examinations were more commonly performed in the older group (p = 0.010), which had a high positive predictive value (88.3%). More patients recovered from CDI without specific antibiotic treatment in the younger group than in the older group (p < 0.001). Although advancing age is an important risk factor for CDI, the clinical features of younger patients are similar to those of the older patient population.
23676440: !GIMB Treatment of patients with dual hepatitis C and B by peginterferon alpha and ribavirin reduced risk of hepatocellular carcinoma and mortality. OBJECTIVE: Whether peginterferon alpha and ribavirin combination therapy reduces  risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) or improves survival in patients dual-infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) is unknown. Since it is ethically impossible to conduct a randomised trial to learn  the long-term efficacy, we rely upon the large database to explore the effectiveness of combination therapy among dual-infected patients. DESIGN: Data for this population-based retrospective cohort study were obtained from the treatment programme, Cancer Registry, National Health Insurance and death certification. We examined the risk of HCC, mortality and adverse events in 1096  treated and 18 988 untreated HCV-HBV dually-infected patients. Outcomes were analysed using the bias corrected inverse probability weighting (IPW) by propensity scores. Outcomes of HCV-HBV dually-infected and HCV mono-infected patients receiving the same treatment were compared using new user design with IPW estimators to adjust for confounding. RESULTS: After adjustment, combination  therapy significantly reduced the risk of HCC (HR 0.76, 95% CI 0.59 to 0.97), liver-related mortality (HR 0.47, 95% CI 0.37 to 0.6) and all-cause mortality (HR 0.42, 95% CI 0.34 to 0.52). Nevertheless, the underlying HBV infection was still  a risk factor for HCC and mortality after treatment. Treatment was associated with an increase in the incidence of thyroid dysfunction (HR 1.9, p<0.001) and mood disorders (HR 1.81, p=0.005). CONCLUSIONS: This is the first evidence showing that combination therapy decreased the risk of HCC and improved survival  in HCV-HBV dually-infected patients despite a slight increase in the incidence of thyroid and mood disorders.
23582194: !GIMB [Post-appendectomy surgical site infection: overall rate and type according to open/laparoscopic approach]. OBJECTIVE: To compare the incidence and profile of surgical site infection (SSI)  after laparoscopic (LA) or open (OA) appendicectomy. MATERIAL AND METHOD: Observational and analytical study was conducted on patients older than 14years-old with suspected acute appendicitis operated on within a 4-year period  (2007-2010) at a third level hospital (n=868). They were divided in two groups according to the type of appendicectomy (LA, study group, 135; OA, control group, 733). The primary endpoint was a surgical site infection (SSI), and to determine  the overall rate and types (incisional/organ-space). The risk of SSI was stratified by: i)National Nosocomial Infection Surveillance (NNIS) index (low risk: 0E, 0 and 1; high risk: 2 and 3); ii)status on presentation (low risk: normal or phlegmonous; high risk: gangrenous or perforated). The statistical analysis was performed using the software SPSS. The main result and stratified analysis was determined with chi(2), and the risk parameters using OR and Mantel-Haenszel OR with 95%CI, accepting statistical significance with P<.05. RESULTS: Age, gender, ASA index and incidence of advanced cases were similar in both groups. The overall SSI rate was 13.4% (more than a half of them detected during follow-up after discharge). Type of SSI: OA, 13% (superficial 9%, deep 2%, organ-space 2%); AL, 14% (superficial 5%, deep 1%, organ-space 8%) (overall: not  significant; distribution: P<.000). Stratified analysis showed that there is an association between incisional SSI/OA and organ-space SSI/LA, and is particularly stronger in those patients with high risk of postoperative SSI (high risk NNIS or gangrenous-perforated presentation). CONCLUSION: OA and LA are associated with a  higher rate of incisional and organ-space SSI respectively. This is particularly  evident in patients with high risk of SSI.
23376290: !GIMB Genetic susceptibility to increased bacterial translocation influences the response to biological therapy in patients with Crohn's disease. OBJECTIVE: The aetiology of Crohn's disease (CD) has been related to nucleotide-binding oligomerisation domain containing 2 (NOD2) and ATG16L1 gene variants. The observation of bacterial DNA translocation in patients with CD led  us to hypothesise that this process may be facilitated in patients with NOD2/ATG16L1-variant genotypes, affecting the efficacy of anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF) therapies. DESIGN: 179 patients with Crohn's disease were included.  CD-related NOD2 and ATG16L1 variants were genotyped. Phagocytic and bactericidal  activities were evaluated in blood neutrophils. Bacterial DNA, TNFalpha, IFNgamma, IL-12p40, free serum infliximab/adalimumab levels and antidrug antibodies were measured. RESULTS: Bacterial DNA was found in 44% of patients with active disease versus 23% of patients with remitting disease (p=0.01). A NOD2-variant or ATG16L1-variant genotype was associated with bacterial DNA presence (OR 4.8; 95% CI 1.1 to 13.2; p=0.001; and OR 2.4; 95% CI 1.4 to 4.7; p=0.01, respectively). This OR was 12.6 (95% CI 4.2 to 37.8; p=0.001) for patients with a double-variant genotype. Bacterial DNA was associated with disease activity (OR 2.6; 95% CI 1.3 to 5.4; p=0.005). Single and double-gene variants were not associated with disease activity (p=0.19). Patients with a NOD2-variant genotype showed decreased phagocytic and bactericidal activities in  blood neutrophils, increased TNFalpha levels in response to bacterial DNA and decreased trough levels of free anti-TNFalpha. The proportion of patients on an intensified biological therapy was significantly higher in the NOD2-variant groups. CONCLUSIONS: Our results characterise a subgroup of patients with CD who  may require a more aggressive therapy to reduce the extent of inflammation and the risk of relapse.
