393253: !Autism Synthesis of cytoplasmic membrane during growth and division of Escherichia coli. Dispersive behaviour of respiratory nitrate reductase.	We have used the penicillin selection method of Autissier & Kepes [(1972) Biochimie 54, 93--101] to study the segregation of membrane-bound respiratory nitrate reductase (EC 1.9.6.1) in Escherichia coli for the three generations after cessation of nitrate reductase synthesis caused by withdrawal of nitrate from the growth medium. We also included a physical separation procedure that permitted direct assay for nitrate reductase activity among all fractions produced by the penicillin selection method. We conclude that the segregation of nitrate reductase after cell division is dispersive, and not semi-conservative as proposed by Autissier & Kepes (1972).
810319: !Autism The evaluation of the anti-autistic activity of sulpiride.	
1001243: !Autism [Sulpiride and psychic decompensation].	The use of sulpirid in psychiatry allows to delineate three types of activity of this compound which originality consists most in this triple association: neuroleptic activity, as well as anticonfusional and antidepressive. The psychodynamic and phenomenological evaluation of patients receiving a sulpirid treatment, has led us to consider the process of "psychic decompensation" as a target variable particularly sensitive to the action of this psychotropic drug. This process can be found in various pathological states--acute delirious states, depressive episodes, anxiety, autism, stress situation--where sulpirid acts, beside its specific thymoanaleptic or neuroleptic properties, through a "aspecific recompensation activity". This translates, psychopathologically, the action of sulpirid on the vegetative brain as well as the anti-stress properties of this psychrotropic drug, as verified in animal experiment.
1174120: !Autism Hunches on some biological factors in autism.	
1361176: !Autism [A novel function of tetrahydrobiopterin].	6R-L-erythro-5, 6, 7, 8-Tetrahydrobiopterin (6R-BH4) is known as a cofactor for the hydroxylases of phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan and also as a cofactor for nitric oxide synthase. Recently, a novel function of 6R-BH4 has been found: that is, 6R-BH4 acts on specific membrane receptors to directly stimulate the release of monamine neurotransmitters such as dopamine and serotonin, independently of its cofactor activity. In addition, it indirectly stimulates the release of non-monoamine neurotransmitters such as acetylcholine and glutamate, through activation of monoaminergic systems. In this paper, we briefly review recent experimental data, which provide new insights into the role of 6R-BH4 as a regulator of neuronal function. We also discuss the possibility of treatment by 6R-BH4 of neuropsychiatric diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, depression and infantile autism.
1397568: !Autism Urinary protein patterns in autism as revealed by high resolution two-dimensional electrophoresis.	
1529104: !Autism The purine nucleotide cycle and its molecular defects.	Three enzymes of purine metabolism, adenylosuccinate synthetase, adenylosuccinate lyase and AMP deaminase, have been proposed to form a functional unit, termed the purine nucleotide cycle. This cycle converts AMP into IMP and reconverts IMP into AMP via adenylosuccinate, thereby producing NH3 and forming fumarate from aspartate. In muscle, the purine nucleotide cycle has been shown to function during intense exercise; the metabolic flux through the cycle has been proposed to play a role in the regeneration of ATP by pulling the adenylate kinase reaction in the direction of formation of ATP, and by providing Krebs cycle intermediates. In kidney, the purine nucleotide cycle was shown to account for the release of NH3 under the normal acid-base status, but not under acidotic conditions. In brain, the purine nucleotide cycle might function under conditions that induce a loss of ATP, and thereby contribute to its recovery. There is no evidence that the purine nucleotide cycle operates in liver. Deficiency of muscle AMP deaminase is an apparently frequent disorder, which might affect approximately 2% of the general population. The observation that it can be found in clinically asymptomatic individuals suggests, paradoxically, that the ATP-regenerating function which has been attributed to the purine nucleotide cycle is not essential for muscle function. Further work should be aimed at identifying the conditions under which AMP deaminase deficiency becomes symptomatic. Adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency provokes psychomotor retardation, often accompanied by autistic features. Its clinical heterogeneity justifies systematic screening in patients with unexplained mental deficiency. Additional studies are required to determine the mechanisms whereby this enzyme defect results in psychomotor retardation.
1643194: !Autism Neural development is regulated by classical neurotransmitters: dopamine D2 receptor stimulation enhances neurite outgrowth.	The classical neurotransmitters serotonin and dopamine are thought to be involved in the etiology or treatment of a variety of psychiatric disorders. Recent studies suggest that these neurotransmitters may also have roles as neural morphogens during brain development. Previously, we have demonstrated that stimulation of serotonin 5-HT1A receptors selectively inhibited neurite branching in an in vitro system (Sikich et al 1990). In the present study, the developmental role of dopamine D2 receptors in the control of neurite outgrowth has been investigated by quantitating the morphological response of cortical neurons to agonist stimulation in vitro. Cultures of fetal rat frontal, cortical neurons were shown to express both alternatively spliced forms of D2 receptor messenger RNA (mRNA). The larger mRNA form predominated (D2A444:D2A415 ratio of about 6:1). In a small but significant percentage of these neurons, culture in the presence of the D2 receptor selective agonist, quinpirole, resulted in a three-to ten-fold increase in the length of neurites and in the number of branch points per neurite. These effects were blocked by the D2 receptor antagonists eticlopride and spiperone. Early abnormalities in the stimulation of dopamine or serotonin receptor subtypes could lead to the types of neuroanatomical changes observed in studies of schizophrenia, bipolar affective disorder, and autism. These morphogenic effects of classical transmitters could unite neurodevelopmental and neurotransmitter theories of the etiology of severe psychiatric disorders.
1705162: !Autism Serotonin binding sites. II. Muramyl dipeptide binds to serotonin binding sites on myelin basic protein, LHRH, and MSH-ACTH 4-10.	Previously, we reported the existence of structurally similar serotonin binding sites on myelin basic protein, LHRH, and MSH-ACTH 4-10. We now report that the adjuvant peptide, muramyl dipeptide (N-acetyl-muramyl-L-Ala-D-isoGln) also binds to these sites. This observation may help to explain previous observations of serotonin-like activity by muramyl peptides, including the promotion of slow-wave sleep and fever induction. The observation may also provide an important link between the immune system and the nervous system that may explain the role of muramyl dipeptide adjuvants in causing autoimmune diseases to serotonin-regulated proteins and their receptors, as well as the alterations in serotonin levels that are often observed in autoimmune diseases. The observation provides concrete evidence for a dual-antigen hypothesis for the induction of autoimmune diseases by an adjuvant-peptide complex. Application of such a mechanism for induction of autoimmunity may be of importance in understanding a number of postinfectious and postvaccinal neuropathies, and suggests a possible etiology for autism, in which many patients have high blood serotonin levels, autoimmune reactions to myelin basic protein, and antibodies to serotonin binding sites. Finally, the observation suggests that glycopeptides may act as neurotransmitters.
1879625: !Autism Infantile spasms treated with high doses of sodium valproate: initial response and follow-up.	A long-term follow-up study of 42 patients with West syndrome treated with high doses of sodium valproate is presented. Control of the hypsarrhythmic EEG pattern was achieved after two weeks for over three-quarters of the patients with sodium valproate doses of 100 to 300mg/kg/day. Recurrence of hypsarrhythmia was observed most often in patients treated with doses lower than 200mg/kg/day. Other types of seizures appeared in half of the patients followed beyond two years of age. Monotherapy throughout follow-up was possible for 30 patients. Autism occurred in only one infant, and 12 achieved normal mental status. The most common side-effects were asymptomatic thrombocytopenia, vomiting and mild somnolence. Hepatic enzymes were not altered.
1979061: !Autism CD4+ helper T cell depression in autism.	CD4+ (helper) T cells are a heterogenous population of lymphocytes including at least two distinct subpopulations. To investigate the possibility that immune abnormalities in some subjects with autism may involve abnormal distributions of CD4+ and/or CD8+ cells, (suppressor) T cells, peripheral blood lymphocytes of 25 autistic subjects were characterized with monoclonal antibodies and flow cytometry. The autistic subjects had a significantly lower percentage and number of CD4+ cells, a lower number of T cells (CD2+ cells) and B cells (CD20+ cells), and a lower percentage and number of total lymphocytes than siblings and normal subjects. The level of blood values for female subjects appeared lower than those for males as compared to normal subjects of the same sex. These results suggest that a decrease in CD4+ cells is associated with autism.
2111814: !Autism Cloning of a cDNA encoding adenylosuccinate lyase by functional complementation in Escherichia coli.	Adenylosuccinate lyase was cloned by functional complementation of an Escherichia coli purB mutant using an avian liver cDNA expression library. The derived amino acid sequence is homologous to the bacterial purB-encoded adenylosuccinate lyase which catalyzes the same two steps in purine biosynthesis as the enzyme from animals. Avian adenylosuccinate lyase also shows regions of extensive sequence similarity to the urea cycle enzyme, argininosuccinate lyase. This homology suggests a similar mechanism for catalysis. Homology of adenylosuccinate and argininosuccinate lyases is intriguing because chickens do not utilize the urea cycle in nitrogen excretion. This is the first report of the cloning of a eukaryotic cDNA encoding adenylosuccinate lyase, and it affords a route to isolate the corresponding human gene which has been suggested to be defective in autistic children.
2136394: !Autism Expression of a neural cell adhesion molecule serum fragment is depressed in autism.	The level of a neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) serum fragment in autism was determined by using an antiserum prepared with immunoaffinity purified mouse NCAM. Autistic patients (N = 16) had statistically significantly decreased serum NCAM levels compared with age-matched controls (p less than 0.0005). This observation could not be attributed to a medication-induced effect. Depressed serum NCAM levels in autism are distinct from schizophrenia, in which serum NCAM levels are elevated.
2142123: !Autism Deficiency of suppressor-inducer (CD4+CD45RA+) T cells in autism.	CD4+ cells are a heterogenous population of lymphocytes including at least two distinct subpopulations: CD45RA+ cells, inducers of suppressor T cells and CDw29+ cells, inducers of helper function for antibody production. To investigate the possibility that immune abnormalities in autism may involve abnormal distribution of these helper subpopulations, monoclonal antibodies were used in flow cytometric analysis to characterize peripheral blood lymphocytes of 36 subjects with autism. The autistic subjects as compared to a group of 35 healthy age-matched subjects had a significantly reduced number of lymphocytes, a decreased number of CD2+ T cells and reduced numbers of CD4+ and CD4+CD45RA+ lymphocytes. The numbers of B (CD20+) cells, suppressor T (CD8+) cells, inducers of helper function (CD4+CDw29+) and natural killer (CD56+) cells were not altered in the autistic subjects. Our results suggest that an alteration in the suppressor-inducer T-cell subset is associated with autism.
2624196: !Autism Studies of mutant human adenylosuccinate lyase.	We have studied the residual adenylosuccinate lyase activity in cultured lymphoblasts from a pair of siblings with infantile autism who have been previously shown to have a deficiency of the enzyme. The rates and distribution of de novo purine synthesis assessed by the utilization of radiolabeled formate by intact cells was nearly normal. We compared the steady-state kinetics and thermal stability of adenylosuccinate lyase in lysates from those cells and normal lymphoblasts. There is no evidence of inhibitory activity in the lysates of the mutant cells. The optimal pH was approximately 7.8 and was indistinguishable from that in control cells. The apparent Km in the two mutant cells lines (2.6 +/- 0.5 microM) is not significantly different from normal (3.3 +/- 0.8 microM), but the mutants displayed markedly decreased maximum steady-state velocities (6.7 +/- 1.1 compared to 13.8 +/- 0.9 nmol.mg-1.min-1). Residual activities in mutant cells show decreased thermal stability (t1/2 = 0.21 minutes at 60 degrees C as compared to 2.2 minutes), suggesting that there is a structural mutation of the adenylosuccinate lyase in the mutant cells.
2804136: !Autism Kinetic studies of mutant human adenylosuccinase.	Residual adenylosuccinase activity was studied in cultured lymphoblasts from a pair of siblings with infantile autism who have been previously shown to have a deficiency of the enzyme. The rates and distribution of de novo purine synthesis by intact cells were nearly normal. There was no evidence of inhibitory activity in the lysates of the mutant cells. The optimal pH was indistinguishable from that in control cells. The apparent Km in the two mutant cells lines is not significantly different from normal, but the mutants displayed markedly decreased maximum steady-state velocities. Residual activities in mutant cells show decreased thermal stability, suggesting that there is a structural mutation of the adenylosuccinase in the mutant cells.
2984638: !Autism Halopemide, a new psychotropic agent. Cerebral distribution and receptor interactions.	Halopemide is a new psychotropic agent, a structural analogue of the neuroleptics of the butyrophenone type but with different pharmacological and clinical properties. Preliminary clinical findings indicate that halopemide lacks the ability to induce parkinsonism and may be an effective drug in the treatment of psychosis characterized by autism, emotional withdrawal or apathy. Its pharmacological effects at a molecular level in comparison to structurally related neuroleptics and putative metabolites are reviewed.
3377648: !Autism Association of autism, retinoblastoma, and reduced esterase D activity.	
3597287: !Autism Reduced natural killer cell activity in autism.	
3685989: !Autism Facial recognition cells and autism.	
4073332: !Autism Is autism the expression of a recessive gene?	
4335857: !Autism Effects of L-dopa in autism.	
6193716: !Autism Suggested connection between autism, serotonin, and myelin basic protein.	
6201240: !Autism Fenfluramine binds 5-hydroxytryptophan.	Fenfluramine, an anorexigenic drug, lowers serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels in brain, spinal fluid, and blood, and has been used as a treatment for autism. Fenfluramine's mode of action is unknown. We present evidence from chromatography and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy that fenfluramine selectively binds the serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid precursor, 5-hydroxytryptophan. The mode of binding may have general applications for the understanding of drug activity, receptor binding, and for the design of specific antagonists to aromatic compounds.
6274037: !Autism [A major medication for autism: sulpiride (author's transl)].	Sulpiride is a benzamide derivative used in medical practice since 1967. Its original effect became immediately apparent. It is effective against hallucinations as well as against inhibition, but is not sedative. Its antidepressant activity is still controversial. Subsequent studies confirmed the outstanding antiinhibitory effect which leads to better relationships as well as to qualitatively and quantitatively improved vigilance. Side effects, which are minor and reversible, affect the endocrine and nervous systems but do not include cholinergic effects. No drug-dependence is seen with sulpiride.
6486378: !Autism Increased muscle action potentials by 5 Hz prolonged nerve stimulation in neurological and neuromuscular disorders--clinical usefulness for detecting underlying pathophysiology.	The time courses of changes in amplitudes of muscle action potentials (MAPs) obtained from gastrocnemius and soleus muscles by 5 Hz prolonged tibial nerve stimulation were studied. Subjects included muscular dystrophy (MD), spinal muscular atrophy, Issacs syndrome, idiopathic muscle spasms, psychiatric disorders such as autism and schizophrenia, and normal controls. In normal subjects, MAPs obtained at 5 minutes from gastrocnemius muscles was 87-102% of those at initiation of the stimulation. In soleus muscles, MAPs at 5 minutes was 95-105% of those at the beginning. In gastrocnemius muscles, MAPs increased in disorders such as Duchenne MD, Fukuyama type congenital MD, facioscapulohumeral MD, myotonic dystrophy, dermatomyositis, Kugelberg-Welander syndrome, viral myelitis, malignant hyperpyrexia, autism and schizophrenia. In soleus muscles, the increase of MAPs was demonstrated in Duchenne MD, Fukuyama type congenital MD, myotonic dystrophy and autism. MAPs remained within normal range in infants with Werdnig-Hoffman disease, Issacs syndrome and idiopathic muscle spasms. In two cases with Duchenne MD, MAPs obtained from gastrocnemius muscles reduced in amplitudes by the administration of dantrolen sodium. While the pathogenesis of the increased MAPs is not clear, several possible factors are discussed. It is considered that this 5 Hz examination may provide an important information for detecting the effect of dantrolen sodium on Duchenne MD, and it is also suggested that the examination will be a useful test for finding latent malignant hyperpyrexia.
7096833: !Autism Adenosine deaminase activity decreased in autism.	
7760985: !Autism DR-positive T cells in autism: association with decreased plasma levels of the complement C4B protein.	Autism is a developmental disorder characterized by severe communication, social and behavioral abnormalities. Over the past several years a fair amount of evidence has accumulated suggesting that some cases of autism may be associated with immune abnormalities and with products of the HLA complex including the C4B gene located in the class III region of HLA. This study sought additional evidence for an association of autoimmune processes with autism by investigating the presence of activated T cells in 26 autistic subjects. Fourteen of the autistic subjects had DR+ T cells, an indicator of activated T cells, but none of the autistic subjects had T cells expressing the interleukin-2 receptor, another indicator of T cell activation. Similar findings of incomplete or partial T cell activation have been reported in autoimmune disorders and in a recent study of autism. In the current investigation, the DR+ T cells were not found to be associated with age of the autistic patients but were inversely correlated with a decreased plasma level of the C4B protein. In conclusion, this study provides additional evidence for the involvement of an autoimmune mechanism in autism.
8080894: !Autism Programmed cell death: implications for neuropsychiatric disorders.	Programmed cell death, sometimes referred to as apoptosis, occurs through an active process requiring new gene transcription, in contrast to the passive cell death produced by metabolic toxins. Programmed cell death is an essential part of normal development, particularly in the nervous system. Spatial, temporal, or quantitative errors in the stimuli that initiate programmed cell death, or errors within the programmed cell death pathway itself, can result in an abnormal number of neurons and pathological neural development. Excesses and deficits in neuronal numbers have now been observed not only in typical neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Huntington's diseases, but also in several neurodevelopmental disorders, including schizophrenia and autism. Recent investigations into the mechanisms of cell death during C. elegans neurodevelopment thymocyte negative selection, and withdrawal of sympathetic ganglion cells trophic support provides intriguing clues to the etiology and pathophysiology of these neuropsychiatric disorders.
8127418: !Autism Lymphocyte function in autism and Rett syndrome.	Peripheral blood lymphocytes from 17 patients with autism were separated on a Ficoll-Hypaque density gradient. Patients had normal numbers of T and B cells and T cell subsets. Although CD4:CD8 ratios were normal for the whole group (2.09 +/- 0.97), 6 patients had elevated ratios (> 2.2) and 5 had decreased ratios (< 1.5). Mitogen-induced proliferation (concanavalin-A and phytohemagglutinin) was normal as was the autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction for the whole group. There was an abnormally increased percentage of DR+ (activated) T lymphocytes in 11 patients. With increasing age percentage of DR+ lymphocytes decreased. No patient had interleukin-2 (IL-2) receptor+ cells. Similar investigations performed on blood samples from 8 girls with Rett syndrome produced normal results. 11 of 17 autistic patients had an abnormally increased percentage of DR+ but not IL-2 receptor+ lymphocytes suggesting 'incomplete' activation, a finding which is seen in autoimmune diseases. The decrease in activated cells with increasing age suggests that there may be an autoimmune process which is more active earlier in life in a subset of autistics.
8871473: !Autism Desensitization and neurohumor modulation: a model of drug dependence II.	A theoretical model of drug tolerance and dependence is presented, based on the assumption that, besides their own function, some neurohumors may also modulate the output of other neurohumors. If the receptors of both neurohumors are rapidly desensitized and resensitized by their natural ligands, but slowly by drugs, prolonged exposure to drugs will necessarily lead to drug tolerance and dependence. This model proposes a function for co-transmitters and, applied to opioid and catecholamine neurohumors and drugs, it explains the presence of enkephalin in sympathetic neurons, the release of catecholamine neurohumors by opiates, the fact that signs of opiate abstinence are largely autonomic symptoms, the attenuation of the opiate abstinence syndrome by alpha2 agonists and its exacerbation by alpha2 antagonists, the analgesic action of excitement, and the increased toxicity of morphine in animals treated with 6-hydroxydopamine. The model also suggests possible interpretations for the late effects of large opiate doses, hyperalgesia caused by very small opiate doses, certain symptoms of autism, and sudden infant death syndrome.
8964908: !Autism Plasma increase of interleukin-12 and interferon-gamma. Pathological significance in autism.	Immune factors such as autoimmunity have been implicated in the genesis of autism, a neurodevelopmental disorder. Since autoimmune response involves immune activation, the plasma levels of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), interleukin-12 (IL-12), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) were measured in autistic patients and age-matched normal controls. The levels of IL-12 and IFN-gamma were significantly (P < or = 0.05) higher in patients as compared to controls. However, IFN-alpha, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and sICAM-1 levels did not significantly differ between the two groups. Because macrophage-derived IL-12 is known to selectively induce IFN-gamma in T helper type-1 (Th-1) cells, it is suggested that IL-12 and IFN-gamma increases may indicate antigenic stimulation of Th-1 cells pathogenetically linked to autoimmunity in autism.
9054804: !Autism Pitocin induction and autism.	
9105973: !Autism Genes tPA, Fyn, and FAK in autism?	
9136488: !Autism Drug therapy in autism.	
9225980: !Autism cDNAs with long CAG trinucleotide repeats from human brain.	Twelve diseases, most with neuropsychiatric features, arise from trinucleotide repeat expansion mutations. Expansion mutations may also cause a number of other disorders, including several additional forms of spinocerebellar ataxia, bipolar affective disorder, schizophrenia, and autism. To obtain candiate genes for these disorders, cDNA libraries from adult and fetal human brain were screened at high stringency for clones containing CAG repeats. Nineteen cDNAs were isolated and mapped to chromosomes 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 16, 19, 20, and X. The clones contain between 4 and 17 consecutive CAG, CTG, TCG, or GCA triplets. Clone H44 encodes 40 consecutive glutamines, more than any other entry in the nonredundant GenBank protein database and well within the range that causes neuronal degeneration in several of the glutamine expansion diseases. Eight cDNAs encode 15 or more consecutive glutamine residues, suggesting that the gene products may function as transcription factors, with a potential role in the regulation of neurodevelopment or neuroplasticity. In particular, the conceptual translation of clone CTG3a contains 18 consecutive glutamines and is 45% identical to the C-terminal 306 residues of the mouse numb gene product. These genes are therefore candidates for diseases featuring anticipation, neurodegeneration, or abnormalities of neurodevelopment.
9259269: !Autism Autism and multiple exostoses associated with an X;8 translocation occurring within the GRPR gene and 3' to the SDC2 gene.	An X;8 translocation was identified in a 27-year-old female patient manifesting multiple exostoses and autism accompanied by mental retardation and epilepsy. Through molecular analysis using yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs) and cosmid clones, the translocation breakpoint was isolated and confirmed to be reciprocal within a 5'-GGCA-3' sequence found on both X and 8 chromosomes without gain or loss of a single nucleotide. The translocation breakpoint on the X chromosome occurred in the first intron of the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) gene and that on chromosome 8 occurred approximately 30 kb distal to the 3' end of the Syndecan-2 gene (SDC2), also known as human heparan sulfate proteoglycan or fibroglycan. The GRPR gene was shown to escape X-inactivation. A dosage effect of the GRPR and a position effect of the SDC2 gene may, however, contribute the phenotype observed in this patient since the orientation of these genes with respect to the translocation was incompatible with the formation of a fusion gene. Investigation of mutations in these two genes in unrelated patients with either autism or multiple exostoses as well as linkage and association studies is needed to validate them as candidate genes.
9356582: !Autism Androgenic activity in autism.	
9403377: !Autism Piracetam: a novel therapy for autism?	
9421410: !Autism Macroorchidism in FMR1 knockout mice is caused by increased Sertoli cell proliferation during testicular development.	The fragile X syndrome is the most frequent hereditary form of mental retardation. This X-linked disorder is, in most cases, caused by an unstable and expanding trinucleotide CGG repeat located in the 5'-untranslated region of the gene involved, the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene. Expansion of the CGG repeat to a length of more than 200 trinucleotides results in silencing of the FMR1 gene promoter and, thus, in an inactive gene. The clinical features of male fragile X patients include mental retardation, autistiform behavior, and characteristic facial features. In addition, macroorchidism is observed. To study the role of Sertoli cell proliferation and FSH signal transduction in the occurrence of macroorchidism in fragile X males, we made use of an animal model for the fragile X syndrome, an Fmr1 knockout mouse. The results indicate that in male Fmr1 knockout mice, the rate of Sertoli cell proliferation is increased from embryonic day 12 to 15 days postnatally. The onset and length of the period of Sertoli cell proliferation were not changed compared with those in the control males. Serum levels of FSH, FSH receptor messenger RNA expression, and short term effects of FSH on Sertoli cell function, as measured by down-regulation of FSH receptor messenger RNA, were not changed. We conclude that macroorchidism in Fmr1 knockout male mice is caused by an increased rate of Sertoli cell proliferation. This increase does not appear to be the result of a major change in FSH signal transduction in Fmr1 knockout mice.
9598172: !Autism De novo purine synthesis is increased in the fibroblasts of purine autism patients.	
9613858: !Autism Scanning of the dopamine D1 and D5 receptor genes by REF in neuropsychiatric patients reveals a novel missense change at a highly conserved amino acid.	In previous analyses of schizophrenic patients, multiple missense changes and one nonsense change were identified in the D5 dopamine receptor (DRD5) gene, but no sequence changes of likely functional significance were identified in the D1 dopamine receptor (DRD1) gene. In the present study, we examined these genes in patients with certain other neuropsychiatric disorders that may be related to dopaminergic dysregulation. The coding regions of the DRD1 and DRD5 genes were examined in 25 and 25 autistic patients, 25 and 28 attention deficit hyperactivity disorder patients, and 51 and 43 alcoholic patients, respectively. In addition, the DRD5 gene was examined in 75 schizophrenic patients to search for additional variants affecting protein structure or expression (VAPSEs). These patients were analyzed with REF (restriction endonuclease fingerprinting), a hybrid between SSCP and restriction endonuclease digestion, which allows the entire coding sequence to be screened in one lane of a gel. Approximately 800 kb of genomic sequence were examined. No sequence changes were identified in the DRD1 gene among the 101 patient samples analyzed. Two sequence changes were identified in the DRD5 gene among the 171 patient samples. These included one previously identified silent polymorphism at base pair 978 (P326P). The change was identified in patients from all disease categories and from different ethnic backgrounds. One novel missense change, L88F, occurred in transmembrane domain II at a highly conserved amino acid in all dopamine receptors as well as in alpha1- and beta-adrenergic receptors. The mutation was identified in a Caucasian male patient with autism. Further analysis is necessary to determine if this missense change is associated with a particular neuropsychiatric phenotype.
9627004: !Autism Th1- and Th2-like cytokines in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in autism.	Th1-like (IL-2, IFN-gamma) and Th2-like (IL-4, IL-6, and IL-10) cytokines were examined in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in children with autism. Intracellular cytokines were measured using specific antibodies to various cytokines and anti-CD4 or anti-CD8 monoclonal antibodies by FACScan. Proportions of IFN-gamma+CD4+ T cells and IL-2+CD4+ T cells (Th1), and IFN-gamma+CD8+ and IL-2+CD8+ T cells (TC1) were significantly lower in autistic children as compared to healthy controls. In contrast, IL-4+CD4+ T cells (Th2) and IL-4+CD8+ T cells (TC2) were significantly increased in autism. The proportions of IL-6+ CD4+, IL-6+CD8+ and IL-10+CD4+, IL-10+CD8+ T cells were comparable in autism and control group. These data suggest that an imbalance of Th1- and Th2-like cytokines in autism may play a role in the pathogenesis of autism.
9754626: !Autism Variants in the alpha2A AR adrenergic receptor gene in psychiatric patients.	In various studies of psychiatric patients, alterations in adrenergic receptor (AR) expression or function have been suggested. Herein, the alpha2A AR gene was screened in 206 patients with schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism, alcohol dependence, or cocaine dependence. The entire coding region was examined for single base pair changes, using restriction endonuclease fingerprinting (REF), a screening method that can detect virtually 100% of mutations in 2-kb DNA segments. In the approximately 600 kb of screened sequence, six novel nucleotide changes were identified. The changes resulted in four missense changes (A25G, N251K, R368L, and K370N), and a sequence in the 3' untranslated region. In addition, a silent change (G363G) was found at high frequency in Asians and Native Americans. Of the four missense changes, two found in patients with alcohol/drug dependence occur in highly conserved amino acids, suggesting that these are of likely functional significance. As the alpha2A ARs are widely distributed both pre- and postsynaptically, and as many pharmacological agents with multiple effects target these receptors, the novel missense changes described herein may be candidates for involvement in alcohol/drug dependence, in other clinical disorders or traits, or in differential response to pharmacotherapy.
9804340: !Autism Xeroderma pigmentosum group C splice mutation associated with autism and hypoglycinemia.	A 4 y old boy of Korean ancestry had xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) with sun sensitivity, multiple cutaneous neoplasms, and inability to speak. Neurologic examination revealed hyperactivity and autistic features without typical XP neurologic abnormalities. Cultured skin fibroblasts (XP22BE) showed decreased post-UV survival, reduced post-UV plasmid host cell reactivation and defective DNA repair (16% of normal unscheduled DNA synthesis in intact cells and undetectable excision repair in a cell free extract). In vitro and in vivo complementation assigned XP22BE to XP group C (XPC) and a markedly reduced level of XPC mRNA was found. Two XPC cDNA bands were identified. One band had a deletion of 161 bases comprising the entire exon 9, which resulted in premature termination of the mutant XPC mRNA. The larger band also had the same deletion of exon 9 but, in addition, had an insertion of 155 bases in its place (exon 9a), resulting in an in-frame XPC mRNA. Genomic DNA analysis revealed a T-->G mutation at the splice donor site of XPC exon 9, which markedly reduced its information content. The 155 base pair XPC exon 9a insertion was located in intron 9 and was flanked by strong splice donor and acceptor sequences. Analysis of the patient's blood showed persistently low levels of glycine (68 microM; NL, 125-318 microM). Normal glycine levels were maintained with oral glycine supplements and his hyperactivity diminished. These data provide evidence of an association of an XPC splice site mutation with autistic neurologic features and hypoglycinemia.
10343323: !Autism Morphological study of the entorhinal cortex, hippocampal formation, and basal ganglia in Rett syndrome patients.	Entorhinal cortex (EC), fascia dentata (FD), hippocampus (HP), and basal ganglia (BG) were studied in Rett syndrome (RS) cases and compared with control brains and an autism case. Kluver-Barrera and Golgi methods were used. In RS most of the areas of EC, HP, and FD showed severe cell hypochromia. In the EC all cells of layer II and most in layer III were in a state of total chromatolysis or were "ghost" cells, but the cells of layers V and VI were preserved and moderately hyperchromic. In FD and HP the majority of the granular cells and cells of CA3 and CA4 fields were severely hypochromic, whereas in the CA1 field most cells were normal or slightly hypercaryochromic. In BG mostly mild or moderate aberration from normal cell structure was observed: in striatum, mild hypercaryochromia of small neurons and more expressive hyperchromia of large neurons were found; and in pallidum, mild or moderate hypercaryochromia to severe hyperchromia in pallidum internum was found. Degeneration of thick myelinated fibers was evident in pallidum. Large striatal and pallidal neurons showed signs of constructive changes in Golgi slices. These data allow the determination of the cause of the main symptoms of RS. The motor disorders, including specific stereotyped movements, could be related to the enhanced activity of BG cells due to their deafferentation from the side of the neocortex and to supposed hyperactivity of the EC-striatal pathway; the mental retardation and epileptic seizures could be due to FD-HP involvement.
10437774: !Autism The human secretin receptor gene: genomic organization and promoter characterization.	Secretin is the most potent regulator of pancreatic bicarbonate, electrolyte and volume secretion. In this report, the organization of the human secretin receptor (hSR) gene was characterized by overlapping genomic phage clones. The hSR gene consists of 13 exons and 12 introns with all the splice donor and acceptor sites conforming to the canonical GT/AG rule. By transient reporter gene assays, the wild-type promoter, containing 3.0 kb of the hSR gene 5' flanking region, was able to drive 5.8 +/- 0.6 and 6.6 +/- 0.2-fold (P < 0.01) increases in luciferase activities in pancreatic ductule-derived PANC-1 and BPD-1 cells, respectively. By subsequent 5' and 3' deletion analysis, a promoter element was identified within -408 to -158, relative to the ATG codon. This promoter element was found to be cell-specific since it could drive reporter gene expression in PANC-1 and BPD-1 cells but not in Hs 262.St, Hs 746T and alphaT3-1 cells. The study of the transcriptional control of human secretin and its receptor should shed light on the pathological developments of pancreatic cancer and autism in the future.
10439438: !Autism Localization of mRNA for CHRNA7 in human fetal brain.	The aim of this study was to determine the regional distribution in situ of the mRNA for the alpha 7 subunit of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in human fetal brain. We found high levels of alpha 7 gene expression in nuclei that receive sensory information, such as those of the neocortex and hippocampus, the thalamic nuclei, the reticular thalamic nucleus, the pontine nuclei and the superior olive complex. These data support a possible regulatory function for alpha 7-containing receptors in sensory processing, which may be involved in the pathological physiology of schizophrenia and autism. Early alpha 7 gene expression is also consistent with a morphogenetic role for alpha 7 receptors in central nervous system development.
10673438: !Autism The structure of adenylosuccinate lyase, an enzyme with dual activity in the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway.	Adenylosuccinate lyase is an enzyme that plays a critical role in both cellular replication and metabolism via its action in the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. Adenylosuccinate lyase is the only enzyme in this pathway to catalyze two separate reactions, enabling it to participate in the addition of a nitrogen at two different positions in adenosine monophosphate. Both reactions catalyzed by adenylosuccinate lyase involve the beta-elimination of fumarate. Enzymes that catalyze this type of reaction belong to a superfamily, the members of which are homotetramers. Because adenylosuccinate lyase plays an integral part in maintaining proper cellular metabolism, mutations in the human enzyme can have severe clinical consequences, including mental retardation with autistic features.	The 1.8 A crystal structure of adenylosuccinate lyase from Thermotoga maritima has been determined by multiwavelength anomalous dispersion using the selenomethionine-substituted enzyme. The fold of the monomer is reminiscent of other members of the beta-elimination superfamily. However, its active tetrameric form exhibits striking differences in active-site architecture and cleft size.	This first structure of an adenylosuccinate lyase reveals that, along with the catalytic base (His141) and the catalytic acid (His68), Gln212 and Asn270 might play a vital role in catalysis by properly orienting the succinyl moiety of the substrates. We propose a model for the dual activity of adenylosuccinate lyase: a single 180 degrees bond rotation must occur in the substrate between the first and second enzymatic reactions. Modeling of the pathogenic human S413P mutation indicates that the mutation destabilizes the enzyme by disrupting the C-terminal extension.
10673778: !Autism Modified structure of the human serotonin transporter promoter.	Recently, several studies have reported an association between anxiety traits, affective disorders and autism and alleles of a functional promoter polymorphism (5HTT-LPR) in the human serotonin transporter (5HTT, SERT).1-3 The mechanistic basis for allelic differences in transporter transcription are presently unknown. To explore this issue, we cloned the human 5HTT promoter region from a PAC genomic library and now describe an unreported 381-bp insert between the polymorphic region and the transcription start site. We verified the presence of this novel sequence by Southern hybridization of genomic digests and PCR amplifications from multiple unrelated individuals. Sequence analysis of the novel region reveals a number of canonical transcription factor binding sites (eg AP1, Elk1, NFkappaB) that may be important in controlling the response of the 5HTT gene to regulatory factors. PCR studies of genomic templates reveal a low level of amplification of a deleted template matching the size of the originally reported 5HTT promoter. This deleted template is absent from PAC amplifications, suggesting that the human 5HTT promoter may exhibit in vivo instability. Molecular Psychiatry (2000) 5, 110-115.
10699375: !Autism Succinylpurinemic autism: increased sensitivity of defective adenylosuccinate lyase towards 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal.	We studied the effect of trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal on the wild-type human adenylosuccinate lyase and on the enzyme from a patient compound-heterozygous for two missense mutations (P75A/D397Y; McKusick 103050.0003/103050.0004). Both the enzymes were inhibited by 10-50 microM trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal in a concentration-dependent manner by means of a mixed-type co-operative mechanism. A significantly stronger inhibition was noticed in the presence of the defective enzyme. Nonanal and trans-2,3-nonenal inhibited the enzymes to a less extent and at about 10-times higher concentrations. Hydroxylamine reversed the inhibition by trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, trans-2,3-nonenal or nonanal in the case of the wild-type enzyme, but it was ineffective to reverse the inhibition by trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal on the defective enzyme. Dithiothreitol slightly decreased the inhibition exerted by trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal on both the wild-type and the defective adenylosuccinate lyase, while it did not produce practically any change in the presence of trans-2,3-nonenal or nonanal.
10727395: !Autism Tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthesis, regeneration and functions.	Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH(4)) cofactor is essential for various processes, and is present in probably every cell or tissue of higher organisms. BH(4) is required for various enzyme activities, and for less defined functions at the cellular level. The pathway for the de novo biosynthesis of BH(4) from GTP involves GTP cyclohydrolase I, 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase and sepiapterin reductase. Cofactor regeneration requires pterin-4a-carbinolamine dehydratase and dihydropteridine reductase. Based on gene cloning, recombinant expression, mutagenesis studies, structural analysis of crystals and NMR studies, reaction mechanisms for the biosynthetic and recycling enzymes were proposed. With regard to the regulation of cofactor biosynthesis, the major controlling point is GTP cyclohydrolase I, the expression of which may be under the control of cytokine induction. In the liver at least, activity is inhibited by BH(4), but stimulated by phenylalanine through the GTP cyclohydrolase I feedback regulatory protein. The enzymes that depend on BH(4) are the phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan hydroxylases, the latter two being the rate-limiting enzymes for catecholamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) biosynthesis, all NO synthase isoforms and the glyceryl-ether mono-oxygenase. On a cellular level, BH(4) has been found to be a growth or proliferation factor for Crithidia fasciculata, haemopoietic cells and various mammalian cell lines. In the nervous system, BH(4) is a self-protecting factor for NO, or a general neuroprotecting factor via the NO synthase pathway, and has neurotransmitter-releasing function. With regard to human disease, BH(4) deficiency due to autosomal recessive mutations in all enzymes (except sepiapterin reductase) have been described as a cause of hyperphenylalaninaemia. Furthermore, several neurological diseases, including Dopa-responsive dystonia, but also Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, autism and depression, have been suggested to be a consequence of restricted cofactor availability.
10777668: !Autism Cloning and expression analysis of a novel gene, RP42, mapping to an autism susceptibility locus on 6q16.	We isolated a novel mouse gene, RP42, in a systematic search for genes expressed in proliferating neuroblasts whose human orthologs map to susceptibility loci for autism. This gene is intronless and encodes a putative 259-amino-acid protein that exhibits 30-36% overall sequence identity to a fission yeast and a nematode protein (GenPept Accession Nos. CAA17006 and CAB54261). Nevertheless, no homology to any known gene was found. RP42 has developmentally regulated expression, particularly in proliferating neuroblasts from which neocortical neurons originate. Its human ortholog is located in a cluster of embryonic neuronally expressed genes on the 6q16 chromosome, making it a positional candidate susceptibility gene for autism.
10840175: !Autism Prenatal exposure of rats to valproic acid reproduces the cerebellar anomalies associated with autism.	Abnormalities in anatomy and function of the cranial nerve motor nuclei have been demonstrated in some people with autism and can be modeled in rats by exposure to valproic acid during neural tube closure. Reductions in Purkinje cell number and cerebellar volume, particularly of the posterior lobe, have also been reported in people with autism. Thus, a stereological examination of cerebellar morphology was undertaken in valproate-exposed rats. Compared to controls, rats exposed to a single dose of 600-mg/kg sodium valproate on embryonic day 12.5 had significantly fewer Purkinje cells in the cerebellar vermis and a reduction short of significant in the hemispheres. The diminished cell numbers reflect reductions in tissue volume throughout the cerebellum, rather than cell density, which was unaffected in all regions. Within the vermis, the reduction in volume was significantly greater in the posterior lobe than in the anterior lobe. The results parallel those reported for human cases of autism.
10841364: !Autism Prenatal viral infection causes alterations in nNOS expression in developing mouse brains.	Epidemiological evidence points to prenatal viral infection being responsible for some forms of schizophrenia and autism. We hypothesized that prenatal human influenza viral infection in day 9 pregnant mice may cause changes in the levels of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), an important molecule involved in synaptogenesis and excitotoxicity, in neonatal brains. Brains from 35- and 56-day-old mice were prepared for SDS-gel electrophoresis and Western blotting using polyclonal anti nNOS antibody. Quantification of nNOS showed time and region-dependent changes in the levels of nNOS protein. Mean rostral brain area value from prenatally infected animals showed a significant (p=0.067) increase of 147% in nNOS levels at 35 days postnatally, with an eventual 29% decrease on day 56. Middle and caudal brain areas showed reductions in nNOS in experimental mice at 35 and 56 days, with a significant 27% decrease in nNOS in the middle segment of day 56 brains (p=0.016). Significant interactions were found between group membership and brain area (Wilks lambda=0.440, F(2.9)=5.72, p=0.025); there was also a significant interaction between brain area, group and age (Wilks lambda=0.437, F(2.9)=5.79, p=0.024). These results provide further support for the notion that prenatal viral infection affects brain development adversely via the pathological involvement of nNOS expression.
10926519: !Autism The crystal structure of adenylosuccinate lyase from Pyrobaculum aerophilum reveals an intracellular protein with three disulfide bonds.	Adenylosuccinate lyase catalyzes two separate reactions in the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. Through its dual action in this pathway, adenylosuccinate lyase plays an integral part in cellular replication and metabolism. Mutations in the human enzyme can result in severe neurological disorders, including mental retardation with autistic features. The crystal structure of adenylosuccinate lyase from the hyperthermophilic archaebacterium Pyrobaculum aerophilum has been determined to 2.1 A resolution. Although both the fold of the monomer and the architecture of the tetrameric assembly are similar to adenylosuccinate lyase from the thermophilic eubacterium Thermotoga maritima, the archaebacterial lyase contains unique features. Surprisingly, the structure of adenylosuccinate lyase from P. aerophilum reveals that this intracellular protein contains three disulfide bonds that contribute significantly to its stability against thermal and chemical denaturation. The observation of multiple disulfide bonds in the recombinant form of the enzyme suggests the need for further investigations into whether the intracellular environment of P. aerophilum, and possibly other hyperthermophiles, may be compatible with protein disulfide bond formation. In addition, the protein is shorter in P. aerophilum than it is in other organisms. This abbreviation results from an internal excision of a cluster of helices that may be involved in protein-protein interactions in other organisms and may relate to the observed clinical effects of human mutations in that region.
11060443: !Autism Human secretin (SCT): gene structure, chromosome location, and distribution of mRNA.	Secretin is an endocrine hormone that stimulates the secretion of bicarbonate-rich pancreatic fluids. Recently, it has been discussed that secretin deficiency may be implicated in autistic syndrome, suggesting that the hormone could have a neuroendocrine function in addition to its role in digestion. In the present study, the human secretin gene (SCT) was isolated from a bacterial artificial chromosome genomic library. SCT contains four exons, with the protein coding regions spanning 713 bp of genomic DNA. Human SCT is similar structurally to the secretin genes of other species. Amino acid conservation, however, is most pronounced within the exon encoding the biologically active mature peptide. Northern blot analysis shows that human SCT transcripts are located in the spleen, intestinal tract, and brain. Radiation hybrid mapping places the SCT locus on chromosome 11p15.5.
11121177: !Autism Analysis of a 1-megabase deletion in 15q22-q23 in an autistic patient: identification of candidate genes for autism and of homologous DNA segments in 15q22-q23 and 15q11-q13.	We have identified a one megabase deletion in the 15q22-15q23 region in a patient with autism, developmental delay, and mild dysmorphism. Genes that map within the deletion region and genes that are interrupted or rearranged at the deletion breakpoints are candidate genes for autism. Fluroescence in situ hybridization studies in this patient revealed that part or all of the PML gene is absent from one chromosome 15 and a BAC clone containing the D15S124 gene locus hybridizes to only one chromosome 15. BAC clones containing the PTPN9, and SLP-1[hUNC24] genes showed markedly reduced hybridization in the 15q22-q23 region on one chromosome 15 in the patient. These BACs also hybridize to the 15q11-q13 region in close proximity to SNRPN and HERC2, and in this region there is equal intensity of signal on the normal and on the deleted chromosome. There are previous reports of deletions and duplications of the 15q11-q13 region in patients with autism. Our patient represents the first report of a 15q22-q23 deletion. Hybridization of the PTPN9 and Slp-1 Bac clones to the 15q11-q13 and the 15q22-q23 regions of chromosome 15 may be due to the presence of PTPN9 or SLP-1 gene sequences or to the presence of other gene sequences or to non-coding homologous DNA sequences. The PTPN9 gene encodes a non-receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase. The Slp-1 [hUNC24] gene is expressed mainly in the brain. Am. J. Med. Genet. (Neuropsychiatr. Genet.) 96:765-770, 2000.
11157797: !Autism Sequence, structure and pathology of the fully annotated terminal 2 Mb of the short arm of human chromosome 16.	We have sequenced 1949 kb from the terminal Giemsa light band of human chromosome 16p, enabling us to fully annotate the region extending from the telomeric repeats to the previously published tuberous sclerosis disease 2 (TSC2) and polycystic kidney disease 1 (PKD1) genes. This region can be subdivided into two GC-rich, Alu-rich domains and one GC-rich, Alu-poor domain. The entire region is extremely gene rich, containing 100 confirmed genes and 20 predicted genes. Many of the genes encode widely expressed proteins orchestrating basic cellular processes (e.g. DNA recombination, repair, transcription, RNA processing, signal transduction, intracellular signalling and mRNA translation). Others, such as the alpha globin genes (HBA1 and HBA2), PDIP and BAIAP3, are specialized tissue-restricted genes. Some of the genes have been previously implicated in the pathophysiology of important human genetic diseases (e.g. asthma, cataracts and the ATR-16 syndrome). Others are known disease genes for alpha thalassaemia, adult polycystic kidney disease and tuberous sclerosis. There is also linkage evidence for bipolar affective disorder, epilepsy and autism in this region. Sixty-three chromosomal deletions reported here and elsewhere allow us to interpret the results of removing progressively larger numbers of genes from this well defined human telomeric region.
11207426: !Autism Nicotinic receptors in human brain: topography and pathology.	Brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) are a class of ligand-gated channels composed of alpha and beta subunits with specific structural, functional and pharmacological properties. They participate in the physiological and behavioural effects of acetylcholine and mediate responses to nicotine. They are associated with numerous transmitter systems and their expression is altered during development and ageing as well as in diseases such as autism, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Lewy body dementia. Nicotinic receptors containing a number of different subunits are highly expressed during early human development. Disorders believed to be associated with abnormal brain maturation involve deficits in both alpha4beta2, in the case of autism, and alpha7 possibly in addition to alpha4beta2 nAChRs in the case of schizophrenia. In ageing and age-related neurodegenerative disorders nAChR deficits are predominantly associated with alpha4-containing receptors, although some studies also indicate the involvement of alpha3 and alpha7 subunits. Whilst ageing appears to be associated with reductions in subunit mRNA as well as protein expression, in Alzheimer's disease only protein loss is apparent. Nicotinic therapy may be of benefit in a number of neurological conditions, however studies evaluating further both the distribution of specific subunit involvement and the correlation of nAChR deficits with clinical symptoms are required to inform therapeutic strategy.
11388783: !Autism Micronutrient accumulation and depletion in schizophrenia, epilepsy, autism and Parkinson's disease?	Zinc has several crucial functions in brain development and maintenance: it binds to p53, preventing it from binding to supercoiled DNA and ensuring that p53 cause the expression of several paramount genes, such as the one that encodes for the type I receptors to pituitary adenine cylase-activator peptide (PACAP), which directs embryonic development of the brain cortex, adrenal glands, etc.; it is required for the production of CuZnSOD and Zn-thionein, which are essential to prevent oxidative damage; it is required for many proteins, some of them with Zn fingers, many of them essential enzymes for growth and homeostasis. For example, the synthesis of serotonin involves Zn enzymes and since serotonin is necessary for melatonin synthesis, a Zn deficiency may result in low levels of both hormones. Unfortunately, Zn levels tend to be low when there is excess Cu and Cd. Moreover, high estrogen levels tend to cause increased absorption of Cu and Cd, and smoking and eating food contaminated with Cd result in high levels of the latter. Furthermore, ethanol ingestion increases the elimination of Zn and Mg (which acts as a cofactor for CuZnSOD). Increased Cu levels may also be found in people with Wilson's disease, which is a rather rare disease. However, the heterozygote form (only one faulty copy of the chromosome) is not so rare. Therefore, the developing fetus of a pregnant women who is low in Zn and high in Cu may experience major difficulties in the early development of the brain, which may later manifest themselves as schizophrenia, autism or epilepsy. Similarly, a person who gradually accumulates Cu, will tend to experience a gradual depletion of Zn, with a corresponding increase in oxidative damage, eventually leading to Parkinson's disease. Also discussed are the crucial roles of histidine, histamine, vitamin D, essential fatty acids, vitamin E, peroxynitrate, etc. in the possible oxidative damage involved in these mental diseases.
11395941: !Autism Increasing incidence of autism.	
11409700: !Autism Systematic screening for mutations in the glycine receptor alpha2 subunit gene (GLRA2) in patients with schizophrenia and other psychiatric diseases.	The glycine receptor, which is a member of the ligand-gated ion channel superfamily, mediates synaptic inhibition in the spinal cord and other brain regions. This superfamily has been implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and other psychiatric diseases. The complete coding sequence and splice junctions of the GLRA2 gene were scanned by DOVAM-S, a form of SSCP analysis with sufficient redundancy to detect virtually all mutations. Those analyses were performed in 113 patients with schizophrenia, and in pilot studies of patients with bipolar illness, alcoholism, puerperal psychosis, autism, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (533 kb total scanned sequences). We detected three sequence changes in the coding region, all resulting in silent mutations: C894T in exon 5, C1134T in exon 7, and C1476T in exon 9. These do not alter the structure or the expression of the protein. It is unlikely that mutations in the coding region and splice junction of GLRA2 gene are associated with schizophrenia and other psychiatric diseases.
11417094: !Autism Treating patients with autism.	
11417134: !Autism Borna disease virus infection of adult and neonatal rats: models for neuropsychiatric disease.	Animal models provide unique opportunities to explore interactions between host and environment. Two models have been established based on Borna disease virus infection that provide new insights into mechanisms by which neurotropic agents and/or immune factors may impact developing or mature CNS circuitry to effect complex disturbances in movement and behavior. Note in press: Since this chapter was submitted, several manuscripts have been published that extend findings reported here and support the relevance of BDV infections of neonatal Lewis rats as models for investigating mechanisms of neurodevelopmental damage in autism. Behavioral abnormalities, including disturbed play behavior and chronic emotional overactivity, have been described by Pletnikov et al. (1999); inhibition of responses to novel stimuli were described by Hornig et al. (1999); loss of Purkinje cells following neonatal BDV infection has been demonstrated by Eisenman et al. (1999), Hornig et al. (1999), and Weissenb?ck et al. (2000); and alterations in cytokine gene expression have been reported by Hornig et al. (1999), Plata-Salaman et al. (1999) and Sauder et al. (1999).
11428554: !Autism Determination, activity and biological role of adenylosuccinate lyase in blood cells.	Adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency, which is associated with severe mental retardation and autistic features, was discovered in 1984. Since then this enzyme has been analyzed in many human tissues and it is now generally agreed that screening for this enzyme defect should be performed in all unexplained neurological diseases. The aim of the present study was to analyze adenylosuccinate lyase activity in blood cells by a fast simple method adaptable to screening purposes. The activity was also analyzed in B-lymphocytes from patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The biological role of adenylosuccinate lyase and its importance in regulating cellular levels of AMP is discussed.
11450824: !Autism Suppressed GABAergic inhibition as a common factor in suspected etiologies of autism.	
11487481: !Autism The association of MHC genes with autism.	Several immune abnormalities have been noted in autistic subjects. These associations have been extended to the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC), a section of DNA remarkable for the number of encoded proteins with immunological functions. The strongest MHC association identified thus far is for the null allele of C4B in the class III region. The complex allelic composition of C4 as determined by immunoelectrophoresis is discussed. Low levels of C4 resulting from the null allele may be important in disease pathogenesis especially since C4 has been identified in developing brain neurons. The DNA region just telomeric to C4 has several genes including tumor necrosis factor which encode proteins with immunological functions. These proteins may act in concert with C4 in disease contribution and the genes should be more closely examined.
11549716: !Autism Secretin facilitates GABA transmission in the cerebellum.	Secretin was the first hormone discovered in human history, and yet, its function as a neuropeptide has been overlooked in the past. The recent discovery of the potential use of secretin in treating autistic patients, together with the conflicting reports on its effectiveness, urges an in-depth investigation of this issue. We show here that in the rat cerebellar cortex, mRNAs encoding secretin are localized in the Purkinje cells, whereas those of its receptor are found in both Purkinje cells and GABAergic interneurons. Immunoreactivity for secretin is localized in the soma and dendrites of Purkinje cells. In addition, secretin facilitates evoked, spontaneous, and miniature IPSCs recorded from Purkinje cells. We propose that secretin is released from the somatodendritic region of Purkinje cells and serves as a retrograde messenger modulating GABAergic afferent activity.
11701248: !Autism Polysomnographical assessment of the pathophysiology of West syndrome.	In this brief review, the sleep studies on patients with West syndrome (WS) were summarized. In addition to the previously reported common finding for sleep in WS--reduction of the amount of rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep--weakness of phasic suppression of chin muscle activity in WS patients has recently been found. The degree of this weakness is quantified by the phasic inhibition index (PII), which has been found to reflect a patient's prognosis as to convulsions. PII is proposed to be a useful parameter for assessing the prognosis of WS. Since the pontine tegmentum is involved in the production of the REM-related phasic loss of muscle activity in REM sleep, WS patients are hypothesized to have a functional instability of the pontine tegmentum. After adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) treatment, PII decreased significantly in all WS patients examined. Taken together with the effects of corticosteroids on PII, and the incidence of phasic chin muscle activity in patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia and nephrotic syndrome, ACTH is hypothesized to suppress the spasms in WS patients not only through corticosteroids, but also through a direct action on the pontine tegmentum. Since PII has been reported to be elevated in patients with an autistic tendency, the appearance of an autistic tendency is also hypothesized to be involved in the functional disturbance of the pontine tegmentum.
11706102: !Autism Postmortem brain abnormalities of the glutamate neurotransmitter system in autism.	Studies examining the brains of individuals with autism have identified anatomic and pathologic changes in regions such as the cerebellum and hippocampus. Little, if anything, is known, however, about the molecules that are involved in the pathogenesis of this disorder.	To identify genes with abnormal expression levels in the cerebella of subjects with autism.	Brain samples from a total of 10 individuals with autism and 23 matched controls were collected, mainly from the cerebellum. Two cDNA microarray technologies were used to identify genes that were significantly up- or downregulated in autism. The abnormal mRNA or protein levels of several genes identified by microarray analysis were investigated using PCR with reverse transcription and Western blotting. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA)- and NMDA-type glutamate receptor densities were examined with receptor autoradiography in the cerebellum, caudate-putamen, and prefrontal cortex.	The mRNA levels of several genes were significantly increased in autism, including excitatory amino acid transporter 1 and glutamate receptor AMPA 1, two members of the glutamate system. Abnormalities in the protein or mRNA levels of several additional molecules in the glutamate system were identified on further analysis, including glutamate receptor binding proteins. AMPA-type glutamate receptor density was decreased in the cerebellum of individuals with autism (p < 0.05).	Subjects with autism may have specific abnormalities in the AMPA-type glutamate receptors and glutamate transporters in the cerebellum. These abnormalities may be directly involved in the pathogenesis of the disorder.
11738834: !Autism Neuronal instability: implications for Rett's syndrome.	The maturational changes in the brain and spinal cord do not linearly proceed from immature in infants to mature in adults. Dendrites dynamically extend or retract as neurotrophic factors fluctuate. In certain cases mature neurons can be seen soon after birth, and in other cases immature neurons can be identified in the aged brain. Monoamine 'neurotransmitter'; such as serotonin (5-HT), dopamine and norepinephrine appear to function as Maintenance Growth Factors since they must be present in order to produce their maturational actions. Serotonin neurons contain TRK-B receptors and are sensitive to availability of the trophic factor, BDNF. 5-HT also functions by promoting the release of the glial extension factor, S-100beta. 5-HT and S-100beta can provide maturational signals to a variety of neurons, in both cortical and subcortical areas, and appear to be involved in regulating the maturation and release of acetylcholine and dopamine. We have shown that activation of the 5-HT1A receptor is particularly effective in inducing growth of stunted neurons. The mechanism of action of the 5-HT1A receptor involves both a direct inhibition on c-AMP and pCREB formation in postsynaptic neurons and a release of S-100beta from glial cells. Both these events are capable of stabilization and elaboration of the cytoskeleton of the neuron and inhibition of apoptosis. 5-HT1A receptors have been shown to effectively reverse stunted neurons and microencephaly produced in animal models of fetal alcohol syndrome and prenatal cocaine administration. I discuss the implications for regressive disorders such as Rett's syndrome and autism, and the feasibility of treatments with 5-HT1A agonists in children with developmental disorders.
11746727: !Autism Altered levels of Bcl2 and p53 proteins in parietal cortex reflect deranged apoptotic regulation in autism.	
11783016: !Autism [Influence of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) on the biological behaviors of human hepatocellular carcinoma cells].	To study the effect of reducing FAK expression on the malignant biological behaviors of FAK-overexpressed hepatocellular carcinoma cell line SMMC-7721.	FAK expression of different hepatocelluar carcinoma cell lines was detected by Western blot analysis. Antisense plasmid of FAK was constructed and transfected into SMMC-7721.	SMMC-7721 expressed much more FAK than did hepatocyte line L02. When transfected with autisense FAK, it showed reduced growth rate and colony formation in soft agar, and the number of cells in S phase was reduced by 15%. The adhesion ability of antisense FAK-transfeected cells was also decreased with no change of integrin expression.	FAK is overexpressed in the human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line SMMC-7721. Reducing the FAK expression can partly reverse the malignant behaviors of the cell line.
11814262: !Autism Dysregulation of Reelin and Bcl-2 proteins in autistic cerebellum.	Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with potential genetic and environmental causes. Cerebellar pathology including Purkinje cell atrophy has been demonstrated previously. We hypothesized that cell migration and apoptotic mechanisms may account for observed Purkinje cell abnormalities. Reelin is an important secretory glycoprotein responsible for normal layering of the brain. Bcl-2 is a regulatory protein responsible for control of programmed cell death in the brain. Autistic and normal control cerebellar corteces matched for age, sex, and post-mortem interval (PMI) were prepared for SDS-gel electrophoresis and Western blotting using specific anti-Reelin and anti-Bcl-2 antibodies. Quantification of Reelin bands showed 43%, 44%, and 44% reductions in autistic cerebellum (mean optical density +/- SD per 30 microg protein 4.05 +/- 4.0, 1.98 +/- 2.0, 13.88 +/- 11.9 for 410 kDa, 330 kDa, and 180 kDa bands, respectively; N = 5) compared with controls (mean optical density +/- SD per 30 microg protein, 7.1 +/- 1.6, 3.5 +/- 1.0, 24.7 +/- 5.0; N = 8, p < 0.0402 for 180 kDa band). Quantification of Bcl-2 levels showed a 34% to 51% reduction in autistic cerebellum (M +/- SD per 75 microg protein 0.29 +/- 0.08; N = 5) compared with controls (M +/- SD per 75 microg protein 0.59 +/- 0.31; N = 8, p < 0.0451). Measurement of beta-actin (M +/- SD for controls 7.3 +/- 2.9; for autistics 6.77 +/- 0.66) in the same homogenates did not differ significantly between groups. These results demonstrate for the first time that dysregulation of Reelin and Bcl-2 may be responsible for some of the brain structural and behavioral abnormalities observed in autism.
11814263: !Autism Density and distribution of hippocampal neurotransmitter receptors in autism: an autoradiographic study.	Neuropathological studies in autistic brains have shown small neuronal size and increased cell packing density in a variety of limbic system structures including the hippocampus, a change consistent with curtailment of normal development. Based on these observations in the hippocampus, a series of quantitative receptor autoradiographic studies were undertaken to determine the density and distribution of eight types of neurotransmitter receptors from four neurotransmitter systems (GABAergic, serotoninergic [5-HT], cholinergic, and glutamatergic). Data from these single concentration ligand binding studies indicate that the GABAergic receptor system (3[H]-flunitrazepam labeled benzodiazepine binding sites and 3[H]-muscimol labeled GABA(A) receptors) is significantly reduced in high binding regions, marking for the first time an abnormality in the GABA system in autism. In contrast, the density and distribution of the other six receptors studied (3[H]-80H-DPAT labeled 5-HT1A receptors, 3[H]-ketanserin labeled 5-HT2 receptors, 3[H]-pirenzepine labled M1 receptors, 3[H]-hemicholinium labeled high affinity choline uptake sites, 3[H]-MK801 labeled NMDA receptors, and 3[H]-kainate labeled kainate receptors) in the hippocampus did not demonstrate any statistically significant differences in binding.
11814264: !Autism The abnormal regulation of gene expression in autistic brain tissue.	Autism is a pervasive developmental disorder of unknown etiology. It is likely caused by mutations in one or more genes. One approach to understanding the molecular changes that occur in autism is to measure gene expression in post-mortem brain samples from individuals diagnosed with autism. This may be accomplished with techniques such as cDNA microarrays or subtractive hybridization. In general, gene expression is regulated as a function of body region, developmental time, and physiological state. A premise of the approaches we describe is that gene expression is regulated in cells from autistic individuals as a consequence of the disease process. It may be useful to detect such changes in order to identify selective biological markers for autism. Additionally, the abnormal regulation of gene expression may reveal cellular pathways that have been disrupted, suggesting strategies for therapeutic intervention.
11814266: !Autism Proteomic approach for the elucidation of biological defects in autism.	Proteomic-based approaches, which examine expressed proteins in tissues or cells, have great potential in the elucidation of biological defects in heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism. In this approach, tissue or cellular proteins from control and affected subjects are separated on two-dimensional (2-D) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and those proteins that show marked changes in the concentration between control and affected subjects are identified by mass spectroscopy. This method has been successfully applied in the elucidation of the molecular biological defect in classic late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (Sleat et al., 1997). Unlike the classical methods of genome-wide screening for chromosomal localization followed by positional cloning, the proteomic approach requires limited number of tissue samples and the study can be completed in a relatively short time. Currently, these methods are available for relatively abundant proteins and generally are not applicable for hydrophobic proteins because 2-D gel electrophoresis is not very effective in the analysis of hydrophobic proteins. The genetic defect results in either total loss of proteins or changes in molecular weight and/or isoelectric point will be detectable by the proteomic method. Because autism is a neurogenetic disorder, brain is the tissue of choice for proteomic study. For an oligogenic disorder such as autism, at least some of the aberrant (genes) proteins may be identified by this technology.
11814635: !Autism Secretin self-assembles and interacts spontaneously with phospholipids in vitro.	Secretin, a 27-amino acid neuropeptide, is a member of the secretin/glucagon/vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) superfamily of amphipathic peptides. The peptide modulates gastrointestinal and neuronal function and is currently being evaluated for the treatment of autism. However, as most peptides, it has a short circulation half-life. Previously, we have shown that VIP self-assembles in aqueous environment and interacts with a biomimetic phospholipid membrane. These in vitro characteristics increase VIP half-life and bioactivity in vivo. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether secretin exhibits similar properties in vitro by forming micelles in aqueous solution and interacting with phospholipids. Results of this study demonstrated that secretin self-assembles to form micelles in HEPES buffer at 25 degrees C above approximately 0.4 microM. Additionally, secretin interacts with a biomimetic phospholipid membrane as indicated from a significant increase in membrane surface pressure (from 25.5 +/- 1.3 to 32.5 +/- 3.0, P < 0.05). Importantly, the peptide undergoes conformational transition from predominantly random coil in saline to alpha-helix in the presence of phospholipid, distearoyl-phosphatidylcholine-poly(ethylene) glycol (mol mass 2000) micelles. We suggest that these distinct biophysical attributes could modulate secretin bioactivity in vivo.
11890683: !Autism In vitro autoradiographic localization of (125)i-secretin receptor binding sites in rat brain.	Although the existence of the receptor for secretin in the brain was suggested, the localization of secretin receptor and the neuronal function of secretin have not been clarified yet. In the present study, the localization of secretin receptor was investigated in the rat brain by using an in vitro autoradiography technique. Frozen section autoradiography with (125)I-secretin showed intense binding in the nucleus of solitary tract, laterodorsal thalamic nucleus, and accumbens nucleus; moderate binding in the hippocampus, caudate/putamen, cerebellum, cingulate and orbital cortices. Scatchard plot analysis gave the Kd value of 125 pM with Bmax of 134 fmol/mg tissue in the hippocampus. The binding specificity was confirmed with secretin and its analogs, VIP, PACAP, and glucagon. These results indicate the secretin receptor system might have some neural functions in the brain, which could give the basis for therapeutic use of secretin in autistic children.
11904337: !Autism Mutational analysis of the von hippel lindau gene in clear cell renal carcinomas from tuberous sclerosis complex patients.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal-dominant disorder characterized by seizures, mental retardation, autism, and tumors of multiple organs. Renal disease in TSC includes angiomyolipomas, cysts, and renal cell carcinomas. It is known that somatic mutations in the von Hippel Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene occur in most clear cell renal carcinomas. To determine whether TSC-associated clear cell carcinomas also contain VHL mutations, we analyzed six tumors for loss of heterozygosity in the VHL gene region of chromosome 3p and for mutations in the VHL gene. Four of the patients were women between the ages of 34 and 68 years, and two were males under the age of 21 years. The loss of heterozygosity analysis was performed using polymorphic microsatellite markers, and the mutational analysis was performed using direct sequencing. Chromosome 3p loss of heterozygosity was not detected, and no VHL mutations were identified. These findings suggest that mutations in the TSC1 and TSC2 genes lead to clear cell renal carcinogenesis via an alternate pathway not involving VHL mutations.
12016589: !Autism Mutation of a nuclear respiratory factor 2 binding site in the 5' untranslated region of the ADSL gene in three patients with adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency.	Adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL; also called "adenylosuccinase") catalyzes two steps in the synthesis of purine nucleotides: (1) the conversion of succinylaminoimidazolecarboxamide ribotide into aminoimidazolecarboxamide ribotide and (2) the conversion of adenylosuccinate into adenosine monophosphate. ADSL deficiency, a recessively inherited disorder, causes variable-but most often severe-mental retardation, frequently accompanied by epilepsy and/or autism. It is characterized by the accumulation, in body fluids, of succinylaminoimidazolecarboxamide riboside and succinyladenosine, the dephosphorylated derivatives of the two substrates of the enzyme. Analysis of the ADSL gene of three unrelated patients with ADSL deficiency, in whom one of the ADSL alleles displayed a normal coding sequence, revealed a -49T-->C mutation in the 5' untranslated region of this allele. Measurements of the amount of mRNA transcribed from the latter allele showed that it was reduced to approximately 33% of that transcribed from the alleles mutated in their coding sequence. Further investigations showed that the -49T-->C mutation provokes a reduction to 25% of wild-type control of promoter function, as evaluated by luciferase activity and mRNA level in transfection experiments. The mutation also affects the binding of nuclear respiratory factor 2 (NRF-2), a known activator of transcription, as assessed by gel-shift studies. Our findings indicate that a mutation of a regulatory region of the ADSL gene might be an unusually frequent cause of ADSL deficiency, and they suggest a role for NRF-2 in the gene regulation of the purine biosynthetic pathway.
12037687: !Autism Heterozygosity for the tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) gene products results in increased astrocyte numbers and decreased p27-Kip1 expression in TSC2+/- cells.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant tumor predisposition syndrome characterized by benign proliferations (hamartomas). In the brain, individuals with TSC develop autism, mental retardation and seizures associated with focal cortical dysplasias, subependymal nodules, and subependymal giant cell astrocytomas (SEGAs). We hypothesize that dysregulated astrocyte function due to mutations in the tumor suppressor genes, TSC1 and TSC2, may contribute to the pathogenesis of these brain abnormalities. In this report, we demonstrate that mice heterozygous for a targeted defect in either the Tsc1 or Tsc2 genes(Tsc1+/- and Tsc2+/- mice) exhibit a 1.5-fold increase in the number of astrocytes in vivo. Whereas increased astrocyte numbers in vivo were suggestive of a proliferative advantage, Tsc2+/- primary astrocyte cultures did not show a cell-autonomous growth advantage, anchorage-independent growth, increased saturation density, or increased fluid-phase endocytosis compared to wild type astrocytes. Tsc2 null mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) however, did exhibit increased saturation density compared to Tsc2 wild type controls. In both Tsc2+/- astrocytes and Tsc2 null mouse embryonic fibroblasts, p27-Kip1 expression was decreased compared to wild type cells, and was reversed by tuberin re-expression in Tsc2-/- MEFs. In contrast, no change in endocytosis was observed upon tuberin re-expression in Tsc2-/- MEFs. Collectively, these results suggest Tsc heterozygosity may provide a non-cell-autonomous growth advantage for astrocytes that may involve p27-Kip1 expression.
12052194: !Autism Recent advances in 5-HT1B/1D receptor antagonists and agonists and their potential therapeutic applications.	The human 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptors are especially similar in sequence despite being encoded by two distinct genes. Although, human 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptors have been pharmacologically differentiated using nonselective 5-HT(1B/D) receptor antagonists such as ketanserin (1), ritanserin (2) and methiothepin (3), the precise function of these receptors remains undefined, and progress toward this has been hampered by the lack of selective ligands. The interest of the major pharmaceutical companies in 5-HT(1B/1D) antagonists increased by the discovery of potent and selective tools, combined with the fact that the blockade of terminal 5-HT(1B) receptors by selective antagonists has been proposed as a new approach for more efficient and/or fast-acting antidepressant drugs, since the acute blockade of these 5-HT autoreceptors will, in theory, immediately mimic their desensitization. Furthermore, it has been also suggested that supersensitive 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors may be involved in the pathophysiology of obsessive compulsive disorders (OCD). In the 5-HT(1B/1D) agonist field, since the discovery of sumatriptan (26) (a 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist) as an effective treatment for migraine headache, intensive research in this area has led to several second-generation compounds, a few of which have either entered the market place or are in late clinical trials. Beside the antimigraine activity of the 5-HT(1B/1D) agonists in clinical evaluation or already on the market, other potential therapeutic evaluations (such as gastric motor effect, bipolar disorder, autism, anti-aggressive effects) with these drugs are being investigated. This article highlights and reviews the research advances published in the 5-HT(1B/1D) antagonist and agonist literature. The article is supplemented with selected references on the design, synthesis and development of novel 5-HT(1B/1D) agents, and on studies to understand their mechanism and pathophysiology. Emphasis is given to recent advances in the potential therapeutic applications of 5-HT(1B/1D) serotonergic agents. By no means has any attempt been made to exhaustively review the literature but rather, primary references along with citations to recent literature reviews have been included in each section.
12064515: !Autism Prenatal viral infection leads to pyramidal cell atrophy and macrocephaly in adulthood: implications for genesis of autism and schizophrenia.	We investigated the role of maternal exposure to human influenza virus (H1N1) in C57BL/6 mice on Day 9 of pregnancy on pyramidal and nonpyramidal cell density, pyramidal nuclear area, and overall brain size in Day 0 neonates and 14-week-old progeny and compared them to sham-infected cohorts. Pyramidal cell density increased significantly (p < 0.0038) by 170% in Day 0 infected mice vs. controls. Nonpyramidal cell density decreased by 33% in Day 0 infected progeny vs. controls albeit, nonsignificantly. Pyramidal cell nuclear size decreased significantly (p < 0.0465) by 29% in exposed newborn mice vs. controls. Fourteen-week-old exposed mice continued to show significant increases in both pyramidal and nonpyramidal cell density values vs. controls respectively (p < 0.0085 E1 (exposed group 1), p < 0.0279 E2 (exposed group 2) pyramidal cell density; p < 0.0092 E1, p < 0.0252 E2, nonpyramidal cell density). By the same token, pyramidal cell nuclear size exhibited 37-43% reductions when compared to control values; these were statistically significant vs. controls (p < 0.04 E1, p < 0.0259 E2). Brain and ventricular area measurements in adult exposed mice also showed significant increases and decreases respectively vs. controls. Ventricular brain ratios exhibited 38-50% decreases in exposed mice vs. controls. While the rate of pyramidal cell proliferation per unit area decreased from birth to adulthood in both control and exposed groups, nonpyramidal cell growth rate increased only in the exposed adult mice. These data show for the first time that prenatal exposure of pregnant mice on Day 9 of pregnancy to a sublethal intranasal administration of influenza virus has both short-term and long-lasting deleterious effects on developing brain structure in the progeny as evident by altered pyramidal and nonpyramidal cell density values; atrophy of pyramidal cells despite normal cell proliferation rate and final enlargement of brain. Moreover, abnormal corticogenesis is associated with development of abnormal behavior in the exposed adult mice.
12076999: !Autism Nicotinic receptor abnormalities in the cerebellar cortex in autism.	Autism is a common developmental disorder associated with structural and inferred neurochemical abnormalities of the brain. Cerebellar abnormalities frequently have been identified, based on neuroimaging or neuropathology. Recently, the cholinergic neurotransmitter system has been implicated on the basis of nicotinic receptor loss in the cerebral cortex. Cerebellar cholinergic activities were therefore investigated in autopsy tissue from a series of autistic individuals. The presynaptic cholinergic enzyme, choline acetyltransferase, together with nicotinic and muscarinic receptor subtypes were compared in the cerebellum from age-matched mentally retarded autistic (eight), normal control (10) and non-autistic mentally retarded individuals (11). The nicotinic receptor binding the agonist epibatidine (the high affinity receptor subtype, consisting primarily of alpha3 and alpha4, together with beta2 receptor subunits) was significantly reduced by 40-50% in the granule cell, Purkinje and molecular layers in the autistic compared with the normal group (P < 0.05). There was an opposite increase (3-fold) in the nicotinic receptor binding alpha-bungarotoxin (to the alpha7 subunit) which reached significance in the granule cell layer (P < 0.05). These receptor changes were paralleled by a significant reduction (P < 0.05) and non-significant increase, respectively, of alpha4 and alpha7 receptor subunit immunoreactivity measured using western blotting. Immunohistochemically loss of alpha(4)reactivity was apparent from Purkinje and the other cell layers, with increased alpha7 reactivity in the granule cell layer. There were no significant changes in choline acetyltransferase activity, or in muscarinic M1 and M2 receptor subtypes in autism. In the non-autistic mentally retarded group, the only significant abnormality was a reduction in epibatidine binding in the granule cell and Purkinje layers. In two autistic cases examined histologically, Purkinje cell loss was observed in multiple lobules throughout the vermis and hemispheres. This was more severe in one case with epilepsy, which also showed vermis folial malformation. The case with less severe Purkinje cell loss also showed cerebellar white matter thinning and demyelination. These findings indicate a loss of the cerebellar nicotinic alpha4 receptor subunit in autism which may relate to the loss of Purkinje cells, and a compensatory increase in the alpha7 subunit. It remains to be determined how these receptor abnormalities are involved in neurodevelopment in autism and what is the relationship to mental function. Since nicotinic receptor agonists enhance attentional function and also induce an elevation in the high affinity receptor, nicotinic therapy in autism may be worth considering.
12095913: !Autism Allele-specific expression analysis by RNA-FISH demonstrates preferential maternal expression of UBE3A and imprint maintenance within 15q11- q13 duplications.	15q11- q13 contains many imprinted genes, and undergoes duplicon-mediated rearrangements, including deletions, duplications and triplications, and generation of marker chromosomes. Abnormal phenotypes, including language delays and autism spectrum disorders, are primarily observed with maternal 15q11- q13 duplication. To determine possible epigenetic effects on expression within duplicated 15q11- q13 regions, we utilized RNA-FISH to directly observe gene expression. RNA-FISH, unlike RT-PCR, is polymorphism-independent, and it also detects relative levels of expression at each allele. Unamplified, gene-specific RNA signals were detected using cDNA probes. Subsequent DNA-FISH confirmed RNA signals and assigned parental origin by colocalization of genomic probes. SNRPN and NDN expression was detected primarily from paternal alleles. Control Dystrobrevin transcripts were detected equally from both alleles; however, maternal-UBE3A signals were consistently larger than paternal signals in normal fibroblasts and in neural-precursor cells. Larger UBE3A signals were also observed on one or both maternal alleles in a cell line carrying a maternal interstitial duplication, on both alleles of a maternally derived marker(15) chromosome, and occasionally on a paternal allele in a cell line carrying a paternal interstitial duplication. Expression of NDNL2, just distal to the duplicated region, was not markedly altered but paralleled changes in UBE3A expression. Excess total maternal-UBE3A RNA was confirmed by Northern blot analysis of cell lines carrying 15q11- q13 duplications or triplications. These results demonstrate that: (1) UBE3A is imprinted in fibroblasts, lymphoblasts and neural-precursor cells; (2) allelic imprint status is maintained in the majority of cells upon duplication both in cis and in trans; and (3) alleles on specific types of duplications may exhibit an increase in expression levels/loss of expression constraints.
12119278: !Autism Role of PTEN, a lipid phosphatase upstream effector of protein kinase B, in epithelial thyroid carcinogenesis.	Both benign and malignant thyroid disease are well-established components of Cowden syndrome (CS), an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by multiple hamartomas and breast cancer that may be considered a phakomatosis. The susceptibility gene for CS is PTEN, a tumor suppressor gene on 10q23.3 that encodes a lipid phosphatase that lies upstream of protein kinase B (Akt). Interestingly, Carney complex is also a phakomatosis where multiple endocrine neoplasias are prominent and thyroid cancer might be a rare component. One of its susceptibility genes is the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A. Over the course of the last four years, investigators have found the increasing clinical spectrum of syndromes characterized by germline loss-of-function PTEN mutation. In addition to CS, subsets of such disparate syndromes as Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome, Proteus syndrome, and possibly VATER with hydrocephalus and megencephaly with autistic features have been found to have germline PTEN mutations. Paradoxically, somatic intragenic PTEN mutations were rare in uncultured primary epithelial thyroid tumors, although hemizygous deletion occurred in 10-20% of thyroid adenomas and carcinomas. However, with subsequent study, it was discovered that epigenetic silencing of PTEN and perhaps inappropriate subcellular compartmentalization were two novel mechanisms of PTEN inactivation pertinent in thyroid carcinogenesis. Ectopic expression studies in vitro have borne out the importance of PTEN in the pathogenesis of epithelial thyroid neoplasias.
12142940: !Autism Heat shock protein 90 antibodies in autism.	
12175852: !Autism Gene structure and genetic localization of the PCLO gene encoding the presynaptic active zone protein Piccolo.	Piccolo belongs to a family of presynaptic cytoskeletal proteins likely to be involved in the assembly and function of presynaptic active zones as sites of neurotransmitter release. Given that abnormalities in the formation of synaptic junctions are thought to contribute to cognitive dysfunction during brain development, we have analyzed and compared the gene structure of the Piccolo gene, PCLO, from humans and mice and determined their chromosomal localization. A comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence of cDNA clones encoding Piccolo from human, mouse, rat and chicken reveals the presence of distinct homology domains. Only subsets of these are also present in the structurally related active zone protein Bassoon indicating that Piccolo and Bassoon perform related but distinct functions at active zones. Characterization of the PCLO gene reveals the presence of 25 coding exons spread over 380kb of genomic DNA. The human PCLO gene maps to 7q11.23-q21.3, a region of chromosome 7 implicated as a linkage site for autism and Williams Syndrome suggesting that alterations in the expression of Piccolo or the PCLO gene could contribute to developmental disabilities and mental retardation.
12183664: !Autism Differential transport of a secretin analog across the blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barriers of the mouse.	Secretin is a gastrointestinal peptide belonging to the vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)/glucagon/pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) family recently suggested to have therapeutic effects in autism. A direct effect on brain would require secretin to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), an ability other members of the VIP/PACAP family have. Herein, we examined whether a secretin analog (SA) radioactively labeled with (131)I (I-SA) could cross the BBB of 4-week-old mice. We found I-SA was rapidly cleared from serum with fragments not precipitating with acid appearing in brain and serum. Levels of radioactivity were corrected to reflect only intact I-SA as estimated by acid precipitation. After i.v. injection, I-SA was taken up by brain at a modest rate of 0.9 to 1.5 microl/g-mm. Capillary depletion, brain perfusion, and high-performance liquid chromatography were used to confirm the passage of intact I-SA across the BBB. I-SA entered every brain region, with the highest uptake into the hypothalamus and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Unlabeled SA (10 microg/mouse) did not inhibit uptake by brain but did inhibit clearance from blood and uptake by the CSF, colon, kidney, and liver. The decreased clearance of I-SA from blood increased the percentage of the i.v. injected dose taken up per brain (%Inj/g) from about 0.118 to 0.295%Inj/g. In conclusion, SA crosses the vascular barrier by a nonsaturable process and the choroid plexus by a saturable process in amounts that for other members of its family produce central nervous system (CNS) effects. This passage provides a pathway through which peripherally administered SA could affect the CNS.
12455944: !Autism Increased serum albumin, gamma globulin, immunoglobulin IgG, and IgG2 and IgG4 in autism.	Research on the biological pathophysiology of autism has found some evidence that immune alterations may play a role in the pathophysiology of that illness. As a consequence we expected to find that autism is accompanied by abnormalities in the pattern obtained in serum protein electrophoresis and in the serum immunoglobulin (Ig) and IgG subclass profile.	We examined whether subjects with autism showed changes in total serum protein (TSP) and the serum concentrations of albumin, alpha1 globulin, alpha2 globulin, beta globulin and gamma globulins, IgA, IgM and IgG and the IgG subclasses IgG 1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4, compared with normal controls.	We found significantly increased concentrations of TSP in autistic subjects, which were attributable to increased serum concentrations of albumin and gamma globulin. Serum IgG, IgG2 and IgG4 were also significantly raised. In autism there were significant and positive correlations between social problems and TSP and serum gamma globulin and between withdrawal symptoms and TSP and serum albumin and IgG.	The results suggest that autism is characterized by increased TSP, a unique pattern obtained in serum protein electrophoresis, i.e. increased serum albumin and IgG, and by a specific IgG subclass profile, i.e. increased serum IgG2 and IgG4. The increased serum concentrations of IgGs in autism may point towards an underlying autoimmune disorder and/or an enhanced susceptibility to infections resulting in chronic viral infections, whereas the IgG subclass skewing may reflect different cytokine-dependent influences on autoimmune B cells and their products.
12459514: !Autism Effects of neonatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion on the gene expression profile in young adult rats.	Patients with pervasive developmental disorders, including autism, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder show behavioral hyperactivity during childhood. We investigated the effects of a neonatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion on multiple gene expression in the rat striatum and midbrain. Spontaneous motor activity was significantly increased at 4-5 weeks of age. The animals were sacrificed, and the striatum and midbrain were subjected to gene expression profiling using a membrane array with 1176 kinds of cDNAs. Alterations were found in several classes of gene expression, depending on the brain region. Enhanced expression of the glutamate transporter gene was found in the striatum. Expression of the dopamine receptor D4 gene and dopamine transporter gene was also increased in the midbrain. These results suggest that 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats may partly mimic human hyperkinesia not only in behavior but also in gene expression.
12466966: !Autism Tuberin, the tuberous sclerosis complex 2 tumor suppressor gene product, regulates Rho activation, cell adhesion and migration.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a tumor suppressor gene syndrome characterized by seizures, mental retardation, autism, and tumors of the brain, kidney, heart, retina, and skin. TSC is caused by mutations in either TSC1 or TSC2, both of which are tumor suppressor genes. Hamartin, the protein product of TSC1, was found to interact with the ezrin-radixin-moesin family of cytoskeletal proteins and to activate the small GTPase Rho. To determine whether tuberin, the TSC2 product, can also activate Rho, we stably expressed full-length human tuberin in two cell types: MDCK cells and ELT3 cells. ELT3 cells lack endogenous tuberin expression. We found that expression of human tuberin in both MDCK and ELT3 cells was associated with an increase in the amount of Rho-GTP, but not in Rac1-GTP or cdc42-GTP. Tuberin expression increased cell adhesion in both cell types, and decreased chemotactic cell migration in ELT3 cells. In MDCK cells, there was a decrease in the amount of total Focal Adhesion Kinase (FAK) and an increase in the fraction of phosphorylated FAK. These findings demonstrate for the first time that tuberin activates Rho and regulates cell adhesion and migration. Pathways involving Rho activation may have relevance to the clinical manifestations of TSC, including pulmonary lymphangioleiomyomatosis.
12503647: !Autism Clinical and macroscopic correlates of minicolumnar pathology in autism.	All subcortical arrangements are primarily nuclear in type. The cortex has been the first part of the brain to evolve a radial and laminar arrangement of cells. The resultant modular arrangement is based on the cell minicolumn: a self-contained ecosystem of connectivity linking afferent, efferent, and inerneuronal connections. Recently, the cell minicolumn has been found to be abnormal in patients with autism. This article relates different aspects of the cell minicolumn and larger-scale neuronal assemblies to potential research techniques and their application to clinical practice.
12504590: !Autism Tsc2 null murine neuroepithelial cells are a model for human tuber giant cells, and show activation of an mTOR pathway.	Cortical tubers are developmental brain malformations in the tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) that cause epilepsy and autism in TSC patients whose pathogenesis is uncertain. Tsc2 null murine neuroepithelial progenitor (NEP) cells display persistent growth when growth factors are withdrawn, express GFAP at high levels, and have reduced expression of a set of early neuronal lineage markers. Tsc2 null NEP cells exhibit aberrant differentiation into giant cells that express both beta III-tubulin and GFAP and that are morphologically similar to giant cells in human tubers. Tsc2 null giant cells and tuber giant cells have similar transcriptional profiles. Tsc2 null NEP cells express high levels of phosphorylated S6kinase, S6, Stat3, and 4E-BP-1, which is reversed by treatment with rapamycin, an inhibitor of mTOR. We conclude that giant cells in human tubers likely result from a complete loss of TSC2 expression and activation of an mTOR pathway during cortical development.
12521358: !Autism Stimulation of the nervous system for the management of seizures: current and future developments.	Vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) for the treatment of refractory epilepsy appears to have started from the theory that since VNS can alter the EEG, it may influence epilepsy. It proved effective in several models of epilepsy and was then tried in short-term, open-label and double-blind trials, leading to approval in Canada, Europe and the US. Follow-up observations in these patients demonstrated continued improvement in seizure control for up to 2 years. Close to 50% of treated patients have achieved at least a 50% reduction in seizure frequency. This therapy was also useful as rescue therapy for ongoing seizures in some patients; many patients are more alert. The initial trials were completed in patients >/=12 years of age with refractory partial seizures. Subsequently, similar benefits were shown in patients with tuberous sclerosis complex, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, hypothalamic hamartomas and primary generalised seizures. Implanting the generator and leads is technically easy, and complications are few. The method of action is largely unknown, although VNS appears to alter metabolic activity in specific brain nuclei. Considering that improvement in mood is frequently found in patients using VNS, it has undergone trials in patients with depression. Other illnesses deserving exploration with this unusual therapy are Alzheimer's disease and autism. Some aspects of VNS have proven disappointing. Although patients have fewer seizures, the number of antiepileptic drugs they take is not significantly reduced. In addition, there is no way to accurately predict the end of life of the generator. Optimal stimulation parameters, if they exist, are unknown. Deep brain stimulation is a new method for controlling medically refractory seizures. It is based on the observation that thalamic stimulation can influence the EEG over a wide area. Several thalamic nuclei have been the object of stimulation in different groups of patients. Intraoperative brain imaging is essential for electrode placement. The procedure is done under local anaesthesia. Experience with this therapy is currently limited, but growing.
12535940: !Autism Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 is localized in the postsynaptic compartment: an immunochemical study of subcellular fractions.	Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 is a characteristic member of the methyl-CpG-binding protein family of transcription regulators. In conjunction with Sin3, MeCP2 recruits class I histone deacetylases to methyl-CpG regions to suppress transcription. Rett syndrome, a disorder characterized by mental retardation and autistic features, is associated in a majority of cases with mutations within the coding region of the MeCP2 gene. Considering that defective MeCP2 has mainly been related to Rett syndrome and other neurologic manifestations, we examined methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 cellular and subcellular compartmentalization in normal brain by immunochemical methods. Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 immunoreactivity is present mainly in neurons; while the few immunostained glia show label confined to nuclei, many neurons also show slight perikaryal staining. Using well-characterized tissue fractions, we found that methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 but not Sin3 is found in both nuclear and postsynaptic compartments. This novel extranuclear localization is not unique to methyl-CpG-binding protein 2, since it has been previously reported for other transcription regulators such as c-Fos. These findings support the concept that methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 may link synaptic activity and transcriptional regulation in neurons.
12581609: !Autism Finger and toe ratios in humans and mice: implications for the aetiology of diseases influenced by HOX genes.	The differentiation of gonads, fingers, and toes is influenced by HOXA and HOXD genes. Therefore variation in the development of the gonads, and their fetal products such as testosterone, may be reflected in the morphology of the fingers and toes. One trait, the relative length of the second and fourth digits (2D:4D), shows sex differences (lower values in males) which are determined early, and 2D:4D has been found to correlate with fetal growth, sperm counts, family size, autism, myocardial infarction, and breast cancer. HOX genes are highly conserved in mammals and they influence the differentiation of all the fingers and toes. We suggest that (a) 2D:4D and other ratios of finger and toe length show sex differences throughout the mammals including humans and mice, (b) finger and toe ratios correlate with sex determination, the fetal production of sex steroids, and fetal programming of disease, and (c) HOX gene influences on sex determination, the morphogenesis of the urinogenital system, fertility, haematopoiesis, and breast cancer suggests that finger and toe ratios in humans and mice may correlate with many sex dependent diseases.
12589374: !Autism Nicotine induces glutamate release from thalamocortical terminals in prefrontal cortex.	It has been proposed that activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) can activate the prefrontal cortex, enhancing attention and cognition. Nicotine can stimulate the release of several different neurotransmitters in many brain regions. In the present study, we found that stimulation of nAChRs by nicotine or the endogenous agonist, acetylcholine (ACh), induces a large spontaneous increase in glutamate release onto layer V pyramidal neurons of the prefrontal cortex. This release of glutamate, measured by spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) in the prefrontal cortical slice, depends on intact thalamocortical terminals. It can be suppressed by mu-opioids or eliminated by blocking action potentials. The increase in sEPSCs is sensitive to low concentrations of nicotine, suggesting the involvement of high-affinity (eg alpha(4)beta(2)) nAChRs. Recent work has shown alterations in prefrontal alpha(4)beta(2) nAChRs in autism and schizophrenia, two conditions that are distinguished by abnormal prefrontal cortical activation as well as difficulty in certain aspects of cognition and integrating social and emotional cues. We show that mice lacking the beta(2) nAChR subunit do not show increased sEPSCs with either nicotine or ACh, again implicating high-affinity nicotinic receptors. These findings give new insight into the mechanism by which nicotine affects excitatory neurotransmission to the output neurons of the cerebral cortex in a pathway that is critical for cognitive function and reward expectation.
12589395: !Autism Synergistic action of 5-HT2A antagonists and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in neuropsychiatric disorders.	Recently, the addition of drugs with prominent 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist properties (risperidone, olanzapine, mirtazapine, and mianserin) to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) has been shown to enhance therapeutic responses in patients with major depression and treatment-refractory obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). These 5-HT(2) antagonists may also be effective in ameliorating some symptoms associated with autism and other pervasive developmental disorders (PDDs). At the doses used, these drugs would be expected to saturate 5-HT(2A) receptors. These findings suggest that the simultaneous blockade of 5-HT(2A) receptors and activation of an unknown constellation of other 5-HT receptors indirectly as a result of 5-HT uptake inhibition might have greater therapeutic efficacy than either action alone. Animal studies have suggested that activation of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors may counteract the effects of activating 5-HT(2A) receptors. Additional 5-HT receptors, such as the 5-HT(1B/1D/5/7) receptors, may similarly counteract the effects of 5-HT(2A) receptor activation. These clinical and preclinical observations suggest that the combination of highly selective 5-HT(2A) antagonists and SSRIs, as well as strategies to combine high-potency 5-HT(2A) receptor and 5-HT transporter blockade in a single compound, offer the potential for therapeutic advances in a number of neuropsychiatric disorders.
12638514: !Autism Autism--is it really increasing?	
12659812: !Autism Cloning and characterization of human CADPS and CADPS2, new members of the Ca2+-dependent activator for secretion protein family.	The recent identification of some of the components involved in regulated and constitutive exocytotic pathways has yielded important insights into the mechanisms of membrane trafficking and vesicle secretion. To understand precisely the molecular events taking place during vesicle exocytosis, we must identify all of the proteins implicated in these pathways. In this paper we describe the full-length cloning and characterization of human CADPS and CADPS2, two new homologs of the mouse Cadps protein involved in large dense-core vesicle (LDCV)-regulated exocytosis. We show that these two genes have disparate RNA expression patterns, with CADPS restricted to neural and endocrine tissues and CADPS2 expressed ubiquitously. We also identify a C2 domain, a known protein motif involved in calcium and phospholipid interactions, in both CADPS and CADPS2. We propose that CADPS functions as a calcium sensor in regulated exocytosis, whereas CADPS2 acts as a calcium sensor in constitutive vesicle trafficking and secretion. CADPS and CADPS2 were determined to span 475 kb and 561 kb on human chromosomes 3p21.1 and 7q31.3, respectively. The q31-q34 of human chromosome 7 has recently been identified to contain a putative susceptibility locus for autism (AUTS1). The function, expression profile, and location of CADPS2 make it a candidate gene for autism, and thus we conducted mutation screening for all 28 exons in 90 unrelated autistic individuals. We identified several nucleotide substitutions, including only one that would affect the amino acid sequence. No disease-specific variants were identified.
12691871: !Autism Changes in nitric oxide levels and antioxidant enzyme activities may have a role in the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in autism.	There is evidence that oxygen free radicals play an important role in the pathophysiology of many neuropsychiatric disorders. Although it has not been investigated yet, several recent studies proposed that nitric oxide (NO) and other parameters related to oxidative stress may have a pathophysiological role in autism.	We assessed the changes in superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels in plasma as well as NO levels in red blood cells (RBC) in patients with autism (n=27) compared to age- and sex-matched normal controls (n=30).	In the autistic group, increased RBC NO levels (p<0.0001) and plasma GSH-Px activity (p<0.0001) and unchanged plasma TBARS levels and SOD activity were detected.	These findings indicate a possible role of increased oxidative stress and altered enzymatic antioxidants, both of which may be relevant to the pathophysiology of autism.
12720574: !Autism Partial duplication of the APBA2 gene in chromosome 15q13 corresponds to duplicon structures.	Chromosomal abnormalities affecting human chromosome 15q11-q13 underlie multiple genomic disorders caused by deletion, duplication and triplication of intervals in this region. These events are mediated by highly homologous segments of DNA, or duplicons, that facilitate mispairing and unequal cross-over in meiosis. The gene encoding an amyloid precursor protein-binding protein (APBA2) was previously mapped to the distal portion of the interval commonly deleted in Prader-Willi and Angelman syndromes and duplicated in cases of autism.	We show that this gene actually maps to a more telomeric location and is partially duplicated within the broader region. Two highly homologous copies of an interval containing a large 5' exon and downstream sequence are located approximately 5 Mb distal to the intact locus. The duplicated copies, containing the first coding exon of APBA2, can be distinguished by single nucleotide sequence differences and are transcriptionally inactive. Adjacent to APBA2 maps a gene termed KIAA0574. The protein encoded by this gene is weakly homologous to a protein termed X123 that in turn maps adjacent to APBA1 on 9q21.12; APBA1 is highly homologous to APBA2 in the C-terminal region and is distinguished from APBA2 by the N-terminal region encoded by this duplicated exon.	The duplication of APBA2 sequences in this region adds to a complex picture of different low copy repeats present across this region and elsewhere on the chromosome.
12723875: !Autism Collateral effects of response blocking during the treatment of stereotypic behavior.	The collateral effects of response blocking were evaluated while treating stereotypic behavior in a woman diagnosed with autism. Blocking stereotypic behavior (head and tooth capping) was associated with decreases in leisure-item interaction and increases in another stereotypic response (hand wringing). Results suggested that the reduction in item interaction was due to adventitious punishment. Prompts to access an alternative source of reinforcement attenuated the side effects somewhat, but results suggested that the undesirable effects of response blocking may be fairly durable.
12746398: !Autism The neurobeachin gene is disrupted by a translocation in a patient with idiopathic autism.	
12865381: !Autism Increased rate of head growth during infancy in autism.	
12890883: !Autism Current research on methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity: animal models of monoamine disruption.	Methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity is characterized by a long-lasting depletion of striatal dopamine (DA) and serotonin as well as damage to striatal dopaminergic and serotonergic nerve terminals. Several hypotheses regarding the mechanism underlying METH-induced neurotoxicity have been proposed. In particular, it is thought that endogenous DA in the striatum may play an important role in mediating METH-induced neuronal damage. This hypothesis is based on the observation of free radical formation and oxidative stress produced by auto-oxidation of DA consequent to its displacement from synaptic vesicles to cytoplasm. In addition, METH-induced neurotoxicity may be linked to the glutamate and nitric oxide systems within the striatum. Moreover, using knockout mice lacking the DA transporter, the vesicular monoamine transporter 2, c-fos, or nitric oxide synthetase, it was determined that these factors may be connected in some way to METH-induced neurotoxicity. Finally a role for apoptosis in METH-induced neurotoxicity has also been established including evidence of protection of bcl-2, expression of p53 protein, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL), activity of caspase-3. The neuronal damage induced by METH may reflect neurological disorders such as autism and Parkinson's disease.
12935913: !Autism The oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein gene is highly expressed during the late stages of myelination in the rat central nervous system.	Oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein (OMgp) is expressed on the surface of oligodendrocytes and neurones and is thought to inhibit axonal regeneration after brain injury in adult, like Nogo and myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG). We previously observed that the OMgp gene locus on chromosome 17 could be associated with autism, a developmental disorder. The aim of the present study was to characterise the developmental expression of OMgp mRNA in the central nervous system. First we determined the rat OMgp gene sequence and compared it with the human and mouse sequences. Several regions, putative sites for the fixation of transcription factors, are conserved between these three species in the unique intron of this gene. Using quantitative and semi-quantitative RT-PCR, we studied OMgp gene expression in rat brain during post-natal development. We found that OMgp mRNA expression was developmentally regulated, with a peak of expression in the late stages of myelination. We observed a similar profile in oligodendrocyte cultures, in absence of neurones, suggesting that OMgp mRNA expression by oligodendrocytes was independent of axonal influence. Our observations suggest that OMgp is a late marker of myelination, which could be implicated in the arrest of oligodendrocyte proliferation, arrest of myelination or compaction of myelin.
12965262: !Autism Increased seroreactivity in tic disorder patients to a 60 kDa protein band from a neuronal cell line.	In tic disorders, increased seroreactivity against neuronal antigens has been demonstrated, without performing molecular characterization of antigens. Here, unselected patients with a tic disorder were compared with healthy controls, autistic disorder (AD), and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) patients. Seroreactivity against neuroblastoma cells was analyzed by Western blot. Anti-60 kDa binding occurred significantly more frequently in tic disorder patients (67.1%) than in AD (40.0%), OCD (40.0%) and healthy controls (41.9%). Sequence analysis of the 60 kDa protein band identified this as a ubiquitous heat shock protein. However, the involvement of other autoantigens with a molecular weight of 60 kDa cannot be excluded.
14187568: !Autism SHADOW THERAPY.	
14514034: !Autism Secretin activates visceral brain regions in the rat including areas abnormal in autism.	1. The aim of this study was to determine whether central networks are involved in the presumptive behavioral and autonomic regulatory actions of secretin, a gut hormone that has been reported to have ameliorative effects in autistic children. 2. Central neural responses monitored by regional c-fos gene expression were examined in response to intracerebroventricular secretin injection in awake, freely-moving Sprague-Dawley rats. Tissue sections were incubated in an antibody to the c-fos gene product, Fos, and processed immunohistochemically. 3. Qualitative differences in Fos immunoreactivity in stress adaptation and visceral representation areas of the brain were observed between secretin- and vehicle-infused age-matched pairs (n = 4 pairs). Secretin-activated regions include the area postrema, dorsal motor nucleus, medial region of the nucleus of the solitary tract and its relay station in the lateral tegmentum, locus ceruleus, ventral periaqueductal gray, periventricular thalamic nucleus, paraventricular hypothalamus magnocellularis, medial and central amygdala, lateral septal complex as well as ependymal and subependymal nuclei lining the third ventricle. Specific areas of the cerebral cortex were heavily labeled in secretin-treated rats, as compared to controls: the medial bank of the anterior prefrontal cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, the piriform cortex. and the anterior olfactory nucleus. Secretin attenuated Fos immunoreactivity in the dorsal periaqueductal gray, intralaminar thalamus, medial parvicellular compartment of the hypothalamus, supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus, lateral amygdala, motor cortex, and the somatosensory and association areas of the parietal cortex. 4. Secretin alters the activity of structures involved in behavioral conditioning of stress adaptation and visceral reflex reactions. This study predicts a possible cellular mechanism, activation of third ventricular ependymal and subependymal cells, as well as central regulatory actions of secretin. The physiological effects of secretin on behavioral, endocrine, autonomic and sensory neuronal activation patterns, together, contribute to central c-fos activation. Secretin alters the activity of structures involved in behavioral conditioning of stress adaptation and visceral reflex reactions. This study predicts a possible cellular mechanism, activation of third ventricular ependymal and subependymal cells, and central regulatory actions of secretin. The physiological effects of secretin on behavioral, endocrine, autonomic and sensory neuronal activation patterns, together, contribute to central c-fos activation. These findings mandate further investigation of secretin as a brain/gut stress regulatory hormone.
14585602: !Autism Making connections: cholinesterase-domain proteins in the CNS.	Recent studies have highlighted novel functions of a group of cell adhesion molecules during nervous system development. Members of this protein family are characterized by an extracellular domain with sequence homology to cholinesterases and include the neuroligins, synaptic cell adhesion molecules recently implicated in autism, and neurotactin, a cell surface receptor involved in axonal pathfinding. Although these proteins have a structural organization similar to the enzyme acetylcholinesterase, the cholinesterase domain lacks enzymatic activity and functions as a protein-protein interaction motif. This protein family provides a striking example of how the function of a catalytically active domain has evolved to mediate receptor-ligand interactions that regulate morphogenetic processes during development of the nervous system.
14585753: !Autism A hypothalamic digoxin-mediated model for autism.	The isoprenoid pathway and its metabolites--digoxin, dolichol, and ubiquinone--were assessed in autism. The isoprenoid pathway and digoxin status was also studied for comparison in individuals of differing hemispheric dominance to determine the role of cerebral dominance in the genesis of autism. There was an upregulation of the isoprenoid pathway as evidenced by elevated HMG CoA reductase activity in autism. Digoxin, an endogenous Na+-K+ ATPase inhibitor secreted by the hypothalamus, was found to be elevated and RBC membrane Na+-K+ ATPase activity was found to be reduced in autism. Membrane Na+-K+ ATPase inhibition can result in increased intracellular Ca2+ and reduced magnesium levels. Hypothalamic digoxin can modulate conscious and subliminal perception and its dysfunction may lead to autism. Digoxin can also preferentially upregulate tryptophan transport over tyrosine resulting in increased levels of depolarizing tryptophan catabolites--serotonin, quinolinic acid (NMDA agonist), strychnine (blocks glycinergic inhibitory transmission), and nicotine (promotes dopamine release) and decreased levels of hyperpolarizing tyrosine catabolites--dopamine, noradrenaline, and morphine--contributing to membrane Na+-K+ ATPase inhibition. Increased nicotine levels can produce increased dopaminergic transmission in the presence of low dopamine levels. NMDA excitotoxicity could result from hypomagnesemia induced by membrane Na+-K+ ATPase inhibition and quinolinic acid, an NMDA agonist acting on the NMDA receptor. Hypomagnesemia and increased dolichol level can affect glycoconjugate metabolism and membranogenesis leading on to disordered synaptic connectivity in the limbic allocortex and defective presentation of viral antigens and neuronal antigens contributing to autoimmunity and viral persistence important in the pathogenesis. Membrane Na+-K+ ATPase inhibition can produce immune activation, a component of autoimmunity. Mitochondrial dysfunction consequent to altered calcium/magnesium ratios and reduced ubiquinone levels can result in increased free radical generation and reduced free radical scavenging and defective apoptosis leading to abnormal synaptogenesis. Autism can thus be considered a syndrome of hypothalamic digoxin hypersecretion consequent to an upregulated isoprenoid pathway. The biochemical patterns including hyperdigoxinemia observed in autism correlated with those obtained in right hemispheric chemical dominance. Right hemispheric chemical dominance is a predisposing factor for autism.
14593116: !Autism Necdin-related MAGE proteins differentially interact with the E2F1 transcription factor and the p75 neurotrophin receptor.	Necdin is a growth suppressor expressed predominantly in postmitotic neurons and implicated in their terminal differentiation. Necdin shows a moderate homology to the MAGE family proteins, the functional roles of which are largely unknown. Human genes encoding necdin, MAGEL2 (necdin-like 1), and MAGE-G1 (necdin-like 2) are located in proximal chromosome 15q, a region associated with neurodevelopmental disorders such as Prader-Willi syndrome, Angelman syndrome, and autistic disorder. The necdin and MAGEL2 genes are subjected to genomic imprinting and suggested to be involved in the etiology of Prader-Willi syndrome. In this study, we compared biochemical and functional characteristics of murine orthologs of these necdin-related MAGE proteins. The colony formation and bromodeoxyuridine incorporation analyses revealed that necdin and MAGE-G1, but not MAGEL2, induced growth arrest. Necdin and MAGE-G1 interacted with the transcription factor E2F1 via its transactivation domain, repressed E2F1-dependent transcription, and antagonized E2F1-induced apoptosis of N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells. In addition, necdin and MAGE-G1 interacted with the p75 neurotrophin receptor via its distinct intracellular domains. In contrast, MAGEL2 failed to bind to these necdin interactors, suggesting that MAGEL2 has no necdin-like function in developing brain. Overexpression of p75 translocated necdin and MAGE-G1 in the proximity of the plasma membrane and reduced their association with E2F1 to facilitate E2F1-induced death of neuroblastoma cells. These results suggest that necdin and MAGE-G1 target both E2F1 and p75 to regulate cell viability during brain development.
14611720: !Autism Infections, toxic chemicals and dietary peptides binding to lymphocyte receptors and tissue enzymes are major instigators of autoimmunity in autism.	Similar to many complex autoimmune diseases, genetic and environmental factors including diet, infection and xenobiotics play a critical role in the development of autism. In this study, we postulated that infectious agent antigens such as streptokinase, dietary peptides (gliadin and casein) and ethyl mercury (xenobiotic) bind to different lymphocyte receptors and tissue enzyme (DPP IV or CD26). We assessed this hypothesis first by measuring IgG, IgM and IgA antibodies against CD26, CD69, streptokinase (SK), gliadin and casein peptides and against ethyl mercury bound to human serum albumin in patients with autism. A significant percentage of children with autism developed anti-SK, anti-gliadin and casein peptides and anti-ethyl mercury antibodies, concomitant with the appearance of anti-CD26 and anti-CD69 autoantibodies. These antibodies are synthesized as a result of SK, gliadin, casein and ethyl mercury binding to CD26 and CD69, indicating that they are specific. Immune absorption demonstrated that only specific antigens, like CD26, were capable of significantly reducing serum anti-CD26 levels. However, for direct demonstration of SK, gliadin, casein and ethyl mercury to CD26 or CD69, microtiter wells were coated with CD26 or CD69 alone or in combination with SK, gliadin, casein or ethyl mercury and then reacted with enzyme labeled rabbit anti-CD26 or anti-CD69. Adding these molecules to CD26 or CD69 resulted in 28-86% inhibition of CD26 or CD69 binding to anti-CD26 or anti-CD69 antibodies. The highest % binding of these antigens or peptides to CD26 or CD69 was attributed to SK and the lowest to casein peptides. We, therefore, propose that bacterial antigens (SK), dietary peptides (gliadin, casein) and Thimerosal (ethyl mercury) in individuals with pre-disposing HLA molecules, bind to CD26 or CD69 and induce antibodies against these molecules. In conclusion, this study is apparently the first to demonstrate that dietary peptides, bacterial toxins and xenobiotics bind to lymphocyte receptors and/or tissue enzymes, resulting in autoimmune reaction in children with autism.
14635258: !Autism Synapse signalling complexes and networks: machines underlying cognition.	All thoughts and actions are encoded in patterns of neuronal electrical activity. Circuits of nerve cells connected by synapses are dedicated to processing information in these patterns. Information is not only transmitted across the synapse but also monitored by postsynaptic molecular machines. These machines are macromolecular complexes of approximately 100 proteins organised into a network of protein interactions. The network can be mathematically described as a scale-free network. Components of the complexes are necessary for decoding the neural code and converting electrical information into biochemical changes. The network properties of these complexes may explain many of the features of neuronal plasticity and cognitive function in rodents. Importantly, these multiprotein complexes and their network properties shed new light on the basis of human cognitive diseases including schizophrenia, autism, Huntington's disease and mental retardation. Supplementary material for this article can be found on the BioEssays website http://www.interscience.wiley.com/jpages/0265-9247/suppmat/index.html.
14715495: !Autism Secretin depolarizes nucleus tractus solitarius neurons through activation of a nonselective cationic conductance.	The recent suggestion that secretin may be useful in treating autism and schizophrenia has begun to focus attention on the mechanisms underlying this gut-brain peptide's actions in the central nervous system (CNS). In vitro autoradiographic localization of (125)I-secretin binding sites in rat brain shows the highest binding density in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). Recent evidence suggests that intravenous infusion of secretin causes fos activation in NTS, a relay station playing important roles in the central regulation of autonomic functions. In this study, whole cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from 127 NTS neurons in rat medullary slices. The mean resting membrane potential of these neurons was -54.7 +/- 0.3 mV, the mean input resistance was 3.7 +/- 0.2 GOmega, and the action potential amplitude of these neurons was always >70 mV. Current-clamp studies showed that bath application of secretin depolarized the majority (80.8%; 42/52) of NTS neurons tested, whereas the remaining cells were either unaffected (17.3%; 9/52) or hyperpolarized (1.9%; 1/52). These depolarizing effects were maintained in the presence of 5 microM TTX and found to be concentration dependent from 10(-12) to 10(-7) M. Using voltage-clamp techniques, we also identified modulatory actions of secretin on specific ion channels. Our results demonstrate that while secretin is without effect on net whole cell potassium currents, it activates a nonselective cationic conductance (NSCC). These results show that NTS neurons are activated by secretin as a consequence of activation of a NSCC and support the emerging view that secretin can act as a neuropeptide within the CNS.
14972085: !Autism Genetics of vasopressin receptors.	Membrane receptors that couple to guanine nucleotide binding protein (GPCRs) represent one of the largest families of proteins in the genome. Because of their universal distribution and multiple actions, genetic variations of GPCRs are associated with various human diseases. For instance, the clinical phenotype of congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus has been linked to more than 155 loss-of-function putative mutations of the arginine vasopressin (AVP) V(2) receptor, which span each and every segment of this seven-transmembrane domain receptor. These mutant receptors, which are mostly trapped in the endoplasmic reticulum, can be rescued by membrane-permeant nonpeptidic AVP receptor antagonists. An overexpression of V(1)-vascular and V(3)-pituitary AVP receptors has been observed in some endocrine tumors. The single nucleotide polymorphism of AVP receptors in the context of complex genetic traits is currently being investigated, and preliminary findings have been reported in arterial hypertension and autism.
14999811: !Autism Expression profiling in tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) knockout mouse astrocytes to characterize human TSC brain pathology.	Individuals with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) exhibit a variety of neurologic abnormalities, including mental retardation, epilepsy, and autism. Examination of human TSC brains demonstrate dysplastic astrocytes and neurons, areas of abnormal neuronal migration (tubers), and hamartomatous growths, termed subependymal nodules, which can progress to subependymal giant cell astrocytomas (SEGA). Previous studies have suggested that these neuropathologic features may result from abnormal neuroglial cell differentiation. In an effort to provide support for this hypothesis and to identify specific markers of aberrant neuroglial cell differentiation in TSC, we employed gene expression profiling on Tsc1 conditional knockout (Tsc1(GFAP)CKO) mouse astrocytes. We identified several transcripts implicated in central nervous system development that are differentially expressed in Tsc1(-/-) astrocytes compared to wild-type astrocytes. We validated the differential expression of select transcripts on the protein level both in primary cultures of Tsc1(-/-) astrocytes and in Tsc1(GFAP)CKO mouse brains. Moreover, we show that these markers are also differentially expressed within cortical tubers, but not in adjacent normal tissue from TSC patient brains. This study provides supportive evidence for a developmental defect in neuroglial cell differentiation relevant to the genesis of TSC nervous system pathology and underscores the utility of mouse modeling for understanding the molecular pathogenesis of human disease.
15006702: !Autism Characterization of the various forms of the Reelin protein in the cerebrospinal fluid of normal subjects and in neurological diseases.	Reelin is a large extracellular glycoprotein that is defective in reeler mutant mice and plays a well-established role during brain development in human as well as rodents. In the adult brain, Reelin is expressed in a subset of GABAergic interneurons. Its role in disease states is not clearly defined, although it is implicated in autism and psychoses such as schizophrenia. In this report, we show that Reelin immunoreactive proteins can be detected in the human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with monoclonal antibodies directed against the N- and C-terminal regions of the protein. In CSF, Reelin is present as different products due to processing at two main sites; preservation at -20 degrees C increases processing further. CSF Reelin originates from the brain tissue and not from plasma. The protein was detected in comparable concentrations in children and adults, and the signal varied largely from subject to subject with no obvious correlation with age or neurological disease state.
15033926: !Autism Persistent, noncytolytic infection of neurons by Borna disease virus interferes with ERK 1/2 signaling and abrogates BDNF-induced synaptogenesis.	Infection of the central nervous system by Borna disease virus (BDV) provides a unique model to study the mechanisms whereby a persistent viral infection can impair neuronal function and cause behavioral diseases reminiscent of mood disorders, schizophrenia, or autism in humans. In the present work, we studied the effect of BDV infection on the response of hippocampal neurons, the main target for this virus, to the neurotrophin BDNF. We showed that persistent infection did not affect neuronal survival or morphology. However, it blocked BDNF-induced ERK 1/2 phosphorylation, despite normal expression of the TrkB BDNF receptor. In addition, BDNF-induced expression of synaptic vesicle proteins was abrogated, which resulted in severely impaired synaptogenesis and defects in synaptic organization. Thus, we provide the first evidence that a virus can interfere specifically with neurotrophin-regulated neuroplasticity, thereby hampering proper neuronal connectivity. These results may help to understand the behavioral disorders associated with BDV infection.
15046869: !Autism Molecular analysis of nicotinic receptor expression in autism.	Autism is a developmental disorder of unknown aetiopathology and lacking any specific pharmacological therapeutic intervention. Neurotransmitters such as serotonin, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and acetylcholine have been implicated. Abnormalities in nicotinic acetylcholine receptors have been identified including cortical loss of binding to the alpha4/beta2 subtype and increase in cerebellar alpha7 binding. Receptor expression (mRNA) has not so far been systematically examined. This study aims to further explore the role of nicotinic receptors in autism by analysing nicotinic receptor subunit mRNA in conjunction with protein levels and receptor binding in different brain areas. Quantitative RT-PCR for alpha4, alpha7 and beta2 subunit mRNA expression levels; alpha3, alpha4, alpha7 and beta2 subunit protein expression immunochemistry and specific radioligand receptor binding were performed in adult autism and control brain samples from cerebral cortex and cerebellum. Alpha4 and beta2 protein expression and receptor binding density as well as alpha4 mRNA levels were lower in parietal cortex in autism, while alpha7 did not change for any of these parameters. In cerebellum, alpha4 mRNA expression was increased, whereas subunit protein and receptor levels were decreased. Alpha7 receptor binding in cerebellum was increased alongside non-significant elevations in mRNA and protein expression levels. No significant changes were found for beta2 in cerebellum. The data obtained, using complementary measures of receptor expression, indicate that reduced gene expression of the alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptor in the cerebral cortex is a major feature of the neurochemical pathology of autism, whilst post-transcriptional abnormalities of both this and the alpha7 subtype are apparent in the cerebellum. The findings point to dendritic and/or synaptic nicotinic receptor abnormalities that may relate to disruptions in cerebral circuitry development.
15134484: !Autism Passage of VIP/PACAP/secretin family across the blood-brain barrier: therapeutic effects.	In recent years, VIP/PACAP/secretin family has special interest. Family members are vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), secretin, glucagon, glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP(1)), GLP(2), gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP), growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH or GRF), and peptide histidine methionine (PHM). Most of the family members present both in central nervous system (CNS) and in various peripheral tissues. The family members that are released into blood from periphery, especially gut, circulate the brain and they can cross the blood brain barrier. On the other hand, some of the members of this family that present in the brain, can cross from brain to blood and reach the peripheral targets. VIP, secretin, GLP(1), and PACAP 27 are transported into the brain by transmembrane diffusion, a non-saturable mechanism. However, uptake of PACAP 38 into the brain is saturable mechanism. While there is no report for the passage of GIP, GLP(2), and PHM, there is only one report that shows, glucagon and GHRH can cross the BBB. The passage of VIP/PACAP/secretin family members opens up new horizon for understanding of CNS effects of peripherally administrated peptides. There is much hope that those peptides may prove to be useful in the treatment of serious neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, amyotropic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, AIDS related neuropathy, diabetic neuropathy, autism, stroke and nerve injury. Their benefits in various pathophysiologic conditions undoubtly motivate the development of a novel drug design for future therapeutics.
15138176: !Autism Heat shock protein and gliadin peptide promote development of peptidase antibodies in children with autism and patients with autoimmune disease.	Searching for a mechanism underlying autoimmunity in autism, we postulated that gliadin peptides, heat shock protein 60 (HSP-60), and streptokinase (SK) bind to different peptidases resulting in autoantibody production against these components. We assessed this hypothesis in patients with autism and in those with mixed connective tissue diseases. Associated with antigliadin and anti-HSP antibodies, children with autism and patients with autoimmune disease developed anti-dipeptidylpeptidase I (DPP I), anti-dipeptidylpeptidase IV (DPP IV [or CD26]) and anti-aminopeptidase N (CD13) autoantibodies. A significant percentage of autoimmune and autistic sera were associated with elevated immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, or IgA antibodies against three peptidases, gliadin, and HSP-60. These antibodies are specific, since immune absorption demonstrated that only specific antigens (e.g., DPP IV absorption of anti-DPP IV), significantly reduced IgG, IgM, and IgA antibody levels. For direct demonstration of SK, HSP-60, and gliadin peptide binding to DPP IV, microtiter wells coated with DPP IV were reacted with SK, HSP-60, and gliadin. They were then reacted with anti-DPP IV or anti-SK, anti-HSP, and antigliadin antibodies. Adding SK, HSP-60, and gliadin peptides to DPP IV resulted in 27 to 43% inhibition of the DPP IV-anti-DPP IV reaction, but DPP IV-positive peptides caused 18 to 20% enhancement of antigen-antibody reactions. We propose that (i) superantigens (e.g., SK and HSP-60) and dietary proteins (e.g., gliadin peptides) in individuals with predisposing HLA molecules bind to aminopeptidases and (ii) they induce autoantibodies to peptides and tissue antigens. Dysfunctional membrane peptidases and autoantibody production may result in neuroimmune dysregulation and autoimmunity.
15150161: !Autism Disorder-associated mutations lead to functional inactivation of neuroligins.	Autism is a neuro-developmental syndrome that affects 0.1-0.5% of the population. It has been proposed that alterations in neuronal circuitry and/or neuronal signaling are responsible for the behavioral and cognitive aberrations in autism patients. However, the cellular basis of such alterations is unknown. Recently, point mutations in a family of neuronal cell adhesion molecules called neuroligins have been linked to autism-spectrum disorders and mental retardation. We investigated the consequences of these disease-associated mutations on neuroligin function. We demonstrate that the point mutation at arginine 451 and a nonsense mutation at aspartate 396 of neuroligin-3 and -4 (NL3 and NL4), respectively, result in intracellular retention of the mutant proteins. Over-expression of wild-type NL3 and NL4 proteins in hippocampal neurons stimulates the formation of presynaptic terminals, whereas the disease-associated mutations result in a loss of this synaptic function. Our findings suggest that the previously identified mutations in neuroligin genes are likely to be relevant for the neuro-developmental defects in autism-spectrum disorders and mental retardation since they impair the function of a synaptic cell adhesion molecule.
15150271: !Autism Regulation of B-Raf kinase activity by tuberin and Rheb is mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-independent.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a tumor suppressor gene syndrome with manifestations that can include seizures, mental retardation, autism, and tumors in the brain, retina, kidney, heart, and skin. The products of the TSC1 and TSC2 genes, hamartin and tuberin, respectively, heterodimerize and inhibit the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). We found that tuberin expression increases p42/44 MAPK phosphorylation and B-Raf kinase activity. Short interfering RNA down-regulation of tuberin decreased the p42/44 MAPK phosphorylation and B-Raf activity. Expression of Rheb, the target of the GTPase-activating domain of tuberin, inhibited wild-type B-Raf kinase but not activated forms of B-Raf. The interaction of endogenous Rheb with B-Raf was enhanced by serum and by Ras overexpression. A farnesylation-defective mutant of Rheb co-immunoprecipitated with and inhibited B-Raf but did not activate ribosomal protein S6 kinase, indicating that farnesylation is not required for B-Raf inhibition by Rheb and that B-Raf inhibition and S6 kinase activation are separable activities of Rheb. Consistent with this, inhibition of B-Raf and p42/44 MAPK by Rheb was resistant to rapamycin in contrast to Rheb activation of S6 kinase, which is rapamycin-sensitive. Taken together these data demonstrate that inhibition of B-Raf kinase via Rheb is an mTOR-independent function of tuberin.
15152050: !Autism The Arg451Cys-neuroligin-3 mutation associated with autism reveals a defect in protein processing.	The neuroligins are a family of postsynaptic transmembrane proteins that associate with presynaptic partners, the beta-neurexins. Neurexins and neuroligins play a critical role in initiating formation and differentiation of synaptic junctions. A recent study reported that a mutation of neuroligin-3 (NL3), an X-linked gene, was found in siblings with autistic spectrum disorder in which two affected brothers had a point mutation that substituted a Cys for Arg451. To characterize the mutation at the biochemical level, we analyzed expression and activity of the mutated protein. Mass spectrometry comparison of the disulfide bonding pattern between the native and the mutated proteins indicates the absence of aberrant disulfide bonding, suggesting that the secondary structure of the mutated protein is conserved. However, the mutation separately affects protein expression and activity. The Cys mutation causes defective neuroligin trafficking, leading to retention of the protein in the endoplasmic reticulum. This, in turn, decreases the delivery of NL3 to the cell surface. Also, the small fraction of protein that reaches the cell membrane lacks or has markedly diminished beta-neurexin-1 (NX1beta) binding activity. Other substitutions for Arg451 allow for normal cellular expression but diminished affinity for NX1beta. Our findings reveal a cellular phenotype and loss of function for a congenital mutation associated with autistic spectrum disorders.
15154680: !Autism Neonatal impact of leukemia inhibitory factor on neurobehavioral development in rats.	Cytokines have been implicated in the etiology or pathology of various psychiatric diseases of developmental origin such as autism and schizophrenia. Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is induced by a variety of brain insults and known to have many influences on mature and immature nervous system. Here, we assessed the neurobehavioral and pathological consequences of peripheral administration of LIF in newborn rats. Subcutaneous LIF injection induced STAT3 phosphorylation in many brain regions and increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity in the neocortex, suggesting that LIF had direct effects in the central nervous system. The LIF-treated rats displayed decreased motor activity during juvenile stages, and developed abnormal prepulse inhibition in the acoustic startle test during and after adolescence. They displayed normal learning ability in active avoidance test, however. Brain neuronal structures and startle responses were grossly normal, except for the cortical astrogliosis during neonatal LIF administration. These results indicate that LIF induction in the periphery of the infant has a significant, but discrete impact on neurobehavioral development.
15176437: !Autism Secretin: hypothalamic distribution and hypothesized neuroregulatory role in autism.	1. This study aims (1) to determine whether secretin is synthesized centrally, specifically by the HPA axis and (2) to discuss, on the basis of the findings in this and previous studies, secretin's possible neuroregulatory role in autism. 2. An immunocytochemical technique with single-cell resolution was performed in 12 age/weight-matched male rats pretreated with stereotaxic microinjection of colchicine (0.6 microg/kg) or vehicle into the lateral ventricle. Following 2-day survival, rats were anesthetized and perfused for immunocytochemistry. Brain segments were blocked and alternate frozen 30-microm sections incubated in rabbit antibodies against secretin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, glucagon, or pituitary-adenylate-cyclase-activating peptide. Adjacent sections were processed for Nissl stain. Preadsorption studies were performed with members of the secretin peptide family to demonstrate primary antibody specificity. 3. Specificity of secretin immunoreactivity (ir) was verified by clear-cut preadsorption control data and relatively high concentrations and distinct topographic localization of secretin ir to paraventricular/supraoptic and intercalated hypothalamic nuclei. Secretin levels were upregulated by colchicine, an exemplar of homeostatic stressors, as compared with low constitutive expression in untreated rats. 4. This study provides the first direct immunocytochemical demonstration of secretinergic immunoreactivity in the forebrain and offers evidence that the hypothalamus, like the gut, is capable of synthesizing secretin. Secretin's dual expression by gut and brain secretin cells, as well as its overlapping central distribution with other stress-adaptation neurohormones, especially oxytocin, indicates that it is stress-sensitive. A neuroregulatory relationship between the peripheral and central stress response systems is suggested, as is a dual role for secretin in conditioning both of those stress-adaptation systems. Colchicine-induced upregulation of secretin indicates that secretin may be synthesized on demand in response to stress, a possible mechanism of action that may underlie secretin's role in autism.
15194870: !Autism Elevated adrenomedullin mRNA in lymphoblastoid cells from schizophrenic patients.	Adrenomedullin (ADM) is a 52 amino acid peptide with multiple physiological functions and wide tissue distributions including brain. Recently, elevated plasma levels of ADM were found in patients with schizophrenia, bipolar affective disorder and autism, suggesting the involvement of ADM in the pathophysiology of mental diseases. Using real-time quantitative PCR, we compared the ADM mRNA levels in lymphoblastoid cell lines between schizophrenic patients and controls. Male but not female schizophrenia patients had 2- to 3-fold higher ADM mRNA levels than controls (p<0.01). Our data support that ADM may be associated with the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, although the cause of the association needs further study.
15205966: !Autism Increased oxidative stress and altered activities of erythrocyte free radical scavenging enzymes in autism.	There is great evidence in recent years that oxygen free radicals play an important role in the pathophysiology of many neuropsychiatric disorders. The present study was performed to assess the changes in red blood cells thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels, and superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), adenosine deaminase (ADA) and xanthine oxidase (XO) activities in patients with autism (n = 27) compared to age- and sex-matched normal controls (n = 26). In the autistic group, increased TBARS levels (p < 0.001) and XO (p < 0.001) and SOD (p < 0.001) activity, decreased CAT (p < 0.001) activity and unchanged ADA activity were detected. It is proposed that antioxidant status may be changed in autism and this new situation may induce lipid peroxidation. These findings indicated a possible role of increased oxidative stress and altered enzymatic antioxidants, both of which may be relevant to the pathophysiology of autism.
15219872: !Autism Increased seizure susceptibility and cortical malformation in beta-catenin mutant mice.	Beta-catenin has been implicated in epilepsy because of its altered post seizure expression and the role of Wnt2 signaling in autism. To determine beta-catenin's role in seizure susceptibility, we injected penetylenetetrazol intraperitoneally in beta-catenin cerebral cortex- and hippocampus-specific knockout mice. We then analyzed the latency, number, and duration of four phases of seizure behaviors: (I) non-seizure activity, (II) myoclonic jerks, (III) generalized clonic seizures, and (IV) tonic seizures. The latencies to both death and Phase IV were significantly reduced in mutant mice. Mutant mice also spent significantly more time in Phases III and IV and showed significantly less time in the non-convulsive state (Phase I). Nissl and gold chloride staining indicated that the knockout mice had underdeveloped cortices, lacked a corpus callosum, and were missing hippocampal structures. This suggests that dysfunction of beta-catenin-mediated signaling pathways in mice leads to cortical malformation and increased seizure susceptibility.
15223250: !Autism Autoantibody repertoires to brain tissue in autism nuclear families.	The hypothesis of an immune dysfunction in autism spectrum disorders has previously been put forward without, however, compelling evidence of a direct relation to its etiology or pathogenesis. To further understand if autoimmunity could play a significant role in autism, we analyzed autoantibody repertoires to brain tissue extract in the plasma of 171 autism children, their parents, and 54 controls, by quantitative immunoblotting. Multiparametric analysis revealed significant differences between patients and controls, and showed that one single reactivity in Section 32 of the blot had the most power to discriminate between these samples. Family correlation coefficients and heritability estimates did not provide any evidence that this reactivity was genetically determined. While the molecular weight of the target protein suggested that it might be an isoform of Myelin Basic Protein (MBP), inhibition assays with human MBP argued against this hypothesis. The study evidences the widespread occurrence of autoreactivities to brain tissue in autism patients, which may represent the immune system's neuroprotective response to a previous brain injury occurred during neurodevelopment. The molecular identification of the target protein in Section 32 will contribute to the understanding of the role of immune responses against brain antigens in autistic patients.
15249687: !Autism The human and African green monkey TRIM5alpha genes encode Ref1 and Lv1 retroviral restriction factor activities.	The rhesus macaque tripartite motif containing protein TRIM5alpha specifically restricts HIV-1 infection at an early post-entry step before reverse transcription [Stremlau, M., Owens, C. M., Perron, M. J., Kiessling, M., Autissier, P. & Sodroski, J. (2004) Nature 427, 848-853]. Here, we show that the human and African green monkey (AGM) TRIM5alpha genes encode Ref1 and Lv1 antiretroviral activities, respectively. Expression of TRIM5alpha in permissive cat cells renders them resistant to restriction-sensitive murine leukemia virus but not closely related insensitive virus. Disruption of TRIM5alpha expression in human and AGM cells with small interfering RNA rescues infectivity of restricted virus without affecting unrestricted virus. We also demonstrate that the activity of the murine restriction factor Fv1 depends on TRIM5alpha expression when Fv1 is expressed in human cells. Furthermore, a drug that modifies the behavior of the related promyelocytic leukemia protein PML specifically rescues infection by viruses restricted by human TRIM5alpha. Alignment of the TRIM5alpha proteins from rhesus macaque and AGM indicates an 18-aa insertion. We speculate that this insertion may contribute to the broader specificity of the AGM TRIM5alpha restriction as compared with the human and rhesus macaque proteins.
15261854: !Autism Primary motor cortex activation during action observation revealed by wavelet analysis of the EEG.	We characterised the spectral response of the EEG to median nerve stimulation using wavelet analysis, and compared the relative magnitudes of effect of several different action-observation conditions on the beta and mu 'rebound' rhythms.	EEG responses to median nerve stimulation were recorded from 8 normal adult subjects during baseline or action-observation conditions. Analysis was performed by convolution of the EEG with a family of wavelets.	Decreased power in the mu and beta bands characterized the EEG following median nerve stimulation until 500 ms post-stimulus, followed by increased amplitudes ('rebound') of both rhythms. Execution of movement, observation of object-directed movement and observation of somatosensory stimulation all caused a decreased rebound of the beta rhythm whereas observation of aimless thumb movement did not.	Wavelet analysis of the EEG extracted similar features reported in previous studies using bandpass filtering with respect to the activation state of the motor cortex during action observation. Further, our results show that observation of somatosensory stimulation alone is sufficient to cause significant modulation of motor cortex activity.	These results add further details as to what stimuli can activate the human mirror neuron system and the analytical techniques used may be useful for future studies of clinical populations such as autistic patients.
15286835: !Autism Involvement of C4 allotypes in the pathogenesis of human diseases.	The complement system is an important humoral defense mechanism that plays a relevant role against microbial agents, inflammatory response control, and immunocomplex clearance. Classical complement pathway activation is antibody-dependent. The C4 component participates in the initial step of activation, and C4 expression is determined by 2 pairs of allotypes: C4A and C4B. Deficiencies in C4 allotypes have been associated with several diseases. The aim of the present review is evaluate the reported data in the literature regarding specific C4A and C4B deficiencies and characterize their clinical relevance. We searched the MEDLINE and LILACS databases. Papers referring to total C4 deficiency without allotype evaluation and case reports of primary C4 deficiency were not included. Deficiencies in C4 allotypes have been associated with Mycobacterium leprae infection, erythema nodosum, systemic sclerosis with anti-topoisomerase I antibodies, intermediate congenital adrenal hyperplasia with DR5 genotype, diabetes mellitus type 1 with DR3,4 genotype, and diabetes mellitus with antibodies against islet cells. C4 allotype deficiency is also related to C4B deficiency and autoimmune-associated diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, or diseases with an autoimmune component, such as autism. Some reports associate C4A with thyroiditis after delivery as well as limited and systemic sclerosis without anti-topoisomerase I antibodies. However, the studies with C4A and C4B have been concentrated in isolated populations, and some of the studies could not be reproduced by other authors.
15316014: !Autism Calmodulin mediates Ca2+ sensitivity of sodium channels.	Ca2+ has been proposed to regulate Na+ channels through the action of calmodulin (CaM) bound to an IQ motif or through direct binding to a paired EF hand motif in the Nav1 C terminus. Mutations within these sites cause cardiac arrhythmias or autism, but details about how Ca2+ confers sensitivity are poorly understood. Studies on the homologous Cav1.2 channel revealed non-canonical CaM interactions, providing a framework for exploring Na+ channels. In contrast to previous reports, we found that Ca2+ does not bind directly to Na+ channel C termini. Rather, Ca2+ sensitivity appears to be mediated by CaM bound to the C termini in a manner that differs significantly from CaM regulation of Cav1.2. In Nav1.2 or Nav1.5, CaM bound to a localized region containing the IQ motif and did not support the large Ca(2+)-dependent conformational change seen in the Cav1.2.CaM complex. Furthermore, CaM binding to Nav1 C termini lowered Ca2+ binding affinity and cooperativity among the CaM-binding sites compared with CaM alone. Nonetheless, we found suggestive evidence for Ca2+/CaM-dependent effects upon Nav1 channels. The R1902C autism mutation conferred a Ca(2+)-dependent conformational change in Nav1.2 C terminus.CaM complex that was absent in the wild-type complex. In Nav1.5, CaM modulates the Cterminal interaction with the III-IV linker, which has been suggested as necessary to stabilize the inactivation gate, to minimize sustained channel activity during depolarization, and to prevent cardiac arrhythmias that lead to sudden death. Together, these data offer new biochemical evidence for Ca2+/CaM modulation of Na+ channel function.
15345242: !Autism The transcriptional repressor Mecp2 regulates terminal neuronal differentiation.	Rett syndrome (RTT) is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with features of autism that results from mutation of the gene encoding the transcriptional repressor methyl-CpG binding protein (MECP2). The consequences of loss of a transcription factor may be complex, affecting the expression of many proteins, thus limiting understanding of this class of diseases and impeding therapeutic strategies. This is true for RTT. Neither the cell biological mechanism(s) nor the developmental stage affected by MECP2 deficiency is known. In vivo analysis of the olfactory system demonstrates that Mecp2 deficiency leads to a transient delay in the terminal differentiation of olfactory neurons. This delay in maturation disrupts axonal targeting in the olfactory bulb, resulting in abnormal axonal projections, subglomerular disorganization, and a persistent reduction in glomerular size. These results indicate a critical cell biological function for Mecp2 in mediating the final stages of neuronal development.
15454078: !Autism Ca(V)1.2 calcium channel dysfunction causes a multisystem disorder including arrhythmia and autism.	Ca(V)1.2, the cardiac L-type calcium channel, is important for excitation and contraction of the heart. Its role in other tissues is unclear. Here we present Timothy syndrome, a novel disorder characterized by multiorgan dysfunction including lethal arrhythmias, webbing of fingers and toes, congenital heart disease, immune deficiency, intermittent hypoglycemia, cognitive abnormalities, and autism. In every case, Timothy syndrome results from the identical, de novo Ca(V)1.2 missense mutation G406R. Ca(V)1.2 is expressed in all affected tissues. Functional expression reveals that G406R produces maintained inward Ca(2+) currents by causing nearly complete loss of voltage-dependent channel inactivation. This likely induces intracellular Ca(2+) overload in multiple cell types. In the heart, prolonged Ca(2+) current delays cardiomyocyte repolarization and increases risk of arrhythmia, the ultimate cause of death in this disorder. These discoveries establish the importance of Ca(V)1.2 in human physiology and development and implicate Ca(2+) signaling in autism.
15471876: !Autism Two novel mutant human adenylosuccinate lyases (ASLs) associated with autism and characterization of the equivalent mutant Bacillus subtilis ASL.	An Australian patient with autism was found to be heterozygous for two mutations in the gene encoding adenylosuccinate lyase (ASL), resulting in the protein mutations E80D and D87E. The patient's mother carried only the E80D mutation. The equivalent positions are 62 and 69 in Bacillus subtilis ASL. Although both human and B. subtilis enzymes normally have Asp at position 87 (or 69), the B. subtilis ASL has Ile and Asp at 62 and 65, respectively, whereas human ASL has Glu and Arg at the equivalent positions. We have constructed, expressed, and purified the double mutant I62E/D65R as a "humanized" normal B. subtilis enzyme to compare with enzymes with a single mutation at position 62 (I62D/D65R), at position 69 (I62E/D65R/D69E), or at both positions (I62D/D65R/D69E). V(max) for conversion of adenylosuccinate to AMP and fumarate is 0.57 micromol/min/mg for I62E/D65R, 0.064 micromol/min/mg for I62D/D65R, 0.27 micromol/min/mg for I62E/D65R/D69E, and 0.069 micromol/min/mg for I62D/D65R/D69E. The K(m) for adenylosuccinate is elevated in the X62D mutants, and I62D/D65R is the least stable of these ASLs at 37 degrees C. The CD spectra of mutant and wild type enzymes are similar; thus, there are no appreciable structural changes. Clearly the Asp(62) causes the most drastic effect on ASL function, whereas the Glu(69) mutation produces only modest change. These results emphasize the importance of expanding tests for ASL deficiency to individuals with developmental delay of any severity, including individuals with autistic spectrum disorder. This study further demonstrates the usefulness of the B. subtilis ASL as a model to mimic the defective enzyme in ASL deficiency.
15518916: !Autism Motor hyperactivity caused by a deficit in dopaminergic neurons and the effects of endocrine disruptors: a study inspired by the physiological roles of PACAP in the brain.	Recent studies have revealed that the pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) might act as a psychostimulant. Here we investigated the mechanisms underlying motor hyperactivity in patients with pervasive developmental disorders, such as autism, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). We studied the effects of intracisternal administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or endocrine disruptors (EDs) on spontaneous motor activity (SMA) and multiple gene expression in neonatal rats. Treatment with 6-OHDA caused significant hyperactivity during the dark phase in rats aged 4-5 weeks. Motor hyperactivities also were observed after treatment with endocrine disruptors, such as bisphenol A, nonylphenol, diethylhexyl phthalate and dibutyl phthalate, during both dark and light phases. Gene-expression profiles produced using cDNA macroarrays of 8-week-old rats with 6-OHDA lesions revealed the altered expression of several classes of gene, including the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor 1, glutamate/aspartate transporter, gamma-aminobutyric-acid transporter, dopamine transporter 1, D4 receptor, and peptidergic elements such as the galanin receptor, arginine vasopressin receptor, neuropeptide Y and tachykinin 2. The changes in gene expression caused by treatment with endocrine disruptors differed from those induced by 6-OHDA. These results suggest that the mechanisms underlying the induction of motor hyperactivity and/or compensatory changes in young adult rats might differ between 6-OHDA and endocrine disruptors.
15519245: !Autism MECP2 is progressively expressed in post-migratory neurons and is involved in neuronal maturation rather than cell fate decisions.	Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder and one of the causes of mental retardation and autistic behavior in girls, as well as in a small group of boys. It was recently discovered that mutation of the methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene encoding a transcriptional repressor on the X chromosome causes Rett syndrome. Although it is evident that phenotypes of MECP2 mutant mice that resemble those of Rett syndrome are attributable to lack of the MECP2 gene in the central nervous system (CNS), there is little understanding of the neuropathological abnormalities in the CNS of MECP2-null mice. Here, we investigated the developmental regulation and specific cellular expression of MECP2 during neural development both in vitro and in vivo. MECP2 is expressed in mature neurons, but not in astroglia or oligodendroglia, and is increasingly expressed during development of the mouse neocortex. In addition, in vitro culture studies suggest that MECP2 is expressed in more differentiated neurons rather than in less differentiated neuroblasts. Under in vitro conditions using neural precursor cultures, we find that MECP2 mutant neural precursors differentiate into morphologically mature neurons and glia, and no significant differences in differentiation are detected between cells from wild-type and MECP2 mutant mice, suggesting that MECP2 may play a different role in mice than it does in Xenopus embryos. In agreement with this hypothesis, neocortical projection layers in MECP2 -/y mice are thinner than those in wild-type mice, and pyramidal neurons in layer II/III in MECP2 -/y mice are smaller and less complex than those in wild-type mice. Taken together, our results indicate that MECP2 is involved in the maturation and maintenance of neurons, including dendritic arborization, rather than in cell fate decisions.
15526989: !Autism Immune response to dietary proteins, gliadin and cerebellar peptides in children with autism.	The mechanisms behind autoimmune reaction to nervous system antigens in autism are not understood. We assessed the reactivity of sera from 50 autism patients and 50 healthy controls to specific peptides from gliadin and the cerebellum. A significant percentage of autism patients showed elevations in antibodies against gliadin and cerebellar peptides simultaneously. For examining cross-reaction between dietary proteins and cerebellar antigens, antibodies were prepared in rabbits, and binding of rabbit anti-gliadin, anti-cerebellar peptides, anti-MBP, anti-milk, anti-egg, anti-soy and anti-corn to either gliadin- or cerebellar-antigen-coated wells was measured. In comparison to anti-gliadin peptide binding to gliadin peptide at 100%, the reaction of anti-cerebellar peptide to gliadin peptide was 22%, whereas the binding of anti-myelin basic protein (MBP), anti-milk, anti-egg and anti-soy to gliadin was less than 10%. Further examination of rabbit anti-gliadin (EQVPLVQQ) and anti-cerebellar (EDVPLLED) 8 amino acid (AA) peptides with human serum albumin (HSA) and an unrelated peptide showed no binding, but the reaction of these antibodies with both the cerebellar and gliadin peptides was greater than 60%. This cross-reaction was further confirmed by DOT-immunoblot and inhibition studies. We conclude that a subgroup of patients with autism produce antibodies against Purkinje cells and gliadin peptides, which may be responsible for some of the neurological symptoms in autism.
15543804: !Autism Neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression in cerebellar mutant mice.	Nitric oxide (NO) is a diffusible, multifunctional signaling molecule found in many areas of the brain. NO signaling is involved in a wide array of neurophysiological functions including synaptogenesis, modulation of neurotransmitter release, synaptic plasticity, central nervous system blood flow and cell death. NO synthase (NOS) activity regulates the production of NO and the cerebellum expresses high levels of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in granule, stellate and basket cells. Cerebellar mutant mice provide excellent opportunities to study changes of NO/NOS concentrations and activities to gain a greater understanding of the roles of NO and NOS in cerebellar function. Here, we have reviewed the current understanding of the functional roles of NO and NOS in the cerebellum and present NO/NOS activities that have been described in various cerebellar mutant mice and NOS knockout mice. NO appears to exert neuroprotective effects at low to moderate concentrations, whereas NO becomes neurotoxic as the concentration increases. Excessive NO production can cause oxidative stress to neurons, ultimately impairing neuronal function and result in neuronal cell death. Based on their genetics and cerebellar histopathology, some of cerebellar mutant mice display similarities with human neurological conditions and may prove to be valuable models to study several human neurological disorders, such as autism and schizophrenia.
15546155: !Autism Neuroglial activation and neuroinflammation in the brain of patients with autism.	Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impaired communication and social interaction and may be accompanied by mental retardation and epilepsy. Its cause remains unknown, despite evidence that genetic, environmental, and immunological factors may play a role in its pathogenesis. To investigate whether immune-mediated mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis of autism, we used immunocytochemistry, cytokine protein arrays, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays to study brain tissues and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from autistic patients and determined the magnitude of neuroglial and inflammatory reactions and their cytokine expression profiles. Brain tissues from cerebellum, midfrontal, and cingulate gyrus obtained at autopsy from 11 patients with autism were used for morphological studies. Fresh-frozen tissues available from seven patients and CSF from six living autistic patients were used for cytokine protein profiling. We demonstrate an active neuroinflammatory process in the cerebral cortex, white matter, and notably in cerebellum of autistic patients. Immunocytochemical studies showed marked activation of microglia and astroglia, and cytokine profiling indicated that macrophage chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 and tumor growth factor-beta1, derived from neuroglia, were the most prevalent cytokines in brain tissues. CSF showed a unique proinflammatory profile of cytokines, including a marked increase in MCP-1. Our findings indicate that innate neuroimmune reactions play a pathogenic role in an undefined proportion of autistic patients, suggesting that future therapies might involve modifying neuroglial responses in the brain.
15562827: !Autism The mTOR/S6K signalling pathway: the role of the TSC1/2 tumour suppressor complex and the proto-oncogene Rheb.	Gene deletion studies in mice and in Drosophila have shown that the 40S ribosomal protein S6 Kinases, dS6K in Drosophila and S6K1 and S6K2 in mice are important regulators of cell growth in response to insulin stimulation and nutrition availability. Here we chiefly focus on dS6k and S6K1, whose activities are regulated by an upstream kinase termed the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR, or dTOR in Drosophila). Our understanding of the mechanisms regulating the mTOR/S6K1-signalling pathway will be fundamental in determining the mechanisms which control cell growth in response to insulin signalling. Recent findings from this laboratory and others suggests that the tumour suppressor complex made of two proteins TSC1/hamartin and TSC2/tuberin, acts as a negative regulator of mTOR/S6K1 signalling. Mutations in either TSC1 or TSC2 are genetically linked to tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) syndrome, which can lead to severe pathological consequences, including mental retardation, epilepsy and autism, as well as cardiac, pulmonary and renal failure. Despite a large number of initial reports on the TSC1/TSC2 complex, and the finding that its activity is regulated by protein kinase B (PKB), the direct target of the TSC1/TSC2 inhibitory complex was unknown until recently. Since TSC2 has a GTPase-activating domain, or GAP-like sequence, others and we searched for a small GTP binding protein, which may serve as the target of TSC1/TSC2 inhibitory complex. In our case we took advantage of a genome wide screen in Drosophila for effectors of cell growth and in parallel searched for a small GTPase whose activity is up-regulated in TSC2-deficient cells. The identified gene was a member of the Ras family of GTPases termed Ras homologue enriched in brain or Rheb. Here we review recent findings demonstrating that the TSC1/TSC2 inhibitory complex normally acts on Rheb to mediate mTOR/S6K1-signalling.
15563018: !Autism Aberrant cellular differentiation and migration in renal and pulmonary tuberous sclerosis complex.	This review is focused on pathways and mechanisms that might provide molecular links between the pathogenesis of renal and pulmonary disease in tuberous sclerosis complex and the pathogenesis of the neurologic manifestations of tuberous sclerosis complex. Tuberous sclerosis complex is an autosomal dominant disorder in which the manifestations can include seizures; mental retardation; autism; benign tumors of the brain, retina, skin, and kidneys; and pulmonary lymphangiomyomatosis. Lymphangiomyomatosis is a life-threatening lung disease affecting almost exclusively young women. Genetic data have demonstrated that the cells giving rise to renal angiomyolipomas, the most frequent tumor type in patients with tuberous sclerosis complex, exhibit differentiation plasticity. Genetic studies have also shown that the benign smooth muscle cells of angiomyolipomas and pulmonary lymphangiomyomatosis have the ability to migrate or metastasize to other organs. These findings indicate that hamartin and tuberin play functional roles in the regulation of cell migration and differentiation. The biochemical pathways responsible for these effects are not yet fully understood but might involve dysregulation of the small guanosine triphosphatase Rho. Similar pathways might contribute to aberrant neuronal differentiation and migration in tuberous sclerosis complex.
15583703: !Autism Reelin glycoprotein: structure, biology and roles in health and disease.	Reelin glycoprotein is a secretory serine protease with dual roles in mammalian brain: embryologically, it guides neurons and radial glial cells to their corrected positions in the developing brain; in adult brain, Reelin is involved in a signaling pathway which underlies neurotransmission, memory formation and synaptic plasticity. Disruption of Reelin signaling pathway by mutations and selective hypermethylation of the Reln gene promoter or following various pre- or postnatal insults may lead to cognitive deficits present in neuropsychiatric disorders like autism or schizophrenia.
15615769: !Autism Epigenetic overlap in autism-spectrum neurodevelopmental disorders: MECP2 deficiency causes reduced expression of UBE3A and GABRB3.	Autism is a common neurodevelopmental disorder of complex genetic etiology. Rett syndrome, an X-linked dominant disorder caused by MECP2 mutations, and Angelman syndrome, an imprinted disorder caused by maternal 15q11-q13 or UBE3A deficiency, have phenotypic and genetic overlap with autism. MECP2 encodes methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 that acts as a transcriptional repressor for methylated gene constructs but is surprisingly not required for maintaining imprinted gene expression. Here, we test the hypothesis that MECP2 deficiency may affect the level of expression of UBE3A and neighboring autism candidate gene GABRB3 without necessarily affecting imprinted expression. Multiple quantitative methods were used including automated quantitation of immunofluorescence and in situ hybridization by laser scanning cytometry on tissue microarrays, immunoblot and TaqMan PCR. The results demonstrated significant defects in UBE3A/E6AP expression in two different Mecp2 deficient mouse strains and human Rett, Angelman and autism brains compared with controls. Although no difference was observed in the allelic expression of several imprinted transcripts in Mecp2-null brain, Ube3a sense expression was significantly reduced, consistent with the decrease in protein. A non-imprinted gene from 15q11-q13, GABRB3, encoding the beta3 subunit of the GABAA receptor, also showed significantly reduced expression in multiple Rett, Angelman and autism brain samples, and Mecp2 deficient mice by quantitative immunoblot. These results suggest an overlapping pathway of gene dysregulation within 15q11-q13 in Rett, Angelman and autism and implicate MeCP2 in the regulation of UBE3A and GABRB3 expressions in the postnatal mammalian brain.
15622415: !Autism Analysis of the neuroligin 3 and 4 genes in autism and other neuropsychiatric patients.	
15712760: !Autism Oxidative stress in autism.	
15721740: !Autism Transcriptional control of cognitive development.	Cognitive development is determined by both genetics and environment. One point of convergence of these two influences is the neural activity-dependent regulation of programs of gene expression that specify neuronal fate and function. Human genetic studies have linked several transcriptional regulators to neurodevelopmental disorders including mental retardation and autism spectrum disorders. Recent reports on two such factors, CREB-binding protein and methyl-CpG-binding protein 2, have begun to reveal how epigenetics and neuronal activity act to modulate the program of gene expression required for synaptic development and function.
15749253: !Autism Maternal administration of thalidomide or valproic acid causes abnormal serotonergic neurons in the offspring: implication for pathogenesis of autism.	Embryonic exposure to thalidomide (THAL) or valproic acid (VPA) before neural tube closure has been demonstrated as a useful model for human autism in rats. Abnormalities of the serotonergic system which are often observed in human autism have been shown in these rats. Thus, we examined whether early serotonergic neuronal development is perturbed by THAL/VPA. When pregnant rats were exposed to THAL or VPA on embryonic day 9, a dramatic shift of the distribution of serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus was observed on postnatal day 50. This alteration is thought to reflect abnormality of serotonergic neuronal differentiation and migration. In vitro studies revealed that VPA retards the maturation of serotonergic neuron from ES cell-derived neuronal progenitors, whereas exogenously added Sonic hedgehog, a morphogen that has been implicated in serotonergic cell fate, partially prevented this retardation. These results indicate that disruption of early serotonergic neuronal development might be involved in the etiology of autism.
15793197: !Autism Type 1 diabetes and autism: is there a link?	
15797012: !Autism Synaptogenesis: a balancing act between excitation and inhibition.	Recent studies have implicated a number of membrane-associated proteins, including the signaling pair neuroligin and beta-neurexin, in synapse formation, suggesting that they govern the ratio of inhibitory and excitatory synapses on CNS neurons. These findings, together with data indicating that the genes encoding neuroligin and PSD95 are altered in autism patients, suggest that a molecular understanding of complex neurological diseases is within reach.
15797875: !Autism Dissection of synapse induction by neuroligins: effect of a neuroligin mutation associated with autism.	To study synapse formation by neuroligins, we co-cultured hippocampal neurons with COS cells expressing wild type and mutant neuroligins. The large size of COS cells makes it possible to test the effect of neuroligins presented over an extended surface area. We found that a uniform lawn of wild type neuroligins displayed on the cell surface triggers the formation of hundreds of uniformly sized, individual synaptic contacts that are labeled with neurexin antibodies. Electron microscopy revealed that these artificial synapses contain a presynaptic active zone with docked vesicles and often feature a postsynaptic density. Neuroligins 1, 2, and 3 were active in this assay. Mutations in two surface loops of neuroligin 1 abolished neuroligin binding to neurexin 1beta, a presumptive presynaptic binding partner for postsynaptic neuroligins, and blocked synapse formation. An analysis of mutant neuroligins with an amino acid substitution that corresponds to a mutation described in patients with an autistic syndrome confirmed previous reports that these mutant neuroligins have a compromised capacity to be transported to the cell surface. Nevertheless, the small percentage of mutant neuroligins that reached the cell surface still induced synapse formation. Viewed together, our data suggest that neuroligins generally promote artificial synapse formation in a manner that is associated with beta-neurexin binding and results in morphologically well differentiated synapses and that a neuroligin mutation found in autism spectrum disorders impairs cell-surface transport but does not completely abolish synapse formation activity.
15800072: !Autism Adrenal chromaffin cells exhibit impaired granule trafficking in NCAM knockout mice.	Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) plays several critical roles in neuron path-finding and intercellular communication during development. In the clinical setting, serum NCAM levels are altered in both schizophrenic and autistic patients. NCAM knockout mice have been shown to exhibit deficits in neuronal functions including impaired hippocampal long term potentiation and motor coordination. Recent studies in NCAM null mice have indicated that synaptic vesicle trafficking and active zone targeting are impaired, resulting in periodic synaptic transmission failure under repetitive physiological stimulation. In this study, we tested whether NCAM plays a role in vesicle trafficking that is limited to the neuromuscular junction or whether it may also play a more general role in transmitter release from other cell systems. We tested catecholamine release from neuroendocrine chromaffin cells in the mouse adrenal tissue slice preparation. We utilize electrophysiological and electrochemical measures to assay granule recruitment and targeting in wild-type and NCAM -/- mice. Our data show that NCAM -/- mice exhibit deficits in normal granule trafficking between the readily releasable pool and the highly release-competent immediately releasable pool. This defect results in a decreased rate of granule fusion and thus catecholamine release under physiological stimulation. Our data indicate that NCAM plays a basic role in the transmitter release mechanism in neuroendocrine cells through mediation of granule recruitment and is not limited to the neuromuscular junction and central synapse active zones.
15854594: !Autism Quantitative analysis of immunolabeling for serotonin and for glutamate transporters after administration of imipramine and citalopram.	Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) is an amine neurotransmitter derived from tryptophan and is important in brain systems regulating mood, emotional behavior, and sleep. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) drugs are used to treat disorders such as depression, stress, eating disorders, autism, and schizophrenia. It is thought that these drugs act to prolong the action of 5-HT by blocking reuptake. This may lead to decreased 5-HT content in the nerve fibers themselves; however, this has not previously been directly demonstrated. We have studied the effects of administration of two drugs, imipramine and citalopram, on levels of 5-HT in nerve fibers in the murine brain. Quantitative analysis of the areal density of 5-HT fibers throughout the brain was performed using ImageJ software. While a high density of fibers was observed in mid- and hind-brain regions and areas such as thalamus and hypothalamus, densities were far lower in areas such as cortex, where SSRIs might be thought to exert their actions. As anticipated, imipramine and citalopram produced a decline in 5-HT levels in nerve fibers, but the result was not uniform. Areas such as inferior colliculus showed significant reduction whereas little, if any, change was observed in the adjacent superior colliculus. The reason for, and significance of, this regionality is unclear. It has been proposed that serotonin effects in the brain might be linked to changes in glutamatergic transmission. Extracellular glutamate levels are regulated primarily by glial glutamate transporters. Qualitative evaluation of glutamate transporter immunolabeling in cortex of control and drug-treated mice revealed no discernable difference in intensity of glutamate transporter immunoreactivity. These data suggest that changes in intracellular and extracellular levels of serotonin do not cause concomitant changes in astroglial glutamate transporter expression, and thus cannot represent a mechanism for the delayed efficacy of antidepressants when administered clinically.
15858822: !Autism Relationship of serotonin transporter gene polymorphisms and haplotypes to mRNA transcription.	The serotonin transporter (5HTT; chromosomal location 17q12) is an important regulator of serotonergic neurotransmission and is the site of action for a number of antidepressant medications. Sequence variation at a VNTR known as the 5HTTLPR, which is 1.4 kb upstream of the translation start of 5HTT, has been associated in some studies with increased vulnerability to depression, neuroticism, and autism. Support for these clinical observations has included laboratory findings that 5HTTLPR variation is associated with changes in 5HTT gene translation. We re-examined these earlier laboratory findings by directly measuring 5HTT mRNA levels and genotyping four loci spanning the 5HTT gene using RNA and DNA prepared from 85 independent lymphoblast cell lines. Using this data, haplotypes were inferred and the resulting single point and haplotypes data analyzed by univariate and regression analyses. Consistent with the original findings, we found a significant effect of the 5HTTLPR on mRNA production. In contrast to previous reports, the effect on 5HTT mRNA production appeared to be mediated through an additive, not dominant, mechanism. Neither genotype nor haplotype at three other 5HTT loci were associated with alterations in mRNA production, although the small number of samples homozygous for the three most common haplotypes limits these findings. We conclude that further examination of the role of 5HTT sequence variation in regulating 5HTT mRNA production is warranted.
15863612: !Autism Severe arrhythmia disorder caused by cardiac L-type calcium channel mutations.	Timothy syndrome (TS) is a multisystem disorder that causes syncope and sudden death from cardiac arrhythmias. Prominent features include congenital heart disease, immune deficiency, intermittent hypoglycemia, cognitive abnormalities, and autism. All TS individuals have syndactyly (webbing of fingers and toes). We discovered that TS resulted from a recurrent, de novo cardiac L-type calcium channel (CaV1.2) mutation, G406R. G406 is located in alternatively spliced exon 8A, encoding transmembrane segment S6 of domain I. Here, we describe two individuals with a severe variant of TS (TS2). Neither child had syndactyly. Both individuals had extreme prolongation of the QT interval on electrocardiogram, with a QT interval corrected for heart rate ranging from 620 to 730 ms, causing multiple arrhythmias and sudden death. One individual had severe mental retardation and nemaline rod skeletal myopathy. We identified de novo missense mutations in exon 8 of CaV1.2 in both individuals. One was an analogous mutation to that found in exon 8A in classic TS, G406R. The other mutation was G402S. Exon 8 encodes the same region as exon 8A, and the two are mutually exclusive. The spliced form of CaV1.2 containing exon 8 is highly expressed in heart and brain, accounting for approximately 80% of CaV1.2 mRNAs. G406R and G402S cause reduced channel inactivation, resulting in maintained depolarizing L-type calcium currents. Computer modeling showed prolongation of cardiomyocyte action potentials and delayed afterdepolarizations, factors that increase risk of arrhythmia. These data indicate that gain-of-function mutations of CaV1.2 exons 8 and 8A cause distinct forms of TS.
15894328: !Autism Measurement of vasoactive intestinal peptide using a competitive fluorescent microsphere immunoassay or ELISA in human blood samples.	The concentration of Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide (VIP) as measured by recycling immunoaffinity chromatography (RIC) has been reported to be elevated in the blood of patients with autism as compared with normal subjects. In this study, we have developed a "Competitive Fluorescent Microsphere Immunoassay" (cFMI) in which VIP competes with biotinylated VIP in binding to polyclonal antibodies on microspheres. The results were obtained using the Luminex100 system. We measured VIP in serum, plasma, and material eluted from dried blood spots on filter paper with both the cFMI and an ELISA procedure. We found that a purification procedure was necessary for obtaining useful results from plasma and serum, however, a preincubation step was required with the blood eluates. This newly developed cFMI was more sensitive (2.5 vs. 20.0 pg/ml), and more reproducible than the ELISA. To get accurate measurements of VIP in eluted material high sensitivity is especially important. Thus, the cFMI using the Luminex system has definite advantages over a conventional ELISA including the possibility that samples can be assayed at higher dilutions. We have determined that the VIP concentrations of serum, plasma, and dried blood spot eluate specimens as measured with the cFMI assay system were similar to those measured with ELISA. Thus, the new cFMI using Luminex system may be useful for detection of VIP in human blood samples.
15906383: !Autism Prenatal viral infection in mouse causes differential expression of genes in brains of mouse progeny: a potential animal model for schizophrenia and autism.	Schizophrenia and autism are neurodevelopmental disorders with genetic and environmental etiologies. Prenatal viral infection has been associated with both disorders. We investigated the effects of prenatal viral infection on gene regulation in offspring of Balb-c mice using microarray technology. The results showed significant upregulation of 21 genes and downregulation of 18 genes in the affected neonatal brain homogenates spanning gene families affecting cell structure and function, namely, cytosolic chaperone system, HSC70, Bicaudal D, aquaporin 4, carbonic anhydrase 3, glycine receptor, norepinephrine transporter, and myelin basic protein. We also verified the results using QPCR measurements of selected mRNA species. These results show for the first time that prenatal human influenza viral infection on day 9 of pregnancy leads to alterations in a subset of genes in brains of exposed offspring, potentially leading to permanent changes in brain structure and function.
15935333: !Autism Kainate-activated currents in the ventral tegmental area of neonatal rats are modulated by interleukin-2.	Interleukin (IL)-2 is a potent modulator of neurotransmission and neuronal development in the mesolimbic and mesostriatal systems. It is also implicated in pathologies (including schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, autism, cognitive disorders) that are linked with abnormalities in these systems. Since the kainate receptor plays an essential role in mesolimbic neuronal development and excitability, we examined the effects of physiologically relevant concentrations of IL-2 on kainate-activated current (I(KA)) in voltage-clamped neurons freshly isolated from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of 3- to 14-day-old rats. IL-2 (0.01-10 ng/ml) alone had no effect on membrane conductance. When co-applied with kainate, IL-2 significantly decreased I(KA). IL-2 (2 ng/ml) shifted the kainate concentration-response curve to the right in a parallel manner, significantly increasing the EC(50) without changing the maximal I(KA). IL-2 inhibition of I(KA) was voltage-dependent, being greater at negative potentials. IL-2 did not alter the reversal potential. These findings suggest that IL-2 potently modulates kainate receptors of developing mesolimbic neurons. We suggest that IL-2 plays a role in the excitability of developing neurons in the mesolimbic system. Inasmuch as increased I(KA) is associated with excitotoxicity, coupled with the present observation that IL-2 inhibits I(KA), we suggest an adaptive role for IL-2 in limiting excitotoxicity in the developing brain. IL-2 might thus be required for normal cell development in the mesolimbic and mesostriatal systems.
15957237: !Autism Being on the track of thimerosal. Review.	The common preservative thimerosal is one of the most important organic mercury compounds human populations are exposed to. It has toxic effect on several cell lines, and it also induces programmed cell death in in vitro experiments. Association is suggested between application of thimerosal-containing vaccines and the occurrence of neurodevelopmental disorders, like autism. While specific recommendations were made to eliminate thimerosal from vaccines, consistent evidence is still lacking for an association of exposure and disease. Unfortunately, it is very hard to study the molecular background of complex human diseases directly; however, investigations on more simple model organisms may lead to a better understanding of thimerosal as a possible disease inducing factor.
15967618: !Autism Mutation analysis of methyl-CpG binding protein family genes in autistic patients.	Methyl-CpG binding protein 2 gene (MECP2), the gene implicated in Rett syndrome, was also reported to be involved in mental retardation and autism. MECP2, MBD1, MBD2, MBD3, and MBD4 comprise a nuclear protein family sharing the methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD) and are related to transcriptional repression. In 65 Japanese autistic patients, all the exons of each gene were screened for mutations by DHPLC, and the results were confirmed by direct sequencing. An R269C mutation that resulted in the addition of cysteine near a cysteine rich region was found in the MBD1 gene in one patient. This mutation was also detected in the patient's father with some phenotypes of autism and his normal sister, but not in 151 controls. Two repeat length polymorphisms, (GGGGCC)2 to 3 and (GGC)4 to 5, were detected in MBD2, and several polymorphisms were detected in each gene. Although our findings could not confirm that the genes of this family are responsible for the etiology in the majority of autistic patients, the R269C mutation in the MBD1 gene may relate to autism. The potential association of the high-polymorphic gene variants with autism needs to be studied further. Furthermore, these polymorphisms are useful for linkage analysis.
15976034: !Autism Autistic effector T cells in mice with a point mutation in the LAT adaptor fail to respond to Listeria monocytogenes infection.	The adaptor protein linker for activation of T cells (LAT) is an important transducer of extracellular T cell stimuli. In mice with a point mutation in LAT (LatY136F), TCR signaling is substantially compromised and LatY136F T cells are unresponsive to CD3 cross-linking in vitro. Nevertheless, LatY136F mice develop a polyclonal lymphoproliferation of CD4(+) T cells, which display a T(h)2-polarized effector phenotype. In this study, LatY136F mice were infected with the intracellular bacterium Listeria monocytogenes and the antigen-specific responses of T cells were determined. Both CD4(+) and CD8(+) LatY136F T cells were unresponsive to L. monocytogenes infection. In contrast, when CD4(+) T cells from wild-type mice were adoptively transferred into LatY136F hosts, they responded normally to L. monocytogenes, indicating that the LatY136F milieu permits T(h)1 responses. Furthermore, we analyzed whether the infection would influence the capacity of LatY136F CD4(+) T cells to produce IL-4 and IFN-gamma. While L. monocytogenes infection results in T(h)1-type T cell responses in wild-type animals, we found that it did not shift the strong T(h)2 polarization of LatY136F T cells towards a T(h)1 pattern. In conclusion, our results suggest that the activation and T(h)2 polarization of the LatY136F CD4(+) T cells is not influenced by infection with an intracellular pathogen known to induce robust T(h)1 responses, and is thus likely driven by T cell intrinsic mechanisms.
16023301: !Autism TrkB partial agonists: potential treatment strategy for epilepsy, mania, and autism.	Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a member of a family of neurotrophins that, by activating a tyrosine kinase B receptor (TrkB), regulates a wide variety of processes in the nervous system, including neural development, function and survival. Evidence suggests that excess BDNF is involved in the pathogenesis of epilepsy, mania and autism. Thus, agents that can decrease BDNF-TrkB pathway signaling may be therapeutic for these diseases. However, blocking BDNF-TrkB pathways with TrkB antagonists may be harmful, as BDNF-TrkB deficiency has been related to major depression and Alzheimer's disease. A partial agonist is an agent that elicits a maximum response that is less than that of an agonist (e.g., the physiological ligand), so, in the presence of excess full agonist, a partial agonist would act as an antagonist. Interestingly, a dopaminergic partial agonist, aripiprazole, has been successfully developed for the treatment of psychotic disorders. Recently specific TrkB partial agonists have been synthesized by O'Leary and Hughes; it is proposed that these partial TrkB agonists may provide a novel strategy for the treatment of epilepsy, mania or autism, which may be associated with BDNF-TrkB hyperfunction.
16092447: !Autism Tight junctions, leaky intestines, and pediatric diseases.	Tight junctions (TJs) represent the major barrier within the paracellular pathway between intestinal epithelial cells. Disruption of TJs leads to intestinal hyperpermeability (the so-called "leaky gut") and is implicated in the pathogenesis of several acute and chronic pediatric disease entities that are likely to have their origin during infancy.	This review provides an overview of evidence for the role of TJ breakdown in diseases such as systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), inflammatory bowel disease, type 1 diabetes, allergies, asthma, and autism.	A better basic understanding of this structure might lead to prevention or treatment of these diseases using nutritional or other means.
16137630: !Autism Fatty acid sensor for low-cost lifetime-assisted ratiometric sensing using a fluorescent fatty acid binding protein.	Elevated free fatty acid (FA) levels lead to insulin resistance, hypertension, and microangiopathy, all of which are associated with type 2 diabetes. On the other hand, deficiencies of FA are indicative of certain neurodegenerative diseases, including autism. Thus, free FA levels are a diagnostic indicator for a variety of disorders. Here we describe the use of a commercially available FA binding protein labeled with acrylodan (ADIFAB), which we modified with a ruthenium metal-ligand complex with the intention of creating a low-cost FA sensor. The dual-labeled FA binding protein was used in lifetime-assisted ratiometric sensing (LARS) of oleic acid. For both steady-state and time-resolved luminescence decay experiments, the protein is responsive to oleic acid in the range of 0.02-4.7 microM. The emission at 432 nm, which is associated with the acrylodan occupying the FA binding site, decreases in intensity and red shifts to 505 nm on the addition of oleic acid. The intensities of the 505-nm peak due to the acrylodan displaced from the binding site by FA and of the 610-nm emission peak of ruthenium remained nearly unchanged. Fitting of the fluorescence decay data using the method of least squares revealed three emitting components with lifetimes of approximately 0.60, 4.00, and 370 ns. Fractional intensities of the emitting species indicate that changes in modulation between 2 and 10 MHz on binding of the protein with oleic acid are due mainly to the 4.00-ns component. The 0.60- and 370-ns components are assigned to acrylodan (505 nm) and ruthenium, respectively. Note that because ruthenium has a lifetime that is two orders of magnitude longer than that of acrylodan, the FA measurements were carried out at excitation frequencies lower than what can be done with acrylodan alone. Thus, low-cost instrumentation can be designed for a practical FA sensor without sacrificing the quality of measurements.
16168961: !Autism Polyhistidine tract expansions in HOXA1 result in intranuclear aggregation and increased cell death.	HOXA1 gene is part of a cluster of homeotic selector genes that regulates the anteroposterior patterning of mammals during embryonic development. HOXA1 encodes two alternatively spliced mRNAs with two isoforms, A and B, the former contains the homeodomain and expressed in early embryonic development. HOXA1 contains a string of 10 histidine repeats. However, individuals heterozygous for 7, 9, 11, and 12 histidine repeat variants were present among the Japanese population, notably in some autism cases. To determine the biological implications of the different polyhistidine repeat lengths, we expressed these variants in COS-7 and a human neuroblastoma cell line (SK-N-SH). Expression of expanded variants of HOXA1 isoform A, containing 11 and 12 polyhistidine, resulted in early and great degree of protein aggregation in the nucleus. This aggregation resulted in accelerated cell death in cells expressing 11 and 12 expanded variants compared to those transfected with 7 and 10 polyhistidine variants. Furthermore, we showed that these aggregates were ubiquitinated and were inhibited by a histidine-modifying compound, DEPC. These data suggest that HOXA1 protein with polyhistidine tract expansions misfold, aggregate, and have a toxic effect on cell.
16198608: !Autism A fresh look at an ancient receptor family: emerging roles for low density lipoprotein receptors in synaptic plasticity and memory formation.	The well-known family of low-density lipoprotein receptors represents a collection of ancient membrane receptors that have been remarkably conserved throughout evolution. These multifunctional receptors, known to regulate cholesterol transport, are becoming increasingly interesting to the neuroscience community due to their ability to transduce a diversity of extracellular signals across the membrane in the adult CNS. Their roles in modulating synaptic plasticity and necessity in hippocampus-specific learning and memory have recently come to light. In addition, genetic, biochemical and behavioral studies have implicated these signaling systems in a number of human neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders involving loss of cognitive ability, such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and autism. This review describes the known functions of these receptors and discusses their potential role in processes of synaptic regulation and memory formation.
16200206: !Autism The anxious amygdala: CREB signaling and predisposition to anxiety and alcoholism.	The amygdala is believed to play a key role in assigning emotional significance to specific sensory input, and conditions such as anxiety, autism, stress, and phobias are thought to be linked to its abnormal function. Growing evidence has also implicated the amygdala in mediation of the stress-dampening properties of alcohol. In this issue of the JCI, Pandey and colleagues identify a central amygdaloid signaling pathway involved in anxiety-like and alcohol-drinking behaviors in rats. They report that decreased phosphorylation of cAMP responsive element-binding protein (CREB) resulted in decreased neuropeptide Y (NPY) expression in the central amygdala of alcohol-preferring rats, causing high anxiety-like behavior. Alcohol intake by these animals was shown to increase PKA-dependent CREB phosphorylation and thereby NPY expression, subsequently ameliorating anxiety-like behavior. These provocative data suggest that a CREB-dependent neuromechanism underlies high anxiety-like and excessive alcohol-drinking behavior.
16251272: !Autism Regulation of RNA splicing by the methylation-dependent transcriptional repressor methyl-CpG binding protein 2.	Rett syndrome (RTT) is a postnatal neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by the loss of acquired motor and language skills, autistic features, and unusual stereotyped movements. RTT is caused by mutations in the X-linked gene encoding methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Mutations in MECP2 cause a variety of neurodevelopmental disorders including X-linked mental retardation, psychiatric disorders, and some cases of autism. Although MeCP2 was identified as a methylation-dependent transcriptional repressor, transcriptional profiling of RNAs from mice lacking MeCP2 did not reveal significant gene expression changes, suggesting that MeCP2 does not simply function as a global repressor. Changes in expression of a few genes have been observed, but these alterations do not explain the full spectrum of Rett-like phenotypes, raising the possibility that additional MeCP2 functions play a role in pathogenesis. In this study, we show that MeCP2 interacts with the RNA-binding protein Y box-binding protein 1 and regulates splicing of reporter minigenes. Importantly, we found aberrant alternative splicing patterns in a mouse model of RTT. Thus, we uncovered a previously uncharacterized function of MeCP2 that involves regulation of splicing, in addition to its role as a transcriptional repressor.
16280635: !Autism Immunohistochemical and microarray analyses of a mouse model for the smith-lemli-opitz syndrome.	The Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome is a mental retardation/malformation syndrome with behavioral components of autism. It is caused by a deficiency in 3beta-hydroxysteroid-Delta7-reductase (DHCR7), the enzyme required for the terminal enzymatic step of cholesterol biosynthesis. The availability of Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome mouse models has made it possible to investigate the genesis of the malformations associated with this syndrome. Dhcr7 gene modification (Dhcr7-/-) results in neonatal lethality and multiple organ system malformations. Pathology includes cleft palate, pulmonary hypoplasia, cyanosis, impaired cortical response to glutamate, and hypermorphic development of hindbrain serotonergic neurons. For the current study, hindbrain regions microdissected from gestational day 14 Dhcr7-/-, Dhcr7+/- and Dhcr7+/+ fetuses were processed for expression profiling analyses using Affymetrix oligonucleotide arrays and filtered using statistical significance (S-score) of change in gene expression. Of the 12,000 genes analyzed, 91 were upregulated and 98 were downregulated in the Dhcr7-/- hindbrains when compared to wild-type animals. Fewer affected genes, representing a reduced affect on these pathways, were identified in heterozygous animals. Hierarchical clustering identified altered expression of genes associated with cholesterol homeostasis, cell cycle control and apoptosis, neurodifferentiation and embryogenesis, transcription and translation, cellular transport, neurodegeneration, and neuronal cytoskeleton. Of particular interest, Dhcr7 gene modification elicited dynamic changes in genes involved in axonal guidance. In support of the microarray findings, immunohistochemical analyses of the netrin/deleted in colorectal cancer axon guidance pathway illustrated midline commissural deficiencies and hippocampal pathfinding errors in Dhcr7-/- mice. The results of these studies aid in providing insight into the genesis of human cholesterol-related birth defects and neurodevelopmental disorders and highlight specific areas for future investigation.
16286931: !Autism Regulation of neuronal morphology and function by the tumor suppressors Tsc1 and Tsc2.	Mutations in the TSC1 or TSC2 tumor suppressor genes lead to tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), a dominant hamartomatous disorder that often presents with mental retardation, epilepsy and autism. The etiology of these neurological symptoms is unclear and the function of the TSC pathway in neurons is unknown. We found that in post-mitotic, hippocampal pyramidal neurons of mice and rats, loss of Tsc1 or Tsc2 triggered enlargement of somas and dendritic spines and altered the properties of glutamatergic synapses. Furthermore, loss of a single copy of the Tsc1 gene was sufficient to perturb dendritic spine structure. Morphological changes required regulation of the actin-depolymerization factor cofilin at a conserved LIM-kinase phosphorylation site, the phosphorylation of which was increased by loss of Tsc2. Thus, the TSC pathway regulates growth and synapse function in neurons, and perturbations of neuronal structure and function are likely to contribute to the pathogenesis of the neurological symptoms of TSC.
16298368: !Autism The Arg473Cys-neuroligin-1 mutation modulates NMDA mediated synaptic transmission and receptor distribution in hippocampal neurons.	Synapses mediate communication between neurons, thus playing a fundamental role in information processing in the CNS. Neuroligins form a family of heterophilic synaptic cell adhesion molecules, and neuroligin 1 (NL1) has been shown to be involved in the formation of excitatory synapses and have been suggested to associate indirectly with NMDA receptors by common binding to PSD95. A mutation in neuroligin 3 (Arg451Cys-NL3, human sequence numbering) identified in autistic patients is associated with altered spine density and has reduced binding capacity for its presynaptic partner beta-neurexin. Here, we investigated the role of NL1 and the homologous NL1 mutation Arg473Cys-NL1 (R473C-NL1) in excitatory synaptic transmission and NMDA receptor distribution. We demonstrate that R473C-NL1, when expressed in cultured hippocampal neurons, can induce a dramatic increase in NMDA current amplitude and that this change is accompanied by NMDA receptor clustering in the postsynaptic cell.
16300636: !Autism Enhanced episodic-like memory and kindling epilepsy in a rat model of tuberous sclerosis.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a common neurological autosomal-dominant syndrome caused by mutations in the TSC1 or TSC2 genes. TSC starts in early childhood and is characterized by cerebral hamartomas (benign tumours), severe epilepsy and cognitive deficits such as mental retardation and autism. The hamartomas are characterized by loss of the remaining wild-type TSC allele, and clinical data implicate cerebral hamartomas in the generation of epileptic seizures, which may play a significant role in the development of mental retardation. The TSC2 mutation predicts alterations in mitogen-associated protein kinase (MAPK) and, together with the TSC1 mutation, in mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signalling pathways. Both pathways are involved in neuronal plasticity. We therefore hypothesized that the heterozygous mutation itself, besides cerebral hamartomas, contributes to the pathogenesis of cognitive deficits and possibly also epilepsy. Here, we show that young adult TSC2+/- rats, which are virtually free of cerebral hamartomas, exhibit enhanced episodic-like memory and enhanced responses to chemically-induced kindling. The activation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) in the hippocampus results in stronger induction of phospho-p42-MAPK in TSC2+/- rats than in wild-type animals. Thus, the cognitive phenotype and, possibly, epilepsy in TSC patients may result not only from the focal hamartomatous lesions but also, from altered neuronal plasticity in the heterozygous tissue.
16382052: !Autism The role of tuberin in cellular differentiation: are B-Raf and MAPK involved?	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a tumor suppressor gene syndrome whose manifestations can include seizures, mental retardation, autism, and tumors in the brain, retina, kidney, heart, and skin. The products of the TSC1 and TSC2 genes, hamartin and tuberin, respectively, heterodimerize and inhibit the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). This review focuses on the genetic and biochemical basis of the renal and pulmonary manifestations of TSC, angiomyolipomas, and lymphangiomyomatosis, respectively. Genetic analyses of sporadic angiomyolipomas revealed that all three components (smooth muscle, vessels, and fat) derive from a common progenitor cell, indicating the ability of cells lacking tuberin to differentiate into multiple lineages. Other genetic studies showed that the benign smooth muscle cells of pulmonary lymphangiomyomatosis have the ability to migrate to other organs. These findings suggest that tuberin and hamartin play a role in the regulation of cellular migration and differentiation. We have found that tuberin activates B-Raf kinase and p42/44 MAPK and that cells lacking tuberin have low levels of B-Raf activity. We hypothesize that aberrant B-Raf activity in angiomyolipomas leads to abnormal cellular differentiation and migration.
16403684: !Autism Health implications of milk containing beta-casein with the A2 genetic variant.	Milk from dairy cows has long provided a high quality source of protein and selected micronutrients such as calcium to most populations. Recently, a relationship between disease risk and consumption of a specific bovine ss-casein fraction either A1 or A2 genetic variants has been identified. Populations, which consume milk containing high levels of ss-casein A2 variant, have a lower incidence of cardiovascular disease and type 1 diabetes. Furthermore, consumption of milk with the A2 variant may be associated with less severe symptoms of autism and schizophrenia. The mechanism of action focuses on ss-casein A1 and related forms preferentially that are able to produce a bioactive opioid peptide, ss-casomorphin-7 (ss-CM-7) during digestion. Infants may absorb ss-CM-7 due to an immature gastrointestinal tract. Adults, on the other hand, appear to reap the biological activity locally on the intestinal brush boarder. ss-CM-7 can potentially affect numerous opioid receptors in the nervous, endocrine, and immune systems. Whether there is a definite health benefit to milk containing the A2 genetic variant is unknown and requires further investigation.
16403972: !Autism Inhibition of defective adenylosuccinate lyase by HNE: a neurological disease that may be affected by oxidative stress.	Adenylosuccinate lyase is an enzyme of fumarase superfamily that participates in the purine biosynthetic pathway, catalysing the nonhydrolytic cleavage of succinyl groups from SAICA ribotide and adenylosuccinate. Enzyme defects are associated with a human inherited disease, which arises from single point mutations to the gene and results in mild to severe psychomotor retardation, epilepsy, muscle wasting, and autistic features. Adenylosuccinate lyase activity is lost to a different extent in the patients. Diminished levels of enzyme have been attributed to loss of catalytic activity, protein instability, or environmental factors. P100A/D422Y mutation represents a feasible model for studying the effect of cell milieu on the activity of the impaired enzyme. The defective enzyme is inhibited by micromolar concentrations of trans-4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE), a major product of membrane peroxidation that has been found to accumulate in brain tissues of patients with neurodegenerative disorders. It is suggested that inactivation of defective adenylosuccinate lyase by HNE and other membrane peroxidation products may account, at least in part, for the impairment of neurological functions and recurrent worsening of the symptoms.
16429495: !Autism A single mutation near the C-terminus in alpha/beta hydrolase fold protein family causes a defect in protein processing.	An Arg to Cys mutation in the extracellular domain of neuroligin-3 (NL3) was recently found in a twin set with autism [S. Jamain, H. Quach, C. Betancur, M. Rastam, C. Colineaux, I.C. Gillberg, H. Soderstrom, B. Giros, M. Leboyer, C. Gillberg, T. Bourgeron, Paris Autism Research International Sibpair Study, mutations of the X-linked genes encoding neuroligins NLGN3 and NLGN4 are associated with autism, Nat. Genet. 34 (2003) 27-29]. The Cys substitution in NL3 causes altered intracellular protein trafficking, intracellular retention and diminished association with its cognate partner, beta-neurexin [D. Comoletti, A. De Jaco, L.L. Jennings, R.E. Flynn, G. Gaietta, I. Tsigelny, M.H. Ellisman, P. Taylor, The R451C-neuroligin-3 mutation associated with autism reveals a defect in protein processing, J. Neurosci. 24 (2004) 4889-4893]. NL3, butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE), as members of the (/(-hydrolase fold family of proteins, share over 30% of amino acid identity in their extracellular domains. In particular, Arg451 in NL3 is conserved in the alpha/beta-hydrolase fold family being homologous to Arg386 in BuChE and Arg395 in AChE. A Cys substitution at the homologous Arg in the BuChE was found studying post-succinylcholine apnea in an Australian population [T. Yen, B.N. Nightingale, J.C. Burns, D.R. Sullivan, P.M. Stewart, Butyrylcholinesterase (BCHE) genotyping for post-succinylcholine apnea in an Australian population, Clin. Chem. 49 (2003) 1297-308]. We have made the homologous mutation in the mouse AChE and BuChE genes and showed that the Arg to Cys mutations resulted in identical alterations in the cellular phenotype for the various members of the alpha/beta-hydrolase fold family proteins.
16434405: !Autism A mutation linked with autism reveals a common mechanism of endoplasmic reticulum retention for the alpha,beta-hydrolase fold protein family.	A mutation linked to autistic spectrum disorders encodes an Arg to Cys replacement in the C-terminal portion of the extracellular domain of neuroligin-3. The solvent-exposed Cys causes virtually complete retention of the protein in the endoplasmic reticulum when the protein is expressed in transfected cells. An identical Cys substitution was reported for butyrylcholinesterase through genotyping patients with post-succinylcholine apnea. Neuroligin, butyrylcholinesterase, and acetylcholinesterase are members of the alpha,beta-hydrolase fold family of proteins sharing sequence similarity and common tertiary structures. Although these proteins have distinct oligomeric assemblies and cellular dispositions, homologous Arg residues in neuroligin-3 (Arg-451), in butyrylcholinesterase (Arg-386), and in acetylcholinesterase (Arg-395) are conserved in all studied mammalian species. To examine whether an homologous Arg to Cys mutation affects related proteins similarly despite their differing capacities to oligomerize, we inserted homologous mutations in the acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase cDNAs. Using confocal fluorescence microscopy and analysis of oligosaccharide processing, we find that the homologous Arg to Cys mutation also results in endoplasmic reticulum retention of the two cholinesterases. Small quantities of mutated acetylcholinesterase exported from the cell retain activity but show a greater K(m), a much smaller k(cat), and altered substrate inhibition. The nascent proteins associate with chaperones during processing, but the mutation presumably restricts processing through the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, because of local protein misfolding and inability to oligomerize. The mutation may alter the capacity of these proteins to dissociate from their chaperone prior to oligomerization and processing for export.
16446308: !Autism Genomic and functional profiling of duplicated chromosome 15 cell lines reveal regulatory alterations in UBE3A-associated ubiquitin-proteasome pathway processes.	Autism is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder having both genetic and epigenetic etiological elements. Isodicentric chromosome 15 (Idic15), characterized by duplications of the multi-disorder critical region of 15q11-q14, is a relatively common cytogenetic event. When the duplication involves maternally derived content, this abnormality is strongly correlated with autism disorder. However, the mechanistic links between Idic15 and autism are ill-defined. To gain insight into the potential role of these duplications, we performed a comprehensive, genomics-based characterization of an in vitro model system consisting of lymphoblast cell lines derived from individuals with both autism and Idic15. Array-based comparative genomic hybridization using commercial single nucleotide polymorphism arrays was conducted and found to be capable of sub-classifying Idic15 samples by virtue of the lengths of the duplicated chromosomal region. In further analysis, whole-genome expression profiling revealed that 112 transcripts were significantly dysregulated in samples harboring duplications. Paramount among changing genes was ubiquitin protein ligase E3A (UBE3A; 15q11-q13), which was found to be nearly 1.5-2.0-fold up-regulated in duplicated samples at both the RNA and protein levels. Other key findings from gene expression analysis included two down-regulated genes, APP and SUMO1, with well-characterized roles in the process of apoptosis. We further demonstrate in this lymphoblast model that the gene-dosage directed increases in UBE3A levels can lead to dysregulation of the process of ubiquitination in response to genotoxic insult. This study provides insight into the direct and indirect effects of copy number gains in chromosome 15 and provides a framework for the study of these effects in neuronal systems.
16465591: !Autism Two new behavioral QTLs, Emo4 and Reb1, map to mouse Chromosome 1: Congenic strains and candidate gene identification studies.	By use of newly developed subcongenic strains of mice from a parental B6.129-Il10-/- knockout/congenic strain, we have narrowed the critical region for a new behavioral QTL, called Emo4, for open-field activity to a segment of Chromosome 1 between Erbb4 (68.4Mb) and B3gnt7 (86.2 Mb). We have also uncovered an additional QTL governing repetitive beam breaks in the open field. This QTL, called Reb1, maps to the interval between Asb1 (91.4 Mb) and NM_172851 (100.0 Mb) and is one of the first QTLs mapped for this type of behavior. Genome-wide microarray expression analyses were then undertaken to help to identify candidate genes that may be the cause of these genetic differences in open-field performance. In this effort, we analyzed global gene expression differences in the amygdalae by use of Affymetrix GeneChips between B6, B6.129-Il10-/-, and B6.129R4. Several probe sets representing target Chr 1 genes were found that showed significantly differential expression in the subcongenic and congenic strains. Several candidate genes have been identified. One of these regions coincides with an homologous region in humans that has been associated with autism, a disease whose symptoms include repetitive actions. This study illustrates that the use of congenic strains combined with global gene expression analyses can produce a list of viable candidates. It further shows that caution should be observed when analyzing the effects of knockout/congenic strains because many of the gene expression differences in these comparisons could not be attributable to the ablated Il10 gene but rather to passenger gene effects.
16482712: !Autism Type 1 diabetes and autism: is there a link?	
16495445: !Autism Behavioral and neurochemical alterations in mice lacking the RNA-binding protein translin.	Synapse-specific local protein synthesis is thought to be important for neurodevelopment and plasticity and involves neuronal RNA-binding proteins that regulate the transport and translation of dendritically localized transcripts. The best characterized of these RNA-binding proteins is the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Mutations affecting the expression or function of FMRP cause fragile X syndrome in humans, and targeted deletion of the gene encoding FMRP results in developmental and behavioral alterations in mice. Translin is an RNA-binding protein that regulates mRNA transport and translation in mouse male germ cells and is proposed to play a similar role in neurons. Like FMRP, translin is present in neuronal dendrites, binds dendritically localized RNA, and associates with microtubules and motor proteins. We reported previously the production of viable homozygous translin knock-out mice, which demonstrate altered expression of multiple mRNA transcripts in the brain and mild motor impairments. Here, we report that translin knock-out mice also exhibit sex-specific differences in tests of learning and memory, locomotor activity, anxiety-related behavior, and sensorimotor gating, as well as handling-induced seizures and alterations in monoamine neurotransmitter levels in several forebrain regions. Similar behavioral and neurochemical alterations have been observed in mice lacking FMRP, suggesting that both proteins may act within the same neuronal systems and signaling pathways. Our results in mice indicate that mutations in translin may contribute to fragile X-like syndromes, mental retardation, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, epilepsy, and autism spectrum disorders in humans.
16497276: !Autism Ion channel functional candidate genes in multigenic neuropsychiatric disease.	Scores of monogenic Mendelian ion channel diseases serve to anchor the pathophysiology of the channelopathies, but there are also now clear examples of environmental, pharmacogenetic, and acquired channelopathy mechanisms. The cardinal feature of heritable ion channel disease is a periodic disturbance of rhythmic function in constitutionally hyperexcitable tissue. While the complexity of neuroanatomy obscures functional analysis of mutations causing monogenic seizure, ataxia, or migraine syndromes, extrapolation from the cardiac (Long QT [LQT]) and muscle (Periodic Paralysis) channelopathy syndromes provides a simplified predictive framework of molecular pathology: electrically stabilizing potassium ion (K(+)) and chloride ion (Cl(-)) channels, likely having lesions that diminish their current, and excitatory Na(+) channels, likely having gain-of-function lesions. The voltage-gated calcium channel gene family that contains CACNA1C, the newest LQT locus, causing Timothy Syndrome with a phenotype including autism, has proven to be particularly informative for its members' ability to tie the various central nervous system (CNS) phenotypes together in an interpretable fashion, now including direct extension to the classically multigenic neuropsychiatric phenotypes. Features of a promising ion channel candidate gene arise from its broad locus, gene family, nature of alleles, physiology and pharmacology, tissue expression profile, and phenotype in model organisms. KCNN3 is explored as a paradigm to consider.
16504276: !Autism Orally active vasopressin V1a receptor antagonist, SRX251, selectively blocks aggressive behavior.	Arginine vasopressin functions as a neurochemical signal in the brain to affect social behavior. There is an expanding literature from animal and human studies showing that vasopressin, through the vasopressin 1A receptor (V1A), can stimulate aggressive behavior. Using a novel monocylic beta lactam platform, a series of orally active vasopressin V1a antagonists was developed with high affinity for the human receptor. SRX251 was chosen from this series of V1a antagonists to screen for effects on serenic activity in a resident-intruder model of offensive aggression. Resident, male Syrian golden hamsters were given oral doses of SRX251 or intraperitoneal Manning compound, a selective V1a receptor antagonist with reduced brain penetrance, at doses of 0.2 microg, 20 microg, 2 mg/kg or vehicle. When tested 90-120 min later, SRX251, but not Manning compound, caused a significant dose-dependent reduction in offensive aggression toward intruders as measured by latency to bite and number of bites. The reduction in aggression persisted for over 6 h and was no longer present 12 h post treatment. SRX251 did not alter the amount of time the resident investigated the intruder, olfactory communication, general motor activity, or sexual motivation. These data corroborate previous studies showing a role for vasopressin neurotransmission in aggression and suggest that V1a receptor antagonists may be used to treat interpersonal violence co-occurring with such illness as ADHD, autism, bipolar disorder, and substance abuse.
16512348: !Autism Role of GABA in the mechanism of the onset of puberty in non-human primates.	Evidence indicates that GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter responsible for restricting luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) release before the onset of puberty. LHRH neurons in the hypothalamus of female rhesus monkeys are already active during the neonatal period, but subsequently enter a dormant state in the juvenile/prepubertal period because of an elevated level of GABA in the stalk-median eminence (S-ME). The developmental reduction in tonic GABA inhibition results in an increase in LHRH release in the S-ME, triggering puberty. The reduction in GABA also appears to allow an increase in glutamate release in the S-ME and this glutamate seems to further contribute to the pubertal increase in LHRH release. These observations conducted in non-human primates, as a model for humans, provide some insights into future studies of the importance of GABAergic mechanisms in the relation between onset of puberty and neurodevelopmental disorders including autism.
16512356: !Autism Immunological findings in autism.	The immunopathogenesis of autism is presented schematically in Fig. 1. Two main immune dysfunctions in autism are immune regulation involving pro-inflammatory cytokines and autoimmunity. Mercury and an infectious agent like the measles virus are currently two main candidate environmental triggers for immune dysfunction in autism. Genetically immune dysfunction in autism involves the MHC region, as this is an immunologic gene cluster whose gene products are Class I, II, and III molecules. Class I and II molecules are associated with antigen presentation. The antigen in virus infection initiated by the virus particle itself while the cytokine production and inflammatory mediators are due to the response to the putative antigen in question. The cell-mediated immunity is impaired as evidenced by low numbers of CD4 cells and a concomitant T-cell polarity with an imbalance of Th1/Th2 subsets toward Th2. Impaired humoral immunity on the other hand is evidenced by decreased IgA causing poor gut protection. Studies showing elevated brain specific antibodies in autism support an autoimmune mechanism. Viruses may initiate the process but the subsequent activation of cytokines is the damaging factor associated with autism. Virus specific antibodies associated with measles virus have been demonstrated in autistic subjects. Environmental exposure to mercury is believed to harm human health possibly through modulation of immune homeostasis. A mercury link with the immune system has been postulated due to the involvement of postnatal exposure to thimerosal, a preservative added in the MMR vaccines. The occupational hazard exposure to mercury causes edema in astrocytes and, at the molecular level, the CD95/Fas apoptotic signaling pathway is disrupted by Hg2+. Inflammatory mediators in autism usually involve activation of astrocytes and microglial cells. Proinflammatory chemokines (MCP-1 and TARC), and an anti-inflammatory and modulatory cytokine, TGF-beta1, are consistently elevated in autistic brains. In measles virus infection, it has been postulated that there is immune suppression by inhibiting T-cell proliferation and maturation and downregulation MHC class II expression. Cytokine alteration of TNF-alpha is increased in autistic populations. Toll-like-receptors are also involved in autistic development. High NO levels are associated with autism. Maternal antibodies may trigger autism as a mechanism of autoimmunity. MMR vaccination may increase risk for autism via an autoimmune mechanism in autism. MMR antibodies are significantly higher in autistic children as compared to normal children, supporting a role of MMR in autism. Autoantibodies (IgG isotype) to neuron-axon filament protein (NAFP) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) are significantly increased in autistic patients (Singh et al., 1997). Increase in Th2 may explain the increased autoimmunity, such as the findings of antibodies to MBP and neuronal axonal filaments in the brain. There is further evidence that there are other participants in the autoimmune phenomenon. (Kozlovskaia et al., 2000). The possibility of its involvement in autism cannot be ruled out. Further investigations at immunological, cellular, molecular, and genetic levels will allow researchers to continue to unravel the immunopathogenic mechanisms' associated with autistic processes in the developing brain. This may open up new avenues for prevention and/or cure of this devastating neurodevelopmental disorder.
16565885: !Autism 1998-2002 Update on "Causes of death in autism".	
16604303: !Autism Polymorphic GGC repeat differentially regulates human reelin gene expression levels.	The human gene encoding Reelin (RELN), a pivotal protein in neurodevelopment, includes a polymorphic GGC repeat in its 5' untranslated region (UTR). CHO cells transfected with constructs encompassing the RELN 5'UTR with 4-to-13 GGC repeats upstream of the luciferase reporter gene show declining luciferase activity with increasing GGC repeat number (P < 0.005), as predicted by computer-based simulations. Conversely, RELN 5'UTR sequences boost reporter gene expression above control levels in neuronal SN56 and N2A cell lines, but 12- and 13-repeat alleles still yield 50-60% less luciferase activity compared to the more common 8- and 10-repeat alleles (P < 0.0001). RELN "long" GGC alleles significantly blunt gene expression and may, through this effect, confer vulnerability to human disorders, such as schizophrenia and autism.
16613900: !Autism Identification of cis-regulatory elements for MECP2 expression.	Rett syndrome (RTT) is an X-linked dominant disabling neurodevelopmental disorder caused by loss of function mutations in the MECP2 gene, located at Xq28, which encodes a multifunctional protein. MECP2 expression is regulated in a developmental stage and cell-type-specific manner. The need for tightly controlled MeCP2 levels in brain is strongly suggested by neurologically abnormal phenotypes of mouse models with mild overexpression and by mental retardation in human males with MECP2 duplication. We set out to identify long-range cis-regulatory sequences that differentially regulate MECP2 transcription and, when mutated, may contribute to the pathogenesis of RTT, autism or X-linked mental retardation. By inter-species sequence comparisons, we detected 27 highly conserved non-coding DNA sequences within a 210 kb region covering MECP2. We functionally confirmed four enhancer and two silencer elements by performing luciferase reporter assays in four different human cell lines. The transcription factor binding capability of the identified regulatory elements was tested by gel shift assays. To locate the human MECP2 core promoter, we dissected the promoter region by reporter assays with deletion constructs. We then used chromosome conformation capture methods to document long-range interactions of three enhancers and two silencers with the MECP2 promoter. Acting over distances of up to 130 kb, these elements may influence chromatin configurations and regulate MECP2 transcription. Our study has defined the "MECP2 functional expression module" and identified enhancer and silencer elements that are likely to be responsible for the tissue-specific, developmental stage-specific or splice-variant-specific control of MeCP2 protein expression.
16638516: !Autism Immune activation in autism.	
16675393: !Autism Pten regulates neuronal arborization and social interaction in mice.	CNS deletion of Pten in the mouse has revealed its roles in controlling cell size and number, thus providing compelling etiology for macrocephaly and Lhermitte-Duclos disease. PTEN mutations in individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) have also been reported, although a causal link between PTEN and ASD remains unclear. In the present study, we deleted Pten in limited differentiated neuronal populations in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of mice. Resulting mutant mice showed abnormal social interaction and exaggerated responses to sensory stimuli. We observed macrocephaly and neuronal hypertrophy, including hypertrophic and ectopic dendrites and axonal tracts with increased synapses. This abnormal morphology was associated with activation of the Akt/mTor/S6k pathway and inactivation of Gsk3beta. Thus, our data suggest that abnormal activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway in specific neuronal populations can underlie macrocephaly and behavioral abnormalities reminiscent of certain features of human ASD.
16675531: !Autism Exaggerated behavioral phenotypes in Fmr1/Fxr2 double knockout mice reveal a functional genetic interaction between Fragile X-related proteins.	Individuals affected by Fragile X syndrome (FXS) experience cognitive impairment, hyperactivity, attention deficits, social anxiety and autistic-like behaviors. FXS results from the loss of expression of the Fragile X mental retardation (FMR1) gene, whose protein product FMRP is thought to play an important role in neuronal function and synaptic plasticity. Two paralogs of FMRP, FXR1P and FXR2P, have been identified, forming the Fragile X-related (FXR) family of proteins. Although the functions of FXR1P and FXR2P are not well understood, there are similarities among all three FXR proteins in gene structure, amino acid sequence, expression pattern and cellular functions. Mouse models have been described for loss of Fmrp, Fxr1p and Fxr2p, the mouse homologs of FMRP, FXR1P and FXR2P. In earlier studies, we found that Fmr1 knockout (KO) mice, which do not express Fmrp, and Fxr2 KO mice, which do not express Fxr2p, show similarities in some behavioral responses such as hyperactivity. To better understand the functional relationship between FMRP and FXR2P, we generated Fmr1 KO, Fxr2 KO, Fmr1/Fxr2 double KO and wild-type control mice as littermates on the same genetic background and examined them in several behavioral assays. Results show that Fmr1/Fxr2 double KO mice have exaggerated behavioral phenotypes in open-field activity, prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle response and contextual fear conditioning when compared with Fmr1 KO mice, Fxr2 KO mice or wild-type littermates. Our findings suggest that Fmr1 and Fxr2 genes contribute in a cooperative manner to pathways controlling locomotor activity, sensorimotor gating and cognitive processes.
16691572: !Autism The zebrafish bHLH PAS transcriptional regulator, single-minded 1 (sim1), is required for isotocin cell development.	A wide range of physiological and behavioral processes, such as social, sexual, and maternal behaviors, learning and memory, and osmotic homeostasis are influenced by the neurohypophysial peptides oxytocin and vasopressin. Disruptions of these hormone systems have been linked to several neurobehavioral disorders, including autism, Prader-Willi syndrome, affective disorders, and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Studies in zebrafish promise to reveal the complex network of regulatory genes and signaling pathways that direct the development of oxytocin- and vasopressin-like neurons, and provide insight into factors involved in brain disorders associated with disruption of these systems. Isotocin, which is homologous to oxytocin, is expressed early, in a simple pattern in the developing zebrafish brain. Single-minded 1 (sim1), a member of the bHLH-PAS family of transcriptional regulatory genes, is required for terminal differentiation of mammalian oxytocin cells and is a master regulator of neurogenesis in Drosophila. Here we show that sim1 is expressed in the zebrafish forebrain and is required for isotocin cell development. The expression pattern of sim1 mRNA in the embryonic forebrain is dynamic and complex, and overlaps with isotocin expression in the preoptic area. We provide evidence that the role of sim1 in zebrafish neuroendocrine cell development is evolutionarily conserved with that of mammals.
16713332: !Autism The tuberous sclerosis genes and regulation of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant tumor syndrome that affects approximately 1 in 6000 individuals. It is characterized by the development of tumors, named hamartomas, in the kidneys, heart, skin and brain. The latter often cause seizures, mental retardation, and a variety of developmental disorders, including autism. This disease is caused by mutations within the tumor suppressor gene TSC1 on chromosome 9q34 encoding hamartin or within TSC2 on chromosome 16p13.3 encoding tuberin. TSC patients carry a mutant TSC1 or TSC2 gene in each of their somatic cells, and loss of heterozygosity has been documented in a wide variety of TSC tumors. Recent data suggest that functional inactivation of TSC proteins might also be involved in the development of other diseases not associated with TSC, such as sporadic bladder cancer, breast cancer, ovarian carcinoma, gall bladder carcinoma, non-small-cell carcinoma of the lung, and Alzheimer's disease. Tuberin and hamartin form a heterodimer, suggesting they might affect the same processes. Tuberin is assumed to be the functional component of the complex and has been implicated in the regulation of different cellular functions. The TSC proteins regulate cell size control due to their involvement in the insulin signalling pathway. Furthermore, they are potent positive regulators of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27, a major regulator of the mammalian cell cycle. Here we review the current knowledge on how mutations within the TSC genes could trigger deregulation of stability and localization of the tumor suppressor p27.
16766163: !Autism Oxidative stress in autism.	Autism is a severe developmental disorder with poorly understood etiology. Oxidative stress in autism has been studied at the membrane level and also by measuring products of lipid peroxidation, detoxifying agents (such as glutathione), and antioxidants involved in the defense system against reactive oxygen species (ROS). Lipid peroxidation markers are elevated in autism, indicating that oxidative stress is increased in this disease. Levels of major antioxidant serum proteins, namely transferrin (iron-binding protein) and ceruloplasmin (copper-binding protein), are decreased in children with autism. There is a positive correlation between reduced levels of these proteins and loss of previously acquired language skills in children with autism. The alterations in ceruloplasmin and transferrin levels may lead to abnormal iron and copper metabolism in autism. The membrane phospholipids, the prime target of ROS, are also altered in autism. The levels of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) are decreased, and phosphatidylserine (PS) levels are increased in the erythrocyte membrane of children with autism as compared to their unaffected siblings. Several studies have suggested alterations in the activities of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase in autism. Additionally, altered glutathione levels and homocysteine/methionine metabolism, increased inflammation, excitotoxicity, as well as mitochondrial and immune dysfunction have been suggested in autism. Furthermore, environmental and genetic factors may increase vulnerability to oxidative stress in autism. Taken together, these studies suggest increased oxidative stress in autism that may contribute to the development of this disease. A mechanism linking oxidative stress with membrane lipid abnormalities, inflammation, aberrant immune response, impaired energy metabolism and excitotoxicity, leading to clinical symptoms and pathogenesis of autism is proposed.
16777079: !Autism S6k1 is not required for Pten-deficient neuronal hypertrophy.	The tumor suppressor PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog) plays a critical role in the development and maintenance of the mammalian nervous system. Effects of inherited mutation of PTEN are highly variable and include macrocephaly, Lhermitte-Duclos disease (LDD) caused by a hamartomatous enlargement of the cerebellum, ataxia, seizures and autism, in addition to cancer predisposition. In the mouse, selective inactivation of Pten in post-mitotic granule neurons of the cerebellum and dentate gyrus showed that Pten was required for proper regulation of neuronal nuclear and soma size. Hypertrophy of Pten-deficient neurons required the activity of the serine-threonine kinase mTor. mTor is a master regulator of cell and organ growth which can trigger a cascade of downstream signaling pathways involving, in part, components of the translational machinery, including S6k1 and its substrate the ribosomal protein S6. Deletion of S6k1 in mice results in decreased size. Therefore, to determine the relative contribution of S6k1 to Pten-deficient neuronal hypertrophy in vivo, we crossed Pten brain-conditional knockouts with S6k1 null mice. Double mutant mice show no reversion or improvement in their Pten-related size and neurological defects including enlarged cerebella and dentate gyri with increased size of neuronal nuclei and somata, ataxia, and premature death. The hypertrophic Pten/S6k1-deficient neurons contained high levels of phosphorylated S6, similar to Pten-deficient neurons, suggesting that the mTor/S6k/S6 branch of the pathway was still active. Thus, we conclude that S6k1 is not required to cause hypertrophy of Pten-deficient neurons. This study reveals a cell type-dependent role for S6k1 in PI3K-dependent hypertrophy.
16794786: !Autism The neuroligin and neurexin families: from structure to function at the synapse.	Proper brain connectivity and neuronal transmission rely on the accurate assembly of neurotransmitter receptors, cell adhesion molecules and several other scaffolding and signaling proteins at synapses. Several new exciting findings point to an important role for the neuroligin family of adhesion molecules in synapse development and function. In this review, we summarize current knowledge of the structure of neuroligins and neurexins, their potential binding partners at the synapse. We also discuss their potential involvement in several aspects of synapse development, including induction, specificity and stabilization. The implication of neuroligins in cognitive disorders such as autism and mental retardation is also discussed.
16798729: !Autism A carboxyl-terminal hydrophobic interface is critical to sodium channel function. Relevance to inherited disorders.	Perturbation of sodium channel inactivation, a finely tuned process that critically regulates the flow of sodium ions into excitable cells, is a common functional consequence of inherited mutations associated with epilepsy, skeletal muscle disease, autism, and cardiac arrhythmias. Understanding the structural basis of inactivation is key to understanding these disorders. Here we identify a novel role for a structural motif in the COOH terminus of the heart NaV1.5 sodium channel in determining channel inactivation. Structural modeling predicts an interhelical hydrophobic interface between paired EF hands in the proximal region of the NaV1.5 COOH terminus. The predicted interface is conserved among almost all EF hand-containing proteins and is the locus of a number of disease-associated mutations. Using the structural model as a guide, we provide biochemical and biophysical evidence that the structural integrity of this interface is necessary for proper Na+ channel inactivation gating. We thus demonstrate a novel role of the sodium channel COOH terminus structure in the control of channel inactivation and in pathologies caused by inherited mutations that disrupt it.
16845580: !Autism Utilization of lymphoblastoid cell lines as a system for the molecular modeling of autism.	In order to provide an alternative approach for understanding the biology and genetics of autism, we performed statistical analysis of gene expression profiles of lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from children with autism and their families. The goal was to assess the feasibility of using this model in identifying autism-associated genes. Replicate microarray experiments demonstrated that expression data from the cell lines were consistent and highly reproducible. Further analyses identified differentially expressed genes between cell lines derived from children with autism and those derived from their normally developing siblings. These genes were then used to identify biochemical pathways potentially involved in autism. This study suggests that lymphoblastoid cell lines may be a viable tool for identifying genes associated with autism.
16863675: !Autism Increased serum levels of glutamate in adult patients with autism.	Precise mechanisms underlying the pathophysiology of autism are currently unknown. Given the major role of glutamate in brain development, we have hypothesized that glutamatergic neurotransmission plays a role in the pathophysiology of autism. In this study, we studied whether amino acids (glutamate, glutamine, glycine, D-serine, and L-serine) related to glutamatergic neurotransmission are altered in serum of adult patients with autism.	We measured serum levels of amino acids in 18 male adult patients with autism and age-matched 19 male healthy subjects using high-performance liquid chromatography.	Serum levels (mean = 89.2 microM, S.D. = 21.5) of glutamate in the patients with autism were significantly (t = -4.48, df = 35, p < 0.001) higher than those (mean = 61.1 microM, S.D. = 16.5) of normal controls. In contrast, serum levels of other amino acids (glutamine, glycine, d-serine, l-serine) in the patients with autism did not differ from those of normal controls. There was a positive correlation (r = 0.523, p = 0.026) between serum glutamate levels and Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R) social scores in patients.	The present study suggests that an abnormality in glutamatergic neurotransmission may play a role in the pathophysiology of autism.
16873821: !Autism Type 1 diabetes and autism association seems to be linked to the incidence of diabetes.	
16876305: !Autism Reduced serum levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in adult male patients with autism.	The precise mechanisms underlying the pathophysiology of autism are currently unknown. Given the key role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in brain development, we hypothesized that BDNF may play a role in the pathophysiology of autism. In this study, we studied whether serum levels of BDNF are altered in patients with autism.	We measured serum levels of BDNF in 18 adult male patients with autism and 18 age-matched healthy male control subjects.	The serum levels of BDNF in patients with autism (25.6+/-2.15 ng/ml (mean+/-S.D.)) were significantly (z = -4.42, p < 0.001) lower than those of normal controls (61.6+/-10.9 ng/ml (mean+/-S.D.)). Nevertheless, we found no correlations between BDNF levels and clinical variables in autistic patients.	This study suggests that reduced BDNF levels may play a role in the pathophysiology of autism.
16876883: !Autism Brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors: native subtypes and their relevance.	Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors comprise a heterogeneous class of cationic channels that is present throughout the nervous system. These channels are involved both in physiological functions (including cognition, reward, motor activity and analgesia) and in pathological conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, some forms of epilepsy, depression, autism and schizophrenia. They are also the targets of tobacco-smoking effects and addiction. Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are pentamers of homomeric or heteromeric combinations of alpha (alpha2-alpha10) and beta (beta2-beta4) subunits, which have different pharmacological and biophysical properties and locations in the brain. The lack of subtype-specific ligands and the fact that many neuronal cells express multiple subtypes initially hampered the identification of the different native nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes, but the increasing knowledge of subtype composition and roles will be of considerable interest for the development of new and clinically useful nicotinic acetylcholine receptor ligands.
16887282: !Autism Targeting cerebral Bcl-2 expression as a potential therapeutic target in autism: potential usefulness of human recombinant nerve growth factor.	
16899382: !Autism Overexpression of GAMT restores GAMT activity in primary GAMT-deficient fibroblasts.	Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency (MIM 601240) is an autosomal recessive disorder of creatine biosynthesis. Patients present with mental retardation, extrapyramidal symptoms, autistic-like behavior, epilepsy, cerebral creatine deficiency and increased levels of guanidinoacetate. So far 15 mutations have been reported, including six missense variants that are highly likely to be pathogenic mutations. To prove that mutations in the GAMT gene are responsible for GAMT deficiency we overexpressed the GAMT open reading frame in GAMT-deficient fibroblasts by stable transfection. In addition, HeLa cells were transiently transfected with the same expression vector. In contrast to mock transfectants transfection of primary GAMT-deficient fibroblasts with wild-type GAMT results in the restoration of GAMT activity as measured by GC-MS using stable isotope labeled substrates. Moreover, the expression of the GAMT-EGFP fusion protein was analyzed by Western blot, confirming the presence of GAMT fusion protein, both in the stable as well as in the transient transfectants. Here, we prove that mutations in the GAMT gene are responsible for GAMT deficiency, since overexpression of the GAMT open reading frame restores GAMT activity in GAMT-deficient fibroblasts. Furthermore, the transient transfection of HeLa cells will be important for functional analysis of variants of unknown consequence (i.e., missense mutations).
16905559: !Autism Expression of the Rho-GEF Pbl/ECT2 is regulated by the UBE3A E3 ubiquitin ligase.	We applied genetic tools available in Drosophila to identify candidate substrates of the UBE3A ubiquitin ligase, the gene responsible for Angelman syndrome (AS). Human UBE3A was expressed in Drosophila heads to identify proteins differentially regulated in UBE3A-expressing versus wild-type extracts. Using two-dimensional gel and MALDI-TOF analysis, we detected 20 proteins that were differentially regulated by over-expression of human UBE3A in Drosophila heads. One protein responsive to UBE3A was the Rho-GEF pebble (pbl). Here, we present three lines of evidence suggesting that UBE3A regulates Pbl. First, we show genetic evidence that UBE3A and the Drosophila de-ubiquitinase fat facets (faf) exert opposing effects on Pbl function. Secondly, we find that both Pbl and ECT2, the mammalian orthologue of Pbl called epithelial cell transforming sequence 2 oncogene, physically interact with their respective ubiquitin E3 ligases. Finally, we show that Ect2 expression is regulated by Ube3a in mouse neurons as the pattern of Ect2 expression is dramatically altered in the hippocampus and cerebellum of Ube3a null mice. These results suggest that an orthologous UBE3A post-translational regulatory pathway regulates neuronal outgrowth in the mammalian brain and that dysregulation of this pathway may result in neurological phenotypes including AS and possibly other autism spectrum disorders.
16905592: !Autism Altered neocortical cell density and layer thickness in serotonin transporter knockout mice: a quantitation study.	The neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) plays morphogenetic roles during development, and their alteration could contribute to autism pathogenesis in humans. To further characterize 5-HT's contributions to neocortical development, we assessed the thickness and neuronal cell density of various cerebral cortical areas in serotonin transporter (5-HTT) knockout (ko) mice, characterized by elevated extracellular 5-HT levels. The thickness of layer IV is decreased in 5-HTT ko mice compared with wild-type (wt) mice. The overall effect on cortical thickness, however, depends on the genetic background of the mice. Overall cortical thickness is decreased in many cortical areas of 5-HTT ko mice with a mixed c129-CD1-C57BL/6J background. Instead, 5-HTT ko mice backcrossed into the C57BL/6J background display increases in supragranular and infragranular layers, which compensate entirely for decreased layer IV thickness, resulting in unchanged or even enhanced cortical thickness. Moreover, significant increases in neuronal cell density are found in 5-HTT ko mice with a C57BL/6J background (wt:hz:ko ratio = 1.00:1.04:1.17) but not in the mixed c129-CD1-C57BL/6J 5-HTT ko animals. These results provide evidence of 5-HTT gene effects on neocortical morphology in epistatic interaction with genetic variants at other loci and may model the effect of functional 5-HTT gene variants on neocortical development in autism.
16940591: !Autism [Neurodegenerative diseases, antioxidative enzymes and copper. A review of experimental research.].	In almost all degenerative diseases of the brain aggregation of proteins inside neurons or extracellulary, is a common pathological phenomenon regardless of etiology. It is assumed that the biochemical pathways leading to aggregation are more harmful than the aggregations themselves and most likely imply production of free oxygen radicals. This oxidative stress is in the body met by free radical scavengers in the form of specific chemical substances and antioxidative enzymes. It has therefore been postulated that defective free radical defense is a common pathway in most neurodegenerative diseases in humans as well as in other mammals.	The concentration of copper and the activity of two antioxidative copper containing enzymes, ceruloplasmin and superoxide dismutase (SOD 1), was analyzed in the blood. A series of case control studies were performed in Alzheimer s disease (AD), Parkinson s disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) as well as in Down s syndrome and autism. Furthermore, a study in sheep was conducted in different areas with different risks of infection of scrapie. In that study, in addition, the activity of the selenium-containing enzyme, glutathione peroxidase, was determined as well as the concentration of manganese in blood.	The oxidative activity of ceruloplasmin and SOD1 was shown to be significantly lowered in Alzheimer s disease without any signs of copper deficiency. In Parkinson s disease, the oxidative activity of ceruloplasmin was also on the whole shown to be signifcantly lowered, and furthermore, it decreased significantly as well as the SOD1 activity with duration of the disease. In ALS, the means of all of the determinations were shown to be the same, but the equality of variances differed significantly in the patients compared to their controls. In Down s syndrome past the age of 40, when Alzheimer s type changes appear in the brain, the SOD1 activity and the ceruloplasmin specific oxidative activity (activity in relation to concentration) was significantly lowered compared with the younger patients. In autism, a non-degenerative affection of the central nervous system, there was no difference between patients and their controls. In the sheep, the results indicated a relationship between decreased glutathione peroxidase activity, and possibly also SOD1 activity, and increased susceptibility to scrapie infection. No connection was found between ceruloplasmin oxidative activity and susceptibility to scrapie infection. Susceptibility to scrapie infection was apparantly not conntected with low levels of copper or high levels of manganese in blood of the animals.	The results indicate that the oxidative defenses in four neurodegenerative diseases with different clinical features are defective as the activity of two copper containing antioxidative enzymes, ceruloplasmin and SOD1, was found defective in all of them. In a developmental syndrome (autism), where neither active degenerative changes nor aggregations are found, no such changes in enzyme activity were detected. The results thus support the idea that deranged oxidative defense is a common denominator in the pathogenesis of these diseases. As far as sheep is concerned, the results also indicate, that there is a defect in oxidative defense connected with increased susceptibility to scrapie infection in the form of lowered glutathione peroxidase activity.
16940977: !Autism Mutations in the ribosomal protein gene RPL10 suggest a novel modulating disease mechanism for autism.	Autism has a strong genetic background with a higher frequency of affected males suggesting involvement of X-linked genes and possibly also other factors causing the unbalanced sex ratio in the etiology of the disorder. We have identified two missense mutations in the ribosomal protein gene RPL10 located in Xq28 in two independent families with autism. We have obtained evidence that the amino-acid substitutions L206M and H213Q at the C-terminal end of RPL10 confer hypomorphism with respect to the regulation of the translation process while keeping the basic translation functions intact. This suggests the contribution of a novel, possibly modulating aberrant cellular function operative in autism. Previously, we detected high expression of RPL10 by RNA in situ hybridization in mouse hippocampus, a constituent of the brain limbic system known to be afflicted in autism. Based on these findings, we present a model for autistic disorder where a change in translational function is suggested to impact on those cognitive functions that are mediated through the limbic system.
16950524: !Autism Neurobiological effects of intraventricular propionic acid in rats: possible role of short chain fatty acids on the pathogenesis and characteristics of autism spectrum disorders.	Clinical observations suggest that certain gut and dietary factors may transiently worsen symptoms in autism spectrum disorders (ASD), epilepsy and some inheritable metabolic disorders. Propionic acid (PPA) is a short chain fatty acid and an important intermediate of cellular metabolism. PPA is also a by-product of a subpopulation of human gut enterobacteria and is a common food preservative. We examined the behavioural, electrophysiological, neuropathological, and biochemical effects of treatment with PPA and related compounds in adult rats. Intraventricular infusions of PPA produced reversible repetitive dystonic behaviours, hyperactivity, turning behaviour, retropulsion, caudate spiking, and the progressive development of limbic kindled seizures, suggesting that this compound has central effects. Biochemical analyses of brain homogenates from PPA treated rats showed an increase in oxidative stress markers (e.g., lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation) and glutathione S-transferase activity coupled with a decrease in glutathione and glutathione peroxidase activity. Neurohistological examinations of hippocampus and adjacent white matter (external capsule) of PPA treated rats revealed increased reactive astrogliosis (GFAP immunoreactivity) and activated microglia (CD68 immunoreactivity) suggestive of a neuroinflammatory process. This was coupled with a lack of cytotoxicity (cell counts, cleaved caspase 3' immunoreactivity), and an increase in phosphorylated CREB immunoreactivity. We propose that some types of autism may be partial forms of genetically inherited or acquired disorders involving altered PPA metabolism. Thus, intraventricular administration of PPA in rats may provide a means to model some aspects of human ASD in rats.
16981893: !Autism Ontogeny of brain and blood serotonin levels in 5-HT receptor knockout mice: potential relevance to the neurobiology of autism.	The most consistent neurochemical finding in autism has been elevated group mean levels of blood platelet 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin). The origin and significance of this platelet hyperserotonemia remain poorly understood. The 5-HT(1A) receptor plays important roles in the developing brain and is also expressed in the gut, the main source of platelet 5-HT. Post-natal tissue levels of 5-HT, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and tryptophan were examined in the brain, duodenum and blood of 5-HT(1A) receptor-knockout and wild-type mice. At 3 days after birth, the knockout mice had lower mean brain 5-HT levels and normal mean platelet 5-HT levels. Also, at 3 days after birth, the mean tryptophan levels in the brain, duodenum and blood of the knockout mice were around 30% lower than those of the wild-type mice. By 2 weeks after birth, the mean brain 5-HT levels of the knockout mice normalized, but their mean platelet 5-HT levels became 24% higher than normal. The possible causes of these dynamic shifts were explored by examining correlations between central and peripheral levels of 5-HT, 5-HIAA and tryptophan. The results are discussed in relation to the possible role of 5-HT in the ontogeny of autism.
16982420: !Autism Neuroligins determine synapse maturation and function.	Synaptogenesis, the generation and maturation of functional synapses between nerve cells, is an essential step in the development of neuronal networks in the brain. It is thought to be triggered by members of the neuroligin family of postsynaptic cell adhesion proteins, which may form transsynaptic contacts with presynaptic alpha- and beta-neurexins and have been implicated in the etiology of autism. We show that deletion mutant mice lacking neuroligin expression die shortly after birth due to respiratory failure. This respiratory failure is a consequence of reduced GABAergic/glycinergic and glutamatergic synaptic transmission and network activity in brainstem centers that control respiration. However, the density of synaptic contacts is not altered in neuroligin-deficient brains and cultured neurons. Our data show that neuroligins are required for proper synapse maturation and brain function, but not for the initial formation of synaptic contacts.
16989981: !Autism Induction of the homeotic gene Hoxa1 through valproic acid's teratogenic mechanism of action.	Valproic acid (VPA) exposure in utero has been associated with an increased risk of both neural tube defects and autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). The terata induced by VPA suggest interference with pattern formation. Retinoic acid produces similar terata and is known to act in part by increasing the expression of Hoxa1. We tested the hypotheses that exposure to VPA would alter the expression of Hoxa1 in rat embryos during times of normal Hoxa1 expression (d10.5-13.5) and that exposure at earlier and later stages would induce inappropriate expression.	Hoxa1 expression levels were determined by real-time PCR in individual embryos 1 h after exposure on gestational d10, 12, 13, 14, or 15. Additionally, teratogenic (4-yn-VPA) and nonteratogenic analogs of VPA (IE-VPA), retinoic acid (RA), and saline were compared for effects on Hoxa1 expression on d12. Embryos were allowed to develop for 1, 2, 4, 6, or 24 h, to follow the time course of effects.	In utero exposure to VPA on gestational d10 and on d12-14 significantly increased the level of Hoxa1 expression compared to saline-exposed embryos at developmental ages prior to, during and after the normal expression period for this gene. On gestational d12, exposures to VPA and 4-yn-VPA significantly increased Hoxa1 expression at all sacrifice times, compared to saline-exposed embryos. RA significantly elevated Hoxa1 expression at all time points except 24-h post-treatment. The nonteratogenic VPA analog, IE-VPA, did not affect Hoxa1 expression.	VPA and 4-yn-VPA exposures elevated Hoxa1 mRNA during its normal expression period and induced expression outside of the normal period. This may explain, in part, how VPA disrupts development.
17009926: !Autism Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and nicotinic cholinergic mechanisms of the central nervous system.	Subtypes of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are constructed from numerous subunit combinations that compose channel-receptor complexes with varied functional and pharmacological characteristics. Structural and functional diversity and the broad presynaptic, postsynaptic, and nonsynaptic locations of nAChRs underlie their mainly modulatory roles throughout the mammalian brain. Presynaptic and preterminal nicotinic receptors enhance neurotransmitter release, postsynaptic nAChRs contribute a small minority of fast excitatory transmission, and nonsynaptic nAChRs modulate many neurotransmitter systems by influencing neuronal excitability. Nicotinic receptors have roles in development and synaptic plasticity, and nicotinic mechanisms participate in learning, memory, and attention. Decline, disruption, or alterations of nicotinic cholinergic mechanisms contribute to dysfunctions such as epilepsy, schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, autism, dementia with Lewy bodies, Alzheimer's disease, and addiction.
17018868: !Autism Metallothioneins: mercury species-specific induction and their potential role in attenuating neurotoxicity.	Metallothionein (MT) proteins are widespread in bacteria, fungi, plants, and eukaryotic species. They are of low molecular weight (6-7 kDa) and of the 60+ amino acid residues, 20 are cysteines. Functions attributed to MTs include the sequestration and dispersal of metal ions, primarily in zinc and copper homeostasis; regulation of the biosynthesis and activity of zinc metalloproteins, most notably zinc-dependent transcription factors; and cellular cytoprotection from reactive oxygen species, ionizing radiation, electrophilic anticancer drugs and mutagens, and metals. Observations on the abundance of MTs within the central nervous system (CNS) and the identification of a brain-specific isoform, MT-III, suggest that it might have important neurophysiological and neuromodulatory functions. Reinforced by the potential involvement of MT-III in a number of neurodegenerative disorders, the role of MTs in the CNS has become an intense focus of scientific pursuit. This manuscript represents a survey on the ability of MTs to modulate mercury neurotoxicity, a neurotoxin that has been implied to play an etiologic role in Minamata disease, erethism, and autism, just to name a few.
17019626: !Autism [3H]-flunitrazepam-labeled benzodiazepine binding sites in the hippocampal formation in autism: a multiple concentration autoradiographic study.	Increasing evidence indicates that the GABAergic system in cerebellar and limbic structures is affected in autism. We extended our previous study that found reduced [(3)H]flunitrazepam-labeled benzodiazepine sites in the autistic hippocampus to determine whether this reduction was due to a decrease in binding site number (B (max)) or altered affinity (K (d)) to bind to the ligand. Quantitation of hippocampal lamina demonstrated a 20% reduction in B (max) indicating a trend toward a decreased number of benzodiazepine binding sites in the autistic group but normal K (d) values. A reduction in the number of hippocampal benzodiazepine binding sites suggests alterations in the modulation of GABA(A) receptors in the presence of GABA in the autistic brain, possibly resulting in altered inhibitory functioning of hippocampal circuitry.
17023484: !Autism Chelation therapy and autism.	
17028374: !Autism The neurobiology of the tuberous sclerosis complex.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a multisystem disorder that affects numerous organ systems. Brain lesions that form during development, known as tubers, are highly associated with epilepsy, cognitive disability, and autism. Following the identification of two genes and their encoded proteins, TSC1 (hamartin) and TSC2 (tuberin), responsible for TSC, identification of several downstream protein cascades that might be affected in TSC have been discovered. Of primary importance is the mammalian target of rapamycin pathway that controls cell growth and protein synthesis. The mechanisms governing brain lesion growth have not been fully identified but likely altered regulation of the mammalian target of rapamycin cascade by hamartin and tuberin during development leads to aberrant cell growth. Secondary effects of TSC gene mutations might disrupt normal neuronal migration and cerebral cortical lamination. Numerous studies have identified changes in gene and protein expression in animal models of TSC and in human TSC brain specimens that contribute to altered brain cytoarchitecture. This review will provide an overview of the neurobiological aspects of TSC.
17028446: !Autism Constitutional downregulation of SEMA5A expression in autism.	There is strong evidence for the importance of genetic factors in idiopathic autism. The results from independent twin and family studies suggest that the disorder is caused by the action of several genes, possibly acting epistatically. We have used cDNA microarray technology for the identification of constitutional changes in the gene expression profile associated with idiopathic autism. Samples were obtained and analyzed from 6 affected subjects belonging to multiplex autism families and from 6 healthy controls. We assessed the expression levels for approximately 7,700 genes by cDNA microarrays using mRNA derived from Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B lymphocytes. The microarray data were analyzed in order to identify up- or downregulation of specific genes. A common pattern with nine downregulated genes was identified among samples derived from individuals with autism when compared to controls. Four of these nine genes encode proteins involved in biological processes associated with brain function or the immune system, and are consequently considered as candidates for genes associated with autism. Quantitative real-time PCR confirms the downregulation of the gene encoding SEMA5A, a protein involved in axonal guidance. Epstein-Barr virus should be considered as a possible source for altered expression, but our consistent results make us suggest SEMA5A as a candidate gene in the etiology of idiopathic autism.
17030376: !Autism Decreased serum levels of transforming growth factor-beta1 in patients with autism.	The neurobiological basis for autism remains poorly understood. Given the key role of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) in brain development, we hypothesized that TGF-beta1 plays a role in the pathophysiology of autism. In this study, we studied whether serum levels of TGF-beta1 are altered in patients with autism.	We measured serum levels of TGF-beta1 in 19 male adult patients with autism and 21 age-matched male healthy subjects using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).	The serum levels (7.34+/-5.21 ng/mL (mean+/-S.D.)) of TGF-beta1 in the patients with autism were significantly (z=-5.106, p<0.001) lower than those (14.48+/-1.64 ng/mL (mean+/-S.D.)) of normal controls. However, there were no marked or significant correlations between serum TGF-beta1 levels and other clinical variables, including Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R) scores, Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS), aggression, Theory of Mind, and Intellectual Quotient (IQ) in patients.	These findings suggest that decreased levels of TGF-beta1 may be implicated in the pathophysiology of autism.
17033333: !Autism Chronic pancreatitis.	The pathogenesis of idiopathic chronic pancreatitis remains poorly understood despite the high expectations for ascribing the pancreatic damage in affected patients to genetic defects. Neither mutations in the cationic trypsinogen gene nor mutations of the cystic fibrosis conductance regulator gene account for the chronic pancreatitis noted in most patients with idiopathic chronic pancreatitis. Attempts to find an autoimmune basis for the pancreatitis in these patients have not been very successful. The diagnosis of small duct idiopathic chronic pancreatitis remains a great source of frustration for clinicians. Such patients with negative results of radiographic studies often cannot be diagnosed unless a hormone stimulation test such as a secretin test is performed. Although the porcine biologic form of secretin, which has been used to diagnose chronic pancreatitis, became unavailable because of widespread use in the treatment of children with autism, a synthetic form of porcine secretin has now been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and is available. The true value of endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosing small duct chronic pancreatitis remains to be fully defined. Endoscopic ultrasonography is becoming the test of choice in detecting radiographic abnormalities in both the parenchyma and ducts of the pancreas. Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided celiac plexus block can be performed relatively easily and very safely. It can provide excellent short-term pain relief in some patients, but reliable predictors of which patients will be successful with this therapy are not yet available. Because long-term follow-up data on the use of endoscopic ultrasonography in this respect are not available, and because the pain of chronic pancreatitis is, indeed, chronic, the role of endoscopic ultrasonography-guided celiac plexus block should be limited to treating those patients with chronic pancreatitis whose pain has not responded to other modalities.
17034946: !Autism High frequency of neurexin 1beta signal peptide structural variants in patients with autism.	Neuroligins are postsynaptic membrane cell-adhesion molecules which bind to beta-neurexins, a family of proteins that act as neuronal cell surface receptors. To explore the possibility that structural variants in the beta-neurexin genes predispose to autism, the coding regions and associated splice junctions of three beta-neurexin genes were scanned with detection of virtually all mutations-SSCP (DOVAM-S) in 72 Caucasian patients with autism. In addition, segments of the neurexin 1beta gene were sequenced in 131 additional Caucasian and 61 Afro-American patients with autism from South Carolina and the Midwest. Two putative missense structural variants were identified in the neurexin 1beta gene in four Caucasian patients with autism and not in 535 healthy Caucasian controls (4/203 vs. 0/535, P=0.0056). Initial family data suggest that incomplete penetrance may occur. In addition, no structural variant was found in the neurexin 2beta gene and the neurexin 3beta gene. In the context of all available data, we conclude that mutations of the neurexin 1beta gene may contribute to autism susceptibility.
17046689: !Autism Brain-specific phosphorylation of MeCP2 regulates activity-dependent Bdnf transcription, dendritic growth, and spine maturation.	Mutations or duplications in MECP2 cause Rett and Rett-like syndromes, neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by mental retardation, motor dysfunction, and autistic behaviors. MeCP2 is expressed in many mammalian tissues and functions as a global repressor of transcription; however, the molecular mechanisms by which MeCP2 dysfunction leads to the neural-specific phenotypes of RTT remain poorly understood. Here, we show that neuronal activity and subsequent calcium influx trigger the de novo phosphorylation of MeCP2 at serine 421 (S421) by a CaMKII-dependent mechanism. MeCP2 S421 phosphorylation is induced selectively in the brain in response to physiological stimuli. Significantly, we find that S421 phosphorylation controls the ability of MeCP2 to regulate dendritic patterning, spine morphogenesis, and the activity-dependent induction of Bdnf transcription. These findings suggest that, by triggering MeCP2 phosphorylation, neuronal activity regulates a program of gene expression that mediates nervous system maturation and that disruption of this process in individuals with mutations in MeCP2 may underlie the neural-specific pathology of RTT.
17052801: !Autism Phosphorylation of methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) regulates the intracellular localization during neuronal cell differentiation.	Methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) is a transcriptional repressor which recognizes methylated CpG dinucleotides. Mutations in the MeCP2 gene is known to cause human autistic disease Rett syndrome, but its molecular mechanisms remain to be elucidated. Since MeCP2 is a DNA-binding protein, it has been believed that MeCP2 functions only in the nucleus. We herein show that MeCP2 is localized in the cytosol as well as in the nucleus of neuronal cells. Through the use of immunofluorescence and Western blot analyses, MeCP2 was found to be localized both in the nucleus and cytosol of rat PC-12 and mouse Neuro2a cells before neuronal differentiation, and it was translocated into the nucleus during differentiation. In primary cultured neurons from mouse cortex, MeCP2 was expressed in whole cell bodies on the first day of culture while after 7 days of culture, MeCP2 was localized mainly in the nucleus. Furthermore, MeCP2 was re-localized in the nucleus and cytosol after 14 days of culture. To study the molecular mechanisms of translocation, we analyzed the post-translational modification of MeCP2. The cytosolic MeCP2 was Ser/Thr-phosphorylated, while the nuclear MeCP2 was not. Both the cytosolic and nuclear MeCP2 were SUMOylated, which has been reported to be a nuclear transport signal. Our data suggests that the nuclear translocation of neuronal MeCP2 was induced during differentiation and/or maturation, and that Ser/Thr-phosphorylation regulates its translocation.
17063831: !Autism Asbestos as a possible major cause of malignant lung tumors (including small cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma & mesothelioma), brain tumors (i.e. astrocytoma & glioblastoma multiforme), many other malignant tumors, intractable pain including fibromyalgia, & some cardio-vascular pathology: Safe & effective methods of reducing asbestos from normal & pathological areas.	High incidences of Small Cell Carcinoma & Adenocarcinoma of the lung, Astrocytoma & Glioblastoma Multiforme of the brain and Mesothelioma of the lung were found in those who had a high accumulation of Asbestos in the eyes and upper respiratory system (nose, larynx, trachea, etc.). When measured non-invasively using the Bi-Digital O-Ring Test (BDORT), brain tumors had the highest concentration of Asbestos (0.2 approximately 2.1 mg BDORT units). Relatively high levels of Asbestos (0.2 approximately 0.6 mg BDORT units) were found in: Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the lungs & esophagus, Adenocarcinoma of the larynx & breast, myelogenic leukemia, arteries of these cancers, left ventricle of failing heart, myocardial infarction, some of the narrowed arteries, varicose veins, cataracts, balding heads, hot flashes, Alzheimer's Disease and Autism. A small, round or ellipsoidal area, with diameter of 5 mm or less, was found near the center of every cancer tissue with a higher level of Asbestos (1 approximately 3 mg), As, Zn, Cr and Se, than in the rest of the tumor; this small area may be where the cancer initiated. Among areas of intractable pain with frequent recurrence and gradual worsening, about 0.2 approximately 0.5 mg BDORT units (or higher) of Asbestos were found. The author found that in the Astrocytoma and many other cancer patients, the optimal dose of DHEA produced very significant reductions of cancer cell telomere from over 1400 ng in the brain tumors (and over 900 ng in other cancers) to close to or less than 1 yg (=10(-24) g), with circulatory improvement by reduction of TXB2. Unlike the standard, widely used treatment with DHEA 25 approximately 50 mg daily, which is an overdose; we only gave one optimal dose (1.5 approximately 12.5 mg) and the beneficial effects usually lasted anywhere between 3-6 months, unless inhibiting factors were introduced. In addition, once one optimal dose of DHEA was given, the amount of Asbestos from these tumors decreased very significantly (30 approximately 99% reduction) with marked increase in urine Asbestos. One optimal dose of special Cilantro tablet reduced more Asbestos than DHEA or (+) Qi Gong Energy Stored Paper. In addition, the application of (+) Solar Energy Stored Paper often reduces 70 approximately 99% of the Asbestos, while (+) Qi Gong Energy Stored Paper reduces 50 approximately 99% of the Asbestos.
17137558: !Autism Inhibitory control in high-functioning autism: decreased activation and underconnectivity in inhibition networks.	Inhibiting prepotent responses is critical to optimal cognitive and behavioral function across many domains. Several behavioral studies have investigated response inhibition in autism, and the findings varied according to the components involved in inhibition. There has been only one published functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study so far on inhibition in autism, which found greater activation in participants with autism than control participants.	This study investigated the neural basis of response inhibition in 12 high-functioning adults with autism and 12 age- and intelligence quotient (IQ)-matched control participants during a simple response inhibition task and an inhibition task involving working memory.	In both inhibition tasks, the participants with autism showed less brain activation than control participants in areas often found to be active in response inhibition tasks, namely the anterior cingulate cortex. In the more demanding inhibition condition, involving working memory, the participants with autism showed more activation than control participants in the premotor areas. In addition to the activation differences, the participants with autism showed lower levels of synchronization between the inhibition network (anterior cingulate gyrus, middle cingulate gyrus, and insula) and the right middle and inferior frontal and right inferior parietal regions.	The results indicate that the inhibition circuitry in the autism group is activated atypically and is less synchronized, leaving inhibition to be accomplished by strategic control rather than automatically. At the behavioral level, there was no difference between the groups.
17143299: !Autism The ups and downs of Wnt signaling in prevalent neurological disorders.	In order to function properly, the brain must be wired correctly during critical periods in early development. Mistakes in this process are hypothesized to occur in disorders like autism and schizophrenia. Later in life, signaling pathways are essential in maintaining proper communication between neuronal and non-neuronal cells, and disrupting this balance may result in disorders like Alzheimer's disease. The Wnt/beta-catenin pathway has a well-established role in cancer. Here, we review recent evidence showing the involvement of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in neurodevelopment as well as in neurodegenerative diseases. We suggest that the onset/development of such pathological conditions may involve the additive effect of genetic variation within Wnt signaling components and of molecules that modulate the activity of this signaling cascade.
17167233: !Autism Functional significance of the kainate receptor GluR6(M836I) mutation that is linked to autism.	Previous studies revealed a linkage of the kainate receptor GluR6 with autism, a pervasive developmental disorder. Mutational screening in autistic patients disclosed the amino acid exchange M836I in a highly conserved domain of the cytoplasmic C-terminal region of GluR6. Here, we show that this mutation leads to GluR6 gain-of-function. By using the two-electrode voltage clamp technique we observed a significant increase of current amplitudes of mutant GluR6 compared to wild type GluR6. Western blotting of oocytes injected with mutant or wild type GluR6 cRNA and transfection of EGFP-tagged GluR6 receptors into COS-7 cells revealed an enhanced plasma membrane expression of GluR6(M836I) compared to wild type GluR6. Membrane expression of GluR6(M836I) but not of wild type GluR6 seems to be regulated by Rab11 as indicated by our finding that GluR6(M836I) but not wild type GluR6 showed increased current amplitudes and protein expression when coexpressed with Rab11. Furthermore, injection of GTP plus Rab11A protein into oocytes increased current amplitudes in GluR6(M836I) but not in wild type GluR6. By contrast, Rab5 downregulated the currents in oocytes expressing wild type GluR6 but had only little, statistically not significant effects on currents in oocytes expressing GluR6(M836I). Our data on altered functional properties of GluR6(M836I) provide a functional basis for the postulated linkage of GluR6 to autism. Furthermore, we identified new mechanisms determining the plasma membrane abundance of wild type GluR6 and GluR6(M836I).
17189958: !Autism A proteomic study of serum from children with autism showing differential expression of apolipoproteins and complement proteins.	Modern methods that use systematic, quantitative and unbiased approaches are making it possible to discover proteins altered by a disease. To identify proteins that might be differentially expressed in autism, serum proteins from blood were subjected to trypsin digestion followed by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS) on time-of-flight (TOF) instruments to identify differentially expressed peptides. Children with autism 4-6 years of age (n=69) were compared to typically developing children (n=35) with similar age and gender distributions. A total of 6348 peptide components were quantified. Of these, five peptide components corresponding to four known proteins had an effect size >0.99 with a P<0.05 and a Mascot identification score of 30 or greater for autism compared to controls. The four proteins were: Apolipoprotein (apo) B-100, Complement Factor H Related Protein (FHR1), Complement C1q and Fibronectin 1 (FN1). In addition, apo B-100 and apo A-IV were higher in children with high compared to low functioning autism. Apos are involved in the transport of lipids, cholesterol and vitamin E. The complement system is involved in the lysis and removal of infectious organisms in blood, and may be involved in cellular apoptosis in brain. Despite limitations of the study, including the low fold changes and variable detection rates for the peptide components, the data support possible differences of circulating proteins in autism, and should help stimulate the continued search for causes and treatments of autism by examining peripheral blood.
17211134: !Autism Toll-like receptor ligands and CD154 stimulate microglia to produce a factor(s) that promotes excess cholinergic differentiation in the developing rat basal forebrain: implications for neurodevelopmental disorders.	Maternal inflammation plays a role in the etiology of certain neurodevelopmental disorders including autism and schizophrenia. Because maternal inflammation can lead to activation of fetal microglia, we have examined effects of inflamed microglia on cultured neural progenitors from rat embryonic septal region and basal forebrain. These cells give rise to cholinergic neurons projecting to cortex and hippocampus. Microglia stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), peptidoglycan, Poly I:C and CD154 produce conditioned media (CM) that promotes excessive numbers of cholinergic neurons and levels of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity 6-8 times that of untreated cultures. Expression of the neural-specific transcription factor MATH1 increases substantially within 1 h of plating in LPS-CM. Untreated cultures do not attain equivalent levels until 6 h. By contrast, expression of glial-related transcription factors in LPS-CM-treated cultures never attains the elevated levels of untreated cultures. LPS-CM-treated clones derived from individual progenitors labeled with a LacZ-expressing retrovirus showed >2.5-fold increase in the percentage of cholinergic cells compared with untreated clones. Thus, CM from activated microglia prompts excess cholinergic differentiation from undifferentiated progenitors suggesting that microglial inflammation during critical stages can lead to aberrant brain development.
17223178: !Autism Disrupting effects of hydroxy-polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congeners on neuronal development of cerebellar Purkinje cells: a possible causal factor for developmental brain disorders?	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and hydroxy-PCB (OH-PCB) metabolites are widely distributed bioaccumulative environmental chemicals and have similar chemical structures to those of thyroid hormones (THs). Previously, we reported that THs are essential for neuronal development and the low doses of two OH-PCBs, namely, 4-OH-2',3,3',4',5'-pentachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-PeCB-106) and 4-OH-2',3,3',4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-HxCB-159), inhibited the TH-dependent dendritic development of Purkinje cells in mouse cerebellar cultures using serum-free defined medium. To determine which type of OH-PCBs affect neuronal development, we further examined several OH-PCBs and other estrogenic chemicals using this simple and sensitive assay system. Two-way ANOVA was used to assess the effects of OH-PCBs and other chemicals on both factors of their concentrations and with/without T4 in the assay of TH-dependent dendritic development of Purkinje cells. Aside from the two OH-PCBs, 4-OH-2',3,4',5,6'-pentachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-PeCB-121) and bisphenol A significantly inhibited the TH-dependent dendritic development of Purkinje cells, whereas 4-OH-2',3,3',5',6'-pentachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-PeCB-112), 4-OH-2',3,3',5,5',6'-hexachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-HxCB-165), 4-OH-2,2',3,4',5,5',6-heptachlorobiphenyl (4-OH-HpCB-187), progesterone and nonylphenol did not induce any inhibition, but significantly promoted the dendritic extension of Purkinje cells in the absence of THs. Other estrogenic chemicals, including beta-estradiol, diethyl stilbestrol and p-octylphenol did not show significant inhibitory or promoting effects. From these results, it is suggested that exposure to OH-PCBs and other environmental chemicals may disrupt normal neuronal development and cause some developmental brain disorders, such as LD, ADHD, and autism.
17235515: !Autism Decreased GAD67 mRNA levels in cerebellar Purkinje cells in autism: pathophysiological implications.	The recent identification of decreased protein levels of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) 65 and 67 isoforms in the autistic cerebellar tissue raises the possibility that abnormal regulation of GABA production in individual neurons may contribute to the clinical features of autism. Reductions in Purkinje cell number have been widely reported in autism. It is not known whether the GAD changes also occur in Purkinje cells at the level of transcription. Using a novel approach, the present study quantified GAD67 mRNA, the most abundant isoform in Purkinje cells, using in situ hybridization in adult autistic and control cases. The results indicate that GAD67 mRNA level was reduced by 40% in the autistic group (P < 0.0001; two-tailed t test), suggesting that reduced Purkinje cell GABA input to the cerebellar nuclei potentially disrupts cerebellar output to higher association cortices affecting motor and/or cognitive function. These findings may also contribute to the understanding of previous reports of alterations in the GABAergic system in limbic and cerebro-cortical areas contributing to a more widespread pathophysiology in autistic brains.
17236127: !Autism The role of neuronal complexes in human X-linked brain diseases.	Beyond finding individual genes that are involved in medical disorders, an important challenge is the integration of sets of disease genes with the complexities of basic biological processes. We examine this issue by focusing on neuronal multiprotein complexes and their components encoded on the human X chromosome. Multiprotein signaling complexes in the postsynaptic terminal of central nervous system synapses are essential for the induction of neuronal plasticity and cognitive processes in animals. The prototype complex is the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex/membrane-associated guanylate kinase-associated signaling complex (NRC/MASC) comprising 185 proteins and embedded within the postsynaptic density (PSD), which is a set of complexes totaling approximately 1,100 proteins. It is striking that 86% (6 of 7) of X-linked NRC/MASC genes and 49% (19 of 39) of X-chromosomal PSD genes are already known to be involved in human psychiatric disorders. Moreover, of the 69 known proteins mutated in X-linked mental retardation, 19 (28%) encode postsynaptic proteins. The high incidence of involvement in cognitive disorders is also found in mouse mutants and indicates that the complexes are functioning as integrated entities or molecular machines and that disruption of different components impairs their overall role in cognitive processes. We also noticed that NRC/MASC genes appear to be more strongly associated with mental retardation and autism spectrum disorders. We propose that systematic studies of PSD and NRC/MASC genes in mice and humans will give a high yield of novel genes important for human disease and new mechanistic insights into higher cognitive functions.
17278996: !Autism Methyl CpG-binding protein 2 (a mutation of which causes Rett syndrome) directly regulates insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 in mouse and human brains.	Rett syndrome (RTT) is a major neurodevelopmental disorder, characterized by mental retardation and autistic behavior. Mutation of the MeCP2 gene, encoding methyl CpG-binding protein 2, causes the disease. The pathomechanism by which MeCP2 dysfunction leads to the RTT phenotype has not been elucidated. We found that MeCP2 directly regulates expression of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3) gene in human and mouse brains. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that the IGFBP3 promoter contained an MeCP2 binding site. IGFBP3 overexpression was observed in the brains of mecp2-null mice and human RTT patients using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analyses. Moreover, mecp2-null mice showed a widely distributed and increased number of IGFBP3-positive cells in the cerebral cortex, whereas wild-type mice at the same age showed fewer IGFBP3-positive cells. These results suggest that IGFBP3 is a downstream gene regulated by MeCP2 and that the previously reported BDNF and DLX5 genes and MeCP2 may contribute directly to the transcriptional expression of IGFBP3 in the brain. Interestingly, the pathologic features of mecp2-null mice have some similarities to those of IGFBP3-transgenic mice, which show a reduction of early postnatal growth. IGFBP3 overexpression due to lack of MeCP2 may lead to delayed brain maturation.
17290275: !Autism Identification and characterization of the TRIP8 and REEP3 genes on chromosome 10q21.3 as novel candidate genes for autism.	Autism is a genetic neurodevelopmental disorder of unknown cause and pathogenesis. The identification of genes involved in autism is expected to increase our understanding of its pathogenesis. Infrequently, neurodevelopmental disorders like autism are associated with chromosomal anomalies. To identify candidate genes for autism, we initiated a positional cloning strategy starting from individuals with idiopathic autism carrying a de novo chromosomal anomaly. We report on the clinical, cytogenetic and molecular findings in a male person with autism, no physical abnormalities and normal IQ, carrying a de novo balanced paracentric inversion 46,XY,inv(10)(q11.1;q21.3). The distal breakpoint disrupts the TRIP8 gene, which codes for a protein predicted to be a transcriptional regulator associated with nuclear thyroid hormone receptors. However, no link between thyroid gland and autism has been reported so far. In addition, the same breakpoint abolishes expression of a nearby gene, REEP3, through a position effect. Receptor Expression-Enhancing Proteins (REEP) 3 is one of the six human homologs of yeast Yop1p, a probable regulator of cellular vesicle trafficking between the endoplasmatic reticulum and the Golgi network. These observations suggest that TRIP8 and REEP3 are both positional candidate genes for autism. In addition, our data indicate that in the selection of positional candidate genes when studying chromosomal aberrations, position effects should be taken into account.
17292328: !Autism Neuroligins 3 and 4X interact with syntrophin-gamma2, and the interactions are affected by autism-related mutations.	Recently, neuroligins (NLs)3 and 4X have received much attention as autism-related genes. Here, we identified syntrophin-gamma2 (SNTG2) as a de novo binding partner of NL3. SNTG2 also bound to NL4X and NL4Y. Interestingly, the binding was influenced by autism-related mutations, implying that the impaired interaction between NLs and SNTG2 contributes to the etiology of autism.
17331656: !Autism Aristaless-related homeobox gene, the gene responsible for West syndrome and related disorders, is a Groucho/transducin-like enhancer of split dependent transcriptional repressor.	Aristaless-related homeobox gene (ARX) is an important paired-type homeobox gene involved in the development of human brain. The ARX gene mutations are a significant contributor to various forms of X-chromosome-linked mental retardation with and without additional features including epilepsy, lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia, hand dystonia or autism. Here we demonstrate that the human ARX protein is a potent transcriptional repressor, which binds to Groucho/transducin-like enhancer of split (TLE) co-factor proteins and the TLE1 in particular through its octapeptide (Engrailed homology repressor domain (eh-1) homology) domain. We show that the transcription repression activity of ARX is modulated by two strong repression domains, one located within the octapeptide domain and the second in the region of the polyalanine tract 4, and one activator domain, the aristaless domain. Importantly, we show that the transcription repression activity of ARX is affected by various naturally occurring mutations. The introduction of the c.98T>C (p.L33P) mutation results in the lack of binding to TLE1 protein and relaxed transcription repression. The introduction of the two most frequent ARX polyalanine tract expansion mutations increases the repression activity in a manner dependent on the number of extra alanines. Interestingly, deletions of alanine residues within polyalanine tracts 1 and 2 show low or no effect. In summary we demonstrate that the ARX protein is a strong transcription repressor, we identify novel ARX interacting proteins (TLE) and offer an explanation of a molecular pathogenesis of some ARX mutations, including the most frequent ARX mutations, the polyalanine tract expansion mutations, c.304ins(GCG)7 and c.428_451dup.
17342827: !Autism First drug to treat irritability associated with autism.	
17344385: !Autism Impaired cerebellar development and function in mice lacking CAPS2, a protein involved in neurotrophin release.	Ca2+-dependent activator protein for secretion 2 (CAPS2/CADPS2) is a secretory granule-associated protein that is abundant at the parallel fiber terminals of granule cells in the mouse cerebellum and is involved in the release of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), both of which are required for cerebellar development. The human homolog gene on chromosome 7 is located within susceptibility locus 1 of autism, a disease characterized by several cerebellar morphological abnormalities. Here we report that CAPS2 knock-out mice are deficient in the release of NT-3 and BDNF, and they consequently exhibit suppressed phosphorylation of Trk receptors in the cerebellum; these mice exhibit pronounced impairments in cerebellar development and functions, including neuronal survival, differentiation and migration of postmitotic granule cells, dendritogenesis of Purkinje cells, lobulation between lobules VI and VII, structure and vesicular distribution of parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses, paired-pulse facilitation at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses, rotarod motor coordination, and eye movement plasticity in optokinetic training. Increased granule cell death of the external granular layer was noted in lobules VI-VII and IX, in which high BDNF and NT-3 levels are specifically localized during cerebellar development. Therefore, the deficiency of CAPS2 indicates that CAPS2-mediated neurotrophin release is indispensable for normal cerebellar development and functions, including neuronal differentiation and survival, morphogenesis, synaptic function, and motor learning/control. The possible involvement of the CAPS2 gene in the cerebellar deficits of autistic patients is discussed.
17368915: !Autism Unrest at rest: default activity and spontaneous network correlations.	A series of recent empirical observations demonstrate structured activity patterns that exist during passive task states. One observation is that a network of regions, referred to as the default network, shows preferentially greater activity during passive task states as compared to a wide range of active tasks. The second observation is that distributed regions spontaneously increase and decrease their activity together within functional-anatomic networks, even under anesthesia. We believe these rest activity patterns may reflect neural functions that consolidate the past, stabilize brain ensembles, and prepare us for the future. Accumulating data further suggest that differences in rest activity may be relevant to understanding clinical conditions such as Alzheimer's disease and autism. Maps of spontaneous network correlations also provide tools for functional localization and study of comparative anatomy between primate species. For all of these reasons, we advocate the systematic exploration of rest activity.
17374559: !Autism Autism spectrum disorders - Exogenous protein insult.	The immune-response perspective described herein is intended to explore how certain environmental proteins may affect neuro-cognitive development in children. Specifically, proteins inherent in natural rubber latex are known to cause severe and pervasive immune responses. More specifically, the Hevea Brasiliensis proteins in natural rubber latex may trigger immunoglobulin-E mediated reaction antibodies and influence cross-react immune responses to other exogenous/endogenous proteins. In adults, repeated exposure to the Hevea Brasiliensis proteins has been shown to cause an increased incidence of sensitization, adverse allergic reactions, and even death through anaphylactic shock. Natural rubber latex has seen a dramatic increase in usage over the last 30-years (e.g., health care industry, consumer products). The timing, frequency, intensity, and type of exposure to such proteins may influence the incidence, degree of atypicality, and prevalence of autism spectrum disorders. Therefore, research efforts should be directed at exploring how immune responses to such proteins affect lymphocyte sensitivity, enzyme regulation, and neural formation during prenatal/neonatal development.
17376623: !Autism Antisense suppression of TSC1 gene product, hamartin, enhances neurite outgrowth in NGF-treated PC12h cells.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder characterized by benign tumors (hamartomas) in various organs. The brain is one of the most severely affected organs with neuropsychiatric disorders including epilepsy, mental retardation and autism. The identification of TSC genes (TSC1 and TSC2) and their gene products (hamartin and tuberin, respectively), revealed that they function together as a complex. However, mutations in TSC2 are often accompanied by more severe neurologic deficits. Here, we show that hamartin and tuberin play different roles in NGF-treated cultured neuronal cells PC12h. The level of hamartin in PC12h cells was slightly and gradually increased, while those of tuberin rapidly increased upon NGF-induced neuronal differentiation in PC12h cells. Antisense for TSC1 (TSC1-AS) or TSC2-AS reduced expression of hamartin or tuberin, respectively, and enhanced S-phase of cell cycle in PC12h cells. Suppression of hamartin significantly enhanced neurite outgrowth after NGF-treatment in PC12h cells, while suppression of tuberin inhibited neurite outgrowth. Expression of activated V14RhoA reverted TSC1-AS induced abnormal neurite development. These results suggest that loss of hamartin results in abnormal neurite elongation through Rho inactivation in NGF-treated PC12h cells, which may be associated with the neurological manifestations of TSC.
17376973: !Autism Fragile X mental retardation protein induces synapse loss through acute postsynaptic translational regulation.	Fragile X syndrome, as well as other forms of mental retardation and autism, is associated with altered dendritic spine number and structure. Fragile X syndrome is caused by loss-of-function mutations in Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), an RNA-binding protein that regulates protein synthesis in vivo. It is unknown whether FMRP plays a direct, cell-autonomous role in regulation of synapse number, function, or maturation. Here, we report that acute postsynaptic expression of FMRP in Fmr1 knock-out (KO) neurons results in a decrease in the number of functional and structural synapses without an effect on their synaptic strength or maturational state. Similarly, neurons endogenously expressing FMRP (wild-type) have fewer synapses than neighboring Fmr1 KO neurons. An intact K homology domain 2 (KH2) RNA-binding domain and dephosphorylation of FMRP at S500 were required for the effects of FMRP on synapse number, indicating that FMRP interaction with RNA and translating polyribosomes leads to synapse loss.
17380209: !Autism Autistic-like phenotypes in Cadps2-knockout mice and aberrant CADPS2 splicing in autistic patients.	Autism, characterized by profound impairment in social interactions and communicative skills, is the most common neurodevelopmental disorder, and its underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. Ca(2+)-dependent activator protein for secretion 2 (CADPS2; also known as CAPS2) mediates the exocytosis of dense-core vesicles, and the human CADPS2 is located within the autism susceptibility locus 1 on chromosome 7q. Here we show that Cadps2-knockout mice not only have impaired brain-derived neurotrophic factor release but also show autistic-like cellular and behavioral phenotypes. Moreover, we found an aberrant alternatively spliced CADPS2 mRNA that lacks exon 3 in some autistic patients. Exon 3 was shown to encode the dynactin 1-binding domain and affect axonal CADPS2 protein distribution. Our results suggest that a disturbance in CADPS2-mediated neurotrophin release contributes to autism susceptibility.
17409246: !Autism Dopamine receptor activation modulates GABA neuron migration from the basal forebrain to the cerebral cortex.	GABA neurons of the cerebral cortex and other telencephalic structures are produced in the basal forebrain and migrate to their final destinations during the embryonic period. The embryonic basal forebrain is enriched in dopamine and its receptors, creating a favorable environment for dopamine to influence GABA neuron migration. However, whether dopamine receptor activation can influence GABA neuron migration is not known. We show that dopamine D1 receptor activation promotes and D2 receptor activation decreases GABA neuron migration from the medial and caudal ganglionic eminences to the cerebral cortex in slice preparations of embryonic mouse forebrain. Slice preparations from D1 or D2 receptor knock-out mouse embryos confirm the findings. In addition, D1 receptor electroporation into cells of the basal forebrain and pharmacological activation of the receptor promote migration of the electroporated cells to the cerebral cortex. Analysis of GABA neuron numbers in the cerebral wall of the dopamine receptor knock-out mouse embryos further confirmed the effects of dopamine receptor activation on GABA neuron migration. Finally, dopamine receptor activation mobilizes striatal neuronal cytoskeleton in a manner consistent with the effects on neuronal migration. These data show that impairing the physiological balance between D1 and D2 receptors can alter GABA neuron migration from the basal forebrain to the cerebral cortex. The intimate relationship between dopamine and GABA neuron development revealed here may offer novel insights into developmental disorders such as schizophrenia, attention deficit or autism, and fetal cocaine exposure, all of which are associated with dopamine and GABA imbalance.
17428348: !Autism Alternative splicing variations in mouse CAPS2: differential expression and functional properties of splicing variants.	Ca2+-dependent activator protein 2 (CAPS2/CADPS2) is a secretory vesicle-associated protein involved in the release of neurotrophin. We recently reported that an aberrant, alternatively spliced CAPS2 mRNA that lacks exon 3 (CAPS2Deltaexon3) is detected in some patients with autism. Splicing variations in mouse CAPS2 and their expression and functions remain unclear.	In this study, we defined 31 exons in the mouse CAPS2 gene and identified six alternative splicing variants, CAPS2a-f. CAPS2a is an isoform lacking exons 22 and 25, which encode part of the Munc13-1-homologous domain (MHD). CAPS2b lacks exon 25. CAPS2c lacks exons 11 and 22. CAPS2d, 2e, and 2f have C-terminal deletions from exon 14, exon 12, and exon 5, respectively. On the other hand, a mouse counterpart of CAPS2Deltaexon3 was not detected in the mouse tissues tested. CAPS2b was expressed exclusively in the brain, and the other isoforms were highly expressed in the brain, but also in some non-neural tissues. In the brain, all isoforms showed predominant expression patterns in the cerebellum. In the developing cerebellum, CAPS2b showed an up-regulated expression pattern, whereas the other isoforms exhibited transiently peaked expression patterns. CAPS2 proteins were mostly recovered in soluble fractions, but some were present in membrane fractions, except for CAPS2c and 2f, both of which lack the PH domain, suggesting that the PH domain is important for membrane association. In contrast to CAPS2a and 2b, CAPS2c showed slightly decreased BDNF-releasing activity, which is likely due to the C-terminal truncation of the PH domain in CAPS2c.	This study indicates that, in mouse, there are six splicing variants of CAPS2 (CAPS2a-f), and that these are subdivided into two groups: a long form containing the C-terminal MHD and a short form lacking the C-terminal MHD. These results demonstrate that the splicing variations correlate with their expression patterns and intracellular distribution, and affect BDNF release; however, whether or not the short forms possess activities other than BDNF release, for example as natural dominant-negative isoforms, remains to be determined.
17458502: !Autism Epigenetic mechanisms in the context of complex diseases.	Complex diseases arise from a combination of heritable and environmental factors. The contribution made by environmental factors may be mediated through epigenetics. Epigenetics is the study of changes in gene expression that occur without a change in DNA sequence and are meiotically or mitotically heritable. Such changes in gene expression are achieved through the methylation of DNA, the post-translational modifications of histone proteins, and RNA-based silencing. Epigenetics has been implicated in complex diseases such as cancer, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, autism and systemic lupus erythematosus. The prevalence and severity of these diseases may be influenced by factors that affect the epigenotype, such as ageing, folate status, in vitro fertilization and our ancestors' lifestyles. Although our understanding of the role played by epigenetics in complex diseases remains in its infancy, it has already led to the development of novel diagnostic methods and treatments, which augurs well for its future health benefits.
17464364: !Autism Dynamic changes in Histone H3 lysine 9 acetylation localization patterns during neuronal maturation require MeCP2.	Mutations within the gene encoding methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2) cause the autism-spectrum neurodevelopmental disorder Rett Syndrome (RTT). MECP2 recruits histone deacetylase to methylated DNA and acts as a long-range regulator of methylated genes. Despite ubiquitous MECP2 expression, the phenotype of RTT and the Mecp2-deficient mouse is largely restricted to the postnatal brain. Since Mecp2-deficient mice have a defect in neuronal maturation, we sought to understand how MECP2/Mecp2 mutations globally affect histone modifications during postnatal brain development by an immunofluorescence approach. Using an antibody specific to acetylated histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9ac), a bright punctate nuclear staining pattern was observed as MECP2 expression increased in early postnatal neuronal nuclei. As neurons matured in juvenile and adult brain samples, the intensity of H3K9ac staining was reduced. Mecp2-deficient mouse and RTT cerebral neurons lacked this developmental reduction in H3K9ac staining compared to age-matched controls, resulting in a significant increase in neuronal nuclei with bright H3K9ac punctate staining. In contrast, trimethylated histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9me3) localized to heterochromatin independent of MeCP2, but showed significantly reduced levels in Mecp2 deficient mouse and RTT brain. Autism brain with reduced MECP2 expression displayed similar histone H3 alterations as RTT brain. These observations suggest that MeCP2 regulates global histone modifications during a critical postnatal stage of neuronal maturation. These results have implications for understanding the molecular pathogenesis of RTT and autism in which MECP2 mutation or deficiency corresponds with arrested neurodevelopment.
17480121: !Autism Identification of the imprinted KLF14 transcription factor undergoing human-specific accelerated evolution.	Imprinted genes are expressed in a parent-of-origin manner and are located in clusters throughout the genome. Aberrations in the expression of imprinted genes on human Chromosome 7 have been suggested to play a role in the etiologies of Russell-Silver Syndrome and autism. We describe the imprinting of KLF14, an intronless member of the Kr?ppel-like family of transcription factors located at Chromosome 7q32. We show that it has monoallelic maternal expression in all embryonic and extra-embryonic tissues studied, in both human and mouse. We examine epigenetic modifications in the KLF14 CpG island in both species and find this region to be hypomethylated. In addition, we perform chromatin immunoprecipitation and find that the murine Klf14 CpG island lacks allele-specific histone modifications. Despite the absence of these defining features, our analysis of Klf14 in offspring from DNA methyltransferase 3a conditional knockout mice reveals that the gene's expression is dependent upon a maternally methylated region. Due to the intronless nature of Klf14 and its homology to Klf16, we suggest that the gene is an ancient retrotransposed copy of Klf16. By sequence analysis of numerous species, we place the timing of this event after the divergence of Marsupialia, yet prior to the divergence of the Xenarthra superclade. We identify a large number of sequence variants in KLF14 and, using several measures of diversity, we determine that there is greater variability in the human lineage with a significantly increased number of nonsynonymous changes, suggesting human-specific accelerated evolution. Thus, KLF14 may be the first example of an imprinted transcript undergoing accelerated evolution in the human lineage.
17497229: !Autism Prenatal exposure to valproic acid disturbs the enkephalinergic system functioning, basal hedonic tone, and emotional responses in an animal model of autism.	It has been suggested that behavioral aberrations observed in autism could be the result of dysfunction of the neuroregulatory role performed by the endogenous opioid peptides. Many of those aberrations have been recently modeled in rats exposed to valproic acid (VPA) on the 12th day of gestation (VPA rats).	The aim of the present study was to elucidate functioning of the enkephalinergic system, one of the endogenous opioid peptide systems strongly involved in emotional responses, in VPA rats using both biochemical and behavioral methods.	In situ hybridization was used to measure proenkephalin mRNA expression in adult VPA rats' central nucleus of the amygdala, the dorsal striatum, and the nucleus accumbens. Additional groups of animals were examined in a conditioned place aversion to naloxone, the elevated plus maze, and object recognition tests to assess their basal hedonic tone, anxiety, learning and memory, respectively.	Prenatal exposure to VPA decreased proenkephalin mRNA expression in the dorsal striatum and the nucleus accumbens but not in the central nucleus of the amygdala. It also increased anxiety and attenuated conditioned place aversion to naloxone but had no impact on learning and memory.	The present results suggest that prenatal exposure to VPA may lead to the decreased activity of the striatal enkephalinergic system and in consequence to increased anxiety and disregulated basal hedonic tone observed in VPA rats. Presented results are discussed in light of interactions between enkephalinergic, GABAergic, and dopaminergic systems in the striatum and mesolimbic areas of the brain.
17500212: !Autism [Regulatory peptides and psychomotor development in infants].	Regulatory peptides (RP) are an important homeostatic factor. The maternal organism and placenta are substantial sources of RP for fetus during the prenatal period. Not only endogenous, but also exogenous RP play an important role during early postnatal period. In this study, the concentration of exogenous RP (casomorphins-7) and the activity of peptidases (enkephalinases) in the serum of breastfed and bottle-fed infants were estimated. Possible interrelation between these two parameters and the psychomotor development (PMD) of infants were evaluated. Using specially developed RIA, the investigators estimated the presence of human and bovine casomorphins immunoreactivity (CMir) in the serum of breastfed and bottle-fed infants. A distinct correlation of CMir with PMD was demonstrated. The activity of RP-degrading serum enzymes also correlated with PMD level. The role of endo- and exogenous peptides in normal PMD process and in the pathogenesis of early child autism is discussed in the article.
17519220: !Autism Genome-wide expression profiling of lymphoblastoid cell lines distinguishes different forms of autism and reveals shared pathways.	Autism is a heterogeneous condition that is likely to result from the combined effects of multiple genetic factors interacting with environmental factors. Given its complexity, the study of autism associated with Mendelian single gene disorders or known chromosomal etiologies provides an important perspective. We used microarray analysis to compare the mRNA expression profile in lymphoblastoid cells from males with autism due to a fragile X mutation (FMR1-FM), or a 15q11-q13 duplication (dup(15q)), and non-autistic controls. Gene expression profiles clearly distinguished autism from controls and separated individuals with autism based on their genetic etiology. We identified 68 genes that were dysregulated in common between autism with FMR1-FM and dup(15q). We also identified a potential molecular link between FMR1-FM and dup(15q), the cytoplasmic FMR1 interacting protein 1 (CYFIP1), which was up-regulated in dup(15q) patients. We were able to confirm this link in vitro by showing common regulation of two other dysregulated genes, JAKMIP1 and GPR155, downstream of FMR1 or CYFIP1. We also confirmed the reduction of the Jakmip1 protein in Fmr1 knock-out mice, demonstrating in vivo relevance. Finally, we showed independent confirmation of roles for JAKMIP1 and GPR155 in autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) by showing their differential expression in male sib pairs discordant for idiopathic ASD. These results provide evidence that blood derived lymphoblastoid cells gene expression is likely to be useful for identifying etiological subsets of autism and exploring its pathophysiology.
17549750: !Autism Increased cerebral oxygen consumption in Eker rats and effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate blockade: Implications for autism.	Because there is a strong correlation between tuberous sclerosis and autism, we used a tuberous sclerosis model (Eker rat) to test the hypothesis that these animals would have an altered regional cerebral O2 consumption that might be associated with autism. We also examined whether the altered cerebral O2 consumption was related to changes in the importance of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Young (4 weeks) male control Long Evans (N = 14) and Eker (N = 14) rats (70-100 g) were divided into control and CGS-19755 (10 mg/kg, competitive NMDA antagonist)-treated animals. Cerebral regional blood flow (14C-iodoantipyrine) and O2 consumption (cryomicrospectrophotometry) were determined in isoflurane-anesthetized rats. NMDA receptor protein levels were determined by Western immunoblotting. We found significantly increased basal O2 consumption in the cortex (6.2 +/- 0.6 ml O2/min/100 g Eker vs. 4.7 +/- 0.4 Long Evans), hippocampus, cerebellum, and pons. Regional cerebral blood flow was also elevated in Eker rats at baseline, but cerebral O2 extraction was similar. CGS-19755 significantly lowered O2 consumption in the cortex (2.8 +/- 0.3), hippocampus, and pons of the Long Evans rats but had no effect on cortex (5.8 +/- 0.8) or other regions of the Eker rats. Cerebral blood flow followed a similar pattern. NMDA receptor protein levels (NR1 subunit) were similar between groups. In conclusion, Eker rats had significantly elevated cerebral O2 consumption and blood flow, but this was not related to NMDA receptor activation. In fact, the importance of NMDA receptors in the control of basal cerebral O2 consumption was reduced. This might have important implications in the treatment of autism.
17562316: !Autism Synaptic arrangement of the neuroligin/beta-neurexin complex revealed by X-ray and neutron scattering.	Neuroligins are postsynaptic cell-adhesion proteins that associate with their presynaptic partners, the neurexins. Using small-angle X-ray scattering, we determined the shapes of the extracellular region of several neuroligin isoforms in solution. We conclude that the neuroligins dimerize via the characteristic four-helix bundle observed in cholinesterases, and that the connecting sequence between the globular lobes of the dimer and the cell membrane is elongated, projecting away from the dimer interface. X-ray scattering and neutron contrast variation data show that two neurexin monomers, separated by 107 A, bind at symmetric locations on opposite sides of the long axis of the neuroligin dimer. Using these data, we developed structural models that delineate the spatial arrangements of different neuroligin domains and their partnering molecules. As mutations of neurexin and neuroligin genes appear to be linked to autism, these models provide a structural framework for understanding altered recognition by these proteins in neurodevelopmental disorders.
17592139: !Autism Inhibition of p21-activated kinase rescues symptoms of fragile X syndrome in mice.	Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most commonly inherited form of mental retardation and autism, is caused by transcriptional silencing of the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene and consequent loss of the fragile X mental retardation protein. Despite growing evidence suggesting a role of specific receptors and biochemical pathways in FXS pathogenesis, an effective therapeutic method has not been developed. Here, we report that abnormalities in FMR1 knockout (KO) mice, an animal model of FXS, are ameliorated, at least partially, at both cellular and behavioral levels, by an inhibition of the catalytic activity of p21-activated kinase (PAK), a kinase known to play a critical role in actin polymerization and dendritic spine morphogenesis. Greater spine density and elongated spines in the cortex, morphological synaptic abnormalities commonly observed in FXS, are at least partially restored by postnatal expression of a dominant negative (dn) PAK transgene in the forebrain. Likewise, the deficit in cortical long-term potentiation observed in FMR1 KO mice is fully restored by the dnPAK transgene. Several behavioral abnormalities associated with FMR1 KO mice, including those in locomotor activity, stereotypy, anxiety, and trace fear conditioning are also ameliorated, partially or fully, by the dnPAK transgene. Finally, we demonstrate a direct interaction between PAK and fragile X mental retardation protein in vitro. Overall, our results demonstrate the genetic rescue of phenotypes in a FXS mouse model and suggest that the PAK signaling pathway, including the catalytic activity of PAK, is a novel intervention site for development of an FXS and autism therapy.
17597297: !Autism Preliminary evidence for involvement of the folate gene polymorphism 19bp deletion-DHFR in occurrence of autism.	Folate has long been implicated in both the metabolism of neurotransmitter molecules, and as an agonist with a direct effect upon neuronal tissue. Folates mediate transfer of one-carbon units into major biosynthetic pathways. From a developmental perspective, the most important reactions are de novo methionine and thymine synthesis, critical for DNA expression and elaboration, respectively. Dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) is the sole enzyme responsible for maintaining the reduced state of the vitamin needed for these two pathways. Here, we report that the 19bp-deletion polymorphism of DHFR acts independently (OR 2.69, 95% CI; 1.00-7.28, p<0.05) and in concert with related folate polymorphisms as a significant risk factor for autism. Possible consequences of this are discussed in the context of the interaction between folate and the glutamatergic nervous system, an area of promising candidate genes for contributing to autism.
17597906: !Autism Modeling of the potential coiled-coil structure of snapin protein and its interaction with SNARE complex.	Autism is a developmental disability causing learning and memory disorder. The heart of the search for a cure for this syndrome is the need to understand dendrite branch patterning, a process crucial for proper synaptic transmission. Due to the association of snapin with the SNARE complex and its role in synaptic transmission it is reported as a potential drug target for autism therapies. We wish to impart the noesis of the 3D structure of the snapin protein, and in this chase we predict the native structure from its sequence of amino acid residues using the classical Comparative protein structure modeling methods. The predicted protein model can be of great assistance in understanding the structural insights, which is necessary to understand the protein function. Understanding the interactions between snapin and SNARE complex is crucial in studying its role in the neurotransmitter release process. We also presented a computational model that shows the interaction between the snapin and SNAP-25 protein, a part of the larger SNARE complex.
17611641: !Autism Gene amplifications at chromosome 7 of the human gastric cancer genome.	Genetic aberrations at chromosome 7 are known to be related with diverse human diseases, including cancer and autism. In a number of cancer research areas involving gastric cancer, several comparative genomic hybridization studies employing metaphase chromosome or BAC clone microarrays have repeatedly identified human chromosome 7 as containing 'regions of changes' related with cancer progression. cDNA microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization can be used to directly identify individual target genes undergoing copy number variations. Copy number change analysis for 17,000 genes on a microarray format was performed with tumor and normal gastric tissues from 30 patients. A group of 90 genes undergoing copy number increases (gene amplification) at the p11 approximately p22 or q21 approximately q36 region of chromosome 7 is reported. The list of genes includes wingless-type MMTV integration site family member 2 (WNT2), a proto-oncogene and acyloxyacyl hydrolase (AOAH) that was amplified in >80% of the tested cases. The amplified genes are those functioning in the biological processes such as signal transduction pathways, cell proliferation, metabolism, transport, inflammatory response and protein folding or proteolysis. Also found in the list are genes that are targets for drug development, such as maltase-glucoamylase (MGAM), cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and dopa decarboxylase (DDC). The current dataset can be used as one of the resources in understanding genetic aberrations of chromosome 7 in human gastric cancer.
17626784: !Autism SNP analyses of growth factor genes EGF, TGFbeta-1, and HGF reveal haplotypic association of EGF with autism.	Autism is a pervasive neurodevelopmental disorder diagnosed in early childhood. Growth factors have been found to play a key role in the cellular differentiation and proliferation of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) is detected in several regions of the developing and adult brain, where, it enhances the differentiation, maturation, and survival of a variety of neurons. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta) isoforms play an important role in neuronal survival, and the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) has been shown to exhibit neurotrophic activity. We examined the association of EGF, TGFbeta1, and HGF genes with autism, in a trio association study, using DNA samples from families recruited to the Autism Genetic Resource Exchange; 252 trios with a male offspring scored for autism were selected for the study. Transmission disequilibrium test revealed significant haplotypic association of EGF with autism. No significant SNP or haplotypic associations were observed for TGFbeta1 or HGF. Given the role of EGF in brain and neuronal development, we suggest a possible role of EGF in the pathogenesis of autism.
17635839: !Autism Cell-specific expression of wild-type MeCP2 in mouse models of Rett syndrome yields insight about pathogenesis.	Rett syndrome (RTT), a leading cause of mental retardation with autistic features in females, is caused by mutations in the gene encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2). RTT is characterized by a diverse set of neurological features that includes cognitive, motor, behavioral and autonomic disturbances. The diverse features suggest that specific neurons contribute to particular phenotypes and raise the question whether restoring MeCP2 function in a cell-specific manner will rescue some of the phenotypes seen in RTT. To address this, we generated transgenic mice expressing inducible MeCP2 under the control of the brain-specific promoters calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CamKII) or neuron-specific enolase (Eno2) and bred them onto mouse models lacking functional MeCP2. Expression of normal MeCP2 in either CamKII or Eno2 distribution was unable to prevent the appearance of most of the phenotypes of the RTT mouse models. These results suggest that most RTT phenotypes are caused either by disruption of complex neural networks involving neurons throughout the brain or by disruption of the function of specific neurons outside of the broad CamKII or Eno2 distribution.
17638926: !Autism Hyperconnectivity of local neocortical microcircuitry induced by prenatal exposure to valproic acid.	Exposure to valproic acid (VPA) during embryogenesis can cause several teratogenic effects, including developmental delays and in particular autism in humans if exposure occurs during the third week of gestation. We examined the postnatal effects of embryonic exposure to VPA on microcircuit properties of juvenile rat neocortex using in vitro electrophysiology. We found that a single prenatal injection of VPA on embryonic day 11.5 causes a significant enhancement of the local recurrent connectivity formed by neocortical pyramidal neurons. The study of the biophysical properties of these connections revealed weaker excitatory synaptic responses. A marked decrease of the intrinsic excitability of pyramidal neurons was also observed. Furthermore, we demonstrate a diminished number of putative synaptic contacts in connection between layer 5 pyramidal neurons. Local hyperconnectivity may render cortical modules more sensitive to stimulation and once activated, more autonomous, isolated, and more difficult to command. This could underlie some of the core symptoms observed in humans prenatally exposed to valproic acid.
17651757: !Autism Autism: transient in utero hypothyroxinemia related to maternal flavonoid ingestion during pregnancy and to other environmental antithyroid agents.	The incidence and prevalence of autism have increased during the past two decades. Despite comprehensive genetic studies the cause of autism remains unknown. This review emphasizes the potential importance of environmental factors in its causation. Alterations of cortical neuronal migration and cerebellar Purkinje cells have been observed in autism. Neuronal migration, via reelin regulation, requires triiodothyronine (T3) produced by deiodination of thyroxine (T4) by fetal brain deiodinases. Experimental animal models have shown that transient intrauterine deficits of thyroid hormones (as brief as 3 days) result in permanent alterations of cerebral cortical architecture reminiscent of those observed in brains of patients with autism. I postulate that early maternal hypothyroxinemia resulting in low T3 in the fetal brain during the period of neuronal cell migration (weeks 8-12 of pregnancy) may produce morphological brain changes leading to autism. Insufficient dietary iodine intake and a number of environmental antithyroid and goitrogenic agents can affect maternal thyroid function during pregnancy. The most common causes could include inhibition of deiodinases D2 or D3 from maternal ingestion of dietary flavonoids or from antithyroid environmental contaminants. Some plant isoflavonoids have profound effects on thyroid hormones and on the hypothalamus-pituitary axis. Genistein and daidzein from soy (Glycine max) inhibit thyroperoxidase that catalyzes iodination and thyroid hormone biosynthesis. Other plants with hypothyroid effects include pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) and fonio millet (Digitaria exilis); thiocyanate is found in Brassicae plants including cabbage, cauliflower, kale, rutabaga, and kohlrabi, as well as in tropical plants such as cassava, lima beans, linseed, bamboo shoots, and sweet potatoes. Tobacco smoke is also a source of thiocyanate. Environmental contaminants interfere with thyroid function including 60% of all herbicides, in particular 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), acetochlor, aminotriazole, amitrole, bromoxynil, pendamethalin, mancozeb, and thioureas. Other antithyroid agents include polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), perchlorates, mercury, and coal derivatives such as resorcinol, phthalates, and anthracenes. A leading ecological study in Texas has correlated higher rates of autism in school districts affected by large environmental releases of mercury from industrial sources. Mercury is a well known antithyroid substance causing inhibition of deiodinases and thyroid peroxidase. The current surge of autism could be related to transient maternal hypothyroxinemia resulting from dietary and/or environmental exposure to antithyroid agents. Additional multidisciplinary epidemiological studies will be required to confirm this environmental hypothesis of autism.
17663146: !Autism [Generation of mice with glial cell dysfunction].	To examine astrocytic function, we have developed model mice harboring astrocyte-specific disease causal gene and tried to examine astrocytic function in vivo. Alexander disease, megalencephalic leukodystrophy with subcortical cysts (MLC), and autistic spectrum disorder with neuroligin 3/4 mutations are known to be astrocyte-specific disease so far. First of all, we have established Alexander disease model mouse. Alexander disease is caused by coding mutation in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and mutant GFAP forms inclusion bodies, called Rosenthal fibers, in astrocytes. Its pathophysiology is still unknown. We generated transgenic mice that express human GFAP R239H mutant under the control of mouse GFAP promoter. Lines with single copy exhibited weak human GFAP expression in astrocytes that did not produce aggregates despite the existence of mutation, whereas lines with multi copies exhibited strong expression and the formation of aggregates, starting at P14. The line with aggregates showed higher sensitivity to kainate than the line without them, whose sensitivity was not different from the wild type mouse, suggesting that the presence of GFAP aggregates but not the presence of mutant GFAP altered the sensitivity. Changes in several electrophysiological parameters, including facilitation of LTP, were also observed in this model mouse. We believe that this transgenic line is a useful tool to study astrocytic function in vivo.
17666771: !Autism Polymorphism of bovine beta-casein and its potential effect on human health.	Proteins in bovine milk are a common source of bioactive peptides. The peptides are released by the digestion of caseins and whey proteins. In vitro the bioactive peptide beta-casomorphin 7 (BCM-7) is yielded by the successive gastrointestinal proteolytic digestion of bovine beta-casein variants A1 and B, but this was not seen in variant A2. In hydrolysed milk with variant A1 of beta-casein, BCM-7 level is 4-fold higher than in A2 milk. Variants A1 and A2 of beta-casein are common among many dairy cattle breeds. A1 is the most frequent in Holstein-Friesian (0.310-0.660), Ayrshire (0.432-0.720) and Red (0.710) cattle. In contrast, a high frequency of A2 is observed in Guernsey (0.880-0.970) and Jersey (0.490-0.721) cattle. BCM-7 may play a role in the aetiology of human diseases. Epidemiological evidence from New Zealand claims that consumption of beta-casein A1 is associated with higher national mortality rates from ischaemic heart disease. It seems that the populations that consume milk containing high levels of beta-casein A2 have a lower incidence of cardiovascular disease and type 1 diabetes. BCM-7 has also been suggested as a possible cause of sudden infant death syndrome. In addition, neurological disorders, such as autism and schizophrenia, seem to be associated with milk consumption and a higher level of BCM-7. Therefore, careful attention should be paid to that protein polymorphism, and deeper research is needed to verify the range and nature of its interactions with the human gastrointestinal tract and whole organism.
17675408: !Autism Elevated NMDA receptor levels and enhanced postsynaptic long-term potentiation induced by prenatal exposure to valproic acid.	Valproic acid (VPA) is a powerful teratogen causing birth defects in humans, including autism spectrum disorder (ASD), if exposure occurs during the first trimester of embryogenesis. Learning and memory alterations are common symptoms of ASD, but underlying molecular and synaptic alterations remain unknown. We therefore studied plasticity-related mechanisms in the neocortex of 2-week-old rats prenatally exposed to VPA and tested for changes in glutamate-mediated transmission and plasticity in the neocortex. We found a selective overexpression of NR2A and NR2B subunits of NMDA receptors, as well as the commonly linked kinase calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. Synaptic plasticity experiments between pairs of pyramidal neurons revealed an augmented postsynaptic form of long-term potentiation. These results indicate that VPA significantly enhances NMDA receptor-mediated transmission and causes increased plasticity in the neocortex. Enhanced plasticity introduces a surprising perspective to the potential molecular and synaptic mechanisms involved in children prenatally exposed to VPA.
17687333: !Autism Antidepressant binding site in a bacterial homologue of neurotransmitter transporters.	Sodium-coupled transporters are ubiquitous pumps that harness pre-existing sodium gradients to catalyse the thermodynamically unfavourable uptake of essential nutrients, neurotransmitters and inorganic ions across the lipid bilayer. Dysfunction of these integral membrane proteins has been implicated in glucose/galactose malabsorption, congenital hypothyroidism, Bartter's syndrome, epilepsy, depression, autism and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Sodium-coupled transporters are blocked by a number of therapeutically important compounds, including diuretics, anticonvulsants and antidepressants, many of which have also become indispensable tools in biochemical experiments designed to probe antagonist binding sites and to elucidate transport mechanisms. Steady-state kinetic data have revealed that both competitive and noncompetitive modes of inhibition exist. Antagonist dissociation experiments on the serotonin transporter (SERT) have also unveiled the existence of a low-affinity allosteric site that slows the dissociation of inhibitors from a separate high-affinity site. Despite these strides, atomic-level insights into inhibitor action have remained elusive. Here we screen a panel of molecules for their ability to inhibit LeuT, a prokaryotic homologue of mammalian neurotransmitter sodium symporters, and show that the tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) clomipramine noncompetitively inhibits substrate uptake. Cocrystal structures show that clomipramine, along with two other TCAs, binds in an extracellular-facing vestibule about 11 A above the substrate and two sodium ions, apparently stabilizing the extracellular gate in a closed conformation. Off-rate assays establish that clomipramine reduces the rate at which leucine dissociates from LeuT and reinforce our contention that this TCA inhibits LeuT by slowing substrate release. Our results represent a molecular view into noncompetitive inhibition of a sodium-coupled transporter and define principles for the rational design of new inhibitors.
17696172: !Autism Disruption of cerebral cortex MET signaling in autism spectrum disorder.	Multiple genes contribute to autism spectrum disorder (ASD) susceptibility. One particularly promising candidate is the MET gene, which encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase that mediates hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) signaling in brain circuit formation, immune function, and gastrointestinal repair. The MET promoter variant rs1858830 allele "C" is strongly associated with ASD and results in reduced gene transcription. Here we examined expression levels of MET and members of the MET signaling pathway in postmortem cerebral cortex from ASD cases and healthy control subjects.	Protein, total RNA, and DNA were extracted from postmortem temporal cortex gray matter samples (BA 41/42, 52, or 22) belonging to eight pairs of ASD cases and matched control subjects. MET protein expression was determined by Western blotting; messenger RNA expression of MET and other related transcripts was assayed by microarray and quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction.	MET protein levels were significantly decreased in ASD cases compared with control subjects. This was accompanied in ASD brains by increased messenger RNA expression for proteins involved in regulating MET signaling activity. Analyses of coexpression of MET and HGF demonstrated a positive correlation in control subjects that was disrupted in ASD cases.	Altered expression of MET and related molecules suggests dysregulation of signaling that may contribute to altered circuit formation and function in ASD. The complement of genes that encode proteins involved in MET activation appears to undergo long-term compensatory changes in expression that may be a hallmark contribution to the pathophysiology of ASD.
17701895: !Autism DLX5 and DLX6 expression is biallelic and not modulated by MeCP2 deficiency.	Mutations in MECP2 and Mecp2 (encoding methyl-CpG binding protein 2 [MeCP2]) cause distinct neurological phenotypes in humans and mice, respectively, but the molecular pathology is unclear. Recent literature claimed that the developmental homeobox gene DLX5 is imprinted and that its imprinting status is modulated by MeCP2, leading to biallelic expression in Rett syndrome and twofold overexpression of Dlx5 and Dlx6 in Mecp2-null mice. The conclusion that DLX5 is a direct target of MeCP2 has implications for research on the molecular bases of Rett syndrome, autism, and genomic imprinting. Attempting to replicate the reported data, we evaluated allele-specific expression of DLX5 and DLX6 in mouse x human somatic cell hybrids, lymphoblastoid cell lines, and frontal cortex from controls and individuals with MECP2 mutations. We identified novel single-nucleotide polymorphisms in DLX5 and DLX6, enabling the first imprinting studies of DLX6. We found that DLX5 and DLX6 are biallelically expressed in somatic cell hybrids and in human cell lines and brain, with no differences between affected and control samples. We also determined expression levels of Dlx5 and Dlx6 in forebrain from seven male Mecp2-mutant mice and eight wild-type littermates by real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assays. Expression of Dlx5 and Dlx6, as well as of the imprinted gene Peg3, in mouse forebrain was highly variable, with no consistent differences between Mecp2-null mutants and controls. We conclude that DLX5 and DLX6 are not imprinted in humans and are not likely to be direct targets of MeCP2 modulation. In contrast, the imprinting status of PEG3 and PEG10 is maintained in MeCP2-deficient tissues. Our results confirm that MeCP2 plays no role in the maintenance of genomic imprinting and add PEG3 and PEG10 to the list of studied imprinted genes.
17706614: !Autism A seizure-prone phenotype is associated with altered free-running rhythm in Pten mutant mice.	Conditional deletion of Pten (phosphatase and tensin homolog on chromosome ten) in differentiated cortical and hippocampal neurons in the mouse results in seizures, macrocephaly, social interaction deficits and anxiety, reminiscent of human autism spectrum disorder. Here we extended our previous examination of these mice using electroencephalogram/electromyogram (EEG/EMG) monitoring and found age-related increases in spontaneous seizures, which were correlated with cellular dispersion in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Increased spontaneous locomotor activity in the open field on the first and the second day of a 3-day continuous study suggested heightened anxiety in Pten mutant mice. In contrast, the mutants exhibited decreased wheel running activity, which may reflect reduced adaptability to a novel environment. Synchronization to the light-dark cycle was normal, but for up to 28 days under constant darkness, the Pten mutants maintained a significantly lengthened and remarkably constant free-running period of almost exactly 24 h. This result implies the involvement of Pten in the maintenance of circadian rhythms, which we interpret as being due to an effect on the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling cascade.
17706942: !Autism Altered development of neuronal progenitor cells after stimulation with autistic blood sera.	Changes of brain structure and functions in people with autism may result from altered neuronal development, however, no adequate cellular or animal models are available to study neurogenesis in autism. Neuronal development can be modeled in culture of neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs) stimulated with serum to differentiate into neurons. Because sera from people with autism and age-matched controls contain different levels of numerous biologically active factors, we hypothesized that development of human NPCs induced to differentiate into neurons with sera from children with autism reflects the altered early neuronal development that leads to autism. The control and autistic sera were collected from siblings aged below 6 years that lived in the same environment. The effect of sera on differentiation of NPC neurospheres into neuronal colonies was tested in 72-h-long cultures by morphometry, immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting. We found that sera from children with autism significantly reduced NPCs' proliferation, but stimulated cell migration, development of small neurons with processes, length of processes and synaptogenesis. These results suggest that development of network of processes and synaptogenesis--the specific events in the brain during postnatal ontogenesis--are altered in autism. Further studies in this cell culture model may explain some of the cellular alterations described in autistic patients.
17726225: !Autism Blockage of VIP during mouse embryogenesis modifies adult behavior and results in permanent changes in brain chemistry.	Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) regulates growth and development during the early postimplantation period of mouse embryogenesis. Blockage of VIP with a VIP antagonist during this period results in growth restriction, microcephaly, and developmental delays. Similar treatment of neonatal rodents also causes developmental delays and impaired diurnal rhythms, and the adult brains of these animals exhibit neuronal dystrophy and increased VIP binding. These data suggest that blockage of VIP during the development of the nervous system can result in permanent changes to the brain. In the current study, pregnant mice were treated with a VIP antagonist during embryonic days 8 through 10. The adult male offspring were examined in tests of novelty, paired activity, and social recognition. Brain tissue was examined for several measures of chemistry and gene expression of VIP and related compounds. Glial cells from the cortex of treated newborn mice were plated with neurons and examined for VIP binding and their ability to enhance neuronal survival. Treated adult male mice exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior and deficits in social behavior. Brain tissue exhibited regionally specific changes in VIP chemistry and a trend toward increased gene expression of VIP and related compounds that reached statistical significance in the VIP receptor, VPAC-1, in the female cortex. When compared to control astrocytes, astrocytes from treated cerebral cortex produced further increases in neuronal survival with excess synaptic connections and reduced VIP binding. In conclusion, impaired VIP activity during mouse embryogenesis resulted in permanent changes to both adult brain chemistry/cell biology and behavior with aspects of autism-like social deficits.
17804539: !Autism Cytokine levels during pregnancy influence immunological profiles and neurobehavioral patterns of the offspring.	The underlying causes of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are unknown, but clinical and experimental studies indicate immune mechanisms, in general, and cytokine dysregulation, in particular, as contributing factors in their etiology. We developed a prenatal mouse model of autism to demonstrate that circulating levels of defined cytokines in pregnant dams could influence fetal development and behavioral characteristics in their offspring. We administered daily injections of murine IL-2 (0.4 mug in phosphate-buffered saline [PBS]) to pregnant mice during mid-gestation, and analyzed their offspring (IL-2 pups) in comparison to offspring of pregnant mice injected with vehicle only (PBS pups). Significant levels of IL-2 were present in amniotic fluid and tissues from embryos of dams given radiolabeled IL-2, indicating that the injected IL-2 crossed the placenta and entered the fetuses. Lymphocytes from IL-2 pups demonstrated accelerated T cell development, with a skewing toward TH1 cell differentiation. IL-2 pups also showed in vitro proliferative and cytotoxicity responses that were significantly higher than control PBS pups when stimulated with syngeneic B lymphoma cells or allogeneic spleen cells. In addition to their previously shown increases in open-field activity, grooming and rearing behavior, offspring of IL-2-injected (vs. PBS-injected) dams also displayed abnormal new motor learning as assessed through acquisition of the classically conditioned eyeblink response. These results suggest that increases in maternal levels of IL-2 during pregnancy induce in their offspring long-lasting increased vulnerability to neurobehavioral abnormalities associated with autism, and provide a valid animal model to determine the underlying immunological mechanisms.
17895972: !Autism The cyclic AMP cascade is altered in the fragile X nervous system.	Fragile X syndrome (FX), the most common heritable cause of mental retardation and autism, is a developmental disorder characterized by physical, cognitive, and behavioral deficits. FX results from a trinucleotide expansion mutation in the fmr1 gene that reduces levels of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Although research efforts have focused on FMRP's impact on mGluR signaling, how the loss of FMRP leads to the individual symptoms of FX is not known. Previous studies on human FX blood cells revealed alterations in the cyclic adenosine 3', 5'-monophosphate (cAMP) cascade. We tested the hypothesis that cAMP signaling is altered in the FX nervous system using three different model systems. Induced levels of cAMP in platelets and in brains of fmr1 knockout mice are substantially reduced. Cyclic AMP induction is also significantly reduced in human FX neural cells. Furthermore, cAMP production is decreased in the heads of FX Drosophila and this defect can be rescued by reintroduction of the dfmr gene. Our results indicate that a robust defect in cAMP production in FX is conserved across species and suggest that cAMP metabolism may serve as a useful biomarker in the human disease population. Reduced cAMP induction has implications for the underlying causes of FX and autism spectrum disorders. Pharmacological agents known to modulate the cAMP cascade may be therapeutic in FX patients and can be tested in these models, thus supplementing current efforts centered on mGluR signaling.
17913903: !Autism Maternal immune activation alters fetal brain development through interleukin-6.	Schizophrenia and autism are thought to result from the interaction between a susceptibility genotype and environmental risk factors. The offspring of women who experience infection while pregnant have an increased risk for these disorders. Maternal immune activation (MIA) in pregnant rodents produces offspring with abnormalities in behavior, histology, and gene expression that are reminiscent of schizophrenia and autism, making MIA a useful model of the disorders. However, the mechanism by which MIA causes long-term behavioral deficits in the offspring is unknown. Here we show that the cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) is critical for mediating the behavioral and transcriptional changes in the offspring. A single maternal injection of IL-6 on day 12.5 of mouse pregnancy causes prepulse inhibition (PPI) and latent inhibition (LI) deficits in the adult offspring. Moreover, coadministration of an anti-IL-6 antibody in the poly(I:C) model of MIA prevents the PPI, LI, and exploratory and social deficits caused by poly(I:C) and normalizes the associated changes in gene expression in the brains of adult offspring. Finally, MIA in IL-6 knock-out mice does not result in several of the behavioral changes seen in the offspring of wild-type mice after MIA. The identification of IL-6 as a key intermediary should aid in the molecular dissection of the pathways whereby MIA alters fetal brain development, which can shed new light on the pathophysiological mechanisms that predispose to schizophrenia and autism.
17927825: !Autism New insight into the role of the beta3 subunit of the GABAA-R in development, behavior, body weight regulation, and anesthesia revealed by conditional gene knockout.	The beta3 subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor (GABAA-R) has been reported to be important for palate formation, anesthetic action, and normal nervous system function. This subunit has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of Angelman syndrome and autism spectrum disorder. To further investigate involvement of this subunit, we previously produced mice with a global knockout of beta3. However, developmental abnormalities, compensation, reduced viability, and numerous behavioral abnormalities limited the usefulness of that murine model. To overcome many of these limitations, a mouse line with a conditionally inactivated beta3 gene was engineered.	Gene targeting and embryonic stem cell technologies were used to create mice in which exon 3 of the beta3 subunit was flanked by loxP sites (i.e., floxed). Crossing the floxed beta3 mice to a cre general deleter mouse line reproduced the phenotype of the previously described global knockout. Pan-neuronal knockout of beta3 was achieved by crossing floxed beta3 mice to Synapsin I-cre transgenic mice. Palate development was normal in pan-neuronal beta3 knockouts but ~61% died as neonates. Survivors were overtly normal, fertile, and were less sensitive to etomidate. Forebrain selective knockout of beta3 was achieved using alpha CamKII-cre transgenic mice. Palate development was normal in forebrain selective beta3 knockout mice. These knockouts survived the neonatal period, but ~30% died between 15-25 days of age. Survivors had reduced reproductive fitness, reduced sensitivity to etomidate, were hyperactive, and some became obese.	Conditional inactivation of the beta3 gene revealed novel insight into the function of this GABAA-R subunit. The floxed beta3 knockout mice described here will be very useful for conditional knockout studies to further investigate the role of the beta3 subunit in development, ethanol and anesthetic action, normal physiology, and pathophysiologic processes.
17940072: !Autism The Angelman syndrome ubiquitin ligase localizes to the synapse and nucleus, and maternal deficiency results in abnormal dendritic spine morphology.	Loss of function of the maternally inherited allele for the UBE3A ubiquitin ligase gene causes Angelman syndrome (AS), which is characterized by severe neurological impairment and motor dysfunction. In addition, UBE3A lies within chromosome 15q11-q13 region, where maternal, but not paternal, duplications cause autism. The UBE3A gene product, E6-AP, has been shown to function both as an E3 ligase in the ubiquitin proteasome pathway and as a transcriptional coactivator. However, the specific role of E6-AP in the brain, or how loss of function of E6-AP results in AS, is unclear. Herein, we show, using a recombinant transgenic mouse expressing a Ube3a(YFP) fusion gene, that the maternal Ube3a(YFP) allele is upregulated and preferentially expressed in neurons, and that the fusion protein, E6-AP:YFP, is enriched in the nucleus and dendrites in vivo. We also show that E6-AP:YFP localizes to the nucleus and to presynaptic and postsynaptic compartments in cultured hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, we show that cerebellar Purkinje cell number and dendritic branching are not affected in Ube3a maternal-deficient mice, but that dendritic spine development, including spine morphology, number and length, is affected on cerebellar Purkinje cells and on pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus and cortex. Collectively, these data suggest that the neurological deficits observed in AS patients and in AS mice may result from specific abnormalities in synaptic development and/or plasticity.
17940551: !Autism Fragile X: translation in action.	Fragile X is a synapsopathy--a disorder of synaptic function and plasticity. Recent studies using mouse models of the disease suggest that the critical defect is altered regulation of synaptic protein synthesis. Various strategies to restore balanced synaptic protein synthesis have been remarkably successful in correcting widely varied mutant phenotypes in mice. Insights gained by the study of synaptic plasticity in animal models of fragile X have suggested novel therapeutic approaches, not only for human fragile X but also for autism and mental retardation of unknown etiology.
17978184: !Autism Genome-wide analyses of human perisylvian cerebral cortical patterning.	Despite the well established role of the frontal and posterior perisylvian cortices in many facets of human-cognitive specializations, including language, little is known about the developmental patterning of these regions in the human brain. We performed a genome-wide analysis of human cerebral patterning during midgestation, a critical epoch in cortical regionalization. A total of 345 genes were identified as differentially expressed between superior temporal gyrus (STG) and the remaining cerebral cortex. Gene ontology categories representing transcription factors were enriched in STG, whereas cell-adhesion and extracellular matrix molecules were enriched in the other cortical regions. Quantitative RT-PCR or in situ hybridization was performed to validate differential expression in a subset of 32 genes, most of which were confirmed. LIM domain-binding 1 (LDB1), which we show to be enriched in the STG, is a recently identified interactor of LIM domain only 4 (LMO4), a gene known to be involved in the asymmetric pattering of the perisylvian region in the developing human brain. Protocadherin 17 (PCDH17), a neuronal cell adhesion molecule, was highly enriched in focal regions of the human prefrontal cortex. Contactin associated protein-like 2 (CNTNAP2), in which mutations are known to cause autism, epilepsy, and language delay, showed a remarkable pattern of anterior-enriched cortical expression in human that was not observed in mouse or rat. These data highlight the importance of expression analysis of human brain and the utility of cross-species comparisons of gene expression. Genes identified here provide a foundation for understanding molecular aspects of human-cognitive specializations and the disorders that disrupt them.
18032782: !Autism New insights into PTEN.	The functions ascribed to PTEN have become more diverse since its discovery as a putative phosphatase mutated in many human tumors. Although it can dephosphorylate lipids and proteins, it also has functions independent of phosphatase activity in normal and pathological states. In addition, control of PTEN function is very complex. It is positively and negatively regulated at the transcriptional level, as well as post-translationally by phosphorylation, ubiquitylation, oxidation and acetylation. Although most of its tumor suppressor activity is likely to be caused by lipid dephosphorylation at the plasma membrane, PTEN also resides in the cytoplasm and nucleus, and its subcellular distribution is under strict control. Deregulation of PTEN function is implicated in other human diseases in addition to cancer, including diabetes and autism.
18042715: !Autism Integrated epigenomic analyses of neuronal MeCP2 reveal a role for long-range interaction with active genes.	Mutations in MECP2 cause the autism-spectrum disorder Rett syndrome. MeCP2 is predicted to bind to methylated promoters and silence transcription. However, the first large-scale mapping of neuronal MeCP2-binding sites on 26.3 Mb of imprinted and nonimprinted loci revealed that 59% of MeCP2-binding sites are outside of genes and that only 6% are in CpG islands. Integrated genome-wide promoter analysis of MeCP2 binding, CpG methylation, and gene expression revealed that 63% of MeCP2-bound promoters are actively expressed and that only 6% are highly methylated. These results indicate that the primary function of MeCP2 is not the silencing of methylated promoters.
18082964: !Autism Phosphatase and tensin homolog, deleted on chromosome 10 deficiency in brain causes defects in synaptic structure, transmission and plasticity, and myelination abnormalities.	The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway modulates growth, proliferation and cell survival in diverse tissue types and plays specialized roles in the nervous system including influences on neuronal polarity, dendritic branching and synaptic plasticity. The tumor-suppressor phosphatase with tensin homology (PTEN) is the central negative regulator of the PI3K pathway. Germline PTEN mutations result in cancer predisposition, macrocephaly and benign hamartomas in many tissues, including Lhermitte-Duclos disease, a cerebellar growth disorder. Neurological abnormalities including autism, seizures and ataxia have been observed in association with inherited PTEN mutation with variable penetrance. It remains unclear how loss of PTEN activity contributes to neurological dysfunction. To explore the effects of Pten deficiency on neuronal structure and function, we analyzed several ultra-structural features of Pten-deficient neurons in Pten conditional knockout mice. Using Golgi stain to visualize full neuronal morphology, we observed that increased size of nuclei and somata in Pten-deficient neurons was accompanied by enlarged caliber of neuronal projections and increased dendritic spine density. Electron microscopic evaluation revealed enlarged abnormal synaptic structures in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. Severe myelination defects included thickening and unraveling of the myelin sheath surrounding hypertrophic axons in the corpus callosum. Defects in myelination of axons of normal caliber were observed in the cerebellum, suggesting intrinsic abnormalities in Pten-deficient oligodendrocytes. We did not observe these abnormalities in wild-type or conditional Pten heterozygous mice. Moreover, conditional deletion of Pten drastically weakened synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity at excitatory synapses between CA3 and CA1 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus. These data suggest that Pten is involved in mechanisms that control development of neuronal and synaptic structures and subsequently synaptic function.
18084303: !Autism Structural basis for synaptic adhesion mediated by neuroligin-neurexin interactions.	The heterophilic synaptic adhesion molecules neuroligins and neurexins are essential for establishing and maintaining neuronal circuits by modulating the formation and maturation of synapses. The neuroligin-neurexin adhesion is Ca2+-dependent and regulated by alternative splicing. We report a structure of the complex at a resolution of 2.4 A between the mouse neuroligin-1 (NL1) cholinesterase-like domain and the mouse neurexin-1beta (NX1beta) LNS (laminin, neurexin and sex hormone-binding globulin-like) domain. The structure revealed a delicate neuroligin-neurexin assembly mediated by a hydrophilic, Ca2+-mediated and solvent-supplemented interface, rendering it capable of being modulated by alternative splicing and other regulatory factors. Thermodynamic data supported a mechanism wherein splicing site B of NL1 acts by modulating a salt bridge at the edge of the NL1-NX1beta interface. Mapping neuroligin mutations implicated in autism indicated that most such mutations are structurally destabilizing, supporting deficient neuroligin biosynthesis and processing as a common cause for this brain disorder.
18090323: !Autism Expression of phosphodiesterase 4 is altered in the brains of subjects with autism.	The cyclic adenosine monophosphate-specific phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) gene family is the target of several potential therapeutic inhibitors and the PDE4B gene has been associated with schizophrenia and depression. Little, however, is known of any connection between this gene family and autism, with limited effective treatment being available for autism. We measured the expression of PDE4A and PDE4B by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western blotting in Brodmann's area 40 (BA40, parietal cortex), BA9 (superior frontal cortex), and cerebellum from subjects with autism and matched controls. We observed a lower expression of PDE4A5, PDE4B1, PDE4B3, PDE4B4, and PDE4B2 in the cerebella of subjects with autism when compared with matched controls. In BA9, we observed the opposite: a higher expression of PDE4AX, PDE4A1, and PDE4B2 in subjects with autism. No changes were observed in BA40. Our results demonstrate altered expressions of the PDE4A and PDE4B proteins in the brains of subjects with autism and might provide new therapeutic avenues for the treatment of this debilitating disorder.
18093514: !Autism A crystal-clear interaction: relating neuroligin/neurexin complex structure to function at the synapse.	Neuronal circuits are maintained by homeostatic mechanisms controlling synapse maturation and signaling. Neuroligins (NLs) and neurexins (Nrxs) may regulate the fine balance between excitation and inhibition. In this issue of Neuron, Ara? et al. and Fabrichny et al. define crystal structures of NLs bound to beta-Nrx, providing insights into their synaptic actions and clarifying structural defects associated with autism-linked mutations.
18093521: !Autism Structural analysis of the synaptic protein neuroligin and its beta-neurexin complex: determinants for folding and cell adhesion.	The neuroligins are postsynaptic cell adhesion proteins whose associations with presynaptic neurexins participate in synaptogenesis. Mutations in the neuroligin and neurexin genes appear to be associated with autism and mental retardation. The crystal structure of a neuroligin reveals features not found in its catalytically active relatives, such as the fully hydrophobic interface forming the functional neuroligin dimer; the conformations of surface loops surrounding the vestigial active center; the location of determinants that are critical for folding and processing; and the absence of a macromolecular dipole and presence of an electronegative, hydrophilic surface for neurexin binding. The structure of a beta-neurexin-neuroligin complex reveals the precise orientation of the bound neurexin and, despite a limited resolution, provides substantial information on the Ca2+-dependent interactions network involved in trans-synaptic neurexin-neuroligin association. These structures exemplify how an alpha/beta-hydrolase fold varies in surface topography to confer adhesion properties and provide templates for analyzing abnormal processing or recognition events associated with autism.
18193704: !Autism Science and serendipity.	Good science demands independent replication of new ideas and results and abandonment of accepted theories in light of more reliable evidence. Failure to comply leads to damaging bad science, as with the falsely claimed association between measles, mumps and rubella vaccination and autism. Progress of good science also often requires serendipity, 'making discoveries by accident and sagacity of things not sought'. Work on the pentraxin proteins, C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum amyloid P component (SAP), and on amyloidosis, has benefited from abundant serendipity, leading to routine clinical use of CRP measurements, the invention of SAP scintigraphy for amyloidosis, the establishment of the NHS National Amyloidosis Centre providing superior patient care, and latterly the invention of a novel pharmacological mechanism for therapeutic depletion of pathogenic proteins. New drugs using this mechanism are in development for amyloidosis and cardiovascular disease and potentially also Alzheimer's disease, type II diabetes and other tissue damaging conditions.
18257652: !Autism Some assessments of the amygdala role in suprahypothalamic neuroendocrine regulation: a minireview.	The amygdala is a complex structure playing primary role in the processing and memorizing of emotional reactions. The amygdalae send impulses to the hypothalamus for activation of the sympathetic nervous system, to the reticular nucleus for increasing reflexes, to the nuclei of the trigeminal nerve and facial nerve for facial expressions of fear, and to the ventral tegmental area, locus coeruleus, and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus for activation of dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine release. The amygdala plays a key role in what has been called the "general-purpose defense response control network" and reacts in response to unpleasant sights, sensations, or smells. Anger, avoidance, and defensiveness are emotions activated largely by the amygdale. The amygdala is responsible for activating ancestral signs of distress such as "tense-mouth" and defensive postures such as crouching. Poor functioning of amygdala has also been associated with anxiety, autism, depression, narcolepsy, post-traumatic stress disorder, phobias, frontotemporal dementia, and schizophrenia. Impairment of emotional event memory in patients with Alzheimer's disease also correlates with the intensity of amygdalar damage. All these events speak out for the importance to preserve the normal function of the amygdala which can only be achieved by constant deepening of our knowledge about this unique structure.
18652074: !Autism Functional insights into the creatine transporter.	Creatine and phosphocreatine provide an intracellular, high-energy phosphate buffering system, essential to maintain ATP levels in tissues with high energy demands. A specific plasma membrane creatine transporter (CRT) is required for the cellular uptake of creatine. This transporter is related to the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GAT) and norepinephrine (NET) transporters and is part of a large gene family of Na(+) - and Cl(-) -dependent neurotransmitter transporters, now known as solute carrier family 6 (SLC6). CRT is essential for normal brain function as mutations in the CRT gene (SLC6A8) result in X-linked mental retardation, associated with the almost complete lack of creatine in the brain, severe speech and language delay, epilepsy, and autistic behaviour. Insight into the structure and function of the CRT has come from studies of creatine transport by tissues and cells, in vitro studies of CRT mutations, identification of mutations associated with CRT deficiency, and from the recent high resolution structure of a prokaryotic homologue of the SLC6 transporters. CRT antibodies have been developed enabling the localization of creatine uptake sites in the brain, retina, muscle and other tissues. These tools in conjunction with the use of appropriate cell models should allow further progress in our knowledge on the regulation and cellular trafficking of the CRT. Development of suitable mouse models may allow improved understanding of the importance of the CRT for normal brain function and how the transporter is regulated in vivo.
21783828: !Autism Effects of lipopolysaccharide and chelator on mercury content in the cerebrum of thimerosal-administered mice.	Thimerosal is one of the best-known preservative agents for vaccines in the world but a relationship between its use and autism has long been suspected so that its effects on the brain need more detailed research. We here examined the influence of lipopolysaccharide injury to the blood-brain barrier on the penetration of mercury from thimerosal into mouse cerebrums, as well as the effect of chelator of heavy metals on cerebrum mercury content. Mercury can be expected to be detected in the cerebrum of normal mice, because the metal is present in standard mouse chow. When 60?g/kg of thimerosal was subcutaneously injected into the mouse, the mercury content in the cerebrum was significantly higher 48h after the thimerosal injection with a maximum peak after 72h. In addition, mercury content in the cerebrum was still higher on day 7 than in the control group. When lipopolysaccharide was pre-injected into mice to induce damage on blood-brain barrier, the mercury content in the cerebrum was significantly higher at 24 and 72h after the injection of 12?g/kg of thimerosal compared to the control group, this dose alone does not cause any increase. The mercury content in the cerebrums of mice was decreased to the control group level on day 7 when a chelator, dimercaprol, was administered once a day from days 3 to 6 after a 60?g/kg, s.c. injection. In addition, d-penicillamine as a chelator decreased the mercury contents in the cerebrum after the high dose administration. In conclusion, a physiological dose of thimerosal did not increase the content of mercury in the cerebrum, but levels were increased when damage to the blood-brain barrier occurred in mice injected with thimerosal. In addition, a chelator of heavy metals may be useful to remove mercury from the cerebrum.
25838614: !Autism Congener specific polychlorinated biphenyl metabolism by human intestinal microbe Clostridium species: Comparison with human liver cell line-HepG2.	Polychlorobiphenyls (PCBs), which adversely affect human fetal and infant development, are endocrine disrupter and cause neurological disorders. They may also be carcinogenic. It is not known whether these effects are due to whole PCBs or to its metabolites, produced by the human gastrointestinal system primarily the liver and/or by intestinal microbes such as Clostridium sp. The available data show that Clostridium perfringens, the most prominent species of Clostridium occurs in the human gut. C. beijerinckii is a special type of Clostridium present in the gut of autistic children with late onset autism. Since mixed cultures are better PCB metabolizers than single cultures, mixed cultures of Clostridium were used in this work. The first step in PCB degradation is the removal of the chlorine atoms and then the breaking open of the phenyl ring leading to the final degradation product: CO2. In this study, GC-MS analyses were done to examine the effect of Clostridium sp. on PCB-153 and PCB-77 and the metabolites obtained with Clostridium sp. therein. In this paper, we report that the unlike human liver cells which cannot produce any PCB metabolites. Mixed Clostridium spp. can degrade these PCBs. Clostridium spp. and were able to dechlorinate PCB 153 (hexachlorobiphenyl) to pentachlorobiphenyl and PCB 77 (tetrachlorobiphenyl) to trichlorobiphenyl. Despite considerable absorption of PCB 153 (40%) and PCB 77 (50%) in 30 minutes and 1.5 hours respectively by human liver (HepG2) cells, they can not dechlorinate PCBs. It has been observed that slight differences in chemical structures of PCBs such as coplanar (PCB-77) vs. non-coplanar (PCB-153) has significant metabolic effects.
1519452: !Calcineurin Maternal hypothyroxinemia and brain development: II. Biochemical, metabolic and behavioural correlates.	Using a rat model, we have investigated the influence of maternal hypothyroxinemia throughout pregnancy on brain development in young and adult progeny. Although no consistent change was observed in whole brain total protein concentration, the subcellular distribution of protein was adversely affected. Isolation of glycoprotein from developing brain by concanavalin A-affinity chromatography and subsequent resolution by gel electrophoresis revealed the selective compromise of particular glycoprotein species. Furthermore, both control and experimental progeny expressed unique glycoprotein species which either persisted over the period studied or were transient. Calcineurin, a regulator of neurite elongation, was compromised in young progeny, as were a number of lysosomal enzymes (beta-D-glucosidase and aryl sulphatase). In adult progeny, the content of cerebroside sulphate (a major myelin galactolipid) was reduced in midbrain and paleocortex, and brain region-specific compromise was observed for acetylcholine metabolic enzymes. These changes were associated with alterations in behavioural output. We conclude that the availability of maternal thyroxine to the fetus may be a critical determinant for normal brain development and function.
1975151: !Calcineurin Inhomogeneity of the putaminal lesion in striatonigral degeneration.	An immunohistochemical topographic study was carried out in the putamen from three patients with striatonigral degeneration (SND) using antibody to calcineurin (CaN), a neurochemical marker for the striatal medium-size spinous neurons. In patients with SND, there was significant depletion of CaN immunoreactivity in the putamen with the caudal and lateral portion of the putamen being consistently and severely affected. In addition, the SND patients showed an inhomogeneous distribution pattern of residual CaN staining in the putamen, where remaining CaN immunoreactivity appeared as a characteristic patchwork of "islands" resembling the "striosomes" observed by the tyrosine hydroxylase or Met-enkephalin immunostaining in the putamen from normal individuals. This finding may account for the fact that there are subregional and compartmental differences in susceptibility of the medium-sized spinous neurons in the putamen with SND.
2833077: !Calcineurin Calcineurin.	
7526228: !Calcineurin Sequential changes in ischemic edema following transient focal cerebral ischemia in rats: magnetic resonance imaging study.	Sequential and regional changes in ischemic edema following various durations of focal cerebral ischemia were studied by magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in a rat unilateral intraluminal middle cerebral artery occlusion model. Occlusion was performed from 5 minutes to 5 hours. T2-weighted images were obtained chronologically 6 hours after onset of ischemia, on day 1 and day 7. An immunohistochemical study using antibodies to calcineurin and glial fibrillary acidic protein was performed to observe histological changes in the ischemic brain. The T2 high-signal-intensity areas representing ischemic edema were observed in the lateral striatum and/or the cerebral cortex by day 1 in all rats with 1- to 5-hour ischemia, and the areas were larger and detected earlier with longer durations of ischemia. In three of six rats with 15-minute ischemia and five of six rats with 30-minute ischemia, the T2 high-signal-intensity areas appeared transiently on day 1 in the dorsolateral striatum where loss of neurons expressing calcineurin immunoreactivity and associated gliosis were found. MR imaging in animal models of reversible focal ischemia can achieve sequential and noninvasive evaluation of dynamic regional changes in ischemic edema.
8012369: !Calcineurin Highly polymorphic sequence variation in calcineurin B coding region (PPP3R1).	
8857740: !Calcineurin Subregional loss of putaminal efferents to the basal ganglia output nuclei may cause parkinsonism in striatonigral degeneration.	In this study, we examined the topographic involvement of the putaminal projection neurons and their axons in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra, which we visualized by calcineurin immunostaining, in the basal ganglia of patients with striatonigral degeneration (SND). In all cases examined, there was a marked decrease in number of calcineurin-immunopositive neurons in the caudal and lateral portion of the putamen. Also, marked depletion of calcineurin-immunoreactive putaminal efferents was consistently present in the posteroventrolateral portions of the globus pallidus interna (GPi) and externa, and in the ventrolateral portion of the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) topographically corresponding to the putaminal lesion. In view of the functional model of the basal ganglia "motor" circuit, these findings suggest that subregional deafferentation of the GPi/SNr (i.e., basal ganglia output nuclei) from putaminal inputs may be responsible for parkinsonism in patients with SND.
9095624: !Calcineurin Effectiveness of retrograde perfusion of the cerebral vein for attenuating neuronal injury after transient ischemia following reperfusion in the rat brain.	The effect of retrograde perfusion of the cerebral vein (RPCV) with antioxidant LY231617 on neuronal injury after transient ischemia in rat brain was examined. Transient ischemia was caused by left middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion and reperfusion. Rats were assigned to three groups: Group A (n = 6), MCA occlusion only; Group B (n = 8), RPCV with saline (flow rate 4.95 ml/hr) into the left inferior cerebral vein; and Group C (n = 6), RPCV with LY231617 (20 mg/kg/hr, flow rate 4.95 ml/hr). RPCV in Groups B and C was performed simultaneously with occlusion. Both occlusion and RPCV were performed for 30 minutes in awake animals. Seven days later, all rats were investigated for rotational behavior elicited by apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg), and then immunohistochemical analysis of brain specimens was carried out using calcineurin as a neuronal marker in the striatum to detect the ischemic damaged area. The number of turns to the left (lesioned side) in both Groups B (42 +/- 12) and C (46 +/- 14) was significantly lower (p < 0.01) than in Group A (222 +/- 45), but there was no significant difference between Groups B and C. The percentage ischemic damaged area in both Groups B (17.9 +/- 6.2%) and C (1.6 +/- 1.0%) was significantly less (p < 0.01) in Group A (51.1 +/- 2.1%). RPCV with and without LY231617 during occlusion was effective for attenuating reperfusion injury.
9460170: !Calcineurin Interactions of persistent environmental organohalogens with the thyroid hormone system: mechanisms and possible consequences for animal and human health.	Several classes of environmental contaminants have been claimed or suggested to possess endocrine-disrupting potency, which may result in reproductive problems and developmental disorders. In this paper the focus is on the multiple and interactive mechanisms of interference of persistent polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (PHAHs) and their metabolites with the thyroid hormone system. Evidence suggests that pure congeners or mixtures of PHAHs directly interfere with the thyroid gland; with thyroid hormone metabolizing enzymes, such as uridine-diphosphate-glucuronyl transferases (UGTs), iodothyronine deiodinases (IDs), and sulfotransferases (SULTs) in liver and brain; and with the plasma transport system of thyroid hormones in experimental animals and their offspring. Changes in thyroid hormone levels in conjunction with high PHAH exposure was also observed in captive as well as free ranging wildlife species and in humans. Maternal exposure to PHAHs during pregnancy resulted in a considerable fetal transfer of hydroxylated PHAHs, which are known to compete with thyroxine (T4) for plasma transthyretin (TTR) binding sites, and thus may be transported to the fetus with those carrier proteins that normally mediate the delivery of T4 to the fetus. Concomitant changes in thyroid hormone concentrations in plasma and in brain tissue were observed in fetal and neonatal stages of development, when sufficient thyroid hormone levels are essential for normal brain development. Alterations in structural and functional neurochemical parameters, such as glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), synaptophysin, calcineurin, and serotonergic neurotransmitters, were observed in the same offspring up to postnatal day 90. In addition, some changes in locomotor and cognitive indices of behavior were observed in rat offspring, following in utero and lactational exposure to PHAHs. Alterations in thyroid hormone levels and subtle changes in neurobehavioral performance were also observed in human infants exposed in utero and through lactation to relatively high levels of PHAHs. Overall these studies indicate that persistent PHAHs can disrupt the thyroid hormone system at a multitude of interaction sites, which may have a profound impact on normal brain development in experimental animals, wildlife species, and human infants.
9655961: !Calcineurin [Physiological role of calcineurin in central nervous system].	
10374233: !Calcineurin [Central neurocytoma. A report of 4 cases].	We report 4 cases of central neurocytoma removed by a transfrontal approach with no recurrence after a mean follow up of 3 years. This uncommon lesion of the supratentorial ventricles (150 cases reported) occurs in young adults, and often induces intracranial hypertension secondary to an obstructive hydrocephalus. The CT scan, MRI and histopathological features are related. This neuronal origin tumor is difficult to distinguish from other intraventricular processes as oligodendroglioma or ependymoma. However, the immunopositivity for the neuronal markers as synaptophysin, calcineurin and microtubul associated protein 2, and the negativity for the glial fibrillary acidic protein, allow the diagnosis of this neuropathological entity. The prognosis is favorable though some cases of recurrence (14 cases) and cerebrospinal dissemination (2 cases) has been reported in the literature.
10667489: !Calcineurin Extracellular calcineurin: identification and quantitation in serum and amniotic fluid.	
10910257: !Calcineurin Histopathology of calcineurin inhibitor-induced nephrotoxicity.	
11072311: !Calcineurin Sequence Data Analysis for Long Disordered Regions Prediction in the Calcineurin Family.	Our recently reported results (PSB 3:471-482, 1998; Proc. IEEE Intnl. Conf. Neural Networks 1:90-95, 1997; PSB 3:435-446, 1998) provide strong support for a hypothesis that some amino acid sequences code for disordered regions rather than structured ones and that such disordered regions are commonly involved in function. General and family-specific neural network predictors developed in those previous studies suggest that different classes of disordered regions exist. Here, family-specific data preprocessing for disorder prediction in the calcineurin (CaN) family is explored. The results show that prediction of order and disorder on CaN sequence data benefits significantly from the use of family-specific preprocessing, with feature extraction through principal components analysis (PCA) outperforming feature selection techniques, although all methods do a good job of discriminating CaN-specific disordered regions from CaN-specific ordered regions. On the other hand, for the discrimination of CaN-specific disordered regions from general (unrelated to CaN) ordered regions, feature selection approaches proved to be more appropriate than PCA. The results further support a hypothesis that different kinds of disordered regions exist, as all family-specific disorder predictors developed in this study significantly outperformed a previously reported general multi-family disorder predictor.
11377580: !Calcineurin ATP-binding cassette transporters and calcineurin inhibitors: potential clinical implications.	
11833358: !Calcineurin Study of calcineurin structure by limited proteolysis.	
11945019: !Calcineurin Calcineurin and the heartbeat, an evolving story.	
11948235: !Calcineurin Refsum's disease: a peroxisomal disorder affecting phytanic acid alpha-oxidation.	Refsum's disease (hereditary motor sensory neuropathy type IV, heredopathia atactica polyneuritiformis) is an autosomal recessive disorder the clinical features of which include retinitis pigmentosa, blindness, anosmia, deafness, sensory neuropathy, ataxia and accumulation of phytanic acid in plasma- and lipid-containing tissues. The transport and biochemical pathways of phytanic acid metabolism have recently been defined with the cloning of two key enzymes, phytanoyl-CoA 2-hydroxylase (PAHX) and 2-hydroxyphytanoyl-CoA lyase, together with the confirmation of their localization in peroxisomes. PAHX, an iron(II) and 2-oxoglutarate-dependent oxygenase is located on chromosome 10p13. Mutant forms of PAHX have been shown to be responsible for some, but not all, cases of Refsum's disease. Certain cases have been shown to be atypical mild variants of rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 1a. Other atypical cases with low-plasma phytanic acid may be caused by alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase deficiency. A sterol-carrier protein-2 (SCP-2) knockout mouse model shares a similar clinical phenotype to Refsum's disease, but no mutations in SCP-2 have been described to-date in man. This review describes the clinical, biochemical and metabolic features of Refsum's disease and shows how the biochemistry of the alpha-oxidation pathway may be linked to the regulation of metabolic pathways controlled by isoprenoid lipids, involving calcineurin or the peroxisomal proliferator activating alpha-receptor.
12390434: !Calcineurin Tacrolimus-induced pain syndrome in a pediatric orthotopic liver transplant patient.	Post-transplant complications are common among patients receiving immunosuppressive medications, including pain syndromes. Recently, a pain syndrome, calcineurin-inhibitor induced pain syndrome (CIPS) has been described. To our knowledge, this article is the second report of tacrolimus-associated CIPS, and the first report in the pediatric setting.
12653269: !Calcineurin Successful retransplantation using rapamycin in a patient with previous calcineurin inhibitor-induced posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome.	Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome (PLES) is a rare but serious neurological condition with many aetiologies. In the era of organ transplantation there have been sporadic reports of calcineurin-inhibitor associated PLES. We describe a case, with subsequent uneventful retransplantation using sirolimus.
12851458: !Calcineurin Evidence for association of schizophrenia with genetic variation in the 8p21.3 gene, PPP3CC, encoding the calcineurin gamma subunit.	Schizophrenia is a severe psychiatric disorder characterized by a complex mode of inheritance. Forebrain-specific CNB knockout mice display a spectrum of behavioral abnormalities related to altered behaviors observed in schizophrenia patients. To examine whether calcineurin dysfunction is involved in schizophrenia etiology, we undertook studies of an initial subset of calcineurin-related genes, prioritizing ones that map to loci previously implicated in schizophrenia by linkage studies. Transmission disequilibrium studies in a large sample of affected families detected association of the PPP3CC gene, which encodes the calcineurin gamma catalytic subunit, with disease. Our results identify PPP3CC, located at 8p21.3, as a potential schizophrenia susceptibility gene and support the proposal that alterations in calcineurin signaling contribute to schizophrenia pathogenesis.
14610614: !Calcineurin Management of the ichthyoses.	The ichthyoses are a heterogeneous group of inherited scaling skin disorders that can also affect other organs. Management should be directed at both the skin and other sites. Skin therapy is not specific at this time, although new products may offer more directed therapy in the future. Moisturizers and keratolytics are the mainstay of topical therapy. Calcipotriene, retinoids, and for select types, anti-inflammatories such as topical steroids and calcineurin inhibitors have also been used. Systemic therapy is limited to the retinoids. Superinfection of the skin should be anticipated and treated. Pruritus can be disabling. Failure to sweat normally may result in heat intolerance. Eye care should seek to prevent corneal changes resulting from ectropion and more specific changes associated with specific disorders. Haring can be impaired by the accumulation of material in the external auditory canal. Severely affected children may require caloric supplementation to avoid growth retardation. Affected individuals and their family should be counseled about the long term outlook and the genetic nature of their disorder, and informed of FIRST, the Foundation for Ichthyosis and Related Skin Types, the lay foundation that offers support and information.
14623294: !Calcineurin The RCN family of calcineurin regulators.	
14661633: !Calcineurin [Calcineurin and schizophrenia].	
14668437: !Calcineurin The Drosophila homolog of Down's syndrome critical region 1 gene regulates learning: implications for mental retardation.	Mental retardation is the most common phenotypic abnormality seen in Down's syndrome (DS) patients, yet the underlying mechanism remains mysterious. DS critical region 1 (DSCR1), located on chromosome 21, is overexpressed in the brain of DS fetus and encodes an inhibitor of calcineurin, but its physiological significance is unknown. To study its functional importance and role in mental retardation in DS, we generated Drosophila mutants of nebula, an ortholog of human DSCR1. Here, we report that both nebula loss-of-function and overexpression mutants exhibit severe learning defects that are attributed by biochemical perturbations rather than maldevelopment of the brain. These results, combined with our data showing that the same biochemical signaling pathway is altered in human DS fetal brain tissue overexpressing DSCR1, suggest that alteration of DSCR1 expression could contribute to mental retardation in DS.
14723560: !Calcineurin Hypopigmentary skin disorders: current treatment options and future directions.	Alterations of skin and hair pigmentation are important features that have warranted treatment from ancient history on up to modern time. In some cultures, even today patients with vitiligo are regarded as social outcasts and are affected considerably both emotionally and physically. This article presents current options and future directions for the treatment of hypopigmentary disorders. Whereas with congenital disorders, such as albinism and phenylketonuria, no causal therapy has been established up to now, several treatment options for acquired hypopigmentary disorders have been investigated. In particular, in vitiligo, one of the most prevalent hypopigmentary disorders, a number of treatment modalities have been employed in the past 30 years. However, most of them are only able to palliate, not cure, the disease. Depending on the distribution of the hypopigmented lesions (localised or generalised) and the state of the disease (active or stable), several therapeutic options, for example phototherapy, surgical skin grafts, autologous melanocyte transplantation and immunomodulators, can be applied alone or in combination. For phototherapy, because of unfavourable results and adverse effects, ultraviolet (UV) A has been largely replaced by narrow-band UVB for repigmentation of generalised vitiligo. Although immunomodulators, such as corticosteroids, have been used both topically and systemically over the past 3 decades for the treatment of disseminated vitiligo, they are only suitable for the treatment of acrofacial and localised forms because of adverse effects. Hence, new immunomodulatory agents, such as calcineurin antagonists, have recently been introduced as new promising tools to treat acquired hypopigmentary disorders. However, all therapeutic approaches are hampered by the fact that the pathophysiology of hypopigmentary disorders is still poorly understood.
14724459: !Calcineurin Toward calcineurin antagonist minimization.	
15027149: !Calcineurin [Early postdenervation depolarization: effect of NO, acetylcholine and glutamates on chloride transporter and a general view of nerve functions].	The survey of the original papers by Vyskocil and his co-workers draws attention to their contribution not only to the classic theory of neuromuscular transmission, but it discusses them especially in relation to some general principles of nervous functions. The mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, co-localization of various types of receptors in a single synapse, as well as practical therapeutic implications could serve as examples. The regulatory functions connected with NO synthase and calcineurin are then discussed in a broader context.
15037226: !Calcineurin Stuart Schreiber: biology from a chemist's perspective. Interview by Joanna Owens.	Stuart L. Schreiber is Morris Loeb Professor and Chair of the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Harvard University, and an Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. He founded Harvard's ICCB and directs the NIH-funded Initiative for Chemical Genetics (ICG). He is also a faculty member of the Broad Institute, a joint initiative by Harvard University and MIT that is 'dedicated to leveraging different disciplines to create a new toolkit for genomic medicine'. Following doctoral studies at Harvard University in the laboratory of R. B. Woodward and Y. Kishi, he joined the faculty at Yale University in 1981, where he was promoted to Full Professor in 1986. In 1988, he returned to Harvard, where, in addition to his main roles described above, he is an affiliate of both the Harvard Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology and Harvard Medical School Department of Cell Biology. He is also a member of the Graduate Programs in Biophysics at Harvard University and in Immunology at the Harvard Medical School. In keeping with his multiple roles at Harvard, Schreiber is renowned for taking an integrative and systematic approach to exploring biology. His pioneering work in the field of chemical biology has resulted in the characterisation of many cellular pathways, including (in collaboration with researchers at Stanford University) the identification of the calcium-calcineurin-NFAT signalling pathway. His lab has developed several methodologies including diversity-oriented synthesis (DOS) and in 2003 launched the Chembank public database (), a suite of informatic tools and databases to promote the use of chemical genetics. Schreiber has received many awards and honours including the Tetrahedron Prize for Creativity in Organic Chemistry (1997) and most recently the Society for Biomolecular Screening Achievement Award (2004). He has founded several successful biotechnology firms, including Vertex Pharmaceuticals in 1989, ARIAD Pharmaceuticals in 1991, and Infinity Pharmaceuticals in 2001. He was also founding editor of the journal Chemistry & Biology, which is now in its tenth year of publication.
15068236: !Calcineurin Predicting pathway perturbations in Down syndrome.	Comparative annotation of human chromosome 21 genomic sequence with homologous regions of mouse chromosomes 16, 17 and 10 has identified 170 orthologous gene pairs. Functional annotation of these genes, based on literature reports and computationally-derived predictions, shows that a broad range of cellular processes are represented. A goal of Down syndrome research is to determine which of these processes are perturbed by overexpression of chromosome 21 genes, and which may, therefore, contribute to the cognitive deficits that characterize Down syndrome. Eleven chromosome 21 genes are annotated to interact with or be affected by components of the MAP Kinase pathway and eight are involved in Ca2+/calcineurin signaling. Both pathways are critical for normal neurological function, and consequently their perturbations are proposed as candidates for phenotypic relevance. We present evidence suggesting that the MAP Kinase pathway is perturbed in the Ts65Dn mouse model of Down syndrome at 4-6 months of age. Analysis is complicated by the observation that overexpression of chromosome 21 genes in trisomy may be affected by method of detection, organism, tissue or brain region, and/or developmental age.
15232211: !Calcineurin Calcineurin in animal behavior.	The conserved Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin has been shown to be involved in numerous and diverse functions both at the cellular and organism level. Recent genetic and pharmacological studies in animals including C. elegans, Drosophila, Aplysia, rat and mice have also implicated calcineurin in behavior, particularly in the regulation of plasticity and modulation of behaviors. These studies have not only brought a clearer understanding of the molecular contributions to behavior, but should also give insight into roles that calcineurin may be playing in the cognitive and behavioral defects observed in some diseases.
15285430: !Calcineurin [The relationship between calcineurin and learning and memory].	
15667234: !Calcineurin Health plan budget impact analysis for pimecrolimus.	Budget impact models are useful tools for managed care organizations to make drug formulary decisions. The objective of this study was to estimate the incremental budgetary change in per-member-per-month (PMPM) medical and pharmacy costs for atopic dermatitis (AD) or eczema after the introduction of pimecrolimus cream 1%, a topical calcineurin inhibitor.	Estimates of the percentage of patients seeking care, treatment patterns, and quantities of medications dispensed for AD were measured using 2001 and 2002 medical and pharmacy records in a proprietary database for health plans distributed throughout the United States. Approximately 2.5 million health plan members had continuous health insurance coverage during the study period. Costs for medications were assigned using the 2003 wholesale acquisition cost, and costs for physician visits were based on average 2003 Medicare reimbursement rates. Efficacy data from clinical trials were used to model the impact of pimecrolimus on subsequent physician visits. Sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate the impact of varying the percentage of patients seeking care, practice patterns, medication quantities, percentage of pimecrolimus users, and levels of patient cost sharing.	The estimated percentage of health plan members seeking care for AD in 2001 was 3.2%. The estimated total cost PMPM for AD treatment prior to introduction of pimecrolimus was 0.362 dollars for all covered lives, assuming no patient cost sharing. In the year after its introduction, 5.2% of the AD population filled a prescription for pimecrolimus. The incremental increase in pharmacy benefit cost was 0.008 dollars PMPM in 2003 dollars, but the total incremental medical and pharmacy cost was 0.002 dollars PMPM after accounting for the projected reduction in physician visit costs, representing a 0.7% increase in all AD-related costs. Based on sensitivity analyses, the incremental total cost PMPM after the introduction of pimecrolimus ranged from -0.004 dollars to 0.026 dollars.	Using claims data for the medical treatment of AD in 2001-2002 and the utilization of pimecrolimus, the addition of pimecrolimus as a treatment option for AD had a minimal impact on PMPM costs for AD-related care in 2003 dollars. As with all pharmacoeconomic models, health plans should perform their own budget forecasting using assumptions derived from their own pharmacy and medical claims data.
15843870: !Calcineurin No association with the calcineurin A gamma subunit gene (PPP3CC) haplotype to Japanese schizophrenia.	Calcineurin, one of the serine/threonine protein phosphatase, comprises more than 1% of the total protein content in brain. This evidence points towards important roles of calcineurin in neural function. Miyakawa et al. reported that forebrain-specific calcineurin knockout mice showed the behavioral abnormalities that are often observed in schizophrenia patients. Based on this evidence, they suggested that calcineurin dysfunction could be involved in schizophrenia pathogenesis. Thereafter this report, Gerber et al. performed transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) studies and showed an evidence for a nominally significant over-transmission of a common haplotype of the human calcineurin A gamma subunit gene (PPP3CC). We performed association analysis of PPP3CC in Japanese sample of 457 schizophrenia cases and 429 controls. To our regret, we could not confirm the association with Japanese schizophrenia to PPP3CC including core at-risk haplotype. Our result suggests that PPP3CC may not play a major role in Japanese schizophrenia.
15887932: !Calcineurin Eczema--practical management issues.	Eczema is a common, and at times challenging, condition to manage. It often involves an irritable child, concerned parents and numerous return visits. A variety of mainstream and alternative treatments can confuse both the clinician and patient.	This article aims to refresh readers by reviewing evidenced based treatment protocols, and exploring some of the new and evolving treatments in eczema.	Managing eczema is a multifocal task involving a variety of medicinal and practical approaches. Education of parents and carers is critical. Having a clear plan that can be adapted to each patient's needs is helpful for all involved, with management focussing on control rather than cure. Simple emollients and preventive measures are used to reduce heat, dryness and prickling of the skin. Topical corticosteroids remain the gold standard in the treatment of the inflammation of eczema. However, combining topical steroids with the new calcineurin inhibitors, wet dressings and behavioural modification should increase the time interval between exacerbations.
15940142: !Calcineurin Report of the Topical Calcineurin Inhibitor Task Force of the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology and the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology.	
15964258: !Calcineurin Calcineurin.	
15973304: !Calcineurin Statistical process control and calcineurin inhibitor management.	
16015022: !Calcineurin The UV erythema test as a model to investigate the anti-inflammatory potency of topical preparations--reevaluation and optimization of the method.	The ultraviolet (UV) erythema test is one of the most frequently used methods to investigate the anti-inflammatory potency of topical dermatological preparations in vivo.	The following questions were addressed in four separate studies with healthy persons (skin types 2 and 3): (1) the optimal localization was determined by comparing light scales on the back, buttocks and volar forearms; (2) the optimal UV-B dose was determined by comparing the 1-fold, 1.5-fold and 2-fold minimal erythema doses (MEDs); (3) hydrocortisone and prednicarbate were evaluated as positive controls, and a sample size calculation was performed, and (4) betamethasone valerate and pimecrolimus were tested as further positive controls in the optimized study model.	The back proved to be the best localization for the UV erythema test. It showed a good correlation between the light scale and the test areas. The 1.5-fold MED was the best irradiation dose. In contrast to prednicarbate and betamethasone valerate, hydrocortisone was a rather weak positive control. However, when the sample size was > or = 40 subjects, significant results were also obtained with hydrocortisone. Pimecrolimus was not effective in the UV erythema test.	The UV erythema test should be performed on the back with at least 40 subjects using the 1.5-fold MED. It may be useful to include a potent corticosteroid, such as prednicarbate or betamethasone valerate, in addition to hydrocortisone. The UV erythema test seems to be suitable only for substances with corticosteroid-like effects, since in this test model the calcineurin inhibitor pimecrolimus was not effective.
16081509: !Calcineurin Association between the neuregulin 1 gene and schizophrenia: a systematic review.	Chromosome 8p22-p11 has been identified as a locus for schizophrenia in several genome-wide scans, which has been confirmed by meta-analysis of published linkage data. It appears to be 1 of the most robust linkage findings in psychosis. Several attempts have been made to identify the underlying genetic variation that gives rise to this linkage peak, including systematic fine mapping using extended Icelandic pedigrees that have identified an associated haplotype (HAP(ICE)) in the gene neuregulin 1, also known as heuregulin, glial growth factor, NDF43, and ARIA. Neuregulin 1 (NRG1) is a plausible susceptibility gene because of its involvement in neurodevelopment, regulation of glutamate and other neurotransmitter receptor expression, and synaptic plasticity. Encouragingly, this finding was quickly and directly replicated in a Scottish case-control sample by the same investigators with the same approximately 300 kb associated haplotype. Although in Caucasian populations subsequent attempts at replication of this finding have been difficult to interpret, and no individual functional or causative genetic variants have yet been identified, a summary of HAP(ICE) association results in about 4,500 subjects is consistent with a small (odds ratio approximately 1.5) but significant effect of this haplotype on schizophrenia risk. In Chinese Han populations, where HAP(ICE) is not found, there is good evidence from several studies of association with other markers in the same region. Overall, there is convincing but not yet compelling evidence for a role for NRG1 in susceptibility to schizophrenia. Other genes from this region have also been implicated in schizophrenia, not by systematic mapping but by positional candidate gene analysis; these include MSTP131, frizzled-3, and the calcineurin A gamma subunit gene. Not only are these alternative explanations for the linkage seen between chromosome 8p and schizophrenia, but it is equally possible that there is more than 1 susceptibility gene at this locus.
16219834: !Calcineurin Brain MR imaging abnormalities in kidney transplant recipients.	On the basis of limited available data, brain MR imaging abnormalities in kidney transplant recipients (KTRs) have been predominantly attributed to calcineurin inhibitors (CIs), characteristically presenting as posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES). The goal of this study was to evaluate whether CIs play an important role in the incidence, nature, and location of MR imaging brain lesions in adult KTRs by comparing them with dialysis-dependent patients.	We retrospectively analyzed 98 brain MR imaging examinations in 77 consecutive KTRs presenting with neurologic symptoms from 1990 to 2003. The data were separated into 3 groups according to duration after transplantation of MR imaging: group 1, 0-3 months; group 2, 3-12 months; and group 3, >12 months. Twenty-six MR imaging examinations from 24 additional dialysis-dependent adults were used as controls and comprised group 0.	Acute changes (infarcts, infections, PRES) comprised 24% and 19% of lesions in KTRs and group 0 patients, respectively, with infarcts being the most common in all groups. Chronic lesions were responsible for 76% of changes in KTR and 81% in group 0 and were predominantly vascular in etiology. No statistically significant differences in incidence of PRES or other acute changes were found between dialysis-dependent patients and either individual KTR groups or all KTR patients combined. The deep gray matter lesions were more common in KTR, whereas frontal white matter was more frequently affected in patients on dialysis.	Our study does not support suggestion that MR imaging brain abnormalities in KTR are predominantly due to direct CI toxicity.
16244838: !Calcineurin [Granuloma annulare].	Granuloma annulare is a benign self-limiting disease of unknown origin, characterized by dermal papules tending to form annular shapes. It belongs to the granulomatous inflammatory skin diseases characterized by histomorphologically detectable granulomas. In addition to localized variants, generalized or disseminated variants also exist. The disease is often asymptomatic and does not require therapy in every case. Established therapies for localized forms of granuloma annulare are glucocorticosteroids, cream PUVA and cryosurgery. Antimalarials, antileprotics, retinoids, fumarates, UVA1 phototherapy and photochemotherapy are of value in disseminated cases. Recent case reports demonstrate the successful treatment of granuloma annulare with topical calcineurin antagonists or imiquimod and with the systemic administration of biologicals.
16279232: !Calcineurin [Two cases of frontal fibrosing alopecia in postmenopausal women].	Frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) is an uncommon, slowly progressive, cicatricial alopecia which mainly affects postmenopausal women. It is considered to be a variant of lichen planopilaris. We describe two postmenopausal women who developed over 11 and 24 months an asymptomatic atrophic alopecia, restricted to the frontal hairline. The diagnosis of FFA was confirmed by biopsy showing a perifollicular lymphocytic infiltrate with fibrosis. Topical corticosteroids, in one case combined with minoxidil, administered for 3 months arrested the hair loss. The treatment of FFA is often difficult. In most cases, the disease resolves spontaneously after several years. Immunomodulators such as corticosteroids and calcineurin antagonists should be tried in the early stage of FFA (frontal effluvium with perifollicular erythema) in order to arrest the disease in its inflammatory phase.
16407781: !Calcineurin Immunotherapeutic approaches in ocular inflammatory diseases.	This comprehensive review discusses immunotherapeutic approaches to ocular inflammatory diseases, updates information provided in the literature, and presents clinical experiences with an emphasis on autoimmune uveitis at the National Eye Institute, United States. Current medical and surgical therapeutic approaches, including medications such as corticosteroids, anti-metabolites, alkylating agents, calcineurin and purine synthesis inhibitors, biologics as well as some anti-infectious agents, are reviewed along with new modalities and experimental approaches. Most immunosuppressive therapies have significant adverse effects. Physicians must be familiar with the pharmacology of the available drugs and aware of the philosophies behind the treatment.
16456427: !Calcineurin Management of fulminating ulcerative colitis in childhood with chimeric anti-CD25 antibody.	Fulminating acute ulcerative colitis (UC) is a potentially life threatening medical emergency. Up to 30% of individuals respond poorly to corticosteroids alone and second line medical or surgical therapies are indicated. We describe the successful use of chimeric anti-CD25 therapy in 4 such children poorly responsive to combined therapy with intravenous steroids and calcineurin inhibitors with a pretreatment predictive risk of colectomy of 85-100%. Clinical disease activity scores normalized within 72 hours of anti-CD25 administration and colonic histology provided evidence of mucosal healing within 10-14 days. None required emergency colectomy. Anti-CD25 is efficacious in fulminating UC and randomized placebo controlled trials appear indicated.
16553473: !Calcineurin Drug interactions between antibiotics and select maintenance medications: seeing more clearly through the narrow therapeutic window of opportunity.	Infections often occur while treating patients with long-term medications for chronic illnesses. Treating these infections with systemic antibiotics often leads to pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between the antimicrobials and one or more of the maintenance medications. Previously optimized long-term regimens may become either subtherapeutic or super-therapeutic, with deleterious consequences. This article discusses some of the most significant and commonly encountered antibiotic drug interactions that may occur with medications with "narrow therapeutic windows" including warfarin, phenytoin, carbamazepine, theophylline, and the two calcineurin inhibitors. Given the logistics of many consultant pharmacists' practices, it may not always be possible for them to react prospectively when these combinations are prescribed at their facilities. Therefore, there are several things the pharmacist can do: provide regular and comprehensive inservice raining on this topic, be available as needed to answer patient-specific questions, and provide readily available charts and other educational materials that help identify and characterize these important interactions.	A Medline search of the English literature was performed in October/November 2003, going back to 1980 for the commonly used antibiotics and drug interactions stated in this text. In some cases, cross referencing of articles reviewed also led to older publications. Textbooks dealing with drug interactions also were used as initial sources. However, whenever possible, any data quoted within the text were verified from the original research paper.	Pharmacokinetic studies, case reports, and general review articles published in the English medical literature were all selected for review. In cases where review articles were cited that summarize groups of data from previous original research papers, the authors made the best possible effort to verify the accuracy by referring to the original research papers.	Because of the breadth of the topic in terms of all the antibiotics discussed, the interacting medications that pertained to each antibiotic, and the lack of homogeneity among the various types of papers (most of which were case reports), most analyses include broad-based summaries based on the aggregate findings of the authors.	The addition of antibiotics to a stabilized medical regimen can result in either potentiation or antagonism of the clinical effects of narrow-therapeutic-window medications such as warfarin, phenytoin, theophylline, calcineurin inhibitors, carbamazepine, and numerous other agents. As usual in the clinical arena, awareness is the first step in appropriate management of these encounters.
16582685: !Calcineurin Advances in the therapy of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies.	To review progress in areas pertinent to the development of better therapies for the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies.	New classification criteria for the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies have been proposed in an effort to define disease subsets with more uniform prognoses and responses to therapy. Diseases that may mimic the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies can be differentiated more accurately with molecular testing and biochemical and immunohistochemical analysis of muscle tissue. Advances in our understanding of the pathogenesis of the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies have served to identify potential new therapeutic targets. International collaborative study groups have reached consensus on outcome measures and on the optimal design of clinical trials in the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha antagonists, rituximab, and the calcineurin inhibitors are being used to treat the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies, but their efficacy has not yet been tested in randomized clinical trials.	Future advances in the development of therapies for the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies have been enabled by recent progress in myositis classification, differential diagnosis, basic science, and clinical trial design. Preliminary studies suggest that calcineurin inhibitors, tumor necrosis factor antagonists, and rituximab may be effective treatments.
16635663: !Calcineurin The use of topical calcineurin inhibitors in dermatology: safety concerns. Report of the American Academy of Dermatology Association Task Force.	
16684275: !Calcineurin Atopic eczema: what's new?	Atopic eczema (AE) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease characterized by recurrent intense pruritus and a typical age-related distribution of skin lesions. Several new aspects with regard to the pathogenetic background as well as strategies for prevention, diagnosis and treatment of AE have emerged. There are ongoing studies on genetic susceptibility loci, as well as environmental and nutritional factors associated with an increase or a decrease of AE lesions. The atopy patch test is now available for identification of allergens in aeroallergen-triggered AE. New topical therapies, such as the calcineurin inhibitors, have broadened the therapeutic armamentarium substantially. In order to increase knowledge and coping strategies, patient education programs have been launched. Learning objective Upon completing this paper, the reader should be aware of new developments in AE, especially on nomenclature, prevention strategies, diagnostic tests, as well as therapeutic options.
16848386: !Calcineurin Seborrheic dermatitis: an overview.	Seborrheic dermatitis affects the scalp, central face, and anterior chest. In adolescents and adults, it often presents as scalp scaling (dandruff). Seborrheic dermatitis also may cause mild to marked erythema of the nasolabial fold, often with scaling. Stress can cause flare-ups. The scales are greasy, not dry, as commonly thought. An uncommon generalized form in infants may be linked to immunodeficiencies. Topical therapy primarily consists of antifungal agents and low-potency steroids. New topical calcineurin inhibitors (immunomodulators) sometimes are administered.
16971519: !Calcineurin Molecular physiology of the neural circuit for calcineurin-dependent associative learning in Caenorhabditis elegans.	How learning and memory is controlled at the neural circuit level is a fundamental question in neuroscience. However, molecular and cellular dissection of the neural circuits underlying learning and memory is extremely complicated in higher animals. Here, we report a simple neural circuit for learning behavior in Caenorhabditis elegans, where the calcium-activated phosphatase, calcineurin, acts as an essential modulator. The calcineurin mutant tax-6 showed defective feeding state-dependent learning behavior for temperature and salt. Surprisingly, defective associative learning between temperature and feeding state was caused by malfunctions of two pairs of directly connected interneurons, AIZ and RIA, in the mature nervous system. Monitoring temperature-evoked Ca2+ concentration changes in the AIZ-RIA neural pathway revealed that starvation, a conditioning factor, downregulated AIZ activity through calcineurin during associative learning between temperature and feeding state. Our results demonstrate the molecular and physiological mechanisms of a simple neural circuit for calcineurin-mediated associative learning behavior.
17041000: !Calcineurin Mitomycin- and calcineurin-associated HUS, endothelial dysfunction and endothelial repair: a new paradigm for the puzzle?	
17140601: !Calcineurin Association of the gene encoding neurogranin with schizophrenia in males.	The neurogranin (NRGN) gene produces a postsynaptic brain-specific protein that regulates calmodulin-Ca(2+) availability in neurons. Acting downstream of the NMDA receptor and upstream of calcineurin and other proteins implicated in schizophrenia, NRGN is a good candidate for association studies in schizophrenia. NRGN expression is regulated during development and is modulated by thyroid hormones and retinoids, molecules essential for the proper development of the central nervous system. Given the genetic complexity of schizophrenia and the potential genetic heterogeneity in different populations, we studied a possible association of NRGN with schizophrenia in 73 Azorean proband-parent triads and in two independent case-control samples from the Portuguese-mainland (244 schizophrenic and 210 controls) and Brazil (69 schizophrenic and 85 mentally healthy individuals). Genotype distribution showed association of the rs7113041 SNP with schizophrenia in males of Portuguese origin, which was confirmed by the analysis of the proband-parent triads. This evidence, implicating NRGN in schizophrenia, introduces another player into the glutamatergic hypothesis of schizophrenia.
17185513: !Calcineurin Investigating gene-to-behavior pathways in psychiatric disorders: the use of a comprehensive behavioral test battery on genetically engineered mice.	We have been investigating the relationships between genes and behaviors by conducting a systematic and well-defined behavioral test battery with mice that have a mutation on a gene of interest. The behavioral test battery covers a relatively broad range of various behavioral domains such as learning and memory, sensory-motor functions, emotion, motivation, and drug sensitivity/preference. Recently, we subjected mice lacking calcineurin (CN), a calcium/calmodulin protein phosphatase, to the comprehensive behavioral test battery. The mutant mice had a severe working memory deficit, increased locomotor activity, decreased social interaction, and impairments in prepulse and latent inhibition. The abnormalities of CN mutant mice were strikingly similar to those described for schizophrenic patients. Consistent with these findings, human genetics studies in a large sample of affected families detected a significant association of the PPP3CC gene, which encodes the CN gamma catalytic subunit with schizophrenia. The idea that abnormalities in the CN signaling pathway are involved in schizophrenia pathogenesis is consistent with traditional theories of schizophrenia and with many facts known about schizophrenia. A tremendous amount of knowledge about CN has accumulated and, by utilizing this information, the studies on the pathogenesis/pathophysiology of schizophrenia and its related mental disorders will be potentially accelerated. We discuss the potential impact of a large-scale mouse phenotyping project on the study of psychiatric disorders.
17243427: !Calcineurin Atopic dermatitis in children, part 2: treatment options.	Treatment options for children with atopic dermatitis (AD) include environmental modifications, corticosteroids, calcineurin inhibitors, and some less frequently used alternative therapies. Treatment of AD is a multifaceted approach that requires avoidance of specific triggers and irritants, repair and maintenance of the stratum corneum, cessation of the itch-scratch cycle, and reduction of inflammation.
17286614: !Calcineurin Lessons from the CAESAR Study: calcineurin inhibitors--can't live with them and can't live without them.	
17298428: !Calcineurin Efficacy and safety of methylprednisolone aceponate ointment 0.1% compared to tacrolimus 0.03% in children and adolescents with an acute flare of severe atopic dermatitis.	Topical glucocorticosteroids are the gold standard in treatment of atopic dermatitis (AD). Recently, topical calcineurin inhibitors have been developed for treatment of this condition. This study compared efficacy and safety of 0.1% methylprednisolone aceponate (MPA) ointment with 0.03% tacrolimus ointment for 3 weeks, in children and adolescents with severe to very severe flare of AD.	The primary end point was treatment success, defined as a score of 'clear' or 'almost clear' in the static Investigator's Global Assessment (IGA) score. Secondary end points were the percentage change in the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI) and patients' assessment of itch and sleep, Children's Dermatology Life Quality Index, patient's assessment of global response, affected Body Surface Area and medication costs.	265 patients were randomized to either MPA (n = 129) or tacrolimus (n = 136) treatment, 257 patients completed the study. Methylprednisolone aceponate 0.1% ointment once daily provided rapid and relevant clinical benefit. Tacrolimus 0.03% ointment twice daily was equally effective with regard to success rate. Methylprednisolone aceponate was superior to tacrolimus for EASI, itch and sleep. Both treatments were well tolerated. Drug-related adverse events were only observed in the tacrolimus group. Medication costs were significantly lower for MPA.	While both treatment groups showed similar efficacy results regarding treatment success (IGA), significant advantages were observed for EASI, itch and sleep with MPA 0.1%. These advantages and the significantly lower treatment costs highlight the benefits of MPA treatment, underlining its first-line role in treatment of children and adolescents with severe AD.
17339875: !Calcineurin More evidence supports the association of PPP3CC with schizophrenia.	Calcineurin is a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase composed of two subunits, a regulatory subunit of calcineurin B (CNB) and a catalytic subunit of calcineurin A (CNA). PPP3CC is the gamma isoform of CNA located at the chromosome 8p21.3 region. To evaluate the association between PPP3CC and schizophrenia in the Taiwanese population, 10 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers across the gene were genotyped by the method of MALDI-TOF in 218 schizophrenia families with at least two affected siblings. One SNP (rs2272080) located around the exon 1 untranslated region was nominally associated with schizophrenia (P=0.024) and significantly associated with the expression of PPP3CC in lymphoblast cell line; the TT and TG genotype had significantly higher relative expression levels than the GG genotype (P=0.0012 and 0.015, respectively). In further endophenotype stratification, the single locus of rs2272080 and the haplotypes of both two-SNP haplotype (rs7833266-rs2272080) and seven-SNP haplotype (rs2461491-rs2469758-rs2461489-rs2469770-rs2449340-rs1482337-rs2252471) showed significant associations with the subgroup of schizophrenia with deficits of the sustained attention as tested by the continuous performance test (CPT, P<0.05) and the executive functioning as tested by the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST, P<0.05). The results suggest that PPP3CC gene may be a true susceptibility gene for schizophrenia.
17360599: !Calcineurin Genetic analysis of the calcineurin pathway identifies members of the EGR gene family, specifically EGR3, as potential susceptibility candidates in schizophrenia.	The calcineurin cascade is central to neuronal signal transduction, and genes in this network are intriguing candidate schizophrenia susceptibility genes. To replicate and extend our previously reported association between the PPP3CC gene, encoding the calcineurin catalytic gamma-subunit, and schizophrenia, we examined 84 SNPs from 14 calcineurin-related candidate genes for genetic association by using 124 Japanese schizophrenic pedigrees. Four of these genes (PPP3CC, EGR2, EGR3, and EGR4) showed nominally significant association with schizophrenia. In a postmortem brain study, EGR1, EGR2, and EGR3 transcripts were shown to be down-regulated in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic, but not bipolar, patients. These findings raise a potentially important role for EGR genes in schizophrenia pathogenesis. Because EGR3 is an attractive candidate gene based on its chromosomal location close to PPP3CC within 8p21.3 and its functional link to dopamine, glutamate, and neuregulin signaling, we extended our analysis by resequencing the entire EGR3 genomic interval and detected 15 SNPs. One of these, IVS1 + 607A-->G SNP, displayed the strongest evidence for disease association, which was confirmed in 1,140 independent case-control samples. An in vitro promoter assay detected a possible expression-regulatory effect of this SNP. These findings support the previous genetic association of altered calcineurin signaling with schizophrenia pathogenesis and identify EGR3 as a compelling susceptibility gene.
17431732: !Calcineurin Leg bone pain syndrome in a patient with ulcerative colitis treated with cyclosporin.	Leg bone pain syndrome is an unusual condition associated with the use of calcineurin antagonists, initially described in patients receiving allograft transplantation.	To describe the first known reported case of leg bone pain syndrome in a patient with ulcerative colitis receiving cyclosporin.	Investigations revealed no diagnostic features. Calcium channel blocker was used successfully in the treatment of this condition.	In the absence of diagnostic investigations, a high index of clinical suspicion is needed to diagnose and successfully manage leg bone pain syndrome. This may prevent further complications such as osteonecrosis that may arise.
17493072: !Calcineurin Pimecrolimus cream 1% for papulopustular rosacea: a randomized vehicle-controlled double-blind trial.	Rosacea remains difficult to treat, despite many therapeutic options.	To investigate the effect of pimecrolimus cream 1% (Elidel; Novartis Pharma, Nuremberg, Germany) in the treatment of papulopustular rosacea.	Forty patients with rosacea (25 men and 15 women, mean age 58 years) were enrolled in a randomized, vehicle-controlled, double-blind study. For 4-8 weeks, patients applied pimecrolimus cream or vehicle twice daily to the involved areas on the face. Rosacea severity score, subjective severity assessment and quality of life assessment were obtained, along with photographic documentation.	Both treatment groups of 20 patients showed an improvement after 4 weeks. The differences were not significant (P > 0 x 05) with regard to mean absolute values, mean percentage changes from baseline, or mean absolute values as differences from baseline for the total score or scores of the different clinical signs (erythema, papulation, scaling and pustules). In the subjective severity score and the quality of life assessment, there was also no significant difference between pimecrolimus and the vehicle (P > 0 x 05).	Treatment of rosacea for 4-8 weeks with the topical calcineurin inhibitor pimecrolimus cream 1% was not more efficacious than treatment with the vehicle cream.
17524507: !Calcineurin Impact of brain-behavior phenotypying of genetically-engineered mice on research of neuropsychiatric disorders.	Despite massive research efforts, the exact pathogenesis and pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, remain largely unknown. Animal models can serve as essential tools for investigating the etiology and treatment of such disorders. Since the introduction of gene targeting techniques, the functions of more than 10% of all known mouse genes have been investigated by creating mutant mice. Some of these mutant mouse strains were found to exhibit behavioral abnormalities reminiscent of human psychiatric disorders. In this review, we discuss the general requirements for animal models of human psychiatric disorders. We also outline our unique approach of extrapolating findings in mice to humans, and present studies on forebrain-specific calcineurin knockout mice as an example. We also discuss the impact of a large-scale mouse phenotyping on studies of psychiatric disorders and the potential utility of an "animal-model-array" of psychiatric disorders for the development of suitable therapeutic agents.
17595344: !Calcineurin Renaming the DSCR1/Adapt78 gene family as RCAN: regulators of calcineurin.	
17609743: !Calcineurin Phencyclidine and genetic animal models of schizophrenia developed in relation to the glutamate hypothesis.	In humans, phencyclidine (PCP), a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, reproduces a schizophrenia-like psychosis including positive symptoms, negative symptoms and cognitive dysfunction. Thus, PCP-treated animals have been utilized as an animal model of schizophrenia. PCP-treated animals exhibit hyperlocomotion as an index of positive symptoms, and a social behavioral deficit in a social interaction test and enhanced immobility in a forced swimming test as indices of negative symptoms. They also show a sensorimotor gating deficit and cognitive dysfunctions in several learning and memory tests. Some of these behavioral changes endure after withdrawal from repeated PCP treatment. Furthermore, repeated PCP treatment induces some neurochemical and neuronanatomical changes. Recently, genetic approaches based on "the glutamate hypothesis of schizophrenia" have been used to develop animal models of schizophrenia. NMDA receptor subunit zeta1 knockdown, epsilon1 knockout (KO) and zeta1 point mutant mice exhibiting a hypofunction of NMDA receptors show hyperlocomotion, social behavioral deficit, sensorimotor gating deficit or cognitive dysfunction. Forebrain-specific calcineurin KO, neuregulin 1 heterozygous KO and lysophosphatidic acid 1 receptor KO mice can also serve as animal models of schizophrenia. These findings suggest that PCP and genetic animal models would be useful for evaluating novel therapeutic candidates and for confirming pathological mechanisms of schizophrenia.
17673386: !Calcineurin Treatment policy for psoriasis and eczema: a survey among dermatologists in the Netherlands and Belgian Flanders.	Today, many therapies are available for the treatment of psoriasis and eczema. One of the oldest topical therapies is coal tar. Coal tar has been used for decades, but over the past years, the use of coal tar has decreased for several reasons, including the supposed carcinogenicity of coal tar. We investigated the current and past treatment policies for psoriasis and eczema with special emphasis on the use of tar products; a postal survey was conducted among all dermatologists in two European countries: the Netherlands (n = 360) and the Flemish speaking part of Belgium (Flanders) (n = 328). This study was conducted as part of the ongoing LATER-study ("Late effects of coal tar treatment in eczema and psoriasis; the Radboud study"). All practising dermatologists received a questionnaire. Dermatologists were asked to describe their treatment policies in mild/moderate psoriasis, severe psoriasis, mild/moderate eczema and severe eczema. The response rate to the questionnaire was 62.5% for the Dutch dermatologists and 45.7% for the Flemish dermatologists. Almost all dermatologists prescribe topical corticosteroids. In eczema, most of the dermatologists prescribe the recently introduced calcineurin inhibitors (95%). Coal tar is a second choice topical therapy. Dutch dermatologists mainly use tar in the treatment of eczema (72% vs. 48% in Flanders), whereas in Flanders, tar is mainly prescribed in psoriasis (60% vs. 41% in Holland). Flemish dermatologists very frequently prescribe PUVA in psoriasis (93% vs. 63%). Topical treatment, especially topical corticosteroids, is the mainstay in psoriasis and eczema. Coal tar still is an important (second choice) therapy for the topical treatment of psoriasis and eczema, but its use varies from country to country. Despite the carcinogenicity of PUVA, this photochemotherapy is frequently prescribed by dermatologists, mainly in Flanders.
17699342: !Calcineurin Sodium thiosulfate treatment for calcific uremic arteriolopathy in children and young adults.	In adult patients with ESRD, calcific uremic arteriolopathy (CUA) is an uncommon but life-threatening complication. No effective therapy exists, although anecdotal case reports highlight the use of sodium thiosulfate (STS), a calcium-chelating agent with antioxidant properties. CUA is rare in children, and STS use has not been reported. The objective of this study was to determine the influence of STS treatment on three patients with CUA in a pediatric chronic dialysis unit. The patients were between 12 and 21 yr of age; two were male; and primary diagnoses were obstructive uropathy, renal dysplasia, and calcineurin nephrotoxicity. Time from ESRD to CUA diagnosis was 1, 9, and 20 yr. Diagnosis was made by tissue biopsy and three-phase bone scan. Pain was the presenting symptom. Initial treatment included discontinuation of calcitriol and use of non-calcium-based phosphate binders and low-calcium dialysate concentration. STS dosage was 25 g/1.73 m(2) per dose intravenously after each hemodialysis session. For optimization of removal of calcium deposits, patient three received a combination of STS and continuous venovenous hemofiltration for the first 10 d. All patients demonstrated rapid pain relief. Within weeks, skin induration and joint mobility of the extremities improved. Radiographic evidence of reduction in the calcium deposits occurred within 3 mo of initiation of STS. The only complication was prolonged QT interval in one patient as a result of hypocalcemia, who was resolved by use of a higher dialysate calcium concentration. STS seems well tolerated in children and young adults with CUA and has mild adverse effects. For determination of its efficacy, optimum dosage, duration of therapy, and dialysis modality, controlled trials are needed.
17766497: !Calcineurin Atopic dermatitis in children in the United States, 1997-2004: visit trends, patient and provider characteristics, and prescribing patterns.	Atopic dermatitis is the most common chronic inflammatory skin disease of childhood and is increasing in prevalence throughout the world. Morbidity and resource use for atopic dermatitis are comparable to other chronic diseases. Topical corticosteroids are first-line therapeutic agents for atopic dermatitis; topical calcineurin inhibitors are considered second-line agents for patients who are older than 2 years. The aims of this study were to examine trends in visits for atopic dermatitis in children in the United States between 1997 and 2004, identify factors that were associated with a pediatric visit for atopic dermatitis, and assess changes in the treatment of atopic dermatitis over time.	Visits for atopic dermatitis by children (0-18 years) to office-based physicians and hospital outpatient departments using 1997-2004 National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey and National Hospital Ambulatory Care Survey databases were analyzed. Medication prescribing rates during 2 time periods (1997-2000 and 2001-2004) were also analyzed.	There were an estimated 7.4 million visits for atopic dermatitis. Statistically significant differences in patients with atopic dermatitis included age 2 to 5 years, black race, Asian race, and specialist or hospital outpatient clinic evaluation. The increase in atopic dermatitis visits per year was statistically significant. No statistical differences in prescribing rates were identified between the 2 time periods. Between 1997 and 2000, topical corticosteroids were prescribed in 34% of visits, decreasing to 25% between 2001 and 2004. Between 2001 and 2004, topical calcineurin inhibitors were prescribed in 23% of visits. In the same period, topical corticosteroids were prescribed in 24% of visits by children who were younger than 2 years; topical calcineurin inhibitors were prescribed in 22% of visits.	Visits for atopic dermatitis in children are increasing. A recommended first-line treatment was prescribed in a minority of the visits.
17894336: !Calcineurin Compartmental loss of striatal medium spiny neurons in multiple system atrophy of parkinsonian type.	Topographical or compartmental involvement of the putamen and caudate nucleus has not been fully elucidated in multiple system atrophy predominantly presenting with Parkinsonism (MSA-P). We carried out immunohistochemical studies using antibodies to calbindin (CALB) and calcineurin (CaN) as neurochemical markers for striatal medium spiny neurons. We found that in the caudal and dorsolateral putamen, the area most affected in MSA-P, the medium spiny neurons positive for CALB were severely depleted, while CaN-positive neurons were relatively spared in a mosaic pattern. In the dorsal caudate nucleus, an area less affected in MSA, residual CALB-positive neurons exhibited a compartmentalized distribution that corresponded with the striosomal arrangement visualized by Met-enkephalin immunostaining. Our findings suggest that there is a compartmental difference in the susceptibility of striatal medium spiny neurons to neurodegeneration in MSA-P.
17907013: !Calcineurin Psoriasis of the face and flexures.	Facial and flexural psoriasis may impair the quality of life of psoriatic patients considerably. For the adequate management of psoriasis it is important to pay attention to lesions at these sensitive sites, which require an approach different to that for lesions on other sites in several respects. An extensive literature search was carried out to collect evidence-based data on facial and flexural psoriasis with respect to epidemiology, clinical aspects, pathogenetic factors and various treatments. Subsequently, a panel of experts, the Copenhagen Psoriasis Working Group (CPWG), discussed these aspects and several recommendations were formulated reconciling the evidence-based data. Facial psoriasis occurs in 17-46% of psoriatics and flexural psoriasis is experienced by 6.8-36% of patients with psoriasis. Therefore, psoriasis at these sites cannot be regarded as a rare manifestation. Facial psoriasis is a prognostic marker indicating a poor prognosis of psoriasis. Facial and flexural psoriasis cannot be regarded as distinct disease entities but rather as site variations. The clinical features of facial psoriasis suggest that there are three subtypes: hairline psoriasis, sebo-psoriasis and true facial psoriasis. Otitis externa and ocular manifestations should not be neglected. Evidence that microbiological factors may be relevant to facial and flexural psoriasis is virtually absent. For facial psoriasis the response to UV radiation is variable. At least 5% of psoriatics have photosensitive psoriasis. In these patients photosensitive diseases such as lupus erythematodes and polymorphic light eruption have to be excluded. Based on the literature assessment and working group discussions the CPWG concluded the following. (1) Low-potency topical corticosteroids, vitamin D3 analogues and calcineurin inhibitors are first choice treatments in facial and flexural psoriasis. Evidence for the efficacy of the first two modalities is at level 3 while it is at level 1 for the third one. An individualized approach is indicated; for example, in case of corticosteroid side effects in the past the other two modalities should be selected and in unstable psoriasis prone to irritation, monotherapy with vitamin D3 analogues should be avoided. (2) Antimicrobial treatments are not indicated for facial and flexural psoriasis. (3) Dithranol and tar treatment are not indicated as first-line treatment but only if the first-line options fail. (4) In case topical therapies are not effective, phototherapy and systemic treatments are indicated. (5) For future drug development the combination of vitamin D3 analogues with low strength corticosteroids is recommended.
17981872: !Calcineurin Temperature and food mediate long-term thermotactic behavioral plasticity by association-independent mechanisms in C. elegans.	Thermotactic behavior in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans exhibits long-term plasticity. On a spatial thermal gradient, C. elegans tracks isotherms near a remembered set-point (T(S)) corresponding to its previous cultivation temperature. When navigating at temperatures above its set-point (T>T(S)), C. elegans crawls down spatial thermal gradients towards the T(S) in what is called cryophilic movement. The T(S) retains plasticity in the adult stage and is reset by approximately 4 h of sustained exposure to a new temperature. Long-term plasticity in C. elegans thermotactic behavior has been proposed to represent an associative learning of specific temperatures conditioned in the presence or absence of bacterial food. Here, we use quantitative behavioral assays to define the temperature and food-dependent determinants of long-term plasticity in the different modes of thermotactic behavior. Under our experimental conditions, we find that starvation at a specific temperature neither disrupts T(S) resetting toward the starvation temperature nor induces learned avoidance of the starvation temperature. We find that prolonged starvation suppresses the cryophilic mode of thermotactic behavior. The hen-1 and tax-6 genes have been reported to affect associative learning between temperature and food-dependent cues. Under our experimental conditions, mutation in the hen-1 gene, which encodes a secreted protein with an LDL receptor motif, does not significantly affect thermotactic behavior or long-term plasticity. Mutation in the tax-6 calcineurin gene abolishes thermotactic behavior altogether. In summary, we do not find evidence that long-term plasticity requires association between temperature and the presence or absence of bacterial food.
17998144: !Calcineurin Evolution in the management of acute liver failure-associated aplastic anaemia in children: a single centre experience.	Bone marrow failure (BMF) is a potentially life-threatening complication of acute liver failure (ALF).	To investigate prevalence and evolving management of BMF associated with ALF, we reviewed all cases seen in our centre over 17 years. BMF was classified as: (a) bone marrow hypoplasia, (b) severe aplastic anaemia (SAA) and (c) very severe aplastic anaemia (VSAA), using standard criteria. We compared outcomes in children receiving: (1) medical treatment only with or without immunomodulation (anti-lymphocyte globulin, calcineurin inhibitors, G-CSF); (2) medical treatment with or without immunomodulation plus liver transplantation (LT); (3) haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).	Of 213 patients with ALF, 20 [(9.4%); 14 (70%) boys] developed BMF after a median of 1 month (range, 0.5 to 7). Seven had VSAA, 7 SAA and 6 bone marrow hypoplasia. Five children were treated medically, including 3 by immunomodulation; 10 (50%) received LT, with immunomodulation in 6; 5 (25%) received HSCT, in one after LT. Four (20%) children died, only one as consequence of AA. There was no difference in recovery, complication rates or outcome among the three groups.	Aggressive management of ALF-associated AA, including immunomodulation, HSCT and LT, is successful in most cases. HSCT has the advantage of removing the risk of late clonal disorders.
18057146: !Calcineurin Diagnosis and management of common dermatoses in children: atopic, seborrheic, and contact dermatitis.	Atopic, seborrheic, and contact dermatitis can significantly reduce the quality of life of patients and their families. Although differing in specific aspects of their epidemiology, etiology, and pathobiology, all 3 dermatoses are common in the pediatric population, and they share a common treatment approach. Although effective and widely used to manage exacerbations of pediatric dermatitis, the use of topical corticosteroid remains a concern for some physicians and parents because of its potential for systemic absorption and adverse events associated with prolonged use. Newer additions to the dermatitis treatment algorithm, such as the topical calcineurin inhibitors, may provide an effective steroid-sparing treatment option. Adjuvant treatments, such as antihistamines, antifungals, and antibiotics, also can provide benefit in appropriate circumstances. As there is no cure for dermatitis, a comprehensive, multipronged management strategy of preventive measures, such as trigger avoidance and periodic pharmacologic treatment, will provide patients and caregivers with the best opportunity to successfully control the disease.
19830906: !Calcineurin Canadian practical guide for the treatment and management of atopic dermatitis.	Atopic dermatitis is a common condition, with a lifetime prevalence of approximately 10% to 20% among the Canadian population. A clear, practical, Canadian guideline for the management of these patients has been lacking.	To provide primary-care physicians, pediatricians and dermatologists with the first practical and comprehensive set of Canadian recommendations for the management of atopic dermatitis.	A group of Canadian dermatologists convened to review the current issues of diagnosis, treatment and international guidelines and adapt them to the Canadian context. The reviewers used the latest clinical trial data on atopic dermatitis, complemented by clinical experience, to develop the consensus recommendations found in this review.	In the present report, following a brief review of the epidemiology of and clinical diagnosis criteria for atopic dermatitis, the recommendations for treatment and management are detailed. These recommendations, which are intended to provide clinicians with a useful and valuable tool to help manage their patients with atopic dermatitis, are divided into the following sections: epidemiology, diagnosis, general measures/skin care, acute management of atopic dermatitis, long-term management/disease control, adjunct therapies, and considerations for switching between antiinflammatory therapies/handling treatment failure. General measures discussed include hydration with bathing and the use of moisturizers. Management strategies discussed include topical corticosteroids, topical calcineurin inhibitors, antihistamines and anti-infectives. A management algorithm is also presented.
23105678: !Calcineurin Calcineurin activity in children with Mental handicap.	Calcineurin, a Ca(2+)-Calmodulin dependent protein phosphatase, is important for Ca(2+) mediated signal transduction. The main objective of this study was to examine the potential role of calcineurin in idiopathic mental handicap. Calcineurin levels were estimated in 20 children in the age group of 5-16 years with idiopathic mental handicap attending the Special. Education Centre for the Mentally Handicapped in Hyderabad. The results of the present study showed decreased activity of serum calcineurin in children with idiopathic mental handicap compared to those of normal subjects in the same age group. The observations thus suggest impaired calcineurin activity in children with mental handicap. Calcineurin that is involved in biosynthesis and release of neurotransmitters at the synaptic terminal brain is affected thereby causing brain damage and leading to mental handicap. Impaired calcineurin activity was already indicated in many human diseases such as Down's syndrome, Alzheimers, Brain ischemia, cardiac hypertrophy etc. It is therefore necessary to check the calcineurin levels in children with mental handicap to understand the role of calcineurin in the causation of Mental handicap.
