16789882: !lactoylglutathione Novel experimental design for steady-state processes: a systematic Bayesian approach for enzymes, drug transport, receptor binding, continuous culture and cell transport kinetics. We demonstrate that a Bayesian approach (the use of prior knowledge) to the design of steady-state experiments can produce major gains quantifiable in terms of information, productivity and accuracy of each experiment. Developing the use of Bayesian utility functions, we have used a systematic method to identify the optimum experimental designs for a number of kinetic model data sets. This has enabled the identification of trends between kinetic model types, sets of design rules and the key conclusion that such designs should be based on some prior knowledge of the kinetic model. We suggest an optimal and iterative method for selecting features of the design such as the substrate range, number of measurements and choice of intermediate points. The final design collects data suitable for accurate modelling and analysis and minimises the error in the parameters estimated. It is equally applicable to enzymes, drug transport, receptor binding, microbial culture and cell transport kinetics.
16713983: !lactoylglutathione Kinetic assay for measurement of enzyme concentration in situ. 
16511153: !lactoylglutathione Crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of Leishmania major glyoxalase I. Glyoxalase I (GLO1) is a putative drug target for trypanosomatids, which are pathogenic protozoa that include the causative agents of leishmaniasis. Significant sequence and functional differences between Leishmania major and human GLO1 suggest that it may make a suitable template for rational inhibitor design. L. major GLO1 was crystallized in two forms: the first is extremely disordered and does not diffract, while the second, an orthorhombic form, produces diffraction to 2.0 A. Molecular-replacement calculations indicate that there are three GLO1 dimers in the asymmetric unit, which take up a helical arrangement with their molecular dyads arranged approximately perpendicular to the c axis. Further analysis of these data are under way.
16384901: !lactoylglutathione Transgenic tobacco overexpressing glyoxalase pathway enzymes grow and set viable seeds in zinc-spiked soils. We reported earlier that engineering of the glyoxalase pathway (a two-step reaction mediated through glyoxalase I and II enzymes) enhances salinity tolerance. Here we report the extended suitability of this engineering strategy for improved heavy-metal tolerance in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum). The glyoxalase transgenics were able to grow, flower, and set normal viable seeds in the presence of 5 mm ZnCl2 without any yield penalty. The endogenous ion content measurements revealed roots to be the major sink for excess zinc accumulation, with negligible amounts in seeds in transgenic plants. Preliminary observations suggest that glyoxalase overexpression could confer tolerance to other heavy metals, such as cadmium or lead. Comparison of relative tolerance capacities of transgenic plants, overexpressing either glyoxalase I or II individually or together in double transgenics, evaluated in terms of various critical parameters such as survival, growth, and yield, reflected double transgenics to perform better than either of the single-gene transformants. Biochemical investigations indicated restricted methylglyoxal accumulation and less lipid peroxidation under high zinc conditions in transgenic plants. Studies employing the glutathione biosynthetic inhibitor, buthionine sulfoximine, suggested an increase in the level of phytochelatins and maintenance of glutathione homeostasis in transgenic plants during exposure to excess zinc as the possible mechanism behind this tolerance. Together, these findings presents a novel strategy to develop multiple stress tolerance via glyoxalase pathway engineering, thus implicating its potential use in engineering agriculturally important crop plants to grow on rapidly deteriorating lands with multiple unfavorable edaphic factors.
16352396: !lactoylglutathione Association analysis of the functional Ala111Glu polymorphism of the glyoxalase I gene in panic disorder. The zinc metalloenzyme glyoxalase I (GLO1) is thought to play a role in anxiety disorders because a reduced brain expression of GLO1 has been associated with increased anxiety-behaviours in mice. Recently, a functional Ala111Glu polymorphism in GLO1 has been shown to result in a reduced enzyme activity. The present study tested the hypothesis that this common genetic variant could confer susceptibility to panic disorder using an Italian population sample of 162 panic disorder patients and 288 matched controls. Statistical analysis failed to show association with the overall diagnosis of the disease. However, a weak but significant association was demonstrated between this polymorphism and panic disorder without agoraphobia. While our data suggest that this polymorphism is unlikely to have a major function in the pathogenesis of panic disorder, it could play a role in the subgroup of patients without agoraphobic avoidance.
16333265: !lactoylglutathione Oxidative stress is the new stress. 
16305054: !lactoylglutathione Common polymorphisms in the glyoxalase-1 gene and their association with pro-thrombotic factors. Advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) form at an accelerated rate in diabetes and contribute to the development of macrovascular disease. Their precursors are detoxified by the glyoxalase system. Perturbations of the glyoxalase-1 gene may alter AGEs' interactions and affect pro-thrombotic factors. We screened the glyoxalase-1 gene for mutations and measured pro-thrombotic markers in 537 subjects from 89 healthy probands. Common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified at positions -7 (C to T) and 20203 (C to A) from the translation start site. These SNPs were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (CC=105, CA=266, AA=148; p>0.05; CC=126, CT=279, TT=114; p>0.05, respectively) and in linkage disequilibrium (D=27%, p<0.01), with mutant allele frequencies of 48% and 52% respectively. A significant association was found between SNPs at position 20203 and PAI-1 antigen concentrations and -7 and factor XIII A2B2 complex (p=0.001 and p=0.042). After Bonferroni correction a significant association remained between the SNP at 20203 and PAI-1 concentrations (p=0.005), and after adjustment for pedigree the association accounted for 1.3% of its heritability (p=0.04). No significant associations were found for SNP -7 T to C and factor VII activity, tPa concentrations, fibrinogen concentrations or factor XIII concentrations and SNP 20203 C to A and factor VII concentrations, PAI-1 concentrations, tPa concentrations or fibrinogen concentrations. Common variants in the glyoxalase-1 gene are associated with some pro-thrombotic factors, account for part of their heritability in healthy pedigrees and may alter susceptibility to macrovascular complications.
16253241: !lactoylglutathione Transgenic tobacco plants overexpressing glyoxalase enzymes resist an increase in methylglyoxal and maintain higher reduced glutathione levels under salinity stress. The mechanism behind enhanced salt tolerance conferred by the overexpression of glyoxalase pathway enzymes was studied in transgenic vis-à-vis wild-type (WT) plants. We have recently documented that salinity stress induces higher level accumulation of methylglyoxal (MG), a potent cytotoxin and primary substrate for glyoxalase pathway, in various plant species [Yadav, S.K., Singla-Pareek, S.L., Ray, M., Reddy, M.K. and Sopory, S.K. (2005) MG levels in plants under salinity stress are dependent on glyoxalase I and glutathione. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 337, 61-67]. The transgenic tobacco plants overexpressing glyoxalase pathway enzymes, resist an increase in the level of MG that increased to over 70% in WT plants under salinity stress. These plants showed enhanced basal activity of various glutathione related antioxidative enzymes that increased further upon salinity stress. These plants suffered minimal salinity stress induced oxidative damage measured in terms of the lipid peroxidation. The reduced glutathione (GSH) content was high in these transgenic plants and also maintained a higher reduced to oxidized glutathione (GSH:GSSG) ratio under salinity. Manipulation of glutathione ratio by exogenous application of GSSG retarded the growth of non-transgenic plants whereas transgenic plants sustained their growth. These results suggest that resisting an increase in MG together with maintaining higher reduced glutathione levels can be efficiently achieved by the overexpression of glyoxalase pathway enzymes towards developing salinity stress tolerant plants.
16244648: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase 1 and glutathione reductase 1 regulate anxiety in mice. Anxiety and fear are normal emotional responses to threatening situations. In human anxiety disorders--such as panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, social phobia, specific phobias and generalized anxiety disorder--these responses are exaggerated. The molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of normal and pathological anxiety are mostly unknown. However, the availability of different inbred strains of mice offers an excellent model system in which to study the genetics of certain behavioural phenotypes. Here we report, using a combination of behavioural analysis of six inbred mouse strains with quantitative gene expression profiling of several brain regions, the identification of 17 genes with expression patterns that correlate with anxiety-like behavioural phenotypes. To determine if two of the genes, glyoxalase 1 and glutathione reductase 1, have a causal role in the genesis of anxiety, we performed genetic manipulation using lentivirus-mediated gene transfer. Local overexpression of these genes in the mouse brain resulted in increased anxiety-like behaviour, while local inhibition of glyoxalase 1 expression by RNA interference decreased the anxiety-like behaviour. Both of these genes are involved in oxidative stress metabolism, linking this pathway with anxiety-related behaviour.
16236261: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I from Leishmania donovani: a potential target for anti-parasite drug. Glyoxalases are involved in a ubiquitous detoxification pathway. In pursuit of a better understanding of the biological function of the enzyme, the recombinant glyoxalase I (LdGLOI) protein has been characterized from Leishmania donovani, the most important pathogenic Leishmania species that is responsible for visceral leishmaniasis. A 24kDa protein was heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli. LdGLOI showed a marked substrate specificity for trypanothione hemithioacetal over glutathione hemithioacetal. Antiserum against recombinant LdGLOI protein could detect a band of anticipated size approximately 16kDa in promastigote extracts. Several inhibitors of human GLOI showed that they are weak inhibitors of L. donovani growth. Overexpression of GLOI gene in L. donovani using Leishmania expression vector pspalpha hygroalpha, we detected elevated expression of GLOI RNA and protein. Comparative modelling of the 3-D structure of LDGLOI shows that substrate-binding region of the model involves important differences compared to the homologues, such as E. coli, specific to glutathione. Most notably a substrate-binding loop of LDGLOI is characterized by a deletion of five residues compared to the E. coli homologue. Further, a critical Arg in the E. coli variant at the substrate-binding site is replaced by Tyr in LDGLOI. These major differences result in entirely different shapes of the substrate-binding loop and presence of very different chemical groups in the substrate-binding site of LDGLOI compared to E. coli homologue suggesting an explanation for the difference in the substrate specificity. Difference in the substrate specificity of the human and LDGLOI enzyme could be exploited for structure-based drug designing of selective inhibitors against the parasite.
16227621: !lactoylglutathione Structural studies on a mitochondrial glyoxalase II. Glyoxalase 2 is a beta-lactamase fold-containing enzyme that appears to be involved with cellular chemical detoxification. Although the cytoplasmic isozyme has been characterized from several organisms, essentially nothing is known about the mitochondrial proteins. As a first step in understanding the structure and function of mitochondrial glyoxalase 2 enzymes, a mitochondrial isozyme (GLX2-5) from Arabidopsis thaliana was cloned, overexpressed, purified, and characterized using metal analyses, EPR and (1)H NMR spectroscopies, and x-ray crystallography. The recombinant enzyme was shown to bind 1.04 +/- 0.15 eq of iron and 1.31 +/- 0.05 eq of Zn(II) and to exhibit k(cat) and K(m) values of 129 +/- 10 s(-1) and 391 +/- 48 microm, respectively, when using S-d-lactoylglutathione as the substrate. EPR spectra revealed that recombinant GLX2-5 contains multiple metal centers, including a predominant Fe(III)Z-n(II) center and an anti-ferromagnetically coupled Fe(III)Fe(II) center. Unlike cytosolic glyoxalase 2 from A. thaliana, GLX2-5 does not appear to specifically bind manganese. (1)H NMR spectra revealed the presence of at least eight paramagnetically shifted resonances that arise from protons in close proximity to a Fe(III)Fe(II) center. Five of these resonances arose from solvent-exchangeable protons, and four of these have been assigned to NH protons on metal-bound histidines. A 1.74-A resolution crystal structure of the enzyme revealed that although GLX2-5 shares a number of structural features with human GLX2, several important differences exist. These data demonstrate that mitochondrial glyoxalase 2 can accommodate a number of different metal centers and that the predominant metal center is Fe(III)Zn(II).
16176800: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal levels in plants under salinity stress are dependent on glyoxalase I and glutathione. Methylglyoxal (MG), a cytotoxic by-product produced mainly from triose phosphates, is used as a substrate by glyoxalase I. In this paper, we report on the estimation of MG level in plants which has not been reported earlier. We show that MG concentration varies in the range of 30-75 microM in various plant species and it increases 2- to 6-fold in response to salinity, drought, and cold stress conditions. Transgenic tobacco underexpressing glyoxalase I showed enhanced accumulation of MG which resulted in the inhibition of seed germination. In the glyoxalase I overexpressing transgenic tobacco, MG levels did not increase in response to stress compared to the untransformed plants, however, with the addition of exogenous GSH there was a decrease in MG levels in both untransformed and transgenic plants. The exogenous application of GSH reduced MG levels in WT to 50% whereas in the transgenic plants a 5-fold decrease was observed. These studies demonstrate an important role of glyoxalase I along with GSH concentration in maintaining MG levels in plants under normal and abiotic stress conditions.
16153601: !lactoylglutathione Cloning and characterization of a mitochondrial glyoxalase II from Brassica juncea that is upregulated by NaCl, Zn, and ABA. A cDNA (1061 bp) Bj glyII was cloned from a mannitol induced library of Brassica juncea. It encoded a protein of 335 amino acids with a molecular weight of 36.52 kDa. The deduced amino acid sequence of the clone showed 92% and 56% identity with Pennisetum and rice glyoxalase II, respectively, and 30% identity was observed with the human glyoxalase II. Search for the identical residues revealed the presence of highly conserved THHHXDH domain which is involved in zinc binding. p-NN and pSORT analysis of this sequence revealed a N-terminal mitochondrial target peptide. The cDNA was cloned in pMAL and a fusion protein with MBP (78 kDa) was expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant protein was purified approximately sixfold by affinity purification on amylose column and showed its pH optima at 7.0. The K(m) was determined to be 120 microM using S-d-lactoylglutathione as substrate. The expression of Bj glyII under various abiotic stress conditions showed that it is upregulated by salinity, heavy metal stress, and ABA.
16085563: !lactoylglutathione Troglitazone overcomes doxorubicin-resistance in resistant K562 leukemia cells. Human myeloid leukemia cells become resistant to doxorubicin (DOX) treatment and this resistance is correlated with an increased glyoxalase 1 (GLO1) expression. Troglitazone (TRG) is an anti-diabetic thiazolidinedione drug previously used to treat insulin-resistance in Type 2 diabetes. We previously showed that TRG down regulates GLO1 gene expression in a number of cell types and reasoned that TRG might be a useful adjunct therapy to overcome DOX resistance. Here we show that TRG treatment overcomes the resistance to DOX in the DOX-resistant K562 human leukemia cells. Higher doses of TRG were found to alter histone H3:H2B ratios with a decreased ratio in DOX-sensitive and increased ratio in DOX-resistant lines. Furthermore, phosphorylated H3 was seen in DOX-resistant but not in DOX-sensitive cells. We conclude that the downstream effect of TRG in DOX-resistant cells may be interference with normal cell cycle events leading to genomic instability. Our data suggest that TRG may be a useful adjunct therapy in circumventing drug resistance in K562 leukemia cells.
16084533: !lactoylglutathione Advanced glycoxidation end products in chronic diseases-clinical chemistry and genetic background. Several diseases (atherosclerosis, diabetes mellitus, chronic renal failure) are associated with oxidative and carbonyl stress, microinflammation and eventually autoimmune reaction. Both oxidative and carbonyl stress cause damage to important biological structures-proteins, carbohydrates, lipids and nucleic acids and may enhance inflammatory response. New compounds and modified structures are formed, among them advanced oxidation protein products (AOPP), advanced glycation end products (AGEs-e.g. pentosidine, carboxymethyllysine) and advanced lipoperoxidation end products (ALEs). Accumulation of glycoxidation products, upregulation of protective mechanisms like glyoxalase I as well as enhanced transcription of genes coding for cytokines, growth factors and adhesive molecules via AGE-RAGE (receptor for AGEs) interaction and subsequent increase of classical acute phase reactants (e.g. CRP-C-reactive protein or orosomucoid) can be observed in a variety of chronic diseases. Additionally, several RAGE gene polymorphisms have shown association with some pathological states-diabetic complications, vascular damage, inflammatory response or antioxidant status. Recent advances in understanding the pathogenesis of chronic diseases provide new possibilities for diagnostics and monitoring of severely ill patients, however, further studies are still required to establish efficient therapeutical strategies.
16083289: !lactoylglutathione Application of two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis to studying bone marrow macrophages and their in vivo responses to ionizing radiation. A flow cytometric protocol was developed to isolate primary bone marrow resident macrophages (CD11b((-)) Gr-1((-)) F4/80((+))) before and 24 h after 0.5 Gy gamma-irradiation from mouse strains (C57BL/6 and CBA/Ca) that exhibit significant differences in the response of their hematopoietic tissues to ionizing radiation. The proteins from these populations were analyzed using two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D DIGE) and mass spectrometry. We identified 36 macrophage proteins from 52 spots in both C57BL/6 and CBA/Ca. Thirty-three spots showed significant difference between genotypes and 16 of them corresponding to 11 proteins were identified. These included G-protein signaling 16, glucose-regulated protein 78, and lactoylglutathione lyase. We detected 16 and 18 spot changes following irradiation in C57BL/6 and CBA/Ca respectively, and in total 16 of them were identified. The identified proteins included calreticulin, lactoylglutathione lyase, regulator of G-protein signaling 16 and peroxiredoxin 5, mitochondrial precursor. The application of DIGE to primary bone marrow resident macrophages has allowed the first description of the proteome of these important components of the hematopoietic microenvironment and an analysis of their in vivo response to ionizing radiation which may shed light on the mechanism underlying the differential radiation-induced leukemogenesis exhibited within these mouse strains.
16048908: !lactoylglutathione Proteomic study reveals that proteins involved in metabolic and detoxification pathways are highly expressed in HER-2/neu-positive breast cancer. The receptor tyrosine kinase ErbB2 (HER-2/neu) is overexpressed in up to 30% of breast cancers and is associated with poor prognosis and an increased likelihood of metastasis especially in node-positive tumors. In this proteomic study, to identify the proteins that are associated with the aggressive phenotype of HER-2/neu-positive breast cancer, tumor cells from both HER-2/neu-positive and -negative tumors were procured by laser capture microdissection. Differentially expressed proteins in the two subsets of tumors were identified by two-dimensional electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF/TOF MS/MS. We found differential expression of several key cell cycle modulators, which were linked with increased proliferation of the HER-2/neu-overexpressing cells. Nine proteins involved in glycolysis (triose-phosphate isomerase (TPI), phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1), and enolase 1 (ENO1)), lipid synthesis (fatty acid synthase (FASN)), stress-mediated chaperonage (heat shock protein 27 (Hsp27)), and antioxidant and detoxification pathways (haptoglobin, aldo-keto reductase (AKR), glyoxalase I (GLO), and prolyl-4-hydrolase beta-isoform (P4HB)) were found to be up-regulated in HER-2/neu-positive breast tumors. HER-2/neu-dependent differential expression of PGK1, FASN, Hsp27, and GLO was further validated in four breast cancer cell lines and 12 breast tumors by immunoblotting and confirmed by partially switching off the HER-2/neu signaling in the high HER-2/neu-expressing SKBr3 cell line with Herceptin treatment. Statistical correlations of these protein expressions with HER-2/neu status were further verified by immunohistochemistry on a tissue microarray comprising 97 breast tumors. Our findings suggest that HER-2/neu signaling may result, directly or indirectly, in enhanced activation of various metabolic, stress-responsive, antioxidative, and detoxification processes within the breast tumor microenvironment. We hypothesize that these identified changes in the cellular proteome are likely to drive cell proliferation and tissue invasion and that the key cell cycle modulators involved, when uncovered by future research, would serve as naturally useful targets for the development of therapeutic strategies to negate the metastatic potential of HER-2/neu-positive breast tumors.
16037241: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal, glyoxal, and their detoxification in Alzheimer's disease. The accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) in brains with Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been implicated in the formation of insoluble deposits such as amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. AGEs are also known to activate glia, resulting in inflammation and neuronal dysfunction. As reactive intermediates of AGE formation, neurotoxic reactive dicarbonyl compounds such as glyoxal and methylglyoxal have been identified. One of the most effective detoxification systems for methylglyoxal and glyoxal is the glutathione-dependent glyoxalase system, consisting of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II. In this study, we have determined the methylglyoxal and glyoxal levels in the cerebrospinal fluid of AD patients compared to healthy controls. Methylglyoxal levels in AD patients were twofold higher than in controls, but this difference was not significant due to the large intergroup variations and the small sample size. However, the concentrations of both compounds were five to seven times higher in CSF than in plasma. We also investigated the glyoxalase I level in AD and healthy control brains. The number of glyoxalase I- positive neurons were increased in AD brains compared to controls. Our findings suggest that glyoxalase I is upregulated in AD in a compensatory manner to maintain physiological methylglyoxal and glyoxal levels.
16028114: !lactoylglutathione Identification of phosphoproteins regulated by gibberellin in rice leaf sheath. To identify the gibberellin (GA) signaling components involved in rice leaf sheath elongation process, protein phosphorylation changed by GA3 was analyzed. The protein kinase activities in rice leaf sheath were assessed in an in-gel kinase assay using SDS-polyacrylamide gel containing histone III-S as a substrate. The activity of a putative 54-kDa calcium dependent protein kinase (CDPK) in cytosolic fraction in rice leaf sheath increased significantly by GA3. Further, phosphorylation status of the proteins changed by GA3 in rice leaf sheath were detected by in vitro protein phosphorylation followed by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the phosphoproteins were identified by mass spectrometry. Sixty phosphoproteins was detected after in vitro protein phosphorylation and the phosphorylation of 7 proteins was enhanced by GA3 treatment. The addition of GA3 treated cytosolic fraction of leaf sheath further increased the phosphorylation of 4 proteins, glyoxalase-I, cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase, glyceraldehydes-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and another unknown protein. The protein kinase inhibitor, staurosporine inhibited the phosphorylation of these proteins in vitro. Other hormones, particularly, indole acetic acid, 6-benzylaminopurine and abscisic acid did not change the phosphorylation status of these proteins. The identified proteins did not show any change by GA3 treatment at transcription level. The abundance of glyoxalase-I and cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase remained unchanged by GA3 treatment as detected on 2D-gel by silver staining, unlike for glyceraldehydes-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Results suggest that the phosphoproteins, glyoxalase-I and cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase in rice leaf sheath could be important signaling components of GA3, downstream to 54-kDa CDPK.
15950319: !lactoylglutathione Age-dependent changes of glyoxalase I expression in human brain. Increased modification and crosslinking of proteins by advanced glycation end products (AGEs) is a characteristic feature of aging, and contributes to the formation of many of the lesions of neurodegenerative diseases including neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, defense mechanisms against AGE formation or detoxification of their precursors such as the glyoxalase system are of particular interest in aging research. Thus, we investigated the age-dependent protein expression, the activity as well as the RNA level of glyoxalase I in Brodmann area 22 (auditory association area of superior temporal gyrus) of the human cerebral cortex. Our immunohistochemical results demonstrate the localization of glyoxalase I in neurons, predominantly pyramidal cells, as well as in astroglia, located predominantly in the subpial region. The number of glyoxalase I expressing neurons and astroglia increases with age, with a peak at approximately 55 years, and progressively decreases thereafter. These results were confirmed by biochemical investigations in total brain tissue, where the RNA, the protein level as well as the activity of glyoxalase I enzyme were analyzed in different age groups. In conclusion, the increase in glyoxalase I expression up to the age of 55 may be a compensatory mechanism against high oxoaldyde levels and the accumulation of AGEs. However, the decline of glyoxalase expression and activity in old age, possibly caused by impairment in transcription or/and translation, may subsequently lead to increased levels of reactive carbonyl compounds, followed by protein crosslinking, inflammation, oxidative stress and neuronal degeneration.
15898727: !lactoylglutathione N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide copolymers of a glutathione (GSH)-activated glyoxalase i inhibitor and DNA alkylating agent: synthesis, reaction kinetics with GSH, and in vitro antitumor activities. The incorporation of anticancer prodrugs into polyacrylamide conjugates has been shown to improve tumor targeting via the so-called "enhanced permeability and retention" effect. This strategy has now been expanded to include two different classes of glutathione (GSH)-activated antitumor agents prepared by radical polymerization of N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA) with 2-methacryloyloxy-methyl-2-cyclohexenone (7) and/or with S-(N-4-chlorophenyl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl-thioethyl)methacrylamide (8), followed by treatment with 3-chloroperoxybenzoic acid, to give the HPMA copolymers of 7 and the 8-sulfoxide, respectively. In aqueous-buffered solution at pH 6.5, GSH reacts rapidly with poly-HPMA-8-sulfoxide (k approximately 2.3 mM(-1) min(-1)) to give S-(N-4-chlorophenyl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathione (1), a tight-binding transition state analogue inhibitor of the antitumor target enzyme glyoxalase I (K(i) = 46 nM), or with poly-HPMA-7 (k approximately 0.02 mM(-1) min(-1)) to give the electrophilic antitumor agent 3-glutathio-2-methylenecyclohexenone (4). Indeed, B16 melanotic melanoma in culture is inhibited by poly-HPMA-8-sulfoxide and by poly-HPMA-7 with IC(50) values of 168 +/- 8 and 284 +/- 5 microM, respectively. These values are significantly greater than those of the unpolymerized prodrugs suggesting that the cytotoxicity of the polymer prodrugs might be limited by slow cellular uptake via pinocytosis. This prodrug strategy should be applicable to a range of different GSH-based antitumor agents.
15885089: !lactoylglutathione Quantitative assessment of the glyoxalase pathway in Leishmania infantum as a therapeutic target by modelling and computer simulation. The glyoxalase pathway of Leishmania infantum was kinetically characterized as a trypanothione-dependent system. Using time course analysis based on parameter fitting with a genetic algorithm, kinetic parameters were estimated for both enzymes, with trypanothione derived substrates. A K(m) of 0.253 mm and a V of 0.21 micromol.min(-1).mg(-1)for glyoxalase I, and a K(m) of 0.098 mm and a V of 0.18 micromol.min(-1).mg(-1) for glyoxalase II, were obtained. Modelling and computer simulation were used for evaluating the relevance of the glyoxalase pathway as a potential therapeutic target by revealing the importance of critical parameters of this pathway in Leishmania infantum. A sensitivity analysis of the pathway was performed using experimentally validated kinetic models and experimentally determined metabolite concentrations and kinetic parameters. The measurement of metabolites in L. infantum involved the identification and quantification of methylglyoxal and intracellular thiols. Methylglyoxal formation in L. infantum is nonenzymatic. The sensitivity analysis revealed that the most critical parameters for controlling the intracellular concentration of methylglyoxal are its formation rate and the concentration of trypanothione. Glyoxalase I and II activities play only a minor role in maintaining a low intracellular methylglyoxal concentration. The importance of the glyoxalase pathway as a therapeutic target is very small, compared to the much greater effects caused by decreasing trypanothione concentration or increasing methylglyoxal concentration.
15858064: !lactoylglutathione Identification of glyoxalase-I as a protein marker in a mouse model of extremes in trait anxiety. For >15 generations, CD1 mice have been selectively and bidirectionally bred for either high-anxiety-related behavior (HAB-M) or low-anxiety-related behavior (LAB-M) on the elevated plus-maze. Independent of gender, HAB-M were more anxious than LAB-M animals in a variety of additional tests, including those reflecting risk assessment behaviors and ultrasound vocalization, with unselected CD1 "normal" control (NAB-M) and cross-mated (CM-M) mice displaying intermediate behavioral scores in most cases. Furthermore, in both the forced-swim and tail-suspension tests, LAB-M animals showed lower scores of immobility than did HAB-M and NAB-M animals, indicative of a reduced depression-like behavior. Using proteomic and microarray analyses, glyoxalase-I was identified as a protein marker, which is consistently expressed to a higher extent in LAB-M than in HAB-M mice in several brain areas. The same phenotype-dependent difference was found in red blood cells with NAB-M and CM-M animals showing intermediate expression profiles of glyoxalase-I. Additional studies will examine whether glyoxalase-I has an impact beyond that of a biomarker to predict the genetic predisposition to anxiety- and depression-like behavior.
15843146: !lactoylglutathione Characterization of the glyoxalases of the malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum and comparison with their human counterparts. The glyoxalase system consisting of glyoxalase I (GloI) and glyoxalase II (GloII) constitutes a glutathione-dependent intracellular pathway converting toxic 2-oxoaldehydes, such as methylglyoxal, to the corresponding 2-hydroxyacids. Here we describe a complete glyoxalase system in the malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum. The biochemical, kinetic and structural properties of cytosolic GloI (cGloI) and two GloIIs (cytosolic GloII named cGloII, and tGloII preceded by a targeting sequence) were directly compared with the respective isofunctional host enzymes. cGloI and cGloII exhibit lower K(m) values and higher catalytic efficiencies (k(cat)/K(m) ) than the human counterparts, pointing to the importance of the system in malarial parasites. A Tyr185Phe mutant of cGloII shows a 2.5-fold increase in K(m) , proving the contribution of Tyr185 to substrate binding. Molecular models suggest very similar active sites/metal binding sites of parasite and host cell enzymes. However, a fourth protein, which has highest similarities to GloI, was found to be unique for malarial parasites; it is likely to act in the apicoplast, and has as yet undefined substrate specificity. Various S-(N-hydroxy-N-arylcarbamoyl)glutathiones tested as P. falciparum Glo inhibitors were active in the lower nanomolar range. The Glo system of Plasmodium will be further evaluated as a target for the development of antimalarial drugs.
15714295: !lactoylglutathione Unique regulation of glyoxalase I activity during osmotic stress response in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe: neither the mRNA nor the protein level of glyoxalase I increase under conditions that enhance its activity. Glyoxalase I is a ubiquitous enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of methylglyoxal, a toxic 2-oxoaldehyde derived from glycolysis, to S-D-lactoylglutathione. The activity of glyoxalase I in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe was increased by osmotic stress induced by sorbitol. However, neither the mRNA levels of its structural gene nor its protein levels increased under the same conditions. Cycloheximide blocked the induction of glyoxalase I activity in cells exposed to osmotic stress. In addition, glyoxalase I activity was increased in stress-activated protein kinase-deficient mutants (wis1 and spc1). We present evidence for the post-translational regulation of glyoxalase I by osmotic stress in the fission yeast.
15686923: !lactoylglutathione Reversal of anticancer drug resistance by COTC based on intracellular glutathione and glyoxalase I. Suppression of resistance to anticancer drugs by COTC of glyoxalase I (GloI) inhibitor targeting intracellular glutathione (GSH) and GloI was studied. Depletion of the cellular GSH content and inhibition of GloI by COTC increased chemotherapy-mediated apoptosis in apoptosis-resistant pancreatic adenocarcinoma AsPC-1 cells.
15652645: !lactoylglutathione Identification of immunodominant regions of Brassica juncea glyoxalase I as potential antitumor immunomodulation targets. Glyoxalase I activity has been shown to be directly related to cancer and its inhibitors have been used as anti-cancer drugs. Immunochemical studies have shown immunochemical relatedness among animal and plant glyoxalase I, but its potential application for biomedical research has not been investigated. In order to understand the conserved immunochemical regions of the protein and to determine probable immunomodulation targets, a cellulose-bound scanning peptide library for Brassica juncea glyoxalase I was made using the spot synthesis method. Immuno-probing of the library, using B. juncea anti-glyoxalase I monospecific polyclonal antibodies, revealed three immunodominant regions, epitope I, II, and III. In the homology model of B. juncea glyoxalase I generated by threading its sequence onto the human glyoxalase I, the high accessible surface area and the hydrophilic nature of the epitopes confirmed their surface localization and hence their accessibility for antigen-antibody interaction. Epitopes I and II were specific to B. juncea glyoxalase I. Localizing the epitopes on available glyoxalase I sequences showed that epitope III containing the active site region was conserved across phyla. Therefore, this could be used as a potential immunomodulation target for cancer therapy. Moreover, as the most immunogenic epitopes were mapped on the surface of the protein, this method could be used to discover potential therapeutic targets. It is a simple and fast approach for such investigations. This study, to our knowledge, is the first in epitope mapping of glyoxalase I and has great biomedical potential.
15591324: !lactoylglutathione Proteome changes in ovarian epithelial cells derived from women with BRCA1 mutations and family histories of cancer. Malignant transformation of the ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) accounts for most ovarian carcinoma. Detection of preneoplastic changes in the OSE leading to overt malignancy is important in prevention and management of ovarian cancer. We identified OSE proteins with altered expression derived from women with a family history (FH) of ovarian and/or breast cancer and mutations in the BRCA1 tumor suppressor gene. Proteins from SV-40-transformed FH-OSE cell lines and control OSE lines derived from women without such histories (non-family history) were separated by two-dimensional PAGE. Gels were analyzed, a protein data base was created, and proteins were characterized according to their molecular weight, isoelectric point, and relative abundance. Mass spectrometry was performed on tryptic protein digests, and data bases were searched for known proteins with the same theoretical tryptic peptide masses. Several proteins showed altered expression in the FH-OSE cells. Beta-tubulin and to a lesser extent ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase and glyoxalase 1 appeared to be up-regulated. In contrast, proteins suppressed in FH lines include the 27-kDa heat shock protein, translationally controlled tumor protein, and several proteins associated with actin modification such as actin prepeptide, F-actin capping protein alpha subunit, and cofilin. Sequencing of several cofilin gel spots revealed phosphorylation of serine 3, a post-translational modification associated with decreased actin binding and cytoskeletal reorganization. Two-dimensional Western blots probed with cofilin antibody showed multiple protein spots with isoelectric points of 6-9 pH units. Blots of one-dimensional gels showed a significant reduction in cofilin expression in three FH lines when compared with three non-family history lines (p < or = 0.05). Identification of these and other OSE proteins may be useful in detecting changes suggestive of increased risk of developing preneoplastic disease and defining the possible role(s) of the BRCA1 gene in regulation of OSE cell function.
15520007: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal, a metabolite derived from glycolysis, functions as a signal initiator of the high osmolarity glycerol-mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade and calcineurin /Crz1-mediated pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Methylglyoxal (MG) is a typical 2-oxoaldehyde derived from glycolysis, although it inhibits the growth of cells in all types of organism. Hence, it has been questioned why such a toxic metabolite is synthesized via the ubiquitous energy-generating pathway. We have previously reported that expression of GLO1, coding for the major enzyme detoxifying MG, was induced by osmotic stress in a high osmolarity glycerol (HOG)-mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase-dependent manner in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Here we show that MG activates the HOG-MAP kinase cascade. Two osmosensors, Sln1 and Sho1, have been identified to function upstream of the HOG-MAP kinase cascade, and we reveal that MG initiates the signal transduction to this MAP kinase cascade through the Sln1 branch. We also demonstrate that MG activates the Msn2 transcription factor. Moreover, MG activated the uptake of Ca(2+) in yeast cells, thereby stimulating the calcineurin /Crz1-mediated Ca(2+) signaling pathway. We propose that MG functions as a signal initiator in yeast.
15496955: !lactoylglutathione DNA microarray allows molecular profiling of rheumatoid arthritis and identification of pathophysiological targets. This study was undertaken to evaluate the possibility to obtain a molecular signature of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) comparatively osteoarthritis (OA), and to lay the bases to develop new diagnostic tools and identify new targets. Microarray technology was used for such an analysis. The gene expression profiles of synovial tissues from patients with confirmed RA, and patients with OA were established and compared. A set of 63 genes was selected, based, more specifically, on their overexpression or underexpression in RA samples compared to OA. Results for six of these genes have been verified by quantitative PCR using both samples identical to those used in the microarray experiments and entirely separate samples. Expression profile of the 48 known genes allowed the correct classification of additional RA and OA patients. Furthermore, the distinct expression of three of the selected genes was also studied by quantitative RT-PCR in cultured synovial cells. Detailed analysis of the expression profile of the selected genes provided evidence for dysregulated biological pathways, pointed out to chromosomal location and revealed novel genes potentially involved in RA. It is proposed that such an approach allows valuable diagnosis/prognostics tools in RA to be established and potential targets for combating the disease to be identified.
15475166: !lactoylglutathione The characterisation and functional analysis of the human glyoxalase-1 gene using methods of bioinformatics. Methylglyoxal (MG), which forms MG-derived AGE, is elevated in diabetic subjects with vascular disease. Detoxification of MG occurs through the glyoxalase system incorporating glyoxalase-1 (GLO1) and glyoxalase-2. Perturbations of the glyoxalase-1 gene (GLO1) may result in vulnerability to vascular complications through alterations in AGE interactions. We used bioinformatics to predict the structure, function and genetic variation of GLO1. We identified a previously unreported exon. Seventy single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified bioinformatically. The amino acid substitution Ala 111 Glu was confirmed and predicted to be tolerant. Though no alternative splice variants were identified, novel multiple alternative transcription start sites and alternative 3' UTRs were demonstrated. Ubiquitous expression of GLO1 was confirmed. Conserved regulatory regions were predicted 5' to the transcription start site and in the distal promoter, and several predicted conserved transcription regulatory elements were suggested in the 5' UTR. This study of GLO1 demonstrates multiple sequence variants at DNA and mRNA levels, areas of sequence conservation and SNPs that are predicted to affect function. A differential ability of glyoxalase-1 to reduce the formation and subsequent interaction of AGEs may have a role in the structural and functional manifestations of diabetic vascular disease.
15454255: !lactoylglutathione Methotrexate inhibits the glyoxalase system in vivo in children with acute lymphoid leukaemia. The inhibition of glyoxalase I leads to antitumour activity through the accumulation of methylglyoxal. Our earlier observations suggested that methotrexate (MTX) may affect the glyoxalase system. This prompted a serial study of the drug on this metabolic pathway. Ten children with acute lymphoid leukaemia (ALL), admitted to our department between January 2002 and July 2003, were enrolled. Plasma D-lactate was assayed before, 24 and 72 h after the start of four consecutive MTX infusions (5 g/m(2)/24 h) in each patient. Inhibition of glyoxalase I was tested in vitro, using human erythrocyte lysates and yeast enzyme. The elevated initial plasma D-lactate levels (P<0.02) fell significantly (P<0.001) in response to 24 h MTX infusions. In vitro, MTX, folic and folinic acids inhibited the activity of glyoxalase I. Thus, MTX seems to affect the alpha-oxoaldehyde metabolism in vivo, as a likely consequence of glyoxalase I inhibition. This action probably contributes to the anticancer activity and toxicity of the drug.
15448747: !lactoylglutathione Role of rpoS in the regulation of glyoxalase III in Escherichia coli. Methylglyoxal is an endogenous electrophile produced in Escherichia coli by the enzyme methylglyoxal synthase to limit the accumulation of phosphorylated sugars. In enteric bacteria methylglyoxal is detoxified by the glutathione-dependent glyoxalase I/II system, by glyoxalase III, and by aldehyde reductase and alcohol dehydrogenase. Here we demonstrate that glyoxalase III is a stationary-phase enzyme. Its activity reached a maximum at the entry into the stationary phase and remained high for at least 20 h. An rpoS- mutant displayed normal glyoxalase I and II activities but was unable to induce glyoxalase III in stationary phase. It thus appears that glyoxalase III is regulated by rpoS and might be important for survival of non-growing E. coli cultures.
15386471: !lactoylglutathione Proteomic studies identified a single nucleotide polymorphism in glyoxalase I as autism susceptibility factor. Autism is a neurodevelopmental disability characterized by deficits in verbal communications, impairments in social interactions, and repetitive behaviors. Several studies have indicated strong involvement of multigenic components in the etiology of autism. Linkage analyses and candidate gene search approaches so far have not identified any reliable susceptibility genes. We are using a proteomic approach to identify protein abnormalities due to aberrant gene expression in autopsied autism brains. In four of eight autism brains, we have found an increase in polarity (more acidic) of glyoxalase I (Glo1) by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. To identify the molecular change resulting in the shift of Glo1 polarity, we undertook sequencing of GLO1 gene. Direct sequencing of GLO1 gene/mRNA in these brains, has identified a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), C419A. The SNP causes an Ala111Glu change in the protein sequence. Population genetics of GLO1 C419A SNP studied in autism (71 samples) and normal and neurological controls (49 samples) showed significantly higher frequency for the A419 (allele frequency 0.6 in autism and 0.4 in controls, one-tailed Fisher's test P < 0.0079). Biochemical measurements have revealed a 38% decrease in Glo1 enzyme activity in autism brains (one-tailed t-test P < 0.026). Western blot analysis has also shown accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGE's) in autism brains. These data suggest that homozygosity for A419 GLO1 resulting in Glu111 is a predisposing factor in the etiology of autism.
15367692: !lactoylglutathione Activity of the Yap1 transcription factor in Saccharomyces cerevisiae is modulated by methylglyoxal, a metabolite derived from glycolysis. Methylglyoxal (MG) is synthesized during glycolysis, although it inhibits cell growth in all types of organisms. Hence, it has long been asked why such a toxic metabolite is synthesized in vivo. Glyoxalase I is a major enzyme detoxifying MG. Here we show that the Yap1 transcription factor, which is critical for the oxidative-stress response in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is constitutively concentrated in the nucleus and activates the expression of its target genes in a glyoxalase I-deficient mutant. Yap1 contains six cysteine residues in two cysteine-rich domains (CRDs), i.e., three cysteine residues clustering near the N terminus (n-CRD) and the remaining three cysteine residues near the C terminus (c-CRD). We reveal that any of the three cysteine residues in the c-CRD is sufficient for MG to allow Yap1 to translocate into the nucleus and to activate the expression of its target gene. A Yap1 mutant possessing only one cysteine residue in the c-CRD but no cysteine in the n-CRD and deletion of the basic leucine zipper domain can concentrate in the nucleus with MG treatment. However, substitution of all the cysteine residues in Yap1 abolishes the ability of this transcription factor to concentrate in the nucleus following MG treatment. The redox status of Yap1 is substantially unchanged, and protein(s) interaction with Yap1 through disulfide bond is hardly detected in cells treated with MG. Collectively, neither intermolecular nor intramolecular disulfide bond formation seems to be involved in Yap1 activation by MG. Moreover, we show that nucleocytoplasmic localization of Yap1 closely correlates with growth phase and intracellular MG level. We propose a novel regulatory pathway underlying Yap1 activation by a natural metabolite in the cell.
15329410: !lactoylglutathione A trypanothione-dependent glyoxalase I with a prokaryotic ancestry in Leishmania major. Glyoxalase I forms part of the glyoxalase pathway that detoxifies reactive aldehydes such as methylglyoxal, using the spontaneously formed glutathione hemithioacetal as substrate. All known eukaryotic enzymes contain zinc as their metal cofactor, whereas the Escherichia coli glyoxalase I contains nickel. Database mining and sequence analysis identified putative glyoxalase I genes in the eukaryotic human parasites Leishmania major, Leishmania infantum, and Trypanosoma cruzi, with highest similarity to the cyanobacterial enzymes. Characterization of recombinant L. major glyoxalase I showed it to be unique among the eukaryotic enzymes in sharing the dependence of the E. coli enzyme on nickel. The parasite enzyme showed little activity with glutathione hemithioacetal substrates but was 200-fold more active with hemithioacetals formed from the unique trypanosomatid thiol trypanothione. L. major glyoxalase I also was insensitive to glutathione derivatives that are potent inhibitors of all other characterized glyoxalase I enzymes. This substrate specificity is distinct from that of the human enzyme and is reflected in the modification in the L. major sequence of a region of the human protein that interacts with the glycyl-carboxyl moiety of glutathione, a group that is conjugated to spermidine in trypanothione. This trypanothione-dependent glyoxalase I is therefore an attractive focus for additional biochemical and genetic investigation as a possible target for rational drug design.
15297385: !lactoylglutathione Protein glycation: a firm link to endothelial cell dysfunction. The advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are a heterogeneous class of molecules, including the following main subgroups: bis(lysyl)imidazolium cross-links, hydroimidazolones, 3-deoxyglucosone derivatives, and monolysyl adducts. AGEs are increased in diabetes, renal failure, and aging. Microvascular lesions correlate with the accumulation of AGEs, as demonstrated in diabetic retinopathy or renal glomerulosclerosis. On endothelial cells, ligation of receptor for AGE (RAGE) by AGEs induces the expression of cell adhesion molecules, tissue factor, cytokines such as interleukin-6, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. A chief means by which AGEs via RAGE exert their effects is by generation of reactive oxygen species, at least in part via stimulation of NADPH oxidase. Diabetes-associated vascular dysfunction in vivo can be prevented by blockade of RAGE. Thus, agents that limit AGE formation, increase the catabolism of these species, or antagonize their binding to RAGE may provide new targets for vascular protection in diabetes.
15292099: !lactoylglutathione Dominant prostasome immunogens for sperm-agglutinating autoantibodies of infertile men. The presence of naturally occurring anti-sperm antibodies (ASA) is a well-known cause of infertility in men and women, but the antigens for these antibodies are poorly characterized. We have previously shown that prostasomes adhere to sperm cells and that prostasomes are major targets for ASA associated with infertility. These autoantigens have not been characterized. We used 2-dimensional electrophoresis, immunoblotting, and mass-spectrometry to identify the prostasome antigens for these autoantibodies. By these techniques, we revealed that prolactin-inducible protein (PIP) and clusterin were dominant prostasome immunogens for sperm-agglutinating autoantibodies of 20 patients with immunological infertility. PIP was identified by 19 of 20 (95%) patient sera and clusterin by 17 of 20 (85%). In addition, 10 sporadically occurring prostasomal antigens were identified in this context, viz alcohol dehydrogenase [NADP+], annexin I, annexin III, BRCA1-associated ring domain protein 1, heat shock 27-kd protein, isocitrate dehydrogenase, lactoylglutathione lyase, NG,NG-dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase 1, peroxiredoxin 2, and syntenin 1.
15270717: !lactoylglutathione Distinct classes of glyoxalase I: metal specificity of the Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Neisseria meningitidis enzymes. The metalloisomerase glyoxalase I (GlxI) catalyses the conversion of methylglyoxal-glutathione hemithioacetal and related derivatives into the corresponding thioesters. In contrast with the previously characterized GlxI enzymes of Homo sapiens, Pseudomonas putida and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we recently determined that Escherichia coli GlxI surprisingly did not display Zn2+-activation, but instead exhibited maximal activity with Ni2+. To investigate whether non-Zn2+ activation defines a distinct, previously undocumented class of GlxI enzymes, or whether the E. coli GlxI is an exception to the previously established Zn2+-activated GlxI, we have cloned and characterized the bacterial GlxI from Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Neisseria meningitidis. The metal-activation profiles for these additional GlxIs firmly establish the existence of a non-Zn2+-dependent grouping within the general category of GlxI enzymes. This second, established class of metal activation was formerly unidentified for this metalloenzyme. Amino acid sequence comparisons indicate a more extended peptide chain in the Zn2+-dependent forms of GlxI (H. sapiens, P. putida and S. cerevisiae), compared with the GlxI enzymes of E. coli, Y. pestis, P. aeruginosa and N. meningitidis. The longer sequence is due in part to the presence of additional regions situated fairly close to the metal ligands in the Zn2+-dependent forms of the lyase. With respect to sequence alignments, these inserts may potentially contribute to defining the metal specificity of GlxI at a structural level.
15245577: !lactoylglutathione Antioxidant defense in Plasmodium falciparum--data mining of the transcriptome. The intraerythrocytic malaria parasite is under constant oxidative stress originating both from endogenous and exogenous processes. The parasite is endowed with a complete network of enzymes and proteins that protect it from those threats, but also uses redox activities to regulate enzyme activities. In the present analysis, the transcription of the genes coding for the antioxidant defense elements are viewed in the time-frame of the intraerythrocytic cycle. Time-dependent transcription data were taken from the transcriptome of the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Whereas for several processes the transcription of the many participating genes is coordinated, in the present case there are some outstanding deviations where gene products that utilize glutathione or thioredoxin are transcribed before the genes coding for elements that control the levels of those substrates are transcribed. Such insights may hint to novel, non-classical pathways that necessitate further investigations.
15221503: !lactoylglutathione Threonine metabolism in Japanese quail liver. In general, threonine is metabolized by reaction catalyzed by threonine-3-dehydrogenase (TDH), threonine dehydratase (TH) or threonine aldolase (TA). The activities of these three enzymes were compared in the liver of Japanese quails and rats. The animals were fed a standard or threonine rich-diet, or fasted for 3 days. The specific activity of TDH in the liver from quail fed a standard diet was 11 times higher than that in the liver from rats fed a standard diet. The TDH activities in the livers of the fasting and 5% threonine-rich diet groups of quail were 3 and 2 times higher than those in the livers from quail fed the standard diet, respectively. The TH activity in the liver of rats fed a standard diet was 14 times higher than that in the liver of quail fed a standard diet. The TH activity in the rat liver after fasting was 2.3 times higher than that of the standard diet control. The activity of TA in the livers of rat and quail were so low that its role in threonine metabolism in both animals seemed to be negligible. These results suggest that threonine is a ketogenic amino acid in the quail liver, while it is a glucogenic in the rat liver.
15205912: !lactoylglutathione Functional characterisation of glyoxalase I from the fungal wheat pathogen Stagonospora nodorum. During an expressed sequence tag sequencing project, a gene encoding a methylglyoxal lyase (glyoxalase I) was identified, cloned and characterised from the necrotrophic wheat pathogen Stagonospora nodorum. Sequence analysis identified the gene, named Gox1, as having reasonable identity to GLO1 from yeast and hypothetical proteins identified in fungal genome sequencing projects. Expression analysis in vitro revealed Gox1 to be up-regulated in the presence of methylglyoxal and salt but not affected by starvation conditions. Analysis of Gox1 transcription in planta showed its highest expression was in ungerminated spores and during sporulation, suggesting a role for the glycolytic bypass pathway in sporulation. The gene was inactivated by homologous recombination, resulting in a S. nodorum strain with no detectable glyoxalase I activity. The gox1 mutants exhibited no discernable phenotype, with the exception of being more sensitive to the presence of methylglyoxal. Infection assays demonstrated the mutants retained full pathogenicity and sporulation was unaffected. This is the first report describing the characterisation of a glyoxalase I from a pathogen of any description. The gene has been sequenced, functionally characterised and shown not to be required for the infection of wheat by S. nodorum.
15203323: !lactoylglutathione Determination of rat blood S-D-lactoylglutathione by a column-switching high-performance liquid chromatography with precolumn fluorescence derivatization with 4-fluoro-7-nitro-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole. A method for the determination of S-d-lactoylglutathione (SLG), an intermediate metabolite of the glyoxalase system, in rat blood is described. After hemolysis and deproteinization of 30 microl of rat blood, SLG in the blood was determined by a column-switching HPLC system with precolumn fluorescence derivatization with a fluorogenic reagent, 4-fluoro-7-nitro-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole (NBD-F). Calibration curves for the determination of SLG showed a good linearity (r2 > 0.999) over the range of 20-100 pmol SLG spiked in rat blood samples. The accuracy was in the range of 97-104% (20-100 pmol SLG spiked in rat blood sample, N = 4). The detection limit was 8.12 fmol, and the quantitation limit was 27.07 fmol, respectively. The intra- and interday coefficients of variance were 4.63% (N = 5) and 9.98% (N = 5), respectively. The concentrations of SLG in whole blood from male Wistar-Kyoto rats (12 weeks old) were 3.48+/-0.78 microM (N = 4, mean+/-SE). In streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, the concentration of SLG was significantly increased, approx 5-fold, compared with normal rats, suggesting that the metabolic flux of the glyoxalase system increases in red blood cells during hyperglycemia.
15128939: !lactoylglutathione Role for glyoxalase I in Alzheimer's disease. P301L mutant tau transgenic mice develop neurofibrillary tangles, a histopathologic hallmark of Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia (FTDP-17). To identify differentially expressed genes and to gain insight into pathogenic mechanisms, we performed a stringent analysis of the microarray dataset obtained with RNA from whole brains of P301L mutant mice and identified a single up-regulated gene, glyoxalase I. This enzyme plays a critical role in the detoxification of dicarbonyl compounds and thereby reduces the formation of advanced glycation end products. In situ hybridization analysis revealed expression of glyoxalase I in all brain areas analyzed, both in transgenic and control mice. However, levels of glyoxalase I protein were significantly elevated in P301L brains, as shown by Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Moreover, a glyoxalase I-specific antiserum revealed many intensely stained flame-shaped neurons in Alzheimer's disease brain compared with brains from nondemented controls. In addition, we examined a single nucleotide polymorphism predicting a nonconservative amino acid substitution at position 111 (E111A) in ethnically independent populations. We identified significant and consistent deviations from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, which points to the presence of selection forces. The E111A single nucleotide polymorphism was not associated with the risk for Alzheimer's disease in the overall population. Together, our data demonstrate the potential of transcriptomics applied to animal models of human diseases. They suggest a previously unidentified role for glyoxalase I in neurodegenerative disease.
15088687: !lactoylglutathione Modulation of antioxidant potential in liver of mice by kernel oil of cashew nut (Anacardium occidentale) and its lack of tumour promoting ability in DMBA induced skin papillomagenesis. Cashew nut shell oil has been reported to possess tumour promoting property. Therefore an attempt has been made to study the modulatory effect of cashew nut (Anlacardium occidentale) kernel oil on antioxidant potential in liver of Swiss albino mice and also to see whether it has tumour promoting ability like the shell oil. The animals were treated orally with two doses (50 and 100 microl/animal/day) of kernel oil of cashew nut for 10 days. The kernel oil was found to enhance the specific activities of SOD, catalase, GST, methylglyoxalase I and levels of GSH. These results suggested that cashew nut kernel oil had an ability to increase the antioxidant status of animals. The decreased level of lipid peroxidation supported this possibility. The tumour promoting property of the kernel oil was also examined and found that cashew nut kernel oil did not exhibit any solitary carcinogenic activity.
15067523: !lactoylglutathione The binding of iron and zinc to glyoxalase II occurs exclusively as di-metal centers and is unique within the metallo-beta-lactamase family. Cytosolic glyoxalase 2 (GLX2-2) from Arabidopsis thaliana is a metalloenzyme that has been shown to bind a mixture of Zn, Fe, or Mn when produced in cells grown in rich media. In an effort to prepare metal-enriched samples, GLX2-2 was over-expressed in minimal media containing either Zn, Fe, or Mn. The resulting enzymes bound an average of 1 equivalent of metal ion and were partially enriched with a specific metal ion. The enzymes produced in minimal media were active towards the substrate S-D-lactoylglutathione, yielding kcat/ Km values similar to those of rich media GLX2-2. EPR studies on minimal media GLX2-2 samples revealed spectra which were identical to those over-expressed in rich media that contained nearly 2 equivalents of metal. The EPR spectra showed the presence of antiferromagnetically and ferromagnetically coupled, dinuclear metal centers. EXAFS spectra on the minimal media GLX2-2 samples over-expressed in the presence of Fe or Zn were also very similar to those of the rich media GLX2-2 samples, indicating the presence of dinuclear metal centers. The EXAFS studies also demonstrate that Zn(II) and Fe (in the Fe-enriched sample) are distributed in the dinuclear site. These data indicate that the minimal media GLX2-2 samples are a mixture of fully loaded, dinuclear metal-containing enzyme and metal-free enzyme. This characteristic of A. thaliana GLX2-2 makes it unique among the other members of the metallo-beta-lactamase family in that it does not ever appear to exist as a mononuclear metal ion containing enzyme and that it exhibits positive cooperativity in metal binding.
15042280: !lactoylglutathione Identification of thermostable glyoxalase I in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Glyoxalase I is a ubiquitous enzyme that detoxifies methylglyoxal, which is derived from glycolysis but inhibits the growth of cells from microorganisms to mammals. Here, the structural gene for glyoxalase I ( glo1(+)) from the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe was identified. Disruption of glo1(+) enhanced susceptibility to methylglyoxal, while expression of glo1(+) in a Delta glo1 mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae restored tolerance to this aldehyde. The glo1(+) gene product was purified. The glyoxalase I of S. pombe was a monomeric enzyme with a molecular weight of 34000 and the k(cat)/ K(m) value for methylglyoxal was 4.3 x 10(7) M(-1) x min(-1). Treatment of purified enzyme with EDTA in imidazole buffer completely abolished enzyme activity, whereas the EDTA-treated enzyme was reactivated by several divalent metal ions, such as Zn(2+), Co(2+), Ni(2+) and Mn(2+). The glyoxalase I of S. pombe exhibited fairly high thermal stability, and almost 100% activity was retained after incubating the enzyme at 60 degrees C for 4 h.
14976196: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase II of African trypanosomes is trypanothione-dependent. The glyoxalase system is a ubiquitous pathway catalyzing the glutathione-dependent detoxication of ketoaldehydes such as methylglyoxal, which is mainly formed as a by-product of glycolysis. The gene encoding a glyoxalase II has been cloned from Trypanosoma brucei, the causative agent of African sleeping sickness. The deduced protein sequence contains the highly conserved metal binding motif THXHXDH but lacks three basic residues shown to fix the glutathione-thioester substrate in the crystal structure of human glyoxalase II. Recombinant T. brucei glyoxalase II hydrolyzes lactoylglutathione, but does not show saturation kinetics up to 5 mm with the classical substrate of glyoxalases II. Instead, the parasite enzyme strongly prefers thioesters of trypanothione (bis(glutathionyl)spermidine), which were prepared from methylglyoxal and trypanothione and analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. Mono-(lactoyl)trypanothione and bis-(lactoyl)trypanothione are hydrolyzed by T. brucei glyoxalase II with k(cat)/K(m) values of 5 x 10(5) m(-1) s(-1) and 7 x 10(5) m(-1) s(-1), respectively, yielding d-lactate and regenerating trypanothione. Glyoxalase II occurs in the mammalian bloodstream and insect procyclic form of T. brucei and is the first glyoxalase II of the order of Kinetoplastida characterized so far. Our results show that the glyoxalase system is another pathway in which the nearly ubiquitous glutathione is replaced by the unique trypanothione in trypanosomatids.
14756009: !lactoylglutathione [Implication of methylglyoxal in diabetes mellitus]. Methylglyoxal (MG) is an early glycation product which is implicated in genesis of diabetic complications either as a direct toxin or as a precursor for advanced glycation end products. It is metabolized via S-D-lactoylglutathione to D-lactate by means of the enzymes glyoxalase I and II, which depend on glutattione as cofactor. MG is highly reactive and can bind to and modify proteins by chemical interaction with cellular proteins, action on energy production, induce free radical generation and cell killing. That way MG play a role in the events of the development of diabetic complications.
14751089: !lactoylglutathione Glutathione analogues in cancer treatment. Glutathione is an important intracellular antioxidant and redox potential regulator that plays a vital role in drug detoxification and elimination and in cellular protection from damage by free radicals, peroxides, and toxins. Molecular alterations reported in many of the components of the glutathione system in various tumors and cancer cell lines can lead to increased survival and enhanced chemotherapy drug resistance. Several glutathione analogues that target this system have been developed and used experimentally and clinically in an attempt to improve cancer chemotherapy. These compounds include glutathione-S-transferase inhibitors and prodrugs, glyoxalase I inhibitors, and S-nitrosoglutathione. Work with these analogues has shown promising results, although lack of tumor specificity is a potential problem. Continuing development and optimization of glutathione analogues will lead to more specific targeting of this system in cancer treatment, allowing an increased therapeutic response.
14653691: !lactoylglutathione Bivalent transition-state analogue inhibitors of human glyoxalase I. A new class of competitive inhibitors of homodimeric human glyoxalase I has been created by cross-linking two molecules of the transition-state analogue S-(N-4-chlorophenyl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathione (CHG) through their gamma-glutamyl-NH(2) groups with poly-beta-alanyl tethers of differing length: [CHG(beta-ala)n](2) suberate diamide (n = 1-7). The strongest inhibitors of this antitumor target enzyme likely bind simultaneously to the active site on each subunit to give K(i) values as small as 0.96 nM (n = 6). [structure: see text]
14641076: !lactoylglutathione Anti-glycation defences in yeast. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is an outstanding cellular model for metabolic studies in glycation. Due to its high glycolytic activity, it produces methylglyoxal, a highly reactive intracellular glycation agent, at a rate of approx. 0.1% of the glycolytic flux. We investigated methylglyoxal metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells, using haploid null mutants. Growth studies showed that the most sensitive strains to 2-oxoaldehydes were the null mutants for GSH1 and GLO1, coding for glutathione synthase I and glyoxalase I respectively. The GRE3 null mutant, lacking aldose reductase activity, is as sensitive as the control strain. Kinetic modelling and computer simulation of this type of experiment were also performed, and we concluded that the most important parameters for controlling the intracellular concentration of methylglyoxal are the activity of glyoxalase I and the GSH concentration. Moreover, our model predicts an intracellular steady-state concentration of methylglyoxal of approx. 2 microM. Our results show that the glyoxalase pathway is the main detoxification pathway for 2-oxoaldehydes in yeast, and is likely to be the key enzymatic anti-glycation agent in these cells.
14641067: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I inhibitors in cancer chemotherapy. Several recent developments suggest that the GSH-dependent glyoxalase enzyme system deserves renewed interest as a potential target for antitumour drug development. This summary focuses on the design and development of new classes of tumoricidal agents that specifically target this elementary detoxification pathway in order to induce elevated concentrations of cytotoxic methylglyoxal in tumour cells. Special emphasis is placed on structure- and mechanism-based inhibitors of GlxI (glyoxalase I), the first enzyme in the pathway. A new class of bivalent transition-state analogues is described that simultaneously bind the active site on each subunit of the homodimeric human GlxI, resulting in K (i) values as low as 1 nM. Also described is a new family of bromoacyl esters of GSH that function as active-site-directed irreversible inhibitors of GlxI. Newer prodrugs for delivering the GSH-based inhibitors into tumour cells include reactive sulphoxide esters that undergo acyl exchange with endogenous GSH to give the inhibitors, and polymethacrylamide esters of the inhibitors that are potentially tumour-selective on the basis of the "enhanced permeability and retention effect". Finally, a preliminary evaluation of the efficacy of selected GlxI inhibitors in tumour-bearing mice is given.
14641060: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I--structure, function and a critical role in the enzymatic defence against glycation. Glyoxalase I is part of the glyoxalase system present in the cytosol of cells. The glyoxalase system catalyses the conversion of reactive, acyclic alpha-oxoaldehydes into the corresponding alpha-hydroxyacids. Glyoxalase I catalyses the isomerization of the hemithioacetal, formed spontaneously from alpha-oxoaldehyde and GSH, to S -2-hydroxyacylglutathione derivatives [RCOCH(OH)-SG-->RCH(OH)CO-SG], and in so doing decreases the steady-state concentrations of physiological alpha-oxoaldehydes and associated glycation reactions. Physiological substrates of glyoxalase I are methylglyoxal, glyoxal and other acyclic alpha-oxoaldehydes. Human glyoxalase I is a dimeric Zn(2+) metalloenzyme of molecular mass 42 kDa. Glyoxalase I from Escherichia coli is a Ni(2+) metalloenzyme. The crystal structures of human and E. coli glyoxalase I have been determined to 1.7 and 1.5 A resolution. The Zn(2+) site comprises two structurally equivalent residues from each domain--Gln-33A, Glu-99A, His-126B, Glu-172B and two water molecules. The Ni(2+) binding site comprises His-5A, Glu-56A, His-74B, Glu-122B and two water molecules. The catalytic reaction involves base-catalysed shielded-proton transfer from C-1 to C-2 of the hemithioacetal to form an ene-diol intermediate and rapid ketonization to the thioester product. R - and S-enantiomers of the hemithioacetal are bound in the active site, displacing the water molecules in the metal ion primary co-ordination shell. It has been proposed that Glu-172 is the catalytic base for the S-substrate enantiomer and Glu-99 the catalytic base for the R-substrate enantiomer; Glu-172 then reprotonates the ene-diol stereospecifically to form the R-2-hydroxyacylglutathione product. By analogy with the human enzyme, Glu-56 and Glu-122 may be the bases involved in the catalytic mechanism of E. coli glyoxalase I. The suppression of alpha-oxoaldehyde-mediated glycation by glyoxalase I is particularly important in diabetes and uraemia, where alpha-oxoaldehyde concentrations are increased. Decreased glyoxalase I activity in situ due to the aging process and oxidative stress results in increased glycation and tissue damage. Inhibition of glyoxalase I pharmacologically with specific inhibitors leads to the accumulation of alpha-oxoaldehydes to cytotoxic levels; cell-permeable glyoxalase I inhibitors are antitumour and antimalarial agents. Glyoxalase I has a critical role in the prevention of glycation reactions mediated by methylglyoxal, glyoxal and other alpha-oxoaldehydes in vivo.
14641066: !lactoylglutathione Protecting the genome: defence against nucleotide glycation and emerging role of glyoxalase I overexpression in multidrug resistance in cancer chemotherapy. Glycation of nucleotides in DNA forms AGEs (advanced glycation end-products). Nucleotide AGEs are: the imidazopurinone derivative dG-G [3-(2'-deoxyribosyl)-6,7-dihydro-6,7-dihydroxyimidazo[2,3-b]purin-9(8)one], CMdG ( N (2)-carboxymethyldeoxyguanosine) and gdC (5-glycolyldeoxycytidine) derived from glyoxal, dG-MG [6,7-dihydro-6,7-dihydroxy-6-methylimidazo-[2,3-b]purine-9(8)one], dG-MG(2) [ N (2),7-bis-(1-hydroxy-2-oxopropyl)deoxyguanosine] and CEdG [ N (2)-(1-carboxyethyl)deoxyguanosine] derived from methylglyoxal, and dG-3DG [ N (2)-(1-oxo-2,4,5,6-tetrahydroxyhexyl)deoxyguanosine] derived from 3-deoxyglucosone and others. Glyoxal and methylglyoxal induce multi-base deletions, and base-pair substitutions - mostly occurring at G:C sites with G:C-->C:G and G:C-->T:A transversions. Suppression of nucleotide glycation by glyoxalase I and aldehyde reductases and dehydrogenases, and base excision repair, protects and recovers DNA from damaging glycation. The effects of DNA glycation may be most marked in diabetes and uraemia. Mutations arising from DNA glycation may explain the link of non-dietary carbohydrate intake to incidence of colorectal cancer. Overexpression of glyoxalase I was found in drug-resistant tumour cells and may be an example of an undesirable effect of the enzymatic protection against DNA glycation. Experimental overexpression of glyoxalase I conferred resistance to drug-induced apoptosis. Glyoxalase I-mediated drug resistance was found in human leukaemia and lung carcinoma cells. Methylglyoxal-mediated glycation of DNA may contribute to the cytotoxicity of some antitumour agents as a consequence of depletion of NAD(+) by poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, marked increases in triosephosphate concentration and increased formation of methylglyoxal. S - p -Bromobenzylglutathione cyclopentyl diester is a cell-permeable glyoxalase I inhibitor. It countered drug resistance and was a potent antitumour agent against lung and prostate carcinoma. Glyoxalase I overexpression was also found in invasive ovarian cancer and breast cancer.
14638937: !lactoylglutathione Genetic engineering of the glyoxalase pathway in tobacco leads to enhanced salinity tolerance. The glyoxalase pathway involving glyoxalase I (gly I) and glyoxalase II (gly II) enzymes is required for glutathione-based detoxification of methylglyoxal. We had earlier indicated the potential of gly I as a probable candidate gene in conferring salinity tolerance. We report here that overexpression of gly I+II together confers improved salinity tolerance, thus offering another effective strategy for manipulating stress tolerance in crop plants. We have overexpressed the gly II gene either alone in untransformed plants or with gly I transgenic background. Both types of these transgenic plants stably expressed the foreign protein, and the enzyme activity was also higher. Compared with nontransformants, several independent gly II transgenic lines showed improved capability for tolerating exposure to high methylglyoxal and NaCl concentration and were able to grow, flower, and set normal viable seeds under continuous salinity stress conditions. Importantly, the double transgenic lines always showed a better response than either of the single gene-transformed lines and WT plants under salinity stress. Ionic measurements revealed higher accumulation of Na+ and K+ in old leaves and negligible accumulation of Na+ in seeds of transgenic lines as compared with the WT plants. Comparison of various growth parameters and seed production demonstrated that there is hardly any yield penalty in the double transgenics under nonstress conditions and that these plants suffered only 5% loss in total productivity when grown in 200 mM NaCl. These findings establish the potential of manipulation of the glyoxalase pathway for increased salinity tolerance without affecting yield in crop plants.
14623080: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I of the malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum: evidence for subunit fusion. Recombinant Plasmodium falciparum glyoxalase I (PfGlx I) was characterized as monomeric Zn(2+)-containing enzyme of 44 kDa. The K(M) value of the methylglyoxal-glutathione adduct is 77+/-15 microM, the k(cat) value being 4000 min(-1) at 25 degrees C and pH 7.0. PfGlx I consists of two halves, each of which is homologous to the small 2-domain glyoxalase I of man. Both parts of the pfglx I gene were overexpressed; the C-terminal half of PfGlx I was found to be a stable protein and formed an enzymatically active dimer. These results support the hypothesis of domain-swapping and subunit fusion as mechanisms in glyoxalase I evolution.
14559119: !lactoylglutathione Increased formation of methylglyoxal and protein glycation, oxidation and nitrosation in triosephosphate isomerase deficiency. Triosephosphate isomerase deficiency is associated with the accumulation of dihydroxyacetonephosphate (DHAP) to abnormally high levels, congenital haemolytic anaemia and a clinical syndrome of progressive neuromuscular degeneration leading to infant mortality. DHAP degrades spontaneously to methylglyoxal (MG)--a potent precursor of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs). MG is detoxified to D-lactate intracellularly by the glyoxalase system. We investigated the changes in MG metabolism and markers of protein glycation, oxidation and nitrosation in a Hungarian family with two germline identical brothers, compound heterozygotes for triosephosphate isomerase deficiency, one with clinical manifestations of chronic neurodegeneration and the other neurologically intact. The concentration of MG and activity of glyoxalase I in red blood cells (RBCs) were increased, and the concentrations of D-lactate in blood plasma and D-lactate urinary excretion were also increased markedly in the propositus. There were concomitant increases in MG-derived AGEs and the oxidative marker dityrosine in hemoglobin. Smaller and nonsignificant increases were found in the neurologically unaffected brother and parents. There was a marked increase (15-fold) in urinary excretion of the nitrosative stress marker 3-nitrotyrosine in the propositus. The increased derangement of MG metabolism and associated glycation, oxidative and nitrosative stress in the propositus may be linked to neurodegenerative process in triosephosphate isomerase deficiency.
14556850: !lactoylglutathione Scavenging system efficiency is crucial for cell resistance to ROS-mediated methylglyoxal injury. Methylglyoxal is a reactive dicarbonyl compound endogenously produced mainly from glycolytic intermediates. Recent research indicates that methylglyoxal is a potent growth inhibitor and genotoxic agent. The antiproliferative activity of methylglyoxal has been investigated for pharmacological application in cancer chemotherapy. However, various cells are not equally sensitive to methylglyoxal toxicity. Therefore, it would be important to establish the cellular factors responsible for the different cell-type specific response to methylglyoxal injury, in order to avoid the risk of failure of a therapy based on increasing the intracellular level of methylglyoxal. To this purpose, we comparatively evaluated the signaling transduction pathway elicited by methylglyoxal in human glioblastoma (ADF) and neuroblastoma (SH-SY 5Y) cells. Results show that methylglyoxal causes early and extensive reactive oxygen species generation in both cell lines. However, SH-SY 5Y cells show higher sensitivity to methylglyoxal challenge due to a defective antioxidant and detoxifying ability that, preventing these cells from an efficient scavenging action, elicits extensive caspase-9 dependent apoptosis. These data emphasize the pivotal role of antioxidant and detoxifying systems in determining the grade of sensitivity of cells to methylglyoxal.
14556652: !lactoylglutathione Investigation of metal binding and activation of Escherichia coli glyoxalase I: kinetic, thermodynamic and mutagenesis studies. GlxI (glyoxalase I) isomerizes the hemithioacetal formed between glutathione and methylglyoxal. Unlike other GlxI enzymes, Escherichia coli GlxI exhibits no activity with Zn(2+) but maximal activation with Ni(2+). To elucidate further the metal site in E. coli GlxI, several approaches were undertaken. Kinetic studies indicate that the catalytic metal ion affects the k (cat) without significantly affecting the K (m) for the substrate. Inductively coupled plasma analysis and isothermal titration calorimetry confirmed one metal ion bound to the enzyme, including Zn(2+), which produces an inactive enzyme. Isothermal titration calorimetry was utilized to determine the relative binding affinity of GlxI for various bivalent metals. Each metal ion examined bound very tightly to GlxI with an association constant ( K (a))>10(7) M(-1), with the exception of Mn(2+) ( K (a) of the order of 10(6) M(-1)). One of the ligands to the catalytic metal, His(5), was altered to glutamine, a side chain found in the Zn(2+)-active Homo sapiens GlxI. The affinity of the mutant protein for all bivalent metals was drastically decreased. However, low levels of activity were now observed for Zn(2+)-bound GlxI. Although this residue has a marked effect on metal binding and activation, it is not the sole factor determining the differential metal activation between the human and E. coli GlxI enzymes.
14529289: !lactoylglutathione Flexible metal binding of the metallo-beta-lactamase domain: glyoxalase II incorporates iron, manganese, and zinc in vivo. Glyoxalase II belongs to the metallo-beta-lactamase superfamily of proteins, possessing the characteristic dinuclear active site. Within this protein family, glyoxalase II from Arabidopsis thaliana is the first member to be isolated with significant amounts of iron, manganese, and zinc when being recombinantly produced in Escherichia coli. Enzyme preparations with different ratios of these three metals all yield k(cat)/K(M) values in the range of 1.5-1.9 s(-1) microM(-1) with the substrate S-d-lactoylglutathione. X-ray absorption spectroscopy reveals binding of all three metals to the dinuclear active site with 5-6-fold coordination consisting of 2.5 +/- 0.5 histidine and 2.5 +/- 0.5 oxygen ligands. This model does not distinguish site-specific or distributed binding. The metal-metal distance is determined to be 3.18 +/- 0.06 A. Electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy gives evidence for several different types of dimetal sites, including spin-coupled Fe(III)Fe(II), Fe(III)Zn(II), and Mn(II)Mn(II) centers. The metal-ligand distances measured by X-ray absorption spectroscopy vary depending on the metal type and comply with their element-specific, characteristic values. This reflects a high degree of structural flexibility within the glyoxalase II dinuclear active site, which is considered as the structural basis for its broad metal selectivity.
12942785: !lactoylglutathione [The use of discrete characters in discriminant analysis for diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis and for classification of patients differing in treatment efficiency based on polymorphisms at nine codominant loci-HP, GC, TF, PI, PGM1, GLO1, C3, ACP1 and ESD]. Discriminant analysis was used to differentiate patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (N = 106) from healthy individuals (N = 328) and patients whose treatment was efficient (N = 71) from those whose treatment was inefficient (N = 35). The analysis involved the data on nine polymorphic codominant loci: HP, GC, TF, PI, PGM1, GLO1, C3, ACP1, and ESD. The loci were selected by significance of differences in genotype frequencies between tuberculosis patients and healthy controls (GC, TF, PI, C3, ACP1) or between the two groups of patients differing in treatment efficiency (HP, GC, PI, PGM1, C3, ESD). Discrimination was based on a graphic method of Bayes classification procedure with a single-variate nomograph allowing easy estimation of the a posteriori probabilities for an individual to be classified. The two groups of patients proved to be discriminated sufficiently well (probability of misclassification Perr = 0.24), whereas discrimination between tuberculosis patients and healthy individuals was less efficient (Perr = 0.33). The method was proposed as a means of predicting the efficiency of treatment in pulmonary tuberculosis. Along with clinical, roentgenological, and laboratory examination, discriminant analysis may be employed as an accessory test in diagnostics of pulmonary tuberculosis, especially when the diagnosis is questionable.
12796782: !lactoylglutathione Deficiency in short-chain fatty acid beta-oxidation affects theta oscillations during sleep. In rodents, the electroencephalogram (EEG) during paradoxical sleep and exploratory behavior is characterized by theta oscillations. Here we show that a deficiency in short-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (encoded by Acads) in mice causes a marked slowing in theta frequency during paradoxical sleep only. We found Acads expression in brain regions involved in theta generation, notably the hippocampus. Microarray analysis of gene expression in mice with mutations in Acads indicates overexpression of Glo1 (encoding glyoxylase 1), a gene involved in the detoxification of metabolic by-products. Administration of acetyl-L-carnitine (ALCAR) to mutant mice significantly recovers slow theta and Glo1 overexpression. Thus, an underappreciated metabolic pathway involving fatty acid beta-oxidation also regulates theta oscillations during sleep.
12757753: !lactoylglutathione Evaluation of the fluidity and functionality of the renal cortical brush border membrane in experimental diabetes in rats. The present study was aimed at addressing the effect of hyperglycemia on the renal cortical brush border membrane. The fluidity and the functionality of the renal cortical brush border membrane have been evaluated after 6 weeks of streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats. Lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation were first performed to confirm a state of oxidative stress. The fluidity of the brush border membrane of diabetic rats decreased significantly by 15.76%. There was an increase in the amount of early (19.39%) and advanced (42.23%) glycation end-products suggesting the accumulation of significant amount of non-enzymic glycation products at 6 weeks of diabetes. Although, the activities of both gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and alkaline phosphatase of the brush border membrane decreased, that of the latter decreased to a significant extent with an increase in K(m) (81%) and no change in the V(max). A study of the activities of glutathione-dependent antioxidant enzymes in the renal cortical homogenates showed that the activities of glutathione peroxidase and glyoxalase II were altered significantly. Our study seems to suggest that increased free radical generation accompanied by non-enzymic glycation may be responsible for oxidative stress and an increased rigidity of the diabetic brush border membrane. Alkaline phosphatase may thus serve as a potentially useful marker of free radical induced damage to the renal cortical brush border membrane. The results also suggest that enhanced susceptibility to oxidative stress during early stages may be an important factor in the development of secondary complications of diabetes.
12708468: !lactoylglutathione Molecular targeting therapy of cancer: drug resistance, apoptosis and survival signal. Recent progress in the development of molecular cancer therapeutics has revealed new types of antitumor drugs, such as Herceptin, Gleevec, and Iressa, as potent therapeutics for specific tumors. Our work has focused on molecular cancer therapeutics, mainly in the areas of drug resistance, apoptosis and apoptosis resistance, and survival-signaling, which is related to drug resistance. In this review, we describe our research on molecular cancer therapeutics, including molecular mechanisms and therapeutic approaches. Resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs is a principal problem in the treatment of cancer. P-Glycoprotein (P-gp), encoded by the MDR1 gene, is a multidrug transporter and has a major role in multidrug resistance (MDR). Targeting of P-gp by small-molecular compounds and/or antibodies is an effective strategy to overcome MDR in cancer, especially hematologic malignancies. Several P-gp inhibitors have been developed and are currently under clinical phased studies. In addition to the multidrug transporter proteins, cancer cells have several drug resistance mechanisms. Solid tumors are often placed under stress conditions, such as glucose starvation and hypoxia. These conditions result in topo II poison resistance that is due to proteasome-mediated degradation of DNA topoisomerases. Proteasome inhibitors effectively prevent this stress-induced drug resistance. Glyoxalase I, which is often elevated in drug- and apoptosis-resistant cancers, offers another possibility for overcoming drug resistance. It plays a role in detoxification of methylglioxal, a side product of glycolysis, which is highly reactive with DNA and proteins. Inhibitors of glyoxalase I selectively kill drug-resistant tumors that express glyoxalase I. Finally, the susceptibility of tumor cells to apoptosis induced by antitumor drugs appears to depend on the balance between pro-apoptotic and survival (anti-apoptotic) signals. PI3K-Akt is an important survival signal pathway, that has been shown to be the target of various antitumor drugs, including UCN-01 and geldanamycin, new anticancer drugs under clinical evaluation. Our present studies provide novel targets for future effective molecular cancer therapeutics.
12705787: !lactoylglutathione Molecular cancer therapeutics: recent progress and targets in drug resistance. Recent progress in development of molecular cancer therapeutics revealed new types of antitumor drugs, such as Herceptin, Gleevec, and Iressa as potent therapeutics for each specific tumor. We have been working on molecular cancer therapeutics, and in particular, those related to drug resistance, Here, I describe several resistance mechanisms, including apoptosis regulation, cellular stress response and cellular survival signals which have show close relevance to drug resistance. P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is the key molecule in multidrug resistance (MDR) and a good target for chemotherapy. Proteasome is involved in the resistance mechanism to topo II-targeted chemotherapy in solid tumors. Apoptosis program in tumor cells plays a critical role in chemotherapy-induced tumor cell killing, and the blockade of the apoptosis-inducing pathway could be another mechanism for drug resistance. Glyoxalase I is a molecule involved in apoptosis resistance mechanism in tumors. Survival (antiapoptosis) signals are the good targets for various antitumor drugs to overcome innate drug resistance. Our present studies provide novel targets for effective molecular cancer therapeutics in future.
12646220: !lactoylglutathione Nitrosative stress on yeast: inhibition of glyoxalase-I and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase in the presence of GSNO. Under nitrosative stressed condition intracellular GSNO accumulation is common to all cell types. Conserved NADH-dependent GSNO reductase was reported previously as an important cellular protective measure against this. In spite of the constitutive nature of the enzyme, we observed in vivo inactivation of two important enzymes-glyoxalase-I and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase under 5 mM GSNO stress in two budding yeasts, though with difference in their sensitivity. Former was more susceptible to inactivation in in vitro condition, too. In this study, we explored the competitive nature of yeast glyoxalase-I inhibition by GSNO. GSNO actually competes with GSH substrate-binding site of the enzyme.
12628698: !lactoylglutathione Efficient and accurate experimental design for enzyme kinetics: Bayesian studies reveal a systematic approach. In areas such as drug development, clinical diagnosis and biotechnology research, acquiring details about the kinetic parameters of enzymes is crucial. The correct design of an experiment is critical to collecting data suitable for analysis, modelling and deriving the correct information. As classical design methods are not targeted to the more complex kinetics being frequently studied, attention is needed to estimate parameters of such models with low variance. We demonstrate that a Bayesian approach (the use of prior knowledge) can produce major gains quantifiable in terms of information, productivity and accuracy of each experiment. Developing the use of Bayesian Utility functions, we have used a systematic method to identify the optimum experimental designs for a number of kinetic model data sets. This has enabled the identification of trends between kinetic model types, sets of design rules and the key conclusion that such designs should be based on some prior knowledge of K(M) and/or the kinetic model. We suggest an optimal and iterative method for selecting features of the design such as the substrate range, number of measurements and choice of intermediate points. The final design collects data suitable for accurate modelling and analysis and minimises the error in the parameters estimated.
12605598: !lactoylglutathione Protective effect of creatine against inhibition by methylglyoxal of mitochondrial respiration of cardiac cells. Previous publications from our laboratory have shown that methylglyoxal inhibits mitochondrial respiration of malignant and cardiac cells, but it has no effect on mitochondrial respiration of other normal cells [Biswas, Ray, Misra, Dutta and Ray (1997) Biochem. J. 323, 343-348; Ray, Biswas and Ray (1997) Mol. Cell. Biochem. 171, 95-103]. However, this inhibitory effect of methylglyoxal is not significant in cardiac tissue slices. Moreover, post-mitochondrial supernatant (PMS) of cardiac cells could almost completely protect the mitochondrial respiration against the inhibitory effect of methylglyoxal. A systematic search indicated that creatine present in cardiac cells is responsible for this protective effect. Glutathione has also some protective effect. However, creatine phosphate, creatinine, urea, glutathione disulphide and beta-mercaptoethanol have no protective effect. The inhibitory and protective effects of methylglyoxal and creatine respectively on cardiac mitochondrial respiration were studied with various concentrations of both methylglyoxal and creatine. Interestingly, neither creatine nor glutathione have any protective effect on the inhibition by methylglyoxal on the mitochondrial respiration of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma cells. The creatine and glutathione contents of several PMS, which were tested for the possible protective effect, were measured. The activities of two important enzymes, namely glyoxalase I and creatine kinase, which act upon glutathione plus methylglyoxal and creatine respectively, were also measured in different PMS. Whether mitochondrial creatine kinase had any role in the protective effect of creatine had also been investigated using 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, an inhibitor of creatine kinase. The differential effect of creatine on mitochondria of cardiac and malignant cells has been discussed with reference to the therapeutic potential of methylglyoxal.
12604221: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal metabolism and diabetic complications: roles of aldose reductase, glyoxalase-I, betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase and 2-oxoaldehyde dehydrogenase. The 2-oxoaldehyde methylglyoxal (MeG) is the precursor to a number of the known advanced glycation endproducts (AGE) implicated in the development of diabetic complications. Other 2-oxoaldehydes that are important in AGE formation, such as glyoxal, glucosone, deoxyglucosone, xylosone and deoxyxylosone, are produced by nonenzymatic reactions. By contrast, MeG is produced by both enzymatic and nonenzymatic processes, most of which appear to be enhanced in diabetes. MeG may be a major precursor to formation of AGE, and rates of production of MeG depend upon physiological conditions such as hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis. MeG is also unique compared to the other 2-oxoaldehydes in its complex metabolism. At least four pathways contribute to detoxification of MeG: (1) aldose reductase, a member of the aldo-keto reductase superfamily, catalyzes the NADPH-dependent reduction of a wide range of aldehydes. MeG is the best of the known physiological aldehyde substrates of aldose reductase. The distribution of aldose reductase in human tissue is restricted; there is little expression in liver; (2) the ubiquitous and highly active glyoxalase system converts MeG into D-lactate. However, this system depends upon the availability of glutathione; activity is severely limited by conditions of oxidative stress that impact levels of glutathione; (3) betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase, also known as ALDH9, is able to catalyze the oxidation of MeG to pyruvate, although less efficiently than with its substrate betaine aldehyde; (4) the long-known but not widely studied 2-oxoaldehyde dehydrogenases (2-ODHs) catalyze the oxidation of MeG to pyruvate, primarily in liver. There are two NADP-dependent 2-ODHs in human liver. Both of these require an activating amine. The physiological activator is unknown.
12572858: !lactoylglutathione Regulation of the glyoxalase pathway in human brain microvascular endothelium: effects of troglitazone and tertiary butylhydroperoxide. The glyoxalase system, comprised of glyoxalase-I and glyoxalase-II with glutathione as the cofactor, plays an important role in the detoxification of methylglyoxal and other alpha-oxo-aldehydes. Such aldehydes, which increase with hyperglycemia, give rise to advanced glycation end products. The objective of this research was to examine the glyoxalase system in human cerebromicrovascular cells. The hypothesis tested was that this pathway would be regulated by phase 2 enzyme inducers such as t-butylhydroquinone and modulated by the insulin-sensitizing drug troglitazone. Human cerebromicrovascular endothelial cells were cultured and exposed to varying concentrations of t-butylhydroquinone or troglitazone. The activity of glyoxylase-I in human endothelial cells was similar to the activity present in hepatocytes. The phase 2 enzyme inducer t-butylhydroquinone had no effect on the glyoxalase enzymes activities but significantly increased glutathione levels and glutathione reductase activity, indicating that phase 2 enzyme inducers might promote alpha-oxo-aldehyde scavenging. Troglitazone decreased the activities of glyoxalase-I and -II and decreased glyoxalase-I mRNA. Troglitazone had no effect on glutathione levels or on the activity of glutathione reductase or glutathione peroxidase. We conclude that phase 2 enzyme inducers may promote scavenging of alpha-oxoaldehydes in endothelial cells.
12528892: !lactoylglutathione The promoter analysis of the human C17orf25 gene, a novel chromosome 17p13.3 gene. The human C17orf25 gene (Accession No. AF177342) is one of thirteen genes cloned from a region displaying a high score of loss of heterozygosity within chromosome 17p13.3 in human hepatocellular carcinoma in China. To unveil the underlying mechanisms for the transcription regulation of this gene and understand its implication to the hepatocellular carcinogenesis, we looked into the relevant aspects by both bioinformatic and experimental executions. We found: 1, The abundant expression of the C17orf25 gene was evident in all the cell lines and tissue samples tested, showing little hepatoma-selectivity; 2, Its transcription starts at a single site, locating at -60 from the translation initiation codon; 3, A 58 bp fragment containing the transcription start, extending from -112 to -55, represents the minimal promoter; 4, The consensus sequence within this fragment recognized by SP1 contributes predominantly to the activity of the minimal promoter; 5, The bioinformatic analysis suggests that the C17orf25 gene may encode a protein in the family of the glyoxalase. Our data has provided some deep insight into both function and regulation of the C17orf25 gene in the context of the normal liver and hepatocellular carcinoma.
12470438: !lactoylglutathione Chemosensitization of carmustine with maitake beta-glucan on androgen-independent prostatic cancer cells: involvement of glyoxalase I. To improve the poor efficacy (< 10%) of chemotherapy for patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer, we investigated a possible cytotoxic effect of carmustine/beta-glucan combination on prostatic cancer PC-3 cells, focusing on a glutathione-dependent detoxifying enzyme, glyoxalase I (Gly-I).
12453667: !lactoylglutathione Different activity of glyoxalase system enzymes in specimens of Sparus auratus exposed to sublethal copper concentrations. The present study regards possible changes in the activity of glyoxalase system enzymes (glyoxalase I, GI, and glyoxalase II, GII) in tissues (brain, liver and white muscle) of the mediterranean bony fish Sparus auratus after a 20 days exposure to sublethal concentrations (0.1 or 0.5 ppm) of Cu in the marine water and on control untreated animals. The experiments also included measurements of copper concentration in the tissues, as well as of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity, to evaluate possible Cu accumulation and changes in glycolytic activity respectively. Cu accumulation only occurs in the liver. GI, GII and LDH activities kept unchanged in the brain after copper exposure. GI activity in liver and muscle of copper-exposed animals decreases probably for a slackening in the glycolytic rate, as suggested by the lowering of LDH activity. GII activity remains unchanged or increases (liver extract, 0.5 ppm of Cu), maybe to safeguard enough cellular levels of GSH.
12405831: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal synthetase, enol-pyruvaldehyde, glutathione and the glyoxalase system. enol-Pyruvaldehyde (ePY or 2-hydroxypropenal, O=C(H)-C(OH)=CH(2)) a transient intermediate in the alkaline decomposition of the triosephosphates to methylglyoxal is now observed by UV and (1)H NMR spectroscopy as the immediate product of the methylglyoxal synthetase (MGS) reaction: dihydroxyacetone-P --> P(i) + ePY --> methylglyoxal (MG). Analysis of ePY formed from 1-(13)C- and (1R, 3S) -[1,3-(2)H]-DHAP establishes the stereochemical course of its formation by MGS. Its rate of ketonization is much too slow to be in the sequence required for the assay of MGS by coupling of the MG produced to glyoxalase I (Glx I): MG + glutathione (GSH) --> (S)-lactylglutathione (D-LG). Instead, ketonization occurs by way of the hemithioacetal (HTA) formed between ePY and GSH, and could be either an enzymatic function of Glx I or occur nonenzymatically at an activated rate. Enzymatic ketonization was ruled out because the methyl group of D-LG formed from specifically labeled ePY is achiral. Chemical ketonization of ePY is activated by general bases, such as acetate, and by thiols such as GSH and 2-mercaptoethanol, which disrupt its stabilizing double bond conjugation as hemithioacetal (HTA) adducts. 2-Mercaptoacetate combines both functions, acting as the HTA adduct of ePY with the appended carboxylate group presumably positioned to promote abstraction of the enol proton and protonation of the enolate carbon at an accelerated rate. In the MGS-Glx I system (dihydroxyacetone-P --> ePY, ePY + GSH --> GS-ePY, GS-ePY --> GS-MG, GS-MG --> D-LG), the nonenzymatic 2nd and 3rd steps describe the catalytic role of GSH in the critical ketonization process and set the stage for its participation in the glyoxalase system.
12212226: !lactoylglutathione [Detection of GLO I phenotypes in blood and blood stains using agarose starch gel electrophoretic analysis]. The distribution of GLO I phenotypes was studied using mixed agarose starch gel electrophoresis in 234 Chinese Han population in Changsha area. Three GLO I phenotypes were detected. The gene frequencies were as follows: GLO I1 = 0.1303 and GLO I2 = 0.8697. The phenotype frequencies of GLO I were compared not only among the different nationalities but with those reported by other countries. Both the 20 bloodstain samples kept at room temperature for 40 days and the other 20 bloodstain samples kept at 4 degrees C for at least 100 days could be correctly phenotyped. Two out of 8 watered bloodstains, their GLO I2-1 phenotype was changed to GLO I2-2. In blind trial, 15 bloodstain samples kept at room temperature for 40 days could be phenotyped correctly.
12204678: !lactoylglutathione Differing expression of enzymes of the glyoxalase system in superficial and invasive bladder carcinomas. This work aimed to study the activities of the glyoxalase system enzymes (glyoxalase I (GI) and glyoxalase II (GII) and their gene expression in human bladder carcinomas compared with the corresponding normal mucosa. Samples of these tissues were collected from 26 patients with superficial (SBC) or invasive bladder cancer (IBC) and used to evaluate enzyme activity and gene expression by northern blot analysis. In keeping with the electrophoretic pattern and the expression level of the respective genes, GI activity significantly increased in SBC samples, while it remained unchanged in IBC samples compared with the normal mucosa. In contrast, GII showed a higher activity in the tumour (either SBC or IBC samples) versus normal tissues. These results confirm the role of the glyoxalases in detoxifying cytotoxic methylglyoxal (MG) in bladder cancer. The differing levels of GI activity level and gene expression of GI between the SBC and IBC samples could help in their differential diagnosis.
12203268: !lactoylglutathione Antioxidant and non-toxic properties of Piper betle leaf extract: in vitro and in vivo studies. Piper betle leaves are used in folk medicine for the treatment of various disorders and is commonly chewed among Asians. The present study investigates the protective efficacy of P. betle leaf extract. The presence of the extract inhibited the radiation induced lipid peroxidation process effectively. This could be attributed to its ability to scavenge free radicals involved in initiation and propagation steps. Oral supplementation with extract (1, 5 and 10 mg/kg) was administered daily for 2 weeks to Swiss albino mice and the hepatic antioxidant status was analysed. The GSH content was enhanced and no appreciable change was found in the levels of oxidative damage in terms of lipid peroxidation. Also, the specific activity of SOD increased in a dose dependent manner. These factors indicate the elevation of antioxidant status in the animals. The effect on the glyoxalase system which is considered to be activated under stress conditions was also investigated. Our findings did not observe any significant change in gly I and gly II activities, implying a non-stress condition after oral treatment of the extract. The present study indicates the antioxidant activity of P. betle leaf extract and its potential to elevate the antioxidant status.
12110033: !lactoylglutathione Efficient in vitro lowering of carbonyl stress by the glyoxalase system in conventional glucose peritoneal dialysis fluid. Reactive carbonyl compounds (RCOs) present in heat-sterilized peritoneal dialysis (PD) fluid have been incriminated in the progressive deterioration of the peritoneal membrane observed in long-term PD patients. The present study utilized the glyoxalase I (GLO I) system as a new approach to lower in vitro the peritoneal fluid content of RCOs such as methylglyoxal (MGO), glyoxal (GO) and 3-deoxyglucosone (3-DG).
12096683: !lactoylglutathione Genetic-biochemical criteria for individual sensitivity in development of occupational bronchopulmonary diseases. Human individual sensitivity to health-hazardous occupational factors and probability of developing chronic lung diseases depend on genetic variation of serum and erythrocytic proteins. The present work was aimed at studying the phenotypes of serum and erythrocytic proteins in patients with occupational respiratory diseases. We studied 7 highly polymorphic genetic systems the varieties of which may be connected with development of bronchopulmonary pathology (BPP) and the immune status of the body: proteinase inhibitor (Pi), third component of the complement (C3), transferrin (Tf), group-specific component of blood serum (Gc), haptoglobin (Hp), erythrocytic glyoxalase (Glo) and phosphoglucomutase (PGM) in patients with chronic bronchitis, silicosis, occupational bronchial asthma and in the control group consisting of Moscow population not exposed to occupational hazards and apparently healthy workers of an engineering plant. Considerable differences were revealed in genetic structure of the patients with bronchopulmonary pathology as compared with the apparently healthy people along a series of Integrated system: proteinase inhibitor (Pi), C3, Tf, Gc, PGM. Comparison of the study groups by significant differences in the aggregate of the genetic information obtained suggests that 5 (HP, C3, Tf, Pl, PGM1) of the 7 studied systems showed the hereditary features of silicosis. The gene carriers Hp*2, C3*F, PGM1*2-, TF*D, GC*R due to peculiar biochemical processes appear to have less adaptive potentialities and a greater likelihood of the disease on exposure to industrial factors. The examined patients with chronic bronchitis showed an increase in the variant of GC*2 and of a rare variants of proteins GC*R and Pi*S, the patients with occupational bronchial asthma showed an increase in the variant of Hp*2 and of a rare variant Pi*S. Such studies could be useful for assessment and forecast of individual risk of occupational diseases.
12086016: !lactoylglutathione A possible regulatory role of glyoxalase I in cell viability of human prostate cancer. A role of glyoxalase I (Gly-I), a detoxifying enzyme, in cell viability of prostate cancer was investigated. Cell extracts obtained from 66 prostate tissue specimens and prostatic cancer PC-3 cells were assayed for Gly-I activity using the spectrophotometric method. Gly-I activity was consistently more than eightfold higher in prostate cancer (CAP) specimens (n = 37) than in non-cancerous (NCP) specimens (n = 29). To understand the importance of such a high Gly-I activity in CAP specimens, the effects of methylglyoxal (MG) on PC-3 cells were examined in vitro. MG, a putative toxic glycolytic metabolite, was capable of inducing severe (> 99%) cell death in 24 h, along with a significant reduction in activities of Gly-I as well as glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PDH), a key glycolytic enzyme. However, such severe cell death was effectively (approximately 85%) prevented with N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a precursor of reduced glutathione (GSH) that is an essential cofactor for Gly-I, accompanied by the intact Gly-I and G3PDH activities. Therefore, Gly-I may play a critical detoxifying role in glycolysis to maintain cellular activity and viability of prostatic cancer cells.
12083376: !lactoylglutathione Oltipraz protects the passive smoke induced changes in renal glyoxalase system of rats. The present study was performed to investigate the effect of oltipraz on passive smoke-induced alteration in renal glyoxalase system of rats. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed daily to passive cigarette smoke in a whole-body exposure chamber 6 h per day for 2, 4 and 12 weeks. The animals being sacrificed after 2 and 12 weeks were maintained on control diet, powdered 4% Teklad rat chow (Harlan Teklad, Madison, WI, USA). The 4 weeks group was divided into three subgroups, one receiving control diet, other two receiving control diet supplemented with two doses of oltipraz (either 167 or 500 ppm), starting 1 week prior to initiation of smoke exposure until the end of the experiment. The activity of glyoxalase I was higher in animals exposed for 4 and 12 weeks of passive smoke than those exposed for 2 weeks. There was no significant difference between 4 and 12 weeks. Glyoxalase II activity was lower in animals exposed to passive smoke for 4 weeks than those exposed for 2 weeks. However, the activity approached the basal level after 12 weeks of exposure. Furthermore, oltipraz treatment maintained the activity of both glyoxalase closer to the basal levels.
12051689: !lactoylglutathione Effect of pyridoxamine on chemical modification of proteins by carbonyls in diabetic rats: characterization of a major product from the reaction of pyridoxamine and methylglyoxal. Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) from the Maillard reaction contribute to protein aging and the pathogenesis of age- and diabetes-associated complications. The alpha-dicarbonyl compound methylglyoxal (MG) is an important intermediate in AGE synthesis. Recent studies suggest that pyridoxamine inhibits formation of advanced glycation and lipoxidation products. We wanted to determine if pyridoxamine could inhibit MG-mediated Maillard reactions and thereby prevent AGE formation. When lens proteins were incubated with MG at 37 degrees C, pH 7.4, we found that pyridoxamine inhibits formation of methylglyoxal-derived AGEs concentration dependently. Pyridoxamine reduces MG levels in red blood cells and plasma and blocks formation of methylglyoxal-lysine dimer in plasma proteins from diabetic rats and it prevents pentosidine (an AGE derived from sugars) from forming in plasma proteins. Pyridoxamine also decreases formation of protein carbonyls and thiobarbituric-acid-reactive substances in plasma proteins from diabetic rats. Pyridoxamine treatment did not restore erythrocyte glutathione (which was reduced by almost half) in diabetic animals, but it enhanced erythrocyte glyoxalase I activity. We isolated a major product of the reaction between MG and pyridoxamine and identified it as methylglyoxal-pyridoxamine dimer. Our studies show that pyridoxamine reduces oxidative stress and AGE formation. We suspect that a direct interaction of pyridoxamine with MG partly accounts for AGE inhibition.
11997130: !lactoylglutathione A theoretical approach to the link between oxidoreductions and pyrite formation in the early stage of evolution. There are two fundamental axioms of surface metabolism theory: (i) pyrite formation from H2S and FeS is proposed as a source of energy for life, and (ii) archaic reductive citric acid cycle is put into the center of a metabolic network. However, the concept fails to indicate how sulfide oxidation ought to be coupled to processes driven by free energy change occurring during pyrite production, and secondly, how reductive citric acid cycle ought to be supplied with row material(s). Recently, the non-enzymatic methylglyoxalase pathway has been recommended as the anaplerotic route for the reductive citric acid cycle. In this paper a mechanism is proposed by which the oxidation of lactate, the essential step of the anaplerotic path, becomes possible and a coupling system between sulfide oxidation and endergonic reaction(s) is also presented. Oxidoreduction for other redox pairs is discussed too. It is concluded that the S(o)/H2S system may have been the clue to energy production at the early stage of evolution, as hydrogen sulfide produced by the metabolic network may have functioned as a coupling molecule between endergonic and exergonic reactions.
11976112: !lactoylglutathione Analysis of Streptococcus mutans proteins modulated by culture under acidic conditions. Streptococcus mutans, a major etiological agent of dental caries, causes demineralization of the tooth tissue due to the formation of acids from dietary carbohydrates. Dominant among the virulence determinants of this organism are aciduricity and acidogenicity, the abilities to grow at low pH and to produce acid, respectively. The mechanisms underlying the ability of S. mutans to survive and proliferate at low pH are currently under investigation. In this study we cultured S. mutans at pH 5.2 or 7.0 and extracted soluble cellular proteins. These were analyzed using high-resolution two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and replicate maps of proteins expressed under each of the two conditions were generated. Proteins with modulated expression at low pH, as judged by a change in the relative integrated optical density, were excised and digested with trypsin by using an in-gel protocol. Tryptic digests were analyzed using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry to generate peptide mass fingerprints, and these were used to assign putative functions according to their homology with the translated sequences in the S. mutans genomic database. Thirty individual proteins exhibited altered expression as a result of culture of S. mutans at low pH. Up-regulated proteins (n = 18) included neutral endopeptidase, phosphoglucomutase, 60-kDa chaperonin, cell division proteins, enolase, lactate dehydrogenase, fructose bisphosphate aldolase, acetoin reductase, superoxide dismutase, and lactoylglutathione lyase. Proteins down-regulated at pH 5.2 (n = 12) included protein translation elongation factors G, Tu, and Ts, DnaK, small-subunit ribosomal protein S1P, large-subunit ribosomal protein L12P, and components of both phosphoenolpyruvate:protein phosphotransferase and multiple sugar binding transport systems. The identification of proteins differentially expressed following growth at low pH provides new information regarding the mechanisms of survival and has identified new target genes for mutagenesis studies to further assess their physiological significance.
11975603: !lactoylglutathione Alkylation of nucleic acids by the antitumor agent COMC. [reaction: see text]. Mass spectral data are presented indicating that the antitumor agent 2-crotonyloxymethyl-2-cyclohexenone (COMC) is capable of alkylating oligonucleotides via a mechanism involving an electrophilic exocyclic enone intermediate. Under physiological conditions, the exocyclic enone is likely the glutathionylated 2-exomethylenecyclohexenone. This supports a recent hypothesis that the antitumor activity of COMC arises from alkylation of nucleic acids and/or proteins critical to cell function and not from competitive inhibition of glyoxalase I by an adduct of COMC and glutathione.
11963573: !lactoylglutathione [Genetic polymorphism of erythrocytic enzymes in Yakut populations]. Polymorphism of the erythrocytic enzymes PGM1, ACP1, ESD, and GLO1 was found in Yakut populations. The allelic frequencies of the polymorphic systems studied varied within the following ranges: PGM1*1+, 0.5833-0.7791; PGM1*1-, 0.0345-0.1176; PGM1*2+, 0.1250-0.2813; ACP1*A, 0.1429-0.3382; ACP1*B, 0.6548-0.8571; ESD*2, 0.1250-0.4643; and GLO1*1, 0.0116-0.2845.
11936840: !lactoylglutathione Passive cigarette smoke and the renal glyoxalase system. Cigarette smoking is associated with a number of fatal diseases, including cancer of different organs. A number of oxoaldehydes are found in cigarette smoke, among which methylglyoxal (MG) is known to cause toxicity to cells upon accumulation. In biological systems, MG is converted to s-d-lactoylglutathione by glyoxalase I with reduced glutathine (GSH) as a cofactor, and s-d-lactoylglutathione is converted to D-lactic acid with simultaneous regeneration of GSH, by glyoxalase II. In the present study, we have investigated the status of the glyoxalase enzymes in kidney tissues from rats exposed to passive cigarette smoke. No significant change has been noted in glyoxalase I activity. Glyoxalase II was decreased during 1 and 2 weeks of exposure, and after that the activity was increased. The initial decrease in the activity of gly II may be due to the excess amount of methylglyoxal generated due to smoke exposure or the adduct formed by MG and GSH which known to inhibit gly II activity. Both enzymes help in the detoxification of cigarette smoke induced chemicals and biochemicals.
11853416: !lactoylglutathione Copper-based bioinspired oxygenation and glyoxalase-like reactivity. Re-engineered, structurally abbreviated models of metalloenzymes may extend their biomimetic functionality to bioinspired reactivity. The oxygenation of external substrates, in particular, remains an important objective of biomimetic and bioinspired catalysis. We report that the reaction of [(Cu(I)TpCF3,CH3)2] with excess acetone in air produces [CuTpCF3,CH3)(lactate)] in over 95% yield at ambient conditions, without any noticeable ligand decomposition. This chemically unprecedented one-pot conversion of acetone to lactate occurs as a multistep process in the gluconeogenic pathway catalyzed by P450 isozyme 3a and Ni- or Zn-based glyoxalases. On the basis of the structure of the [CuTpCF3,CH3)(lactate)] product and oxygenation experiments using isotopically labeled acetone and water, an inner-sphere oxidation/isomerization mechanism is proposed.
11814297: !lactoylglutathione Radiative decay engineering. 2. Effects of Silver Island films on fluorescence intensity, lifetimes, and resonance energy transfer. Metallic surfaces can have unusual effects on fluorophores such as increasing or decreasing the rates of radiative decay and the rates of resonance energy transfer (RET). In the present article we describe the effects of metallic silver island films on the emission spectra, lifetimes, and energy transfer for several fluorophores. The fluorophores are not covalently coupled to the silver islands so that there are a range of fluorophore-to-metal distances. We show that proximity of fluorophores to the silver islands results in increased fluorescence intensity, with the largest enhancement for the lowest-quantum-yield fluorophores. Importantly, the metal-induced increases in intensity are accompanied by decreased lifetimes and increased photostability. These effects demonstrate that the silver islands have increased the radiative decay rates of the fluorophore. For solvent-sensitive fluorophores the emission spectra shifted to shorted wavelengths in the presence of the silver islands, which is consistent with a decrease of the apparent lifetime for fluorophores near the metal islands. We also observed an increased intensity and blue spectral shift for the protein human glyoxalase, which displays a low quantum yield for its intrinsic tryptophan emission. In this case the blue shift is thought to be due to increased emission from a buried low-quantum-yield tryptophan residue. Increased intensities were also observed for the intrinsic emission of the nucleic acid bases adenine and thymine and for single-stranded 15-mers poly(T) and poly(C). And finally, we observed increased RET for donors and acceptors in solution and when bound to double-helical DNA. These results demonstrate that metallic particles can be used to modify the emission from intrinsic and extrinsic fluorophores in biochemical systems.
11792832: !lactoylglutathione Tumor necrosis factor-induced modulation of glyoxalase I activities through phosphorylation by PKA results in cell death and is accompanied by the formation of a specific methylglyoxal-derived AGE. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced cell death in the fibrosarcoma cell line L929 is a caspase-independent process that is characterized by increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the mitochondria. To elucidate this ROS-dependent cell death pathway, a comparative study of the phosphoproteins present in TNF-treated and control cells was performed. Here we report that TNF induces an increased phosphorylation of glyoxalase I that is mediated by protein kinase A and required for cell death. We also show that TNF induces a substantial increase in intracellular levels of methylglyoxal (MG) that leads to the formation of a specific MG-derived advanced glycation end product and that this formation occurs as a consequence of increased ROS production. These data indicate that MG modification of proteins is a targeted process and that MG may thus function as a signal molecule during the regulation of cell death. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the TNF-induced phosphorylation of glyoxalase I is not involved in detoxification of MG by means of the glyoxalase system, but that phosphorylated glyoxalase I is on the pathway leading to the formation of a specific MG-derived advanced glycation end product.
11771313: !lactoylglutathione [Genetic polymorphism of blood group and erythrocyte enzymes in three ethno-territorial groups of the northern European part of Russia]. Using the data on five red cell markers (AB0, PGM1, ACP1, GLO1, and ESD) polymorphisms, the population genetic structure of three ethnic territorial groups from the north of European Russia (Continental Nentsy, Kola Saami, and Russian Coast-dwellers) was described. In general, the groups studied a Caucasoid pattern of the frequency distribution of erythrocytic marker alleles. However, a substantial contribution of a Mongoloid component to the Nenets gene pool, expressed as a high frequency of the PGM1*1 allele along with a low frequency of the GLO1*1 allele, was observed. Three ethnic territorial groups examined were close to one another with respect to the distribution of classical biochemical markers. The interpopulation diversity was low (the mean FST = 0.015). The differences observed were for the most part caused by the genetic characteristics of Nentsy. The maximum interpopulation diversity was observed for the GLO1 locus (FST = 0.056).
11757036: !lactoylglutathione Proteomic analysis of normal and malignant prostate tissue to identify novel proteins lost in cancer. Alterations of important protein pathways, including loss of prostate secretory granules, and disruption of the prostatic secretory pathway have been identified as early events in malignancy. In this study, proteomics was used to map the differences in protein expression between normal and malignant prostate tissues and to identify and analyze differentially expressed proteins in human prostate tissue with particular regard to the proteins lost in malignancy.
11737610: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I deficiency is associated with an unusual level of advanced glycation end products in a hemodialysis patient. Advanced glycation of proteins and their attendant advanced glycation end products (AGEs) contribute to the complications associated with diabetes mellitus or uremia. Regulatory mechanisms of AGE formation in vivo remain an issue of particular interest. We investigated a role of the glyoxalase detoxification system of precursor reactive carbonyl compounds (RCOs) in the in vivo AGE formation.
11719831: !lactoylglutathione Troglitazone selectively inhibits glyoxalase I gene expression. The hyperglycaemia associated with diabetes causes excessive production of cytotoxic methylglyoxal, an alpha-oxo-aldehyde. The glyoxalase system, composed of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II, with glutathione (GSH) as the cofactor, plays an important role in the detoxification of alpha-oxo-aldehydes. We tested the hypothesis that troglitazone, an insulin-sensitizing drug previously used in the treatment of Type II (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus, up-regulates the glyoxalase system either by increasing phase 2 enzyme activities and thereby increasing cellular GSH, or, by inducing glyoxalase enzyme activities.
11693203: !lactoylglutathione Radiation induced oxidative stress: II studies in liver as a distant organ of tumor bearing mice. Since the radiation dose tolerance of normal tissues/organs away from the site of tumor influences the success of radiation therapy of cancer, and antioxidant status is likely to be one of the factors to determine the tolerance; the radioresponse of antioxidant enzymes has been examined in the liver as a representative distant organ in the tumor-bearing mice. Swiss albino male mice (7-8 weeks old) with Ehrlich solid tumor in the thigh pad were irradiated with different doses of gamma-radiation (0-9 Gy) at a dose rate of 0.0153 Gy/s and the specific activities of enzymes involved in the free radical metabolism were determined in the liver. Except GST, the activities of SOD, DTD and Gly I as well as the GSH content were found to be higher in the liver of tumor-bearing mice compared to the non-tumor bearing mice. The catalase activity progressively decreased with dose in both the groups of mice. However, the activity was relatively higher in the liver of tumor- bearing mice than the control. Thus, the radioresponse of antioxidant enzymes seemed to be significantly different in the liver of tumor-burdened mice compared to controls. The enhanced activities might be due to relatively more damage caused by radiation. The higher levels of NO* and peroxidative damage in the liver of tumor-bearing mice probably suggest this possibility. These findings of the present work might have some serious implications as the increased radiation-damage of the distant normal organs (due to tumor burden) is likely to adversely affect the therapeutic gain.
11681724: !lactoylglutathione Radiation induced oxidative stress: I. Studies in Ehrlich solid tumor in mice. Understanding the response of tumors to ionizing radiation might potentially lead to improvement in tumor control and patient morbidity. Since the antioxidant status is likely to be linked to radioresponse, its modulation needs to be examined. Therefore, Swiss albino male mice (7-8 weeks old) with Ehrlich solid tumors were irradiated with different doses of gamma rays (0-9 Gy) at a dose rate of 0.0153 Gy/s; and enzymes involved in antioxidant functions were determined in the tumors. Radiation effects in terms of oxidative damage, LDH, nitric oxide and DNA fragmentation were also examined. In tumors, the specific activity of SOD was increased with dose but declined 6 Gy onwards. GST, DTD and GSH showed an almost progressive increase. These enhanced activities might have resulted from the increased protein expression. This possibility was supported by the Western Blot analysis for GST protein. These changes might be closely linked to the radiation-induced oxidative stress as reflected by the enhanced levels of peroxidative damage, DNA fragmentation, LDH activity and nitric oxide levels. These findings may have relevance to radiation therapy of cancer as the elevated antioxidant status of irradiated tumors is likely to limit the effectiveness of radiation dose and adversely affect the therapeutic gain.
11642115: !lactoylglutathione [The Russian gene pool. Genogeography of erythrocyte genetic markers (ACP1, PGM1, ESD, GLO1, 6-PGD)]. The study continues the series of works on the Russian gene pool. Gene geographic analysis of five erythrocytic gene markers best studied in the Russian population (ACP1, PGM1, ESD, GLO1, and 6-PGD) has been performed. Gene-geographic electronic maps have been constructed for 13 alleles of these loci and their correlations with geographic latitude and longitude. For all maps, statistical characteristics are presented, including the variation range and mean gene frequencies, partial and multiple correlations with latitude and longitude, and parameters of heterozygosity and interpopulation diversity. The maps of eight alleles (ACP1*A, ACP1*C, PGM1*2+, PGM1*2-, PGM1*1-, ESD*1, GLO1*1, and PGD*C) are shown and analyzed in detail. The genetic relief and structural elements of the maps are compared with the ecumenical trends, main variation patterns of these genes in northern Eurasia, and genetic characteristics of the indigenous populations of the Urals and Europe.
11603978: !lactoylglutathione Catalytic mechanism of glyoxalase I: a theoretical study. Hybrid density functional theory is used to study the catalytic mechanism of human glyoxalase I (GlxI). This zinc enzyme catalyzes the conversion of the hemithioacetal of toxic methylglyoxal and glutathione to nontoxic (S)-D-lactoylglutathione. GlxI can process both diastereomeric forms of the substrate, yielding the same form of the product. As a starting point for the calculations, we use a recent crystal structure of the enzyme in complex with a transition-state analogue, where it was found that the inhibitor is bound directly to the zinc by its hydroxycarbamoyl functions. It is shown that the Zn ligand Glu172 can abstract the substrate C1 proton from the S enantiomer of the substrate, without being displaced from the Zn ion. The calculated activation barrier is in excellent agreement with experimental rates. Analogously, the Zn ligand Glu99 can abstract the proton from the R form of the substrate. To account for the stereochemical findings, it is argued that the S and R reactions cannot be fully symmetric. A detailed mechanistic scheme is proposed.
11551528: !lactoylglutathione Inhibitory effects of S-nitrosoglutathione on cell proliferation and DNA synthesis: possible role of glyoxalase I inactivation. We investigated the inhibitory effects of S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) on cell proliferation, DNA synthesis and several enzymatic activities using spontaneously immortalized human endothelial cells (ECV304). Proliferation of ECV304 was inhibited by GSNO in a dose-dependent manner (125-1000 microM). DNA synthesis was decreased 2 h after addition of GSNO to cells and was markedly repressed from 20 h after the addition. The activity of ribonucleotide reductase, a rate-limiting enzyme for DNA synthesis, was unchanged in GSNO-treated cells. GSNO inhibited less than 40% of mitochondrial respiration activity, and the membrane potential and cellular levels of ATP were not significantly decreased by GSNO. GSNO had no inhibitory effect on activities of glutathione peroxidase, glutathione S-transferase and glutathione reductase. However, glyoxalase I (Glo I) activity was decreased to 20% of the control level within 60 min, and was consistently repressed during exposure to GSNO for 20 h. A membrane-permeable Glo I inhibitor, S-bromobenzylglutathione diethylester, inhibited proliferation of ECV304 cells, while methylglyoxal (MG), a toxic metabolite generated during glycolysis and a substrate for Glo I, failed to inhibit the cell growth even at 100 microM. Glo I in several mammalian cell lines was inactivated by GSNO with a pI shift. Although we failed to detect accumulation of MG under conditions of Glo I inactivation, these results suggest that the inhibitory effects of GSNO on cell proliferation and DNA synthesis might be at least partly due to inactivation of Glo I.
11524137: !lactoylglutathione Modulation of glyoxalase, glutathione S-transferase and antioxidant enzymes in the liver, spleen and erythrocytes of mice by dietary administration of fenugreek seeds. There is a growing interest in understanding the biological effect of time-tested folk medicinal plants. In the present work, the effect of dietary administration of fenugreek seeds on the glyoxalase system and antioxidant enzymes as well as levels of glutathione (GSH) have been examined in different tissues of mice. Swiss albino mice were fed with diet containing powdered fenugreek for 4 weeks. The mode and magnitude of effect was found to depend on the dose of fenugreek and type of tissue. The diet containing 1 and 2% of fenugreek enhanced the specific activity of gly I, whereas 5 and 10% inhibited its activity in the liver. However, on the other hand, the specific activity of gly II decreased continuously with dose. Dietary administration of fenugreek seeds resulted in an increase of GSH levels and the glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in the liver. Fenugreek (1 and 2%) showed no appreciable change in superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase. However, 5 and 10% doses of fenugreek supplementation inhibited their activities. In the case of spleen, a significant change in gly I was observed only at 10% fenugreek. In addition, a significant increase was also observed with GSH levels. Fenugreek treatment up to 5% showed a small but consistent increase in erythrocytes. In the case of GST, the activity enhanced with dose. Significant elevation of catalase activity was observed with a 10% dose of fenugreek. The significance and relevance of these findings are suggested in relation to mechanistic aspects.
11513095: !lactoylglutathione Functional residues on the enzyme active site of glyoxalase I from bovine brain. Bovine brain glyoxalase I was investigated in order to identify amino acid residues essential for its catalytic activity. This enzyme is a 44-kDa dimeric protein which exhibits a characteristic intrinsic fluorescence, with an emission peak centered at 342 nm. The total of eight tryptophan residues/molecule was estimated by using a fluorescence titration method. Low values of Stern Volmer quenching constants for the quenchers used indicated that the tryptophan residues are relatively buried in the native molecule. Similar results were obtained for glyoxalase I, purified from yeast and human erythrocytes. The activity of bovine brain glyoxalase I was found to be particularly sensitive to 2,3-butanedione and diethylpyrocarbonate, selective reagents for arginine and histidine residues, respectively. A minor effect was observed by treatment of the enzyme with other amino acid-specific reagents. A protective effect of the competitive inhibitor S-hexylglutathione was observed for all reagents used, indicating the presence of modified amino acids in or near the enzyme active site.
11513094: !lactoylglutathione Purification and partial characterization of glyoxalase I from bovine brain. Glyoxalase I was purified to homogeneity from bovine brain using affinity chromatography on S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose 6B with a yield of 22%. The enzyme was a dimer (44,000 Daltons) composed of, apparently, identical subunits (22,000 Daltons), as shown by SDS electrophoresis, and contained one mole of Zn2+/monomer. The active site metal ion, Zn2+, was removed by dialysis against EDTA, but the activity of the apoenzyme obtained was not completely restored after addition of Co2+ and Zn2+ (<25%), while a recovery of 50% was obtained after addition of Mg2+. The enzyme was inhibited by S-bromobenzylglutathione and S-p-nitrobenzylglutathione with a Ki value of 21 microM and 32 microM, respectively. The highest dissociation constant observed for the brain enzyme with respect to that reported for human erythrocytes, or other mammalian forms of enzyme could be related to a tissue-specific dependence of the glyoxalase I activity.
11489834: !lactoylglutathione Selective activation of apoptosis program by S-p-bromobenzylglutathione cyclopentyl diester in glyoxalase I-overexpressing human lung cancer cells. Glyoxalase I (GLO1) is an enzyme that plays a role in the detoxification of methylglyoxal, a side-product of glycolysis. We previously reported that GLO1 was a resistant factor to antitumor agent-induced apoptosis, and that S-p-bromobenzylglutathione cyclopentyl diester (BBGC), an effective inhibitor of GLO1, selectively sensitized to etoposide the drug-resistant human leukemia cells that overexpressed GLO1. In this study, we quantitatively measured GLO1 enzyme activity in various human solid tumor cells, and the antiproliferative effect of the GLO1 inhibitor was examined.
11485557: !lactoylglutathione Functional and structural roles of the glutathione-binding residues in maize (Zea mays) glutathione S-transferase I. The isoenzyme glutathione S-transferase (GST) I from maize (Zea mays) was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli, and its catalytic mechanism was investigated by site-directed mutagenesis and dynamic studies. The results showed that the enzyme promotes proton dissociation from the GSH thiol and creates a thiolate anion with high nucleophilic reactivity by lowering the pK(a) of the thiol from 8.7 to 6.2. Steady-state kinetics fit well to a rapid equilibrium, random sequential Bi Bi mechanism, with intrasubunit modulation between the GSH binding site (G-site) and the electrophile binding site (H-site). The rate-limiting step of the reaction is viscosity-dependent, and thermodynamic data suggest that product release is rate-limiting. Five residues of GST I (Ser(11), His(40), Lys(41), Gln(53) and Ser(67)), which are located in the G-site, were individually replaced with alanine and their structural and functional roles in the 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) conjugation reaction were investigated. On the basis of steady-state kinetics, difference spectroscopy and limited proteolysis studies it is concluded that these residues: (1) contribute to the affinity of the G-site for GSH, as they are involved in side-chain interaction with GSH; (2) influence GSH thiol ionization, and thus its reactivity; (3) participate in k(cat) regulation by affecting the rate-limiting step of the reaction; and (4) in the cases of His(40), Lys(41) and Gln(53) play an important role in the structural integrity of, and probably in the flexibility of, the highly mobile short 3(10)-helical segment of alpha-helix 2 (residues 35-46), as shown by limited proteolysis experiments. These structural perturbations are probably transmitted to the H-site through changes in Phe(35) conformation. This accounts for the modulation of K(CDNB)(m) by His(40), Lys(41) and Gln(53), and also for the intrasubunit communication between the G- and H-sites. Computer simulations using CONCOORD were applied to maize GST I monomer and dimer structures, each with bound lactoylglutathione, and the results were analysed by the essential dynamics technique. Differences in dynamics were found between the monomer and the dimer simulations showing the importance of using the whole structure in dynamic analysis. The results obtained confirm that the short 3(10)-helical segment of alpha-helix 2 (residues 35-46) undergoes the most significant structural rearrangements. These rearrangements are discussed in terms of enzyme catalytic mechanism.
11461144: !lactoylglutathione Accumulation of methylglyoxal in anaerobically grown Escherichia coli and its detoxification by expression of the Pseudomonas putida glyoxalase I gene. Anaerobic glycerol fermentation by Escherichia coli strains expressing genes from the Klebsiella pneumoniae dha regulon showed that cell growth and 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PD) production are significantly inhibited when 5 g/L or higher of glycerol is initially present. One reason for this inhibition may be methylglyoxal (MG) accumulation. Assays of both intracellular and extracellular MG levels indicated an accumulation of MG in anaerobic glycerol fermentation of transgenic E. coli. Pseudomonas putida glyoxalase I was expressed in the transgenic E. coli to enhance MG detoxification. The activity of glyoxalase I in the transgenic E. coli with the P. putida glyoxalase I under anaerobic conditions was 12-fold higher than that in the control cells. Compared to the control cells, the transgenic cells with the P. putida glyoxalase I displayed a reduction of 35-43% in intracellular MG and a decrease of 30% in extracellular MG. These decreases were statistically significant (P>94). Furthermore, the expression of the P. putida glyoxalase I in the transgenic E. coli markedly improved cell growth and resulted in a 50% increase in 1,3-PD production.
11459475: !lactoylglutathione Active site structure and mechanism of human glyoxalase I-an ab initio theoretical study. The structure of the active site of human glyoxalase I and the reaction mechanism of the enzyme-catalyzed conversion of the thiohemiacetal, formed from methylglyoxal and glutathione, to S-D-lactoylglutathione has been investigated by ab initio quantum chemical calculations. To realistically represent the environment of the reaction center, the effective fragment potential methodology has been employed, which allows systems of several hundred atoms to be described quantum mechanically. The methodology and the active site model have been validated by optimizing the structure of a known enzyme-inhibitor complex, which yielded structures in good agreement with the experiment. The same crystal structure has been used to obtain the quantum motif for the investigation of the glyoxalase I reaction. The results of our study confirm that the metal center of the active site zinc complex plays a direct catalytic role by binding the substrate and stabilizing the proposed enediolate reaction intermediate. In addition, our calculations yielded detailed information about the interactions of the substrate, the reaction intermediates, and the product with the active site of the enzyme and about the mechanism of the glyoxalase I reaction. The proton transfers of the reaction proceed via the two highly flexible residues Glu172 and Glu99. Information about the structural and energetic effect of the protein on the first-shell complex has been attained by comparison of the structures optimized in the local protein environment and in a vacuum. The environment of the zinc complex disturbs the Cs symmetry found for the complex in a vacuum, which suggests an explanation for the stereochemical behavior of glyoxalase I.
11453985: !lactoylglutathione In situ kinetic analysis of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The kinetics of glyoxalase I [(R)-S-lactoylglutathione methylglyoxal-lyase; EC 4.4.1.5] and glyoxalase II (S-2-hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase; EC 3.1.2.6) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae was studied in situ, in digitonin permeabilized cells, using two different approaches: initial rate analysis and progress curves analysis. Initial rate analysis was performed by hyperbolic regression of initial rates using the program HYPERFIT. Glyoxalase I exhibited saturation kinetics on 0.05-2.5 mM hemithioacetal concentration range, with kinetic parameters Km 0.53 +/- 0.07 mM and V (3.18 +/- 0.16) x 10(-2) mM.min(-1). Glyoxalase II also showed saturation kinetics in the SD-lactoylglutathione concentration range of 0.15-3 mM and Km 0.32 +/- 0.13 mM and V (1.03 +/- 0.10) x 10(-3) mM.min(-1) were obtained. The kinetic parameters of both enzymes were also estimated by nonlinear regression of progress curves using the raw absorbance data and integrated differential rate equations with the program GEPASI. Several optimization methods were used to minimize the sum of squares of residuals. The best parameter fit for the glyoxalase I reaction was obtained with a single curve analysis, using the irreversible Michaelis-Menten model. The kinetic parameters obtained, Km 0.62 +/- 0.18 mM and V (2.86 +/- 0.01) x 10(-2) mM.min(-1), were in agreement with those obtained by initial rate analysis. The results obtained for glyoxalase II, using either the irreversible Michaelis-Menten model or a phenomenological reversible hyperbolic model, showed a high correlation of residuals with time and/or high values of standard deviation associated with Km. The possible causes for the discrepancy between data obtained from initial rate analysis and progress curve analysis, for glyoxalase II, are discussed.
11418108: !lactoylglutathione In situ analysis of methylglyoxal metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Methylglyoxal metabolism was studied during Saccharomyces cerevisiae grown with D-glucose as the sole carbon and energy source. Using for the first time a specific assay for methylglyoxal in yeast, metabolic fluxes of its formation and D-lactate production were determined. D-Glucose consumption and ethanol production were determined during growth. Metabolic fluxes were also determined in situ, at the glycolytic triose phosphate levels and glyoxalase pathway. Maximum fluxes of ethanol production and glucose consumption correspond to maxima of methylglyoxal and D-lactate formation fluxes during growth. Methylglyoxal formation is quantitatively related to glycolysis, representing 0.3% of the total glycolytic flux in S. cerevisiae.
11368412: !lactoylglutathione Expression of glyoxalase I and II in normal and breast cancer tissues. The present work aimed to study the activities of glyoxalase system enzymes, glyoxalase I (G I) and glyoxalase II (G II), as well as the expression of their genes in human breast carcinoma. Samples of tumoral tissue and normal counterparts were drawn from several patients during surgery. They served either for preparing extracts to be used in enzyme activity evaluations or for RNA extraction and subsequent northern blot analysis. A far higher activity level of G I and G II occurs in the tumor compared with pair-matched normal tissue, as shown by both spectrophotometrical assay and electrophoretic pattern. Such increased activities of G I and G II likely result from an enhanced enzyme synthesis as a consequence of increased expression of the respective genes in the tumoral tissue, as evidenced by northern blot. The present findings confirm a key-role of glyoxalase system to detoxify cytotoxic methylglyoxal and modulate S-D-lactoylglutathione levels in tumor cells. Moreover, they suggest a possible employment of GI inhibitors as anti-cancer drugs.
11368170: !lactoylglutathione Brief history of glyoxalase I and what we have learned about metal ion-dependent, enzyme-catalyzed isomerizations. Glyoxalase I, a member of the metalloglutathione (GSH) transferase superfamily, plays a critical detoxification role in cells by catalyzing the conversion of cytotoxic methylglyoxal (as the diastereomeric GSH-thiohemiacetals) to S-D-lactoylglutathione via a 1,2-hydrogen transfer. The mechanism-of-action of this Zn2+-metalloenzyme has been the subject of considerable controversy over the past 50 years. Key issues relate to the role of the active-site metal ion in catalysis and how the enzyme is able to use directly both diastereomeric thiohemiacetals as substrates. The results of recent X-ray crystallographic measurements on the enzyme in complex with a transition state analogue and site-directed mutagenesis studies now strongly support a base-mediated, proton-transfer mechanism in which the bound diastereomeric substrates undergo catalytic interconversion before the 1S-diastereomer goes to product via a Zn2+-coordinated, cis-enediolate intermediate. Comparisons with chemical model systems suggest that Zn2+-coordination of thiohemiacetal substrate will dramatically increase the thermodynamic and kinetic acidity of the C1-H bond of substrate. In the human enzyme, the carboxyl group of Glu (172) is well positioned to catalyze a suprafacial proton transfer between the adjacent carbons of substrate. The Zn2+-coordinated carboxyl group of Glu(99) is a reasonable candidate to catalyze proton transfer between the Zn2+-coordinated oxygen atoms of the enediolate intermediate. Other Zn2+ metalloenzymes appear to use similar reaction mechanisms to facilitate proton transfers.
11306074: !lactoylglutathione Metabolism of the 2-oxoaldehyde methylglyoxal by aldose reductase and by glyoxalase-I: roles for glutathione in both enzymes and implications for diabetic complications. Numerous physiological aldehydes besides glucose are substrates of aldose reductase, the first enzyme of the polyol pathway which has been implicated in the etiology of diabetic complications. The 2-oxoaldehyde methylglyoxal is a preferred substrate of aldose reductase but is also the main physiological substrate of the glutathione-dependent glyoxalase system. Aldose reductase catalyzes the reduction of methylglyoxal efficiently (k(cat)=142 min(-1) and k(cat)/K(m)=1.8x10(7) M(-1) min(-1)). In the presence of physiological concentrations of glutathione, methylglyoxal is significantly converted into the hemithioacetal, which is the actual substrate of glyoxalase-I. However, in the presence of glutathione, the efficiency of reduction of methylglyoxal, catalyzed by aldose reductase, also increases. In addition, the site of reduction switches from the aldehyde to the ketone carbonyl. Thus, glutathione converts aldose reductase from an aldehyde reductase to a ketone reductase with methylglyoxal as substrate. The relative importance of aldose reductase and glyoxalase-I in the metabolic disposal of methylglyoxal is highly dependent upon the concentration of glutathione, owing to the non-catalytic pre-enzymatic reaction between methylglyoxal and glutathione.
11305591: !lactoylglutathione Chelation of cellular Cu(I) raised the degree of glyoxalase I inactivation in human endothelial cells upon exposure to S-nitrosoglutathione through stabilization of S-nitrosothiols. This study aimed to examine molecular mechanisms responsible for the metabolic fate of S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) in endothelial cells. After addition of 1 mM GSNO in culture medium, concentration of S-nitrosothiols (RSNO) significantly decreased with concomitant accumulation of nitrite (NO2-) only in the presence of human endothelial cells (ECV304), while no change in RSNO decomposition and NO2- accumulation was observed in case of S-nitrosocysteine. Bathocuproine disulfonic acid (BCS), a chelator for Cu(I), prevented the cell-mediated decomposition of RSNO and accumulation of NO2-. Chelator for Cu(III), Fe(II), or Fe(III); inhibitors of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase; or a superoxide quenching enzyme had no effect on the cell-mediated degradation of RSNO and accumulation of NO2-. These results indicate that cellular Cu(I) would play a major role in the conversion of GSNO into NO2-. We recently demonstrated that human glyoxalase I (Glo I) interacts with GSNO in vitro and within cells. When Glo I interacts with GSNO, Glo I is inactivated and is chemically modified with pI alteration on 2D gels. So, we examined effect of Cu(I) chelation on the Glo I response. As a result, chelation of cellular Cu(I) by BCS enhanced the inactivation and chemical modification of Glo I by GSNO. The Glo I response could be detected when the cells were exposed to GSNO at 10 microM, corresponding to the concentration of RSNO under physiological conditions, with pretreatment of BCS. Metal chelators for copper and iron ions had no effect on the sensitivity of Glo I to an nitric oxide (NO) radical donor. These results indicate that chelation of cellular Cu(I) potentiates the sensitivity of GIo I to GSNO. The observation in the present study implicates that intracellular levels of GSNO might be elevated, accompanying with stabilization of extracellular RSNO.
11294624: !lactoylglutathione An XAS investigation of product and inhibitor complexes of Ni-containing GlxI from Escherichia coli: mechanistic implications. Escherichia coli glyoxalase I (GlxI) is a metalloisomerase that is maximally activated by Ni(2+), unlike other known GlxI enzymes which are active with Zn(2+). The metal is coordinated by two aqua ligands, two histidines (5 and 74), and two glutamates (56 and 122). The mechanism of E. coli Ni-GlxI was investigated by analyzing Ni K-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopic (XAS) data obtained from the enzyme and complexes formed with the product, S-D-lactoylglutathione, and various inhibitors. The analysis of X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) was used to determine the coordination number and geometry of the Ni site in the various Ni-GlxI complexes. Metric details of the Ni site structure were obtained from the analysis of extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS). Interaction of S-D-lactoylglutathione (product) or octylglutathione with the enzyme did not change the structure of the Ni site. However, analysis of XAS data obtained from a complex formed with a peptide hydroxamate bound to Ni-GlxI is consistent with this inhibitor binding to the Ni center by displacement of both water molecules. XANES analysis of this complex is best fit with a five-coordinate metal and, given the fact that both histidine ligands are retained, suggests the loss of a glutamate ligand. The loss of a glutamate ligand would preserve the neutral charge on the Ni complex and is consistent with the lack of a significant shift in the Ni K-edge energy in this complex. These data are compared with data obtained from the E. coli Ni-GlxI selenomethionine-substituted enzyme. The replacement of three methionine residues in the native enzyme with selenomethionine does not affect the structure of the Ni site. However, addition of the peptide hydroxamate inhibitor leads to the formation of a complex whose structure as determined by XAS analysis is consistent with inhibitor binding via displacement of both water molecules but retention of both histidine and glutamate ligands. This leads to an anionic complex, which is consistent with an observed 1.7 eV decrease in the Ni K-edge energy. Plausible reaction mechanisms for Ni-GlxI are discussed in light of the structural information available.
11281608: !lactoylglutathione Metastable ion formation and disparate charge separation in the gas-phase dissection of protein assemblies studied by orthogonal time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The dissection of specific and nonspecific protein complexes in the gas phase is studied by collisionally activated decomposition. In particular, the gas phase dissection of multiple protonated homodimeric Human Galectin I, E. Coli Glyoxalase I, horse heart cytochrome c, and Hen egg Lysozyme have been investigated. Both the Human Galectin I and E. Coli Glyoxalase I enzymes are biologically active as a dimer, exhibiting molecular weights of approximately 30 kDa. Cytochrome c and Lysozyme are monomers, but may aggregate to some extent at high protein concentrations. The gas phase dissociation of these multiple protonated dimer assemblies does lead to the formation of monomers. The charge distribution over the two concomitant monomers following the dissociation of these multiple protonated dimers is found to be highly dissimilar. There is no evident correlation between the solution phase stability of the dimeric proteins and their gas-phase dissociation pattern. Additionally, in the collisionally activated decomposition spectra diffuse ion signals are observed, which are attributed to monomer ions formed via slow decay of the collisionally activated dimer ions inside the reflectron time-of-flight. Although, the formation of these diffuse metastable ions may complicate the interpretation of collisionally activated decomposition mass spectra, especially when studying noncovalent protein complexes, a simple mathematical equation may be used to reveal their origin and pathway of formation.
11216867: !lactoylglutathione Radiomodification of glyoxalase I in the liver and spleen of mice: adaptive response and split-dose effect. Glyoxalase system, particularly glyoxalase I (Gly I) plays an important role in regulation of cell division and is considered to be a metabolic indicator of cell proliferation. The glyoxalase system is likely to have a close link with cellular radiosensitivity. Therefore, we have examined the effect of adaptive and split-dose of y-rays on the activity of Gly I in the liver and spleen of mice. For the adaptive response studies, mice pre-treated with a conditioning dose of 0.5 Gy were given a challenging dose of 4 Gy at varying time intervals. In the split-dose studies, a dose of 4 Gy was delivered into two equal fractions and spaced at different time intervals. The results show that pre-exposure to a conditioning dose or the fractionation of total dose decreased the specific activity of Gly I in the liver and spleen of mice. The decreased activity of Gly I was suggestive of protective action induced by the conditioning dose and fractionation of dose. The similar pattern of radiation response of Gly I probably supported the possibility of involvement of a common pathway in the radiation-induced adaptive and split-dose effect. From these observations a close link between the Gly I and the adaptive-response as well as the split-dose effect is speculated. Since, the glyoxalase system is vital for a variety of biological functions including cell division and repair, the present findings may have relevance in understanding the dose-fractionation as well as the biological defence induced by low doses of radiations.
11212839: !lactoylglutathione Characterization of glyoxalase I (E. coli)-inhibitor interactions by electrospray time-of-flight mass spectrometry and enzyme kinetic analysis. Potential inhibitors of the enzyme glyoxalase I from Escherichia coli have been evaluated using a combination of electrospray mass spectrometry and conventional kinetic analysis. An 11-membered library of potential inhibitors included a glutathione analogue resembling the transition-state intermediate in the glyoxalase I catalysis, several alkyl-glutathione, and one flavonoid. The E. coli glyoxalase I quaternary structure was found to be predominantly dimeric, as is the homologous human glyoxalase I. Binding studies by electrospray revealed that inhibitors bind exclusively to the dimeric form of glyoxalase I. Two specific binding sites were observed per dimer. The transition-state analogue was found to have the highest binding affinity, followed by a newly identified inhibitor; S-(2-[3-(hexyloxy)benzoyl]-vinyl)glutathione. Kinetic analysis confirmed that the order of affinity established by mass spectrometry could be correlated to inhibitory effects on the enzymatic reaction. This study shows that selective inhibitors may exist for the E. coli homologue of the glyoxalase I enzyme.
11212309: !lactoylglutathione Nickel-binding proteins. Nickel enzymes are a relatively new class of metalloenzymes. The seven known nickel enzymes are urease, hydrogenase, CO-dehydrogenase, methyl-coenzyme M reductase, Ni-superoxide dismutase, glyoxalase I and cis-trans isomerase. The requirement for nickel implies the presence of a nickel-processing system, since free transition metals are harmful to the cell. A nickel-processing system involves the recognition and transport of nickel into the cell and the handling of the nickel once it enters the cell until it is inserted into the nickel enzyme. Several mechanisms for nickel transport have been identified and will be reviewed here. Accessory proteins required for the biosynthesis of the nickel active site have been identified. Accessory proteins bind the nickel when it enters the cell and are proposed to assist with the insertion of nickel into the enzyme. The function of the characterized nickel-processing proteins is described, and models for nickel insertion into the nickel enzymes are presented.
11196887: !lactoylglutathione XAS investigation of the nickel active site structure in Escherichia coli glyoxalase I. 
11171039: !lactoylglutathione A stress-responsive glyoxalase I from the parasitic nematode Onchocerca volvulus. Glyoxal, methylglyoxal and other physiological alpha-oxoaldehydes are formed by the lipid peroxidation, glycation and degradation of glycolytic intermediates. They are detoxified enzymically by the glyoxalase system. To investigate the physiological function of glyoxalase I in parasitic organisms, the cDNA for glyoxalase I from the filarial nematode Onchocerca volvulus (designated Ov-GloI) has been cloned and characterized. The isolated cDNA contains an open reading frame of 579 bp encoding a protein with a calculated molecular mass of 21930 Da. Owing to the high degree of sequence identity (60%) with human glyoxalase I, for which the X-ray structure is available, it has been possible to build a three-dimensional model of Ov-GloI. The modelled core of Ov-GloI is conserved compared with the human glyoxalase I; however, there are critical differences in the residues lining the hydrophobic substrate-binding pocket of Ov-GloI. A 22 kDa protein was obtained by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. A homogeneous enzyme preparation was obtained by affinity purification and functional characterization of the recombinant enzyme included the determination of kinetic constants for methylglyoxal and phenylglyoxal as well as inhibition studies. Gel filtration demonstrated a dimeric structure. To assess the role of Ov-GloI as a potential vaccine candidate or serodiagnostic tool, the serological reactivity of the recombinant Ov-GloI was analysed with sera from microfilaria carriers and specific IgG1 antibodies were detected. The effects of oxidative insult, namely plumbagin and xanthine/xanthine oxidase, on the gene transcript level of Ov-GloI were investigated. By using a semi-quantitative PCR ELISA it was shown that Ov-GloI is expressed at elevated levels under conditions of oxidative stress.
11164178: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I phenotype as a potential risk factor for prostate carcinoma. To elicit a possible link between glyoxalase I (Gly-I), a detoxifying enzyme, and the incidence of prostate cancer (PCa), we investigated Gly-I phenotypic expression in the prostatic tissue and red blood cells (RBCs) from patients with PCa.
11139585: !lactoylglutathione A 33-kDa allergen from rice (Oryza sativa L. Japonica). cDNA cloning, expression, and identification as a novel glyoxalase I. Cereal proteins are known to cause allergic reactions such as Baker's asthma and severe atopic dermatitis to certain populations. In rice allergy, proteins with molecular masses of 14-16, 26, 33, and 56 kDa have been demonstrated to be potentially allergenic. In this study, to identify and characterize the 33-kDa allergen, designated Glb33, this protein was first purified to homogeneity, and its cDNA clone was isolated. When expressed in Escherichia coli, the recombinant Glb33 was shown to be as reactive as the native Glb33 with mouse IgG and patients' IgE antibodies to Glb33. The Glb33 cDNA coded for a protein of 291 amino acids with two 120-amino acid residue repeats, and the amino acid sequence showed similarity to glyoxalase I from various organisms, including human, plant, yeast, and bacterium. As expected, both native Glb33 purified from rice seeds and the recombinant protein had glyoxalase I activity that catalyzes condensation of methylglyoxal and glutathione into S-lactoylglutathione. However, Glb33 had a higher sequence identity to the bacterial glyoxalase I rather than to known plant and yeast enzymes. Both the Glb33 transcript and the protein were detected not only in maturing seeds of rice but also in its stem and leaf. Taken all together, the rice allergen, Glb33, was identified to be a novel type of plant glyoxalase I that is expressed in various plant tissues, including maturing seeds.
11076500: !lactoylglutathione Mechanistic diversity in a metalloenzyme superfamily. It is now appreciated that the relationships of proteins, particularly enzymes, within a protein superfamily can be understood not only in terms of their sequence similarities and three-dimensional structures but also by chemical threads that relate their functional attributes. The mechanistic ties among superfamily members can often be traced to a common transition state for the rate-limiting step of the reactions being catalyzed. This paper presents an analysis of a metalloenzyme superfamily, the members of which catalyze a very diverse set of reactions with unrelated transition states but a more general common mechanistic imperative. The vicinal oxygen chelate (VOC) superfamily is composed of structurally related proteins with paired beta alpha beta beta beta motifs that provide a metal coordination environment with two or three open or readily accessible coordination sites to promote direct electrophilic participation of the metal ion in catalysis. The known types of reactions that are catalyzed include isomerizations (glyoxalase I), epimerizations (methylmalonyl-CoA epimerase), oxidative cleavage of C-C bonds (extradiol dioxygenase), and nucleophilic substitutions (fosfomycin resistance proteins). The remarkable access to mechanism space that is provided by the VOC superfamily appears to derive from a simple, pseudosymmetric structural fold that maximizes the catalytic versatility of the metal center.
11052803: !lactoylglutathione Role of hydrophobic interactions in binding S-(N-aryl/alkyl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathiones to the active site of the antitumor target enzyme glyoxalase I. Hydrophobic interactions play an important role in binding S-(N-aryl/alkyl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathiones to the active sites of human, yeast, and Pseudomonas putida glyoxalase I, as the log K(i) values for these mechanism-based competitive inhibitors decrease linearly with increasing values of the hydrophobicity constants (pi) of the N-aryl/alkyl substituents. Hydrophobic interactions also help to optimize polar interactions between the enzyme and the glutathione derivatives, given that the K(i) value for S-(N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathione (pi = 0) with the human enzyme is 35-fold larger than the interpolated value for this compound obtained from the log K(i) versus pi plot. Computational studies, in combination with published X-ray crystallographic measurements, indicate that human glyoxalase I binds the syn-conformer of S-(N-aryl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathiones in which the N-aryl substituents are in their lowest-energy conformations. These studies provide both an experimental and a conceptual framework for developing better inhibitors of this antitumor target enzyme.
11050082: !lactoylglutathione Yeast glyoxalase I is a monomeric enzyme with two active sites. The tertiary structure of the monomeric yeast glyoxalase I has been modeled based on the crystal structure of the dimeric human glyoxalase I and a sequence alignment of the two enzymes. The model suggests that yeast glyoxalase I has two active sites contained in a single polypeptide. To investigate this, a recombinant expression clone of yeast glyoxalase I was constructed for overproduction of the enzyme in Escherichia coli. Each putative active site was inactivated by site-directed mutagenesis. According to the alignment, glutamate 163 and glutamate 318 in yeast glyoxalase I correspond to glutamate 172 in human glyoxalase I, a Zn(II) ligand and proposed general base in the catalytic mechanism. The residues were each replaced by glutamine and a double mutant containing both mutations was also constructed. Steady-state kinetics and metal analyses of the recombinant enzymes corroborate that yeast glyoxalase I has two functional active sites. The activities of the catalytic sites seem to be somewhat different. The metal ions bound in the active sites are probably one Fe(II) and one Zn(II), but Mn(II) may replace Zn(II). Yeast glyoxalase I appears to be one of the few enzymes that are present as a single polypeptide with two active sites that catalyze the same reaction.
11018726: !lactoylglutathione The active-site residue tyr-175 in human glyoxalase II contributes to binding of glutathione derivatives. Tyrosine-175 located in the active site of human glyoxalase II was replaced by phenylalanine in order to study the contribution of this residue to catalysis. The mutation had a marginal effect on the k(cat) value determined using S-D-lactoylglutathione as substrate. However, the Y175F mutant had an 8-fold higher K(m) value than the wild-type enzyme. The competitive inhibitor S-(N-hydroxy-N-bromophenylcarbamoyl)glutathione had a 30-fold higher K(i) value towards the mutant, than that of the wild-type. Pre-equilibrium fluorescence studies with the inhibitor showed that this was due to a significantly increased off-rate for the mutant enzyme. The phenolic hydroxyl group of tyrosine-175 is within hydrogen bonding distance of the amide nitrogen of the glycine in the glutathione moiety and the present study shows that this interaction makes a significant contribution to the binding of the active-site ligand.
11011147: !lactoylglutathione Nitric oxide inactivates glyoxalase I in cooperation with glutathione. We previously found that glyoxalase I (Glo I) is inactivated upon exposure of human endothelial cells to extracellular nitric oxide (NO), and this event correlates with an increase in its pI on two-dimensional gels. In this study, we demonstrate that NO can modulate Glo I activity in cooperation with cellular glutathione (GSH). Severe depletion of intracellular GSH prevents the inactivation of Glo I in response to NO, although such depletion enhances the inactivation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PDH), a well-known enzyme susceptible to NO-induced oxidation. S-Nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), an adduct of GSH and NO, lowers the activity of purified human Glo I, while S-nitrosocysteine (CysNO) inactivates the enzyme only in the presence of GSH. This indicates that a dysfunction in Glo I would require the formation of GSNO in situ. Competitive inhibitors of Glo I, S-(4-bromobenzyl)glutathione and its membrane-permeating form, completely abolish the NO action in vitro and inside cells, respectively. Taken together, these results reveal that Glo I can interact directly with GSNO, and that the interaction converts Glo I into an inactive form. Moreover, the data suggest that the substrate recognition site of Glo I might be involved in the interaction with GSNO.
11009366: !lactoylglutathione Reaction of COTC with glutathione: structure of the putative glyoxalase I inhibitor. The structure of the active glyoxalase I inhibitor derived from the Streptomyces griseosporeus metabolite COTC 1 has been conclusively identified by means of total synthesis as 2c. Human glyoxalase I is competitively inhibited by 2c (K(i)() = 183 +/- 6 microM) but is not inhibited by 1 itself.
10972486: !lactoylglutathione Pharmacokinetics and antitumor properties in tumor-bearing mice of an enediol analogue inhibitor of glyoxalase I. The enediol analogue S-(N-p-chlorophenyl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathione (CHG) is a powerful, mechanism-based, competitive inhibitor of the methylglyoxal-detoxifying enzyme glyoxalase I. The [glycyl,glutamyl]diethyl ester prodrug form of this compound (CHG(Et)2) inhibits the growth of different tumor cell lines in vitro, apparently by inducing elevated levels of intracellular methylglyoxal. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the pharmacokinetic properties of CHG(Et)2 in plasma esterase-deficient C57BL/6 (Es-1e) mice after intravenous (i.v.) or intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of bolus doses of CHG(Et)2. In addition, the in vivo antitumor properties of CHG(Et)2 were evaluated against murine B16 melanoma in these mice, and against androgen-independent human prostate PC3 tumor and human colon HT-29 adenocarcinoma in plasma esterase-deficient nude mice.
10944391: !lactoylglutathione Specific interaction of cytosolic and mitochondrial glyoxalase II with acidic phospholipids in form of liposomes results in the inhibition of the cytosolic enzyme only. Kinetics of cytosolic recombinant human glyoxalase II and bovine liver mitochondrial glyoxalase II were studied in the presence of liposomes made of different phospholipids (PLs). Neutral PLs such as egg phosphatidylcholine or dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine did not affect the enzymatic activity of either enzymatic form. Liposomes made of dioleoyl phosphatidic acid or cardiolipin or phosphatidylserine also did not affect the enzymatic activity of mitochondrial glyoxalase II. Conversely, these negatively charged PLs exerted noncompetitive inhibition on cytosolic glyoxalase II only, dioleoyl phosphatidic acid and bovine brain phosphatidylserine exerting the highest and lowest inhibition, respectively. Binding studies, carried out by using a resonant mirror biosensor, revealed that liposomes made of negatively charged PLs interact specifically with both enzymatic forms of glyoxalase II, whereas interactions were not detected with neutral PLs. Once bound on glyoxalase II, negatively charged liposomes could not be removed by 3 M NaCl, suggesting that interactions between glyoxalase II and negatively charged PLs, besides ionic, may be also hydrophobic. These data suggest a possible role of negatively charged phospholipids in the regulation of level of lactoylglutathione in the cell. The data are also discussed in terms of a possible regulation of reduced glutathione supply to mitochondria.
10931845: !lactoylglutathione The role of alpha,beta -dicarbonyl compounds in the toxicity of short chain sugars. The extent to which sugars serve as targets for superoxide was examined using glycolaldehyde as the simplest sugar and using superoxide dismutase (SOD)-replete and SOD-null strains growing under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Glycolaldehyde was more toxic to the SOD-null strain than to its SOD-replete parent, and this differential effect was oxygen-dependent. The product, glyoxal, could be trapped in the medium by 1,2-diaminobenzene and assayed as quinoxaline. The SOD-null strain produced more glyoxal and eliminated it more slowly than the SOD-replete parent strain. Glyoxal was approximately 10 times more toxic than glycolaldehyde and was more toxic to the SOD-null strain than to the parental strain. 1,2-Diaminobenzene protected against the toxicity of glycolaldehyde. These Escherichia coli strains contained the glutathione-dependent glyoxalases I and II, as well as the glutathione-independent glyoxalase III. Of these enzymes, glyoxalase III was most abundant, and it was inactivated within the aerobic SOD-null strain and also in extracts when exposed to the flux of superoxide and hydrogen peroxide imposed by the xanthine oxidase reaction. Thus, it appears that short chain sugars are oxidized by superoxide yielding toxic dicarbonyls. Moreover, the defensive glyoxalase III is also inactivated by the oxidative stress imposed by the lack of SOD, thereby exacerbating the deleterious effect of sugar oxidation.
10931507: !lactoylglutathione Antioxidant and GSH-related enzyme response to a single teratogenic exposure to the anticonvulsant phenytoin: temporospatial evaluation. It has been proposed that the anticonvulsant drug phenytoin (PHT) requires bioactivation to reactive intermediate(s) to achieve its recognized teratogenic potential and that embryonal detoxification power may play a fundamental role in the teratogenic response. On this basis, we sought to investigate the potential effects of a teratogenic exposure to PHT on the activities of antioxidant and GSH-related detoxifying enzymes in gestational murine tissues.
10913283: !lactoylglutathione Determination of the structure of Escherichia coli glyoxalase I suggests a structural basis for differential metal activation. The metalloenzyme glyoxalase I (GlxI) converts the nonenzymatically produced hemimercaptal of cytotoxic methylglyoxal and glutathione to nontoxic S-D-lactoylglutathione. Human GlxI, for which the structure is known, is active in the presence of Zn(2+). Unexpectedly, the Escherichia coli enzyme is inactive in the presence of Zn(2+) and is maximally active with Ni(2+). To understand this difference in metal activation and also to obtain a representative of the bacterial enzymes, the structure of E. coli Ni(2+)-GlxI has been determined. Structures have also been determined for the apo enzyme as well as complexes with Co(2+), Cd(2+), and Zn(2+). It is found that each of the protein-metal complexes that is catalytically active has octahedral geometry. This includes the complexes of the E. coli enzyme with Ni(2+), Co(2+), and Cd(2+), as well as the structures reported for the human Zn(2+) enzyme. Conversely, the complex of the E. coli enzyme with Zn(2+) has trigonal bipyramidal coordination and is inactive. This mode of coordination includes four protein ligands plus a single water molecule. In contrast, the coordination in the active forms of the enzyme includes two water molecules bound to the metal ion, suggesting that this may be a key feature of the catalytic mechanism. A comparison of the human and E. coli enzymes suggests that there are differences between the active sites that might be exploited for therapeutic use.
10882093: !lactoylglutathione Detection and characterisation of the genes encoding glyoxalase I and II from Neisseria meningitidis. Glyoxalase enzymes I and II are involved in a detoxification process consisting of conversion of reactive dicarbonyl compounds (e.g., methylglyoxal) to less reactive hydroxy acids. The structural gene for meningococcal glyoxalase I (gloA) was identified by screening an expression library with a rabbit antiserum. The meningococcal gloA gene consisted of 138 deduced amino acids, with a calculated mol. wt of 15.7 kDa. The DNA and deduced protein sequence of gloA was compared to known sequences of glyoxalase I enzymes and showed high homology with gloA of several eukaryotic and prokaryotic species. Insertion of a gloA-containing plasmid in Escherichia coli increased the host organism's tolerance to methylglyoxal from <2 mM to >4 mM, thus demonstrating its functional identity. A databank search also revealed the presence of a putative gloB gene, encoding glyoxalase II (GlxII), in the recently released genomic sequences of Neisseria meningitidis and N. gonorrhoeae.
10824093: !lactoylglutathione Identification of sequences encoding the detoxification metalloisomerase glyoxalase I in microbial genomes from several pathogenic organisms. The ubiquitous glyoxalase system, which is composed of two enzymes, removes cellular cytotoxic methylglyoxal (MG). In an effort to identify critical residues conserved in the evolution of the first enzyme in this system, glyoxalase I (GlxI), as well as the structural implications of sequence alterations in this enzyme, a search of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) database of unfinished genomes was undertaken. Eleven putative GlxI sequences from pathogenic organisms were identified and analyses of these sequences in relation to the known and previously identified GlxI enzymes were performed. Several of these sequences show a very high similarity to the Escherichia coli GlxI sequence, most notably the 79% identity of the sequence identified from Yersinia pestis, the causative agent of bubonic plague. In addition to the conservation of residues critical to binding the catalytic metal in all of the proposed GlxI enzymes, four regions in the Homo sapiens GlxI enzyme are absent in all of the bacterial GlxI sequences, with the exception of Pseudomonas putida. Removal of these regions may alter the active-site conformation of the bacterial enzymes in relation to that of the H. sapiens. These differences may be targeted for the development of inhibitors selective to the bacterial enzymes.
10807791: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I is involved in resistance of human leukemia cells to antitumor agent-induced apoptosis. Abnormality in the machinery of apoptosis is associated with a resistant phenotype of the tumor cell to chemotherapy. To determine the molecular basis of resistance to antitumor agent-induced apoptosis, we performed a complementary DNA (cDNA) subtractive hybridization with messenger RNA (mRNA) from human monocytic leukemia U937 and its variant UK711, which is resistant to apoptosis induced by antitumor agents. We found that glyoxalase I (GLO1), an enzyme that detoxifies methylglyoxal, is selectively overexpressed in the apoptosis-resistant UK711 cells. The GLO1 enzyme activity was significantly elevated in UK711 and UK110 cells, another drug-resistant mutant, as well as in K562/ADM, adriamycin-resistant leukemia cells, compared with their parental cells. When overexpressed in human Jurkat cells, GLO1 inhibited etoposide- and adriamycin-induced caspase activation and apoptosis, indicating the involvement of GLO1 in apoptosis suppression caused by these drugs. Moreover, cotreatment with S-p-bromobenzylglutathione cyclopentyl diester (BBGC), a cell-permeable inhibitor of GLO1, enhanced etoposide-induced apoptosis in resistant UK711 cells but not in parental U937 cells. Taken together, these results indicate that GLO1 is a resistant factor to antitumor agent-induced apoptosis in human leukemia cells and that the GLO1 inhibitor could be a drug resistance-reversing agent.
10801792: !lactoylglutathione Computer simulation of primary kinetic isotope effects in the proposed rate-limiting step of the glyoxalase I catalyzed reaction. The proposed rate-limiting step of the glyoxalase I catalyzed reaction is the proton abstraction from the C1 carbon of the substrate by Glu(172). Here we examine primary kinetic isotope effects and the influence of quantum dynamics on this process by computer simulations. The calculations utilize the empirical valence bond method in combination with the molecular dynamics free energy perturbation technique and path integral simulations. For the enzyme-catalyzed reaction a H/D kinetic isotope effect of 5.0 +/- 1. 3 is predicted in reasonable agreement with the experimental result of about 3. Furthermore, the magnitude of quantum mechanical effects is found to be very similar for the enzyme reaction and the corresponding uncatalyzed process in solution, in agreement with other studies. The problems associated with attaining the required accuracy in order for the present approach to be useful as a diagnostic tool for the study of enzyme reactions are also discussed.
10772880: !lactoylglutathione Diminished blood levels of reduced glutathione and alpha-tocopherol in two triosephosphate isomerase-deficient brothers. The glutathione redox system and alpha-tocopherol, both of which are essential for maintaining the normal structure of biological membranes, some other lipid-soluble antioxidants (lycopene, beta-carotene, retinol), and lipid peroxidation, were investigated in the blood from two triosephosphate isomerase (TPI)-deficient brothers. Both of the genetically identical compound heterozygote brothers have congenital hemolytic anemia, but only one of them has a neurological defect, the second cardinal symptom of TPI deficiency. Whole blood reduced glutathione levels were markedly decreased in both brothers. The glutathione reductase activities as well as the NADPH contents of their erythrocytes were in the normal range or slightly enhanced. Increased ratio of oxidized/reduced glutathione, elevated glutathione S-transferase activity, and increased d-lactate level, a metabolite of the glyoxalase pathway, were detected only in the neurologically affected propositus. The plasma carotenoids (lycopene + beta-carotene), alpha-tocopherol/cholesterol + triglyceride ratios, and the erythrocyte alpha-tocopherol levels were significantly decreased in both patients. It seems conceivable that membrane alterations due to the low level of these reducing agents may contribute to the shortened life span of erythrocytes. The imbalance of the prooxidant/antioxidant homeostasis as well as the increased rate of methylglyoxal formation may also have been involved in the development of the neurological manifestations in the propositus.
10712823: !lactoylglutathione Maillard reactions in lens proteins: methylglyoxal-mediated modifications in the rat lens. The nonenzymatic Maillard reaction is thought to contribute to aging and cataract formation in the lens. As levels of methylglyoxal (MG) and glutathione (GSH) affect the reaction, we examined the relationship of these factors and determined the effect of a glyoxalase I inhibitor on the Maillard reaction. Rat lens cultures were maintained for up to 3 days in TC-199 medium with or without 20 m m glyceraldehyde (GLD) and 250 microm S-[N-hydroxy-N-(4-chlorophenyl) carbamoyl] glutathione diethyl ester (HCCG diester). We measured GSH, MG, D-lactate, glyoxalase I activity, immunoreactive MG-derived advanced glycation endproducts (MG-AGEs) and imidazolysine in organ cultured rat lenses. In vitro experiments with isolated rat lens proteins revealed that HCCG alone inhibited glyoxalase I activity in a dose-dependent manner. In organ cultured rat lens protein, GLD increased MG levels 24-fold, and the addition of HCCG diester further increased it by about two-fold. GSH levels fell sharply in the presence of GLD and this was prevented to some extent by the presence of HCCG diester. D-lactate production in the lens was suppressed by HCCG diester treatment. Dialysed lens proteins retained glyoxalase I activity, indicating that the enzyme was unaltered during incubation. MG-AGEs and imidazolysine levels were significantly higher (P<0.05) in GLD-treated lenses, but a combination of HCCG diester and GLD lowered immunoreactive MG-AGEs and imidazolysine levels compared to GLD alone. HCCG had no significant effect on MG-AGE formation in lens proteins incubated with GLD or MG. We conclude that exogenous GLD enhances MG and MG-AGE levels in the rat lens and that this increase is accompanied by a loss in GSH. In addition, inhibition of glyoxalase I promotes MG accumulation.
10692504: !lactoylglutathione The human glutathione transferase P1-1 specific inhibitor TER 117 designed for overcoming cytostatic-drug resistance is also a strong inhibitor of glyoxalase I. gamma-L-Glutamyl-S-(benzyl)-L-cysteinyl-R-(-)-phenylglycine (TER 117) has previously been developed for selective inhibition of human glutathione S-transferase P1-1 (GST P1-1) based on the postulated contribution of this isoenzyme to the development of drug resistance in cancer cells. In the present investigation, the inhibitory effect of TER 117 on the human glyoxalase system was studied. Although designed as an inhibitor specific for GST P1-1, TER 117 also competitively inhibits glyoxalase I (K(I) = 0.56 microM). In contrast, no inhibition of glyoxalase II was detected. Reduced glyoxalase activity is expected to raise intracellular levels of toxic 2-oxoaldehydes otherwise eliminated by glyoxalase I. The resulting toxicity would accompany the potentiation of cytostatic drugs, caused by inhibition of the detoxication effected by GST P1-1. TER 117 was designed for efficient inhibition of the most abundant form GST P1-1/Ile105. Therefore, the inhibitory effect of TER 117 on a second allelic variant GST P1-1/Val105 was also studied. TER 117 was shown to competitively inhibit both GST P1-1 variants. The apparent K(I) values at glutathione concentrations relevant to the intracellular milieu were in the micromolar range for both enzyme forms. Extrapolation to free enzyme produced K(I) values of approximately 0.1 microM for both isoenzymes, reflecting the high affinity of GST P1-1 for the inhibitor. Thus, the allelic variation in position 105 of GST P1-1 does not affect the inhibitory potency of TER 117. The inhibitory effects of TER 117 on GST P1-1 and glyoxalase I activities may act in synergy in the cell and improve the effectiveness of chemotherapy.
10666306: !lactoylglutathione Cloning and characterization of glyoxalase I from soybean. Glyoxalase I and glutathione transferase (GST) are two glutathione-dependent enzymes which are enhanced in plants during cell division and in response to diverse stress treatments. In soybean, a further connection between these two enzymes has been suggested by a clone (Accession No. X68819) resembling a GST being described as a glyoxalase I. To characterize glyoxalase I in soybean, GmGlyox I resembling the dimeric enzyme from animals has been cloned from a cDNA library prepared from soybean suspension cultures. When expressed in Escherichia coli, GmGlyox I was found to be a 38-kDa dimer composed of 21-kDa subunits and unlike the enzyme from mammals showed activity in the absence of metal ions. GmGlyox I was active toward the hemithioacetal adducts formed by reacting methylglyoxal, or phenylglyoxal, with glutathione, homoglutathione, or gamma-glutamylcysteine, showing no preference for homoglutathione adducts over glutathione adducts, even though homoglutathione is the dominant thiol in soybean. When the clone X68819 was expressed in E. coli, the respective recombinant enzyme was active as a GST rather than a glyoxalase and was termed GmGST 3. GmGST 3 was active as a homodimer (45 kDa) composed of 26-kDa subunits and showed a preference for glutathione over homoglutathione when conjugating 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. Both enzymes are associated with cell division in soybean cultures, but GmGST 3 (0.4% total protein) was 40 times more abundant than GmGlyox I (0.01%).
10641145: !lactoylglutathione Effect of antidiabetic compounds on glyoxalase I activity in experimental diabetic rat liver. The activity of glyoxalase I from the soluble fraction of diabetic rat liver was found to decrease as compared to the control. Sodium orthovanadate in drinking water and Trigonella foenum graecum seed powder when administered to these diabetic animals were found to reverse the activity of glyoxalase I to control values. A combination of the above two antidiabetic compounds showed a better reversal. Vanadate and Trigonella seed powder treatment separately to diabetic rats also normalized hyperglycemia together with glyoxalase I activity. A combination of vanadate and Trigonella seed powder also restored the other general parameters of the diabetic animals.
10617851: !lactoylglutathione Mitochondrial contribution to metabolic changes in the digestive gland of Mytilus galloprovincialis during anaerobiosis. The activities of several enzymes and the levels of metabolites have been measured in the digestive gland of Mytilus galloprovincialis exposed to increasing hypoxia from 7 to 168 hr. A sharp decrease of pyruvate kinase was observed after 7 hr. The anoxic enzyme showed increased Km for phosphoenolpyruvate and decreased apparent Ki for alanine. Glyoxalase I was constant after up to 72 hr of exposure and then decreased. Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and alanopine dehydrogenase decreased. The metabolites alanine and succinate increased with hypoxia time, whereas D- and L-lactic and aspartic acids were undetectable and constant respectively. Mitochondrial formation of pyruvate from D-lactate was demonstrated in intact mitochondria isolated from the digestive gland of Mytilus galloprovincialis. The significance of the observed enzyme and metabolite changes in hypoxia is discussed in comparison with other invertebrate organisms. The role of mitochondria in the overall adaptive strategy of Mytilus galloprovincialis is discussed. J. Exp. Zool. 286:107-113, 2000.
10600466: !lactoylglutathione Heterologous expression, purification, and kinetic comparison of the cytoplasmic and mitochondrial glyoxalase II enzymes, Glo2p and Glo4p, from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The aims of the present study are (i) to purify a mitochondrial glyoxalase II to homogeneity for the first time from any organism and (ii) to compare its kinetic properties with those of the cytoplasmic enzyme. Both the cytoplasmic and the mitochondrial glyoxalases II from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which are the products of two distinct genes, GLO2 and GLO4, were purified from yeast and in recombinant form from Escherichia coli. To obtain a higher protein yield (compared to wild-type expression) in yeast, the genes were placed under the control of the strong GAL1 promoter on a multicopy plasmid. Amino-terminal sequencing and molecular mass determination by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry of the mitochondrial Glo4 protein revealed Met-11 of the primary translation product of the gene as the N-terminal amino acid. Judged by enzyme kinetic properties the recombinant and natural proteins were equivalent. The cytoplasmic and the mitochondrial enzyme differed in the pH dependence of the kinetic parameters for the main substrate, S-d-lactoylglutathione. Whereas the cytoplasmic protein showed a pronounced peak of enzyme activity between pH 7-8 and a continuous up to fivefold increase of the K(M) value with increasing pH (from 5. 5-9.0), the mitochondrial protein had a nearly constant K(M) value and an activity maximum over a broad pH range (6.5-9.0). The kinetic parameters (at pH 7.5) of both the cytoplasmic and the mitochondrial enzyme for S-D-lactoylglutathione were of the same order of magnitude as reported recently for the human and Arabidopsis thaliana enzymes which are presumably of cytoplasmic origin. However, both yeast enzymes showed a severalfold lower preference for the more hydrophobic substrate, S-d-mandeloylglutathione.
10585871: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I is a novel nitric-oxide-responsive protein. To clarify the molecular mechanisms of nitric oxide (NO) signalling, we examined the NO-responsive proteins in cultured human endothelial cells by two-dimensional (2D) PAGE. Levels of two proteins [NO-responsive proteins (NORPs)] with different pI values responded to NO donors. One NORP (pI 5.2) appeared in response to NO, whereas another (pI 5.0) disappeared. These proteins were identified as a native form and a modified form of human glyoxalase I (Glox I; EC 4. 4.1.5) by peptide mapping, microsequencing and correlation between the activity and the isoelectric shift. Glox I lost activity in response to NO, and all NO donors tested inhibited its activity in a dose-dependent manner. Activity and normal electrophoretic mobility were restored by dithiothreitol and by the removal of sources of NO from the culture medium. Glox I was selectively inactivated by NO; compounds that induce oxidative stress (H(2)O(2), paraquat and arsenite) failed to inhibit this enzyme. Our results suggest that NO oxidatively modifies Glox I and reversibly inhibits the enzyme's activity. The inactivation of Glox I by NO was more effective than that of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PDH), another NO-sensitive enzyme. Thus Glox I seems to be a novel NO-responsive protein that is more sensitive to NO than G3PDH.
10564821: !lactoylglutathione Genomic sequence of human glyoxalase-I: analysis of promoter activity and its regulation. Glyoxalase-I is a glutathione-binding protein involved in the detoxification of methylglyoxal, a by-product of glycolysis. Aberrations in the expression of human glyoxalase in cancer and diabetes have been reported. To gain a better understanding of the glyoxalase-I regulation under normal physiological conditions and in disease processes, we have cloned 12kb of genomic sequence, comprising five exons, separated by four introns. A fragment comprising 982bp of 5' flanking region was used in the pSEAP reporter system to identify the minimal promoter and to locate any cis-acting functional elements. This region contained a minimal promoter between -20 and -160bp. Cells transfected with a construct containing the 5' flanking sequence exhibited a 45-fold higher activity over vector transfected cells. A twofold reproducible increase in reporter activity was seen with insulin and ZnCl(2) treatments, indicating a functionally operative insulin response element (IRE) and metal response element (MRE). Knowledge regarding the regulation of glyoxalase-I may provide insights into the importance of this enzyme in human diseases.
10526958: !lactoylglutathione An evolutionary role of formaldehyde. The evolution can be divided into three stages: chemical, prebiological and biological evolution. Most of the problems emerge when the development of cellular organization, the so-called prebiological evolution, is investigated. Here the possible evolutionary roles for formaldehyde as well as for the methylglyoxalase pathway are proposed. The theory, on the one hand, ascertaines a pathway serving as an anaplerotic route for the reductive citric acid cycle of surface metabolists and using formaldehyde as raw molecule. On the other hand, an explanation for the glyoxalase enigma is offered hoping that in this way a long lasting mystery of almost nine decades biochemical research can be solved.
10521255: !lactoylglutathione Reaction mechanism of glyoxalase I explored by an X-ray crystallographic analysis of the human enzyme in complex with a transition state analogue. The structures of human glyoxalase I in complexes with S-(N-hydroxy-N-p-iodophenylcarbamoyl)glutathione (HIPC-GSH) and S-p-nitrobenzyloxycarbonylglutathione (NBC-GSH) have been determined at 2.0 and 1.72 A resolution, respectively. HIPC-GSH is a transition state analogue mimicking the enediolate intermediate that forms along the reaction pathway of glyoxalase I. In the structure, the hydroxycarbamoyl function is directly coordinated to the active site zinc ion. In contrast, the equivalent group in the NBC-GSH complex is approximately 6 A from the metal in a conformation that may resemble the product complex with S-D-lactoylglutathione. In this complex, two water molecules occupy the liganding positions at the zinc ion occupied by the hydroxycarbamoyl function in the enediolate analogue complex. Coordination of the transition state analogue to the metal enables a loop to close down over the active site, relative to its position in the product-like structure, allowing the glycine residue of the glutathione moiety to hydrogen bond with the protein. The structure of the complex with the enediolate analogue supports an "inner sphere mechanism" in which the GSH-methylglyoxal thiohemiacetal substrate is converted to product via a cis-enediolate intermediate. The zinc ion is envisioned to play an electrophilic role in catalysis by directly coordinating this intermediate. In addition, the carboxyl of Glu 172 is proposed to be displaced from the inner coordination sphere of the metal ion during substrate binding, thus allowing this group to facilitate proton transfer between the adjacent carbon atoms of the substrate. This proposal is supported by the observation that in the complex with the enediolate analogue the carboxyl group of Glu 172 is 3.3 A from the metal and is in an ideal position for reprotonation of the transition state intermediate. In contrast, Glu 172 is directly coordinated to the zinc ion in the complexes with S-benzylglutathione and with NBC-GSH.
10508780: !lactoylglutathione Crystal structure of human glyoxalase II and its complex with a glutathione thiolester substrate analogue. Glyoxalase II, the second of two enzymes in the glyoxalase system, is a thiolesterase that catalyses the hydrolysis of S-D-lactoylglutathione to form glutathione and D-lactic acid.
10403382: !lactoylglutathione Energetics of the proposed rate-determining step of the glyoxalase I reaction. The proposed rate-limiting step of the reaction catalyzed by glyoxalase I is the proton abstraction from the C1 carbon atom of the substrate by a glutamate residue, resulting in a high-energy enolate intermediate. This proton transfer reaction was modelled using molecular dynamics and free energy perturbation simulations, with the empirical valence bond method describing the potential energy surface of the system. The calculated rate constant for the reaction is approximately 300-1500 s(-1) with Zn2+, Mg2+ or Ca2+ bound to the active site, which agrees well with observed kinetics of the enzyme. Furthermore, the results imply that the origin of the catalytic rate enhancement is mainly associated with enolate stabilization by the metal ion.
10397839: !lactoylglutathione Production of S-lactoylglutathione by high activity whole cell biocatalysts prepared by permeabilization of recombinant saccharomyces cerevisiae with alcohols. The permeabilization of yeast cells with methanol, ethanol, and isopropyl alcohol under various conditions was studied to develop the preparation method of high activity whole cell biocatalysts. Recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which intracellularly overexpresses glyoxalase I and catalyzes the conversion of methylglyoxal to S-lactoylglutathione in the presence of glutathione, was used as the model system. The permeabilization treatments with alcohols significantly enhanced the activities of yeast cells. Especially, the initial S-lactoylglutathione production rates of cells permeabilized with 40% ethanol and isopropyl alcohol solutions for 10 min at 4 degrees C were high and were 364 and 582 times larger than those of untreated cells, respectively. These permeabilized yeast cells retained high activities during repeated batch reactions. Even in third batch reaction, they showed approximately 70-80% of the activity in the first batch. The plasma membrane of S. cerevisiae cells was damaged by the treatment with alcohol solutions in such a way that leakage of glyoxalase I from the cells is rather small and that both substrate and product show very high permeability. The initial S-lactoylglutathione production rates of these permeabilized cells were 1.5-2.5 times larger than those of glyoxalase I in cell extracts prepared by ethyl acetate method from the same amount of cells. These results demonstrate that the recombinant S. cerevisiae cells permeabilized with alcohol solutions under the optimum condition are very effective whole cell biocatalysts. Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
10395957: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I from Brassica juncea is a calmodulin stimulated protein. Brassica juncea glyoxalase I (S-lactoylglutathione-lyase, EC 4.4.1. 5) is a 56 kDa, heterodimeric protein. It requires magnesium (Mg2+) for its optimal activity. In this report we provide biochemical evidence for modulation of glyoxalase I activity by calcium/calmodulin (Ca2+/CaM). In the presence of Ca2+ glyoxalase I showed a significant (2.6-fold) increase in its activity. It also showed a Ca2+ dependent mobility shift on denaturing gels. Its Ca2+ binding was confirmed by Chelex-100 assay and gel overlays using 45CaCl2. Glyoxalase I was activated by over 7-fold in the presence of Ca2+ (25 microM) and CaM (145 nM) and this stimulation was blocked by the CaM antibodies and a CaM inhibitor, trifluroperazine (150 microM). Glyoxalase I binds to a CaM-Sepharose column and was eluted by EGTA. The eluted protein fractions also showed stimulation by CaM. The stimulation of glyoxalase I activity by CaM was maximum in the presence of Mg2+ and Ca2+; however, magnesium alone also showed glyoxalase I activation by CaM.
10346934: !lactoylglutathione A new method for rapidly generating inhibitors of glyoxalase I inside tumor cells using S-(N-aryl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)ethylsulfoxides. The enediol analogue S-(N-p-chlorophenyl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathione is a powerful mechanism-based competitive inhibitor of the anticancer target enzyme glyoxalase I. Nevertheless, this compound exhibits limited toxicity toward tumor cells in vitro because it does not readily diffuse across cell membranes. We describe an efficient method for indirectly delivering the enzyme inhibitor into murine leukemia L1210 cells via acyl interchange between intracellular glutathione and the cell-permeable prodrug S-(N-p-chlorophenyl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)ethylsulfoxide. The second-order rate constant for the acyl-interchange reaction in a cell-free system is 1.84 mM-1 min-1 (100 mM potassium phosphate buffer, 5% ethanol, pH 7.5, 25 degrees C). Incubation of L1210 cells with the sulfoxide in vitro results in a rapid increase in the intracellular concentration of the glyoxalase I inhibitor (kapp = 1. 41 +/- 0.03 min-1 (37 degrees C)) and inhibition of cell growth (GI50 = 0.5 +/- 0.1 microM). This represents an improvement in both efficiency and potency over the dialkyl ester prodrug strategy in which the inhibitor is indirectly delivered into tumor cells as the [glycyl,glutamyl] diethyl or dicyclopentyl esters. The fact that pi-glutathione transferase catalyzes the acyl-interchange reaction between GSH and the sulfoxide suggests that the sulfoxide, or related compounds, might exhibit greater selective toxicity toward tumor cells that overexpress the transferase.
10334858: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase II in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: in situ kinetics using the 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) assay. The determination of glyoxalase II (S-(2-hydroxyacyl)glutathione hydrolase, EC 3.1.2.6) activity is usually accomplished by monitoring the decrease of absorbance at 240 nm due to the hydrolysis of S-d-lactoylglutathione. However, it was not possible, using this assay, to detect any enzyme activity in situ, in Saccharomyces cerevisiae permeabilized cells. Glyoxalase II activity was then determined by following the formation of GSH at 412 nm using 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid). Using this method we characterized the kinetics of glyoxalase II in situ using S-d-lactoylglutathione as substrate and compared the results with those obtained for cell-free extracts. The specific activity was found to be (4.08 +/- 0.12) x 10(-2) micromol min-1 mg-1 in permeabilized cells and (3.90 +/- 0.04) x 10(-2) micromol min1 mg-1 in cell-free extracts. Kinetic parameters were Km 0.36 +/- 0.09 mM and V (7.65 +/- 0.59) x 10(-4) mM min-1 for permeabilized cells and Km 0.15 +/- 0.10 mM and V (7.23 +/- 1.04) x 10(-4) mM min-1 for cell-free extracts. d-Lactate concentration was also determined and increased in a linear way with permeabilized cell concentration. gamma-Glutamyl transferase (EC 2.3.2.2), which also accepts S-d-lactoylglutathione as substrate and hence could interfere with glyoxalase II assays, was found to be absent in Saccharomyces cerevisiae permeabilized cells.
10231016: !lactoylglutathione A possible evolutionary role of formaldehyde. Formaldehyde is a compound which is believed to have had a role in evolutionary processes. On the other hand, the (methyl)glyoxalase pathway is a route being present in all biological organisms whereas its function has not yet been recognized in the biochemical machinery. In this article it is raised that (methyl)glyoxalase path might have functioned as a bridge between formose and archaic reductive citric acid cycles in surface metabolists at the early stage of evolution. According to the theory, formaldehyde was essential for the mentioned system as a raw molecule. Based on thermodynamic calculations a simple way of regulation is also shown. The simplicity of the theory may be in a good agreement with and an explanation of why the (methyl)glyoxalase system is of ubiquitous nature.
10206549: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis and activity of gamma-(L-gamma-azaglutamyl)-S-(p-bromobenzyl)-L-cysteinylglycine: a metabolically stable inhibitor of glyoxalase I. The inhibition of glyoxalase I enzyme to increase cellular levels of methylglyoxal has been developed as a rationale for the production of anticancer agents. Synthesis of a peptidomimetic analog of the previously prepared potent glyoxalase inhibitor, S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione (PBBG), was accomplished by inserting a urea linkage, NH-CO-NH, to replace the gamma-glutamyl peptide bond. Thus, the target compound, gamma-(L-gamma-azaglutamyl)-S-(p-bromobenzyl)-L-cysteinylglycine 6, was a potent inhibitor of glyoxalase I with almost no loss of activity when compared to PBBG. However, unlike PBBG, 6 was completely resistant to enzymatic degradation by kidney homogenate or by purified gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase enzyme.
10205896: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I from Brassica juncea: molecular cloning, regulation and its over-expression confer tolerance in transgenic tobacco under stress. Despite its ubiquitous presence, the role of glyoxalase I has not been well investigated in plants. In order to find out its physiological functions, we have cloned and characterized a cDNA from Brassica juncea encoding glyoxalase I (Gly I) and made transgenic tobacco plants harbouring Gly I in both sense and antisense orientation. The transgenic nature of the plants was confirmed by Southern blotting, and the estimated number of genes inserted ranged from one to six. The transcript and protein levels of glyoxalase I were also monitored in transgenic plants. The expression of glyoxalase I in B. juncea was upregulated in response to salt, water and heavy metal stresses. In response to a high concentration of salt, the transcript level averaged threefold higher in 72 h, and an increase in the protein was also seen by immunoblotting. The transgenic plants over-expressing glyoxalase I showed significant tolerance to methylglyoxal and high salt, as tested in detached leaf disc senescence assay. A comparison of plants expressing high and low levels of glyoxalase I showed that the tolerance to different salt concentrations was correlated with the degree of glyoxalase I expression. Our results suggest an important role of glyoxalase I in conferring tolerance to plants under stress conditions.
10082363: !lactoylglutathione All in the family: structural and evolutionary relationships among three modular proteins with diverse functions and variable assembly. The crystal structures of three proteins of diverse function and low sequence similarity were analyzed to evaluate structural and evolutionary relationships. The proteins include a bacterial bleomycin resistance protein, a bacterial extradiol dioxygenase, and human glyoxalase I. Structural comparisons, as well as phylogenetic analyses, strongly indicate that the modern family of proteins represented by these structures arose through a rich evolutionary history that includes multiple gene duplication and fusion events. These events appear to be historically shared in some cases, but parallel and historically independent in others. A significant early event is proposed to be the establishment of metal-binding in an oligomeric ancestor prior to the first gene fusion. Variations in the spatial arrangements of homologous modules are observed that are consistent with the structural principles of three-dimensional domain swapping, but in the unusual context of the formation of larger monomers from smaller dimers or tetramers. The comparisons support a general mechanism for metalloprotein evolution that exploits the symmetry of a homooligomeric protein to originate a metal binding site and relies upon the relaxation of symmetry, as enabled by gene duplication, to establish and refine specific functions.
10075116: !lactoylglutathione Modulation of radioresponse of glyoxalase system by curcumin. Human beings have been exposed to radiation for many years. It is quite possible that antioxidant phytochemicals consumed in their diet might be providing a variable degree of radioprotection. However, their radiomodifying ability is not well understood. In the present work, curcumin (diferuloyl methane), a phytochemical present in the rhizome of Curcuma longa Linn. has been examined for its radioprotective property using the glyoxalase system which is vital for various biological functions. Curcumin (5, 25 and 50 mg/kg body weight) in olive oil was given orally to Swiss albino male mice (7-8 weeks old) daily for 2 weeks and irradiated with different doses of gamma-radiation (0-6 Gy) at 0.027 Gy per second dose rate on last day of the treatment. The specific activities of glyoxalase I and II were determined in the liver and spleen. The treatment of curcumin prior to irradiation restored the specific activity of glyoxalase system to almost the control level which was suggestive of the radioprotective ability of curcumin. Free radical scavenging and electron/hydrogen donation are probable attributes for the protective effect of curcumin.
10066594: !lactoylglutathione Glutathione-mediated detoxification systems in plants. Recent work has highlighted the presence of diverse glutathione-dependent enzymes in plants with potential roles in the detoxification of both xenobiotic and endogenous compounds. In particular, studies on glutathione transferases are further characterising their role in xenobiotic metabolism, and also raising intriguing possible roles in endogenous metabolism. The solution of their three-dimensional structures together with studies on their molecular diversity and substrate specificity is providing new insights into the function and classification of these enigmatic enzymes.
10037441: !lactoylglutathione Trioses and related substances: tools for the study of pancreatic beta-cell function. Trioses, such as D-glyceraldehyde, have been used extensively for the study of stimulus-secretion coupling mechanisms in pancreatic beta-cells. It is generally assumed that trioses enter the glycolytic pathway at the triose phosphate level, and stimulate insulin release in a manner analogous to glucose. This review focuses on a number of triose effects that are not entirely consistent with this model. These effects are likely to result, at least in part, from the actions of alpha-ketoaldehydes. One such compound, methylglyoxal, appears to be a major contaminant of triose preparations, and exerts effects on the beta-cell identical to some of those evoked by glyceraldehyde. A related substance, hydroxypyruvaldehyde, is a product of triose autoxidation, which could exert similar effects. Study of the actions of trioses and alpha-ketoaldehydes could assist our understanding of cellular physiology, in general, and beta-cell function, in particular. These substances are also likely to be of pathophysiological importance, especially in the context of sugar toxicity and autoxidative cell damage.
9989250: !lactoylglutathione Age-dependent ultrastructural alterations and biochemical response of rat skeletal muscle after hypoxic or hyperoxic treatments. This work deals with the antioxidant enzymatic response and the ultrastructural aspects of the skeletal muscle of young and aged rats kept under hypoxic or hyperoxic normobaric conditions. It is in fact well known that the supply of oxygen at concentrations higher or lower than those occurring under normal conditions can promote oxidative processes that can cause tissue damage. The enzymes investigated were both those directly involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging (superoxide dismutase, catalase and selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase), and those challenged with the detoxication of cytotoxic compounds produced by the action of ROS on biological molecules (glutathione transferase, glyoxalase I, glutathione reductase), in order to obtain a comparative view of the defence strategies used with respect to aging. Our results support the hypothesis that one of the major contributors to the aging process is the oxidative damage produced at least in part by an impairment of the antioxidant enzymatic system. This makes the aged organism particularly susceptible to oxidative stress injury and to the related degenerative diseases, especially in those tissues with high demand for oxidative metabolism.
9925727: !lactoylglutathione Mechanism-based competitive inhibitors of glyoxalase I: intracellular delivery, in vitro antitumor activities, and stabilities in human serum and mouse serum. S-(N-Aryl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathione derivatives (GSC(O)N(OH)C6H4X, where GS = glutathionyl and X = H (1), Cl (2), Br (3)) have been proposed as possible anticancer agents, because of their ability to strongly inhibit the methylglyoxal-detoxifying enzyme glyoxalase I. In order to test this hypothesis, the in vitro antitumor activities of these compounds and their [glycyl,glutamyl] diethyl ester prodrug forms (1(Et)2-3(Et)2) have been examined. All three diethyl esters inhibit the growth of L1210 murine leukemia and B16 melanotic melanoma in culture, with GI50 values in the micromolar concentration range. Cell permeability studies with L1210 cells indicate that growth inhibition is associated with rapid diffusion of the diethyl esters into the cells, followed by enzymatic hydrolysis of the ethyl ester functions to give the inhibitory diacids. In contrast, the corresponding diacids neither readily diffuse into nor significantly inhibit the growth of these cells. Consistent with the hypothesis that cell growth inhibition is due to competitive inhibition of glyoxalase I, preincubation of L1210 cells with 2(Et)2 increases the sensitivity of these cells to the inhibitory effects of exogenous methylglyoxal. Compound 2(Et)2 is much less toxic to nonproliferating murine splenic lymphocytes, possibly reflecting reduced sensitivity to methylglyoxal and/or reduced chemical stability of the diacid inside these cells. Finally, a plasma esterase-deficient murine model has been identified that should allow in vivo testing of the diethyl esters.
9915484: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I activity in human prostate cancer: a potential marker and importance in chemotherapy. To provide information on the activity of Gly-I in prostate cancer.
9887525: !lactoylglutathione Biochemical and immunochemical characterization of Brassica juncea glyoxalase I. A homogenous preparation of glyoxalase I (S-lactoylglutathione-lyase, EC 4.4.1.5) was obtained from Brassica juncea seedlings. The enzyme is a heterodimer with 27,000 and 29,000 M(r) subunits and native M(r) of 56,000. The circular dichroic spectra of the protein showed characteristics of a distinctly helical protein, and magnesium affected the secondary structure. It is a zinc metalloenzyme. Amino acid modification studies suggested the involvement of histidine residues in catalysis. Apo-glyoxalase I was reactivated by divalent cations Mn2+ (0.5 Mm) > Mg2+ (5 Mm) > Zn2+ (0.05 Mm) and Ca2+ (0.01 Mm). Monospecific, polyclonal anti-glyoxalase I antibodies were raised, which showed its presence in seeds, roots, hypocotyl, cotyledon and different flower parts. They showed varied degree of cross reactivity with the extracts from various plants, yeast, bacteria and animal system.
9878674: !lactoylglutathione On the promine/retine theory of cell division: now and then. Although the glyoxalase system was discovered in 1913, its function in the biological network is still a subject of debate. An attractive theory on its role was described by Albert Szent-Györgyi in the 1960s. From a bird's eye view, the promine/retine concept of Szent-Györgyi seems to give a plausible role for this ubiquitous enzyme system, but on going into detail, it obviously suffers from several uncertainties which have not been discussed until now. Here, a critical overview of the theory is presented by taking the pros and cons into account. It looks as though more data object to the theory than give support to it; and the search for anticancer medicines stimulated by the theory has not resulted in a new way of treatment of tumors, either. Hence, it is feared that the theory suggested for the biological role of glyoxalase pathway cannot be accepted, as it is.
9871526: !lactoylglutathione Syntheses and kinetic evaluation of hydroxamate-based peptide inhibitors of glyoxalase I. Hydroxamate-containing tripeptide analogs resembling a reactive intermediate in glyoxalase I catalysis were prepared by solution methods and were found to be competitive inhibitors of the enzyme from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Electronic properties of the hydroxamate functionality as well as those of the expected intermediates in the enzyme-catalyzed reaction were compared.
9847697: !lactoylglutathione [Mechanism of stress response and gene expression of glyoxalase I in yeast]. 
9818186: !lactoylglutathione Mechanistically diverse enzyme superfamilies: the importance of chemistry in the evolution of catalysis. The strategy that nature has used to evolve new catalytic activities from pre-existing enzymes (i.e. retention of substrate binding or of catalytic mechanism) has been controversial. Recent work supports a strategy in which a partial reaction, catalyzed by a progenitor, is retained, and the active-site architecture is modified to allow the intermediate generated to be directed to different products.
9771022: !lactoylglutathione [Participation of glyoxalases and methylglyoxal in diabetic complication development]. The glyoxalase system catalyses the conversion of methylglyoxal to D-lactate via intermediate S-D-lactoylgutathione. This system consists of two enzymes, glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II. A link between the development of diabetic complications and the glyoxalase system has been suggested at the genetic and metabolic level. Insulin-dependent diabetic patients without complications (retinopathy, neuropathy) had a significantly higher frequency of the glyoxalase phenotype GLO 1-1 than patients with complications. Periodic hyperglycaemia may contribute to the development of diabetic complication through methylglyoxal-mediated changes in protein solubility and aggregation characteristics.
9705294: !lactoylglutathione Involvement of an active-site Zn2+ ligand in the catalytic mechanism of human glyoxalase I. The Zn2+ ligands glutamate 99 and glutamate 172 in the active site of human glyoxalase I were replaced, each in turn, by glutamines by site-directed mutagenesis to elucidate their potential significance for the catalytic properties of the enzyme. To compensate for the loss of the charged amino acid residue, another of the metal ligands, glutamine 33, was simultaneously mutated into glutamate. The double mutants and the single mutants Q33E, E99Q, and E172Q were expressed in Escherichia coli, purified on an S-hexylglutathione matrix, and characterized. Metal analysis demonstrated that mutant Q33E/E172Q contained 1.0 mol of zinc/mol of enzyme subunit, whereas mutant Q33E/E99Q contained only 0.3 mol of zinc/mol of subunit. No catalytic activity could be detected with the double mutant Q33E/E172Q (<10(-8) of the wild-type activity). The second double mutant Q33E/E99Q had 1.5% of the specific activity of the wild-type enzyme, whereas the values for mutants Q33E and E99Q were 1.3 and 0. 1%, respectively; the E172Q mutant had less than 10(-5) times the specific activity of the wild-type. The crystal structure of the catalytically inactive double mutant Q33E/E172Q demonstrated that Zn2+ was bound without any gross changes or perturbations. The results suggest that the metal ligand glutamate 172 is directly involved in the catalytic mechanism of the enzyme, presumably serving as the base that abstracts a proton from the hemithioacetal substrate.
9694672: !lactoylglutathione Identification of glyoxalase I sequences in Brassica oleracea and Sporobolus stapfianus: evidence for gene duplication events. Glyoxalase I (GlxI) is the first of two enzymes involved in the cellular detoxification of methylglyoxal. A recent search of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) databases with the protein sequence of Salmonella typhimurium GlxI identified two new hypothetical proteins with unassigned function. These two sequences, from Brassica oleracea and Sporobolus stapfianus, have significant sequence similarity to known GlxI sequences, suggesting that these two open reading frames encode for GlxI in these plants. Interestingly, analysis of these two new sequences indicates that they code for a protein composed of two fused monomers, a situation previously found solely in the yeast GlxI enzymes.
9689946: !lactoylglutathione From mineral support to enzymatic catalysis--further assumptions for the evolutionary history of glyoxalase system. In a previous paper we suggested that the methylglyoxalase pathway might have been an anaplerotic route for the archaic reductive citric acid cycle of surface metabolists at the early stage of evolution. The present paper tries to outline a possible way for the further development of enzyme catalysed glyoxalase path by separating the global process into several plausible evolutionary stages. A sequence of events is proposed which might have led to the emergence of energy rich bonds, especially to the formation of the thiol-ester bond. An explanation is given for the cofactor function of transition metals, as well. A proposition is also made for how nature may preserve molecular mechanisms using them for different purposes if the innovation has proved successful.
9679550: !lactoylglutathione Glutathione-dependent detoxification of alpha-oxoaldehydes by the glyoxalase system: involvement in disease mechanisms and antiproliferative activity of glyoxalase I inhibitors. The glyoxalase system is a metabolic pathway that catalyses the detoxification of alpha-oxoaldehydes RCOCHO to corresponding aldonic acids RCH(OH)CO2H. It thereby protects cells from alpha-oxoaldehyde-mediated formation of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs). It is comprised of two enzymes, glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II, and a catalytic amount of reduced glutathione (GSH) as cofactor. It is present in the cytosol of cells of mammals and most micro-organisms. Physiological substrates of the glyoxalase system are: glyoxal--formed from lipid peroxidation and glycation reactions, methylglyoxal--formed from triosephosphates, ketone body metabolism and threonine catabolism, and 4,5-dioxovalerate--formed from 5-aminolevulinate and alpha-ketoglutarate. alpha-Oxoaldehydes react with guanyl residues in DNA and RNA, and with cysteine, lysine and arginine residues in proteins. The modification of DNA induces mutagenesis and apoptosis. The modification of proteins leads to protein degradation and activation of a cytokine-mediated immune response.
9679539: !lactoylglutathione An evolutionary approach to the design of glutathione-linked enzymes. Studies of protein structure provide information about principles of protein design that have come into play in natural evolution. This information can be exploited in the redesign of enzymes for novel functions. The glutathione-binding domain of glutathione transferases has similarities with structures in other glutathione-linked proteins, such as glutathione peroxidases and thioredoxin (glutaredoxin), suggesting divergent evolution from a common ancestral protein fold. In contrast, the binding site for glutathione in human glyoxalase I is located at the interface between the two identical subunits of the protein. Comparison with the homologous, but monomeric, yeast glyoxalase I suggests that new domains have originated through gene duplications, and that the oligomeric structure of the mammalian glyoxalase I has arisen by 'domain swapping'. Recombinant DNA techniques are being used for the redesign of glutathione-linked proteins in attempts to create binding proteins with novel functions and catalysts with tailored specificities. Enzymes with desired properties are selected from libraries of variant structures by use of phage display and functional assays.
9671502: !lactoylglutathione Active monomeric and dimeric forms of Pseudomonas putida glyoxalase I: evidence for 3D domain swapping. 3D domain swapping of proteins involves the interconversion of a monomer containing a single domain-domain interface and a 2-fold symmetrical dimer containing two equivalent intermolecular interfaces. Human glyoxalase I has the structure of a domain-swapped dimer [Cameron, A. D., Olin, B., Ridderström, M., Mannervik, B., and Jones, T. A. (1997) EMBO J. 16, 3386-3395] but Pseudomonas putida glyoxalase I has been reported to be monomeric [Rhee, H.-I., Murata, K., and Kimura, A. (1986) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 141, 993-999]. We show here that recombinant P. putida glyoxalase I is an active dimer (kcat approximately 500 +/- 100 s-1; KM approximately 0.4 +/- 0.2 mM) with two zinc ions per dimer. The zinc is required for structure and function. However, treatment of the dimer with glutathione yields an active monomer (kcat approximately 115 +/- 40 s-1; KM approximately 1.4 +/- 0.4 mM) containing a single zinc ion. The monomer is metastable and slowly reverts to the active dimer in the absence of glutathione. Thus, glyoxalase I appears to be a novel example of a single protein able to exist in two alternative domain-swapped forms. It is unique among domain-swapped proteins in that the active site and an essential metal binding site are apparently disassembled and reassembled by the process of domain swapping. Furthermore, it is the only example to date in which 3D domain swapping can be regulated by a small organic ligand.
9662990: !lactoylglutathione [Genetic aspects of silicosis: polymorphic gene distribution frequency]. Electrophoresis and isoelectrofocusing were used to study polymorphism by 7 genetic loci: haptoglobin (Hp), proteinase inhibitor (PI), transferrin (TF), Vitamin D-transporting protein (GC), complement 3 (C3), phosphoglucomutase 1 (PGM1) and glyoxalase (GLO1) in 60 patients with silicosis and in 70 apparently healthy workers of the Dynamo plant. Comparison of the study groups by significant differences in the summary of the genetic information obtained suggests that 5 (Hp, C3, TF, PI, PGM1) of the 7 studied systems showed the hereditary features of silicosis. The gene carriers Hp*2, C3*F, PGM1*2-, PI*M1, TF*C1, TF*C16 TF*D, GC*R due to peculiar biochemical processes appear to have less adaptive potentialities and a greater likelihood of the disease on exposure to industrial factors.
9628737: !lactoylglutathione Overproduction and characterization of a dimeric non-zinc glyoxalase I from Escherichia coli: evidence for optimal activation by nickel ions. The ubiquitous glyoxalase system converts toxic alpha-keto aldehydes into their corresponding nontoxic 2-hydroxycarboxylic acids, utilizing glutathione (GSH) as a cofactor. The first enzyme in this system, glyoxalase I (GlxI), catalyzes the isomerization of the hemithioacetal formed nonenzymatically between GSH and cytotoxic alpha-keto aldehydes. To study the Escherichia coli GlxI enzyme, the DNA encoding this protein, gloA, was isolated and incorporated into the plasmid pTTQ18. Nucleotide sequencing of the gloA gene predicted a polypeptide of 135 amino acids and Mr of 14 919. The gloA gene has been overexpressed in E. coli and shown to encode for GlxI. An effective two-step purification protocol was developed, yielding 150-200 mg of homogeneous protein per liter of culture. Electrospray mass spectrometry confirmed the monomeric weight of the purified protein, while gel filtration analysis indicated GlxI to be a homodimer of 30 kDa. Zinc, the natural metal ion found in the Homo sapiens and Saccharomyces cerevisiae GlxI, had no effect on the activity of E. coli GlxI. In contrast, the addition of NiCl2 to the growth medium or to purified E. coli apo-GlxI greatly enhanced the enzymatic activity. Inductively coupled plasma and atomic absorption analyses indicated binding of only one nickel ion per dimeric enzyme, suggesting only one functional active site in this homodimeric enzyme. In addition, the apoprotein regained maximal activity with one molar equivalence of nickel chloride, indicative of tight metal binding. The effects of pH on the kinetics of the nickel-activated enzyme were also studied. This is the first example of a non-zinc activated GlxI whose maximal activation is seen with Ni2+.
9593316: !lactoylglutathione Studies on the life prolonging effect of food restriction: glutathione levels and glyoxalase enzymes in rat liver. Cytosolic and mitochondrial levels of glutathione (GSH) as well as the activities of glyoxalase I (GI) and glyoxalase II (GII), GSH-dependent enzymes involved in the detoxification of 2-ketoaldehydes, were investigated in the liver of ad libitum (AL) fed and food restricted (FR) rat during aging. Both cytosolic and mitochondrial GSH level was lower in old than in adult AL fed rats. Food restriction did not prevent this decrease, but its extent was attenuated considering the cytosolic GSH. As regards the mitochondrial GSH, its content was higher in adult FR animals than in the age-matched AL fed ones. Thus, the subsequent age-dependent decrease of GSH, occurring also in FR animals, resulted in a thiol concentration not different from that observed in young and adult AL fed animals. Considering the enzymatic activities, cytosolic GI decreased in old rats irrespective of diet, whereas GII activity remained constant in all the experimental groups. The higher glutathione content found in both cellular compartments of old FR rats as compared to the old AL fed ones, could help to explain the life prolonging effect of FR treatment. Moreover, the observation that the activity of glyoxalases was not influenced by food restriction does not necessarily mean that the cells of diet-conditioned animals are scarcely protected against the toxic effect of methylglyoxal. Indeed, the production of this compound should be lower in FR animals as compared to AL fed ones, due to the lower level serum glucose concentration during the life span of the former with respect to the latter group.
9578114: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalases activity during Bufo bufo embryo development. In this work we have investigated the expression of glyoxalase I (GLO I) and glyoxalase II (GLO II) activities during Bufo bufo embryo development and in some tissues of both male and female adult animals, in order to study how they correlate with cell proliferation and differentiation. The results show that both the activities are expressed at significant levels from the earliest developmental stages, reaching the highest values at the end of embryonic development (stage 25). The GLO I/GLO II ratio is very high at the beginning of the development and then gradually decreases as the development goes on. These data emphasize the importance of GLO I activity in the phases in which elevated cell division is taking place. In the differentiated tissues, a peculiar sexual dimorphism in both GLO I and GLO II activities, with higher values in female than in male, was found. GLO I embryonic activity levels are comparable to those found in female differentiated tissues, but significantly higher than those detected in male differentiated tissues. On the contrary, the GLO II activities found in the adult tissues were always higher than those found in embryos. These results further support the idea that high GLO I/GLO II ratios are a characteristic of the proliferative status, which assures a good scavenging action against the potentially cytotoxic and cytostatic effect of methylglyoxal.
9486985: !lactoylglutathione Overexpression of glyoxalase-I in bovine endothelial cells inhibits intracellular advanced glycation endproduct formation and prevents hyperglycemia-induced increases in macromolecular endocytosis. Methylglyoxal (MG), a dicarbonyl compound produced by the fragmentation of triose phosphates, forms advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) in vitro. Glyoxalase-I catalyzes the conversion of MG to S-D-lactoylglutathione, which in turn is converted to D-lactate by glyoxalase-II. To evaluate directly the effect of glyoxalase-I activity on intracellular AGE formation, GM7373 endothelial cells that stably express human glyoxalase-I were generated. Glyoxalase-I activity in these cells was increased 28-fold compared to neo-transfected control cells (21.80+/-0.1 vs. 0. 76+/-0.02 micromol/min/mg protein, n = 3, P < 0.001). In neo-transfected cells, 30 mM glucose incubation increased MG and D-lactate concentration approximately twofold above 5 MM (35.5+/-5.8 vs. 19.6+/-1.6, P < 0.02, n = 3, and 21.0+/-1.3 vs. 10.0+/-1.2 pmol/ 10(6) cells, n = 3, P < 0.001, respectively). In contrast, in glyoxalase-I-transfected cells, 30 mM glucose incubation did not increase MG concentration at all, while increasing the enzymatic product D-lactate by > 10-fold (18.9+/-3.2 vs. 18.4+/- 5.8, n = 3, P = NS, and 107.1+/-9.0 vs. 9.4+/-0 pmol/10(6) cells, n = 3, P < 0.001, respectively). After exposure to 30 mM glucose, intracellular AGE formation in neo cells was increased 13.6-fold (2.58+/-0.15 vs. 0.19+/-0.03 total absorbance units, n = 3, P < 0.001). Concomitant with increased intracellular AGEs, macromolecular endocytosis by these cells was increased 2.2-fold. Overexpression of glyoxalase-I completely prevented both hyperglycemia-induced AGE formation and increased macromolecular endocytosis.
9525289: !lactoylglutathione Adaptive response of human melanoma cells to methylglyoxal injury. The effects of methylglyoxal on the growth of a line of human melanoma cells are investigated. Methylglyoxal inhibits cell growth in a dose-dependent manner and causes an increase in glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and glyoxalase 1 and glyoxalase 2 specific activities. The cellular response to increasing concentrations of methylglyoxal in the culture medium is also studied by measuring L-lactate production, reduced-oxidized glutathione levels and apoptotic cell death. Methylglyoxal seems to promote a change of cell population phenotypic repertoire toward a more monomorphic phenotype. In conclusion, methylglyoxal seems to induce an enzymatic cellular response that lowers methylglyoxal levels and selects the most resistant cells.
9489668: !lactoylglutathione The role of glyoxalase I in the detoxification of methylglyoxal and in the activation of the KefB K+ efflux system in Escherichia coli. The glyoxalase I gene (gloA) of Escherichia coli has been cloned and used to create a null mutant. Cells overexpressing glyoxalase I exhibit enhanced tolerance of methylglyoxal (MG) and exhibit elevated rates of detoxification, although the increase is not stoichiometric with the change in enzyme activity. Potassium efflux via KefB is also enhanced in the overexpressing strain. Analysis of the physiology of the mutant has revealed that growth and viability are quite normal, unless the cell is challenged with MG either added exogenously or synthesized by the cells. The mutant strain has a low rate of detoxification of MG, and cells rapidly lose viability when exposed to this electrophile. Activation of KefB and KefC is diminished in the absence of functional glyoxalase I. These data suggest that the glutathione-dependent glyoxalase I is the dominant detoxification pathway for MG in E. coli and that the product of glyoxalase I activity, S-lactoylglutathione, is the activator of KefB and KefC.
9486950: !lactoylglutathione Influence of methylglyoxal on antioxidant enzymes and oxidative damage. The effect of different doses of methylglyoxal (50-400 mg/kg body wt.) were examined using enzymes involved in the antioxidant function, glutathione (GSH) content and lipid peroxidation in the liver and spleen of Swiss albino mice (7-8 week old) after 6, 12 and 24 h. Significant changes were observed predominantly in the liver. The specific activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), catalase, glyoxalase I (gly I) and glyoxalase II (gly II) were found to decrease in the liver. The mode and magnitude of change in the specific activities was seen to depend on the dose of methylglyoxal and the time after its administration. Methylglyoxal also decreased the GSH content and enhanced the lipid peroxidation in the liver. These findings are suggestive of the adverse effect of methylglyoxal on the antioxidant defence system. It is likely that methylglyoxal undergoes a redox cycle and generates the free radicals which in turn lower the antioxidant status in animals. The increased levels of lipid peroxidation provide support for the involvement of free radical processes in the detrimental effects of methylglyoxal. The response of DT-diaphorase (DTD) seems to be adaptive.
9446611: !lactoylglutathione Expression of the glyoxalase I gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is regulated by high osmolarity glycerol mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway in osmotic stress response. Methylglyoxal is a cytotoxic metabolite derived from dihydroxyacetone phosphate, an intermediate of glycolysis. Detoxification of methylglyoxal is performed by glyoxalase I. Expression of the structural gene of glyoxalase I (GLO1) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae under several stress conditions was investigated using the GLO1-lacZ fusion gene, and expression of the GLO1 gene was found to be specifically induced by osmotic stress. The Hog1p is one of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in S. cerevisiae, and both Msn2p and Msn4p are the transcriptional regulators that are thought to be under the control of Hog1p-MAPK. Expression of the GLO1 gene under osmotic stress was completely repressed in hog1Delta disruptant and was repressed approximately 80 and 50% in msn2Delta and msn4Delta disruptants, respectively. A double mutant of the MSN2 and MSN4 gene was unable to induce expression of the GLO1 gene under highly osmotic conditions. Glucose consumption increased approximately 30% during the adaptive period in osmotic stress in the wild type strain. On the contrary, it was reduced by 15% in the hog1Delta mutant. When the yeast cell is exposed to highly osmotic conditions, glycerol is synthesized as a compatible solute. Glycerol is synthesized from glucose, and a rate-limiting enzyme in glycerol biosynthesis is glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPD1 gene product), which catalyzes reduction of dihydroxyacetone phosphate to glycerol 3-phosphate. Expression of the GPD1 gene is also under the control of Hog1p-MAPK. Methylglyoxal is also synthesized from dihydroxyacetone phosphate; therefore, induction of the GLO1 gene expression by osmotic stress was thought to scavenge methylglyoxal, which increased during glycerol production for adaptation to osmotic stress.
9419273: !lactoylglutathione Trace metals and antioxidant enzymes in gills and digestive gland of the Mediterranean mussel Mytilus galloprovincialis. A seasonal variability of trace metal concentrations and antioxidant enzymes was observed in gills and digestive gland of the Mediterranean mussel Mytilus galloprovincialis from both a polluted and a nonpolluted population. Trace metals (As, Cu, Fe, Mn, Pb, and Zn) exhibited, in both organs, maximum values in later winter-early spring followed by a progressive decrease during the summer. While in the gills this behavior probably reflects a different bioavailability of metals, in the digestive gland it is influenced mainly by the progressive infiltration of the organ by gonadic tissues during gametogenesis. Metals, as other pollutants, are known to influence the oxidative status of these organisms and antioxidant enzymes have been often proposed as biomarkers of exposure to contaminants. In this respect, it was of interest to compare the variations of these biochemical parameters with those of metal levels in two mussel populations from a polluted and a nonpolluted site, respectively. The biochemical parameters examined included the level of glutathione and the activity of the following glutathione dependent and antioxidant enzymes: glyoxalase I, EC 4.4.1.5; glyoxalase II, EC3.1.2.6; glutathione S-transferases, EC 2.5.1.18; glutathione reductase, EC 1.6.4.2; Se-dependent, EC 1.11.1.9 and Se-independent, EC 2.5.1.18 glutathione peroxidases; catalase, EC 1. 11.1.6; superoxide dismutase, EC 1.15.1.1. Seasonal variations of trace metals did not appear to influence those of biochemical parameters, which generally showed an opposite trend with higher enzymatic activities in summer when trace metal concentrations were lower. The effects of metals on antioxidant enzymes were more evident when the two mussel populations were compared. In particular, organisms from the polluted site showed lower levels of glutathione and higher enzymatic activities of glyoxalase I even though the magnitude of these differences was not constant during the year. Moreover, native mussels from both the polluted and control populations exhibited limited differences in the activities of glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidases, catalase, and superoxide dismutase, suggesting the possibility of some biochemical adaptation in organisms from chronically polluted environments.
9463796: !lactoylglutathione Detection of genetic structures at short distances in the Pisa area. The genetic structure of the population of the urban and suburban area of the town of Pisa in Tuscany in Central Italy was studied in 1,174 adults residing in 4 zones in each of 3 sampling areas, using the phenotype and gene frequencies of 9 red cell enzymes. The area investigated has a surface of about 30 km2. The enzymes were: acid phosphatase (ACP1), adenosine deaminase (ADA), adenylate kinase (AK1), esterase D (ESD), glyoxalase I (GLOI), glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (GPT), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6-PGD), phosphogluco-mutase 1 (PGM1), and phosphoglycollate phosphatase (PGP). For the analysis of the distributions of phenotype and gene frequencies, standardised variances, kinship profiles, analysis of correspondences and isonymy were used. It was found that in this area genetic differentiation (possibly due to recent immigration) can be perceived even at short geographic distances, indicated by the significant regression of kinship on distance, especially visible in the ADA and GPT systems.
9359858: !lactoylglutathione Mutagenesis of residue 157 in the active site of human glyoxalase I. Met-157 in the active site of human glyoxalase I was changed by site-directed mutagenesis into alanine, glutamine or histidine in order to evaluate its possible role in catalysis. The glyoxalase I mutants were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified on an S-hexylglutathione affinity gel. The physicochemical properties of the mutant proteins were similar to those of the wild-type enzyme. The glutamine mutant exhibited the same high specific activity as wild-type glyoxalase I, whereas the alanine and histidine mutants had approx. 20% of wild-type activity. The kcat/Km values of the mutant glyoxalase I determined with the hemithioacetal adduct of glutathione and methylglyoxal were reduced to between 10 and 40% of the wild-type value. This reduction was due to lower kcat values for the alanine and histidine mutants and a twofold increase in the Km value for the glutamine mutant. With the hemithioacetal of glutathione and phenylglyoxal, the kinetic parameters of the mutants were also of the same magnitude as those of wild-type glyoxalase I. Studies with the competitive inhibitors S-hexyl- and S-benzyl-glutathione revealed that the affinity was reduced to 7-11% of the wild-type affinity for the glutamine and alanine mutants and to 30-40% for the histidine mutant, as measured by a comparison of Ki values. The results show that Met-157 has no direct role in catalysis, but is rather involved in forming the substrate-binding site of human glyoxalase I. The high activity of the glutamine mutant suggests that a structurally equivalent glutamine residue in the N-terminal half of Saccharomyces cerevisiae glyoxalase I may be part of a catalytically competent active site.
9417926: !lactoylglutathione Crystal structure of herbicide-detoxifying maize glutathione S-transferase-I in complex with lactoylglutathione: evidence for an induced-fit mechanism. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) -I and -III are involved in herbicide metabolism in maize and have been intensively studied. Starting with plant tissue from Zea mays var. mutin recombinant GST-I was prepared by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. The enzyme was crystallized in the presence of lactoylglutathione, a ligand formerly never observed in a GST structure and known as an intermediate of the pharmacologically relevant glyoxalase system. The crystal structure of GST-I has been determined at 2.5 A resolution and exhibits the GST-typical dimer of two identical subunits, each consisting of 214 residues. Compared with other plant GSTs the three-dimensional structure of GST-I primarily shows structural differences in the hydrophobic substrate binding site, the linker segment and the C-terminal region. Furthermore, a comparison of the ligand-bound GST-I structure with the apo structure of GST-III indicates the movement of a ten-residue loop upon binding of the ligand to the active site. This is the first structure-based evidence for an induced fit mechanism of glutathione S-transferases, which has previously been postulated for class pi enzymes. Together with GST-III, GST-I may explain herbicide resistance and selectivity in maize as well as in other agronomic relevant crops.
9218781: !lactoylglutathione Crystal structure of human glyoxalase I--evidence for gene duplication and 3D domain swapping. The zinc metalloenzyme glyoxalase I catalyses the glutathione-dependent inactivation of toxic methylglyoxal. The structure of the dimeric human enzyme in complex with S-benzyl-glutathione has been determined by multiple isomorphous replacement (MIR) and refined at 2.2 A resolution. Each monomer consists of two domains. Despite only low sequence homology between them, these domains are structurally equivalent and appear to have arisen by a gene duplication. On the other hand, there is no structural homology to the 'glutathione binding domain' found in other glutathione-linked proteins. 3D domain swapping of the N- and C-terminal domains has resulted in the active site being situated in the dimer interface, with the inhibitor and essential zinc ion interacting with side chains from both subunits. Two structurally equivalent residues from each domain contribute to a square pyramidal coordination of the zinc ion, rarely seen in zinc enzymes. Comparison of glyoxalase I with other known structures shows the enzyme to belong to a new structural family which includes the Fe2+-dependent dihydroxybiphenyl dioxygenase and the bleomycin resistance protein. This structural family appears to allow members to form with or without domain swapping.
9115979: !lactoylglutathione Fosfomycin resistance protein (FosA) is a manganese metalloglutathione transferase related to glyoxalase I and the extradiol dioxygenases. The enzyme conferring resistance to the antibiotic fosfomycin [(1R,2S)-1,2-epoxypropylphosphonic acid] originally reported by Suarez and co-workers [Area, P., Hardisson, C., & Suarez, J. E. (1990) Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 34, 844-848] is demonstrated in this study to be a metalloglutathione transferase. The apoenzyme is a dimer of 16 kDa subunits. Electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy and water proton nuclear magnetic resonance longitudinal relaxation rates suggest that each subunit contains a mononuclear Mn2+ center that interacts strongly with the substrate fosfomycin (Kd = 17 microM) more weakly with the product (Kd = 1.1 mM) and very weakly or not at all with GSH. Inhomogeneous broadening of the EPR signals of enzyme-bound Mn2+ in the presence of H2(17)O indicates that three of the coordination sites on the metal are occupied by water. Sequence alignments, three-dimensional structures, and mechanistic considerations suggest that FosA is related to at least two other metalloenzymes, glyoxalase I and the Mn2+- or Fe2+-containing extradiol dioxygenases. The mechanistic imperative driving the evolution of this previously unidentified superfamily of metalloenzymes is proposed to be bidentate coordination of a substrate or intermediate to the metal center in the enzyme-catalyzed reactions.
9108256: !lactoylglutathione Diffusion-dependent kinetic properties of glyoxalase I and estimates of the steady-state concentrations of glyoxalase-pathway intermediates in glycolyzing erythrocytes. The diffusion-dependent kinetic properties of the yeast glyoxalase I reaction have been measured by means of viscosometric methods. For the glyoxalase-I-catalyzed isomerization of glutathione (GSH)-methylglyoxal thiohemiacetal to S-D-lactoylglutathione, the k(cat)/Km (3.5 x 10(6) M(-1) s(-1), pH 7, 25 degrees C) undergoes a progressive decrease in magnitude with increasing solution viscosity, using sucrose as a viscogenic agent. The viscosity effect is unlikely to be due to a sucrose-induced change in the intrinsic kinetic properties of the enzyme, as the magnitude of k(cat)/Km for the slow substrate GSH-t-butylglyoxal thiohemiacetal (3.5 x 10(3) M(-1) s(-1), pH 7, 25 degrees C) is independent of solution viscosity. Quantitative treatment of the data by means of the Stokes-Einstein diffusion law suggests that catalysis will be about 50% diffusion limited under conditions where [substrate] << Km; the encounter complex between enzyme and substrate partitions nearly equally between product formation and dissociation to form free enzyme and substrate. In a related study, the steady-state concentrations of glyoxalase-pathway intermediates in glycolyzing human erythrocytes are estimated to be in the nanomolar concentration range, on the basis of published values for the activities of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II in lysed erythrocytes and the steady-state rate of formation of D-lactate in intact erythrocytes. This is consistent with a model of the glyoxalase pathway in which the enzyme-catalyzed steps are significantly diffusion limited under physiological conditions.
9047352: !lactoylglutathione Isolation and sequencing of a gene coding for glyoxalase I activity from Salmonella typhimurium and comparison with other glyoxalase I sequences. The glyoxalase I gene (gloA) from Salmonella typhimurium has been isolated in Escherichia coli on a multi-copy pBR322-derived plasmid, selecting for resistance to 3 mM methylglyoxal on Luria-Bertani agar. The region of the plasmid which confers the methylglyoxal resistance in E. coli was sequenced. The deduced protein sequence was compared to the known sequences of the Homo sapiens and Pseudomonas putida glyoxalase I (GlxI) enzymes, and regions of strong homology were used to probe the National Center for Biotechnology Information protein database. This search identified several previously known glyoxalase I sequences and other open reading frames with unassigned function. The clustal alignments of the sequences are presented, indicating possible Zn2+ ligands and active site regions. In addition, the S. typhimurium sequence aligns with both the N-terminal half and the C-terminal half of the proposed GlxI sequences from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe, suggesting that the structures of the yeast enzymes are those of fused dimers.
9458189: !lactoylglutathione Spatial distribution of glutathione, glutathione-related and antioxidant enzymes in cultured mouse embryos. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the detoxifying capacity of organogenesis-stage murine concepti cultured in vitro. Investigative attention was particularly focused on the embryonic tissue distribution of cytoprotective pathways. Glutathione (GSH) status, GSH-related and antioxidant enzymes were assayed in the embryo proper (EP), visceral yolk sac (VYS) and ectoplacental cone (EC) of 29.44 +/- 1.56 (mean +/- SD) somite pairs concepti. All the tissues displayed significant and comparable concentrations of GSH, further supporting this tripeptide as critical in protection against embryotoxicants. The totality of enzymatic activities was detectable in the selected embryonic compartments. In terms of spatial distribution analysis, maximal activities were found in EC (glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, superoxide dismutase and glyoxalase I and II), and VYS (glutathione transferase and catalase). These results indicate: (1) the organogenesis-stage conceptus, in addition to significant amounts of GSH, expresses constitutive activities of GSH-related and antioxidant enzymes; (2) maximal activity levels are detectable in the embryonic sites which, at the developmental stage selected for assay, serve (VYS) or are evolving to serve (EC) embryo/maternal exchange, and thus represent the primary sites of interaction with foreign compounds.
9440942: !lactoylglutathione [On phenotype and genotype features of serum and erythrocyte proteins in occupation-related bronchopulmonary pathology]. Electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing assessed distribution of phenotypic and gene frequency for 7 highly polymorphic proteins in 163 patients having occupational chronic bronchitis, pneumoconiosis and bronchial asthma. Phenotypic frequency studies, when compared to the reference group, revealed significant differences in the following parameters: proteinase inhibitor, 3rd component of complement, transferrin, serum blood-group specific component, phosphoglucomutase of RBC. Gene frequency studies revealed the significant differences in 3rd component of complement (C3), transferrin (Tf) and phosphoglucomutase of RBC (PGM): the patients demonstrated increased amounts of C3 F, Tf C3 and PGM 2b alleles. The results could be used for individual forecasting the risk of occupational diseases and for choosing the individual prophylactics.
8974076: !lactoylglutathione Interaction of aldehydes with glyoxalase I and the status of several aldehyde metabolizing enzymes of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma cells. The possible effect of several physiologically important aldehydes has been tested on partially purified glyoxalase I of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) cells. The results indicate that D, and L-lactaldehyde are strong non-competitive inhibitors of glyoxalase I and the effect with the D-isomer is more pronounced, whereas both D,L-glyceraldehyde and acetaldehyde are moderately inhibitory and the nature of inhibition is strictly competitive. Moreover, D,L-glyceraldehyde strongly inhibits the utilization of methylglyoxal by intact EAC cells. A search for the presence of several aldehyde metabolizing enzymes in EAC cells indicates that non-specific aldehyde reductase, methylglyoxal reductase, aldehyde dehydrogenase and alcohol dehydrogenase are apparently absent in this rapidly growing, highly de-differentiated malignant cell.
8824231: !lactoylglutathione Identification of the structural gene for glyoxalase I from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The structural gene for glyoxalase I (GLO1) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was identified. The GLO1 gene contained an open reading frame with 326 amino acids, and the molecular weight of the gene product (Glo1p) deduced from the DNA sequence was calculated to be 37,207.06. Glyoxalase I activity increased approximately 95-fold when the GLO1 gene was introduced into the yeast cell with a multicopy plasmid, and the resultant transformant showed the increased resistance against methylglyoxal. Since the knockout mutant of the GLO1 gene of haploid strain of S. cerevisiae was still viable, the GLO1 gene was thought to be unnecessary for growth of the yeast. The GLO1 gene was overexpressed in two kinds of glutathione-deficient mutants, gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase-deficient (gsh1(-)) and glutathione synthetase-deficient (gsh2(-)), respectively, and the sensitivites to methylglyoxal were compared. The gsh1-deficient mutant, which could not produce glutathione at all, was hypersensitive to methylglyoxal, and overproduction of the Glo1p did not restore the growth arrest caused by exogenously added methylglyoxal. The gsh2-deficient mutant, which accumulates gamma-glutamylcysteine (an intermediate of glutathione biosynthesis), was also sensitive to methylglyoxal compared with the isogenic wild type strain, although the growth arrest caused by methylglyoxal was partially restored by overexpression of the GLO1 gene. Purified glyoxalase I from yeast could use gamma-glutamylcysteine as a substrate (kcat/Km = 1.89 x 10(7) M-1 s-1, glutathione; 3.47 x 10(4) M-1 s-1, gamma-glutamylcysteine).
8805763: !lactoylglutathione Testing for homogeneity of Hardy-Weinberg disequilibrium using data sampled from several populations. Olson (1993, Annals of Human Genetics 57, 291-295) proposed a large-sample test of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium when genotype data are sampled from several populations with different allele frequencies. The test assumes that a ratio measure of disequilibrium is constant across the populations. In this paper, we consider the problem of testing the assumption of homogeneity of that ratio and propose both a large-sample test and an exact test. The large-sample test is appropriate if sample sizes in all strata are sufficiently large, but is strongly anticonservative if some strata are small. In the latter case, the exact test is preferred and we approximate the P-value of this test using a Markov chain Monte Carlo approach.
8765525: !lactoylglutathione Antitumor activity of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione diesters in vitro: a structure-activity study. S-(p-Bromobenzyl)glutathione is a competitive inhibitor of human glyoxalase I which is part of the cytosolic glyoxalase system. It may be delivered into the cystosol of cells by diesterification wherein it is deesterified by cytosolic nonspecific esterases. S-(p-Bromobenzyl)glutathione diesters had antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo. The inhibition of human leukemia 60 cell growth in vitro by a series of alkyl and cycloalkyl diesters of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione was investigated. For n-alkyl diesters, the n-propyl diester was the most potent derivative with a median growth inhibitory concentration GC50 value of 7.77 +/- 0.01 microM (N = 18). The most potent derivative was S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione cyclopentyl diester which had a GC50 value of 4.23 +/- 0.01 microM (N = 21) and also had antitumor activity in vivo.
8879016: !lactoylglutathione 2-oxoaldehydes, glyoxalase I and oxidative stress. 
8700107: !lactoylglutathione Glutathione-associated enzymes in the human cell lines of the National Cancer Institute Drug Screening Program. The steady state expression of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) at both the protein and mRNA level is reported for the 60 tumor cell lines that are used for the National Cancer Institute Drug Screening Program. Individual GST isozymes were separated, identified, and quantified (with reverse-phase calibration curves) through a novel high performance liquid chromatographic procedure. GSTP1 was the predominant isozyme and was found at quantifiable levels in all but two of the cell lines. This isozyme ranged from 0.03% to 2.7% of the total cytosolic protein. For the mu family, 90% of the lines had GSTM2, 68% had GSTM3, but only 28% were positive for the M1 phenotype. The M1 proportion is lower than would be expected from the standard M1 null phenotype for human populations. Isozymes of the alpha family were detected only at very low levels in 35% of the lines. Significant quantitative correlations among enzyme activity, total enzyme protein, and mRNA were shown for GSTP1. However, such relationships were not apparent for the mu or alpha families. Levels of glutathione (GSH), and the transcript levels of other enzymes involved in GSH homeostasis were determined. gamma-Glutamyl cysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS) was present in all cell lines, but did not correlate with levels of intracellular GSH. Glyoxalase-I and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, both involved in GSH salvage, were found in 100% and 70% of the cell lines, respectively. Using a pattern-matching computer program, COMPARE, we compared and correlated the arrays of mRNA and protein levels with the pattern of chemosensitivity or chemoresistance of the 60 cell lines with 175 agents constituting a standard agent database. This database is composed of compounds to which a putative mechanism of action has been assigned. Although Pearson correlation coefficients relating the target and drug patterns were generally modest, when the patterns for the enzyme protein and mRNA levels for GST pi were correlated to drug sensitivity patterns, the list of 30 agents most closely matching (for which P < 0.05) was enriched with alkylating agents. gamma-GCS also showed an enrichment of alkylating agents in the COMPARE correlations, indicating that high levels of gamma-GCS may be an important determinant of resistance. In contrast, none of the other enzymes or GSH had patterns of expression that resulted in an obvious correlation to the sensitivity or resistance of alkylating agents.
8670139: !lactoylglutathione The primary structure of monomeric yeast glyoxalase I indicates a gene duplication resulting in two similar segments homologous with the subunit of dimeric human glyoxalase I. 
8767723: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase 1 (GLO1) polymorphism in eight geographical regions of Turkey. The distribution of glyoxalase 1 (GLO1) phenotypes in eight geographical regions of Turkey was studied. The GLO1*1 allele frequency varies from 0.3630 to 0.4118, which is in good agreement with the previously estimated range of variability. Excess numbers of heterozygotes compared to the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium were observed in all regions. The reason of this requires further investigations.
8727663: !lactoylglutathione [Recent advance in the study of ascorbic acid biosynthesis]. 
8670058: !lactoylglutathione Optimized heterologous expression of the human zinc enzyme glyoxalase I. DNA coding for human glyoxalase I was isolated from a HeLa cell cDNA library by means of PCR. The deduced amino acid sequence differs form previously isolated sequences in that a glutamic acid replaces an alanine in position 111. This variant cDNA may represent the more acidic isoform of glyoxalase I originally identified at the protein level. An expression clone was constructed for high-level production of glyoxalase I in Escherichia coli. For optimal yield of the recombinant protein, silent random mutations were introduced in the cDNA coding region. Antisera against human glyoxalase I were used to select a high-level expression clone. This clone afforded 60 mg of purified enzyme per litre of culture medium. Addition of a zinc salt to the culture medium was essential to obtain an active enzyme and a stoicheiometric metal content. The functional characterization of the recombinant enzyme included determination of kinetic constants for methylglyoxal, phenylglyoxal and p-phenylphenylglyoxal, as well as inhibition studies. The kinetic properties of recombinant glyoxalase I were indistinguishable from those of the enzyme purified from human tissues.
8636255: !lactoylglutathione Increased levels of methylglyoxal-metabolizing enzymes in mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cells from insulin-dependent diabetic patients with diabetic complications: aldose reductase, glyoxalase I, and glyoxalase II--a clinical research center study. Levels of aldose reductase, glyoxalase I, and glyoxalase II in mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cells from insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) patients with long term diabetic complications were compared to levels in IDDM patients without complications and to those in nondiabetic controls. Cells were isolated from 22 asymptomatic long term IDDM patients, 22 symptomatic IDDM patients, and 16 controls, using a double gradient centrifugation procedure. Aldose reductase was determined by Western blots using polyclonal antiserum to human aldose reductase purified from skeletal muscle. Glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II were determined spectrophotometrically. Aldose reductase in mononuclear cells from symptomatic IDDM patients is significantly elevated compared to that in asymptomatic IDDM patients (mean +/- SEM, 0.96 +/- 0.20 vs. 0.46 +/- 0.08 microgram/mg protein; P < 0.02). Aldose reductase was not detected in polymorphonuclear cells. Glyoxalase I in mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cells from symptomatic IDDM patients is significantly elevated compared to that in controls [mean for mononuclear cells, 0.46 +/- 0.03 vs. 0.37 +/- 0.03 mumol/min.mg (P < 0.05); mean for polymorphonuclear cells, 0.16 +/- 0.01 vs. 0.10 +/- 0.01 mumol/min.mg (P < 0.002)]. Glyoxalase II is significantly elevated only in polymorphonuclear cells from symptomatic IDDM patients compared to controls (mean, 0.13 +/- 0.01 vs. 0.063 +/- 0.016 mumol/min.mg; P < 0.005). Glutathione peroxidase and glutathione S-transferase were not significantly different in these populations. Aldose reductase, glyoxalase I, and glyoxalase II are involved in the metabolism of methylglyoxal, suggesting that methylglyoxal may play a role in the etiology of diabetic complications.
9112168: !lactoylglutathione Genetic markers in primary open-angle glaucoma. To investigate possible associations between genetic markers and Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma (POAG).
9020553: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I (GLO I, EC 4.4.1.5) polymorphism in hemolysates and bloodstains. Electrophoretic patterns of glyoxalase I (GLO I) phenotypes were evaluated in hemolysates and simulated case bloodstains in relation to duration and conditions of storage and type of substrate. The bloodstains deposited on different substrates were exposed to temperatures -20 degrees C, 4 degrees C, 18 degrees C, 37 degrees C and 56 degrees C. Rapid decrease in the enzyme activity was found in the conditions of high temperature. Character of the substrate noticeably affected GLO I detectability.
8903102: !lactoylglutathione Changes in concentrations of methylglyoxal, D-lactate and glyoxalase activities in liver and plasma of rats fed a 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene-rich diet. Donryu male albino rats were fed a diet containing 0.064% 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (MDAB) for 21 weeks. During the ensuing rat liver carcinogenesis, changes in the concentrations of methylglyoxal, D-lactate and glutathione as well as activities of glyoxalase I and II in liver and plasma were examined. After the start of the diet, hepatic contents of methylglyoxal and D-lactate increased to about 7 and 3 times that of the control, respectively. However, after 21 weeks the D-lactate content decreased from the elevated level, but remained at a higher level of 1.4 times the control. The hepatic glyoxalase I activity increased 1.2 to 1.7 times over the control during carcinogenesis, while glyoxalase II activity increased 160% during the precancerous state and decreased to 55% of control at 21 weeks. the hepatic level of reduced glutathione (GSH) increased and peaked after 4 weeks of the MDAB diet and decreased thereafter to 57% of the control level after 21 weeks. Both pyruvate and L-lactate levels increased in the liver and plasma of MDAB-fed rats when rats had obvious symptoms of hepatoma.
8632674: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of human leukaemia 60 cell growth by S-D-lactoylglutathione in vitro. Mediation by metabolism to N-D-lactoylcysteine and induction of apoptosis. The inhibition of human leukaemia 60 cell growth by S-D-lactoylglutathione in vitro is mediated by the inhibtion of de novo pyridimine synthesis. When S-D-lactoylglutathione was added to human leukaemia 60 cells in culture, it was hydrolysed by thiolesterase activity to reduced glutathione and D-lactate but also converted to N-D-lactoylcysteinylglycine and N-D-lactoylcysteine by gamma-glutamyl transferase and dipeptidase. The N-D-lactoylcysteine inhibited human leukaemia 60 cell growth: the median growth inhibitory concentration IC(50) value was 46.7 +/ -0.9 (N=30) and the median toxic concentration TC(50) value was 103 +/- 1 microM. Other N-(R)2-hydroxyacylcysteine derivatives, N-D-mandelylcysteine and N-L-glyceroylcysteine, were less effective inhibitors of human leukaemia 60 cell growth, whereas N-D-lactoylcysteine ethyl ester was more effective: the IC(50) value was 16.5 +/- 1.5 microM(N=8). Cytotoxic concentrations of S-D-lactoylglutathione-induced apoptosis in human leukaemia 60 cells. The S-D-lactoylglutathione was not toxic to peripheral human lymphocytes at the same concentrations but rather induced growth arrest. The expected mechanism of action of N-D-lactoylcysteine is inhibition of dihydro-orotase, which is particularly susceptible to inhibition by cysteine derivatives.
8616220: !lactoylglutathione Molecular characterization of glyoxalase-I from a higher plant; upregulation by stress. A cDNA, GLX1, encoding glyoxalase-I was isolated by differential screening of salt-induced genes in tomato. Glyoxalases-I and -II are ubiquitous enzymes whose functions are not clearly understood. They may serve to detoxify methylglyoxal produced from triosephosphates in all cells. The protein encoded by GLX1 shared 49.4% and 58.5% identity with glyoxalase-I isolated from bacteria and human, respectively. Furthermore, yeast cells expressing GLX1 showed a glyoxalase-I specific activity 20-fold higher than non-transformed cells. Both GLX1 mRNA and glyoxalase-I polypeptide levels increased 2- to 3-fold in roots, stems and leaves of plants treated with either NaCl, mannitol, or abscisic acid. Immunohistochemical localization indicated that glyoxalase-I was expressed in all cell types, with preferential accumulation in phloem sieve elements. This expression pattern was not appreciably altered by salt-stress. We suggest that the increased expression of glyoxalase-I may be linked to a higher demand for ATP generation and to enhanced glycolysis in salt-stressed plants.
7476889: !lactoylglutathione Modulation of detoxification gene expression in human colon HT29 cells by glutathione-S-transferase inhibitors. We investigated the effects of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) inhibitor treatment on human colon HT29 cell mRNA levels of dihydrodiol dehydrogenase (DDH), glyoxalase I, and gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase. Time- and concentration-dependent increases in both DDH and gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase mRNAs resulted from treatment with ethacrynic acid, ethacrynic acid/glutathione conjugate, and T.199 (gamma-glutamyl-S-(benzyl)-cysteinyl-R(-)-phenyl glycine diethyl ester), a selective GST pi inhibitor. In contrast, glutathione analogue GST alpha- and GST mu-selective inhibitors did not induce expression of these genes. Treatment with ethacrynic acid or T.199 had no effect on the mRNA levels of the glutathione-dependent glyoxalase I gene. Pretreatment of cells with buthionine-DL-sulfoximine, a gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase inhibitor and glutathione depleter, coupled with ethacrynic acid, ethacrynic acid/glutathione conjugate, or T.199 resulted in greater levels of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and DDH induction compared with single treatments. Treatment with buthionine-DL-sulfoximine alone resulted in modest increases in both gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and DDH expression. Analyses of DDH induction by both differential Northern hybridization with specific oligonucleotides as probes and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction amplification of products, followed by diagnostic restriction digestion with endonucleases, showed that ethacrynic acid induced multiple DDH transcripts in HT29 cells and human HepG2 and SKHep1 hepatoma cells. Possible induction mechanisms include the alteration of sulfhydryl status by the electrophilic properties of EA or by elevations of endogenously generated oxidative stress via transient removal of GST pi from the cytosolic GST pool.
8719777: !lactoylglutathione Contents of D-lactate and its related metabolites as well as enzyme activities in the liver, muscle and blood plasma of aging rats. As it is generally known. L-lactate is formed via the Embden-Meyerhof glycolytic pathway from triosephosphates, whereas D-lactate is formed via methylglyoxal in rat. In this paper, age-related changes in the levels of D-lactate and its related compounds in rat tissues are reported. Rats from 5 weeks to 30 months old were used in these experiments. (1) We observed that rats above 27 months old were decrepit as judged by external appearance movement and other physiological data of them. (2) The hepatic levels of D-lactate, methylglyoxal and pyruvate became markedly lower in aging rats, especially the D-lactate content in 30 month-old rats was lower by 90% than that of the 5 week-old rats. (3) As for plasma, D-lactate and phosphate levels became lower with aging, whereas levels of L-lactate and pyruvate were not altered. (4) In skeletal muscle, aging caused a lower methylglyoxal concentration. The D-lactate level was markedly decreased at the age of 30 months in muscle. (5) As for enzyme, activities of glyoxalase I and II became markedly decreased with age in livers, whereas the activity of glyoxalase I in muscle was maintained at control level and glyoxalase II increased with age.
7585456: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase activities in tumor and non-tumor human urogenital tissues. Glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II activities have been measured in human tumor and non-tumor samples of 15 kidneys, 15 bladders, 4 testes, 2 adrenals as well as in 4 samples of prostatic adenomas. In all tissues examined glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II activity values varied widely from one patient to another. No significant difference in glyoxalase I activity between the tumor and non-tumor samples was found. When comparison was made between normal and neoplastic tissues of the same patients, glyoxalase I activity was found to be lower in tumor tissues of 10 out of 15 kidneys, and 2 out of 8 bladders and 1 out of 3 testes. A significant (P < 0.004) decrease of glyoxalase II activity was found only in tumor kidney. The possibility of using the present data to predict the relative sensitivity of human tumor tissues to glyoxalase-related chemotherapy is discussed.
7576201: !lactoylglutathione Advances in glyoxalase research. Glyoxalase expression in malignancy, anti-proliferative effects of methylglyoxal, glyoxalase I inhibitor diesters and S-D-lactoylglutathione, and methylglyoxal-modified protein binding and endocytosis by the advanced glycation endproduct receptor. 
7619046: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I in detoxification: studies using a glyoxalase I transfectant cell line. The glyoxalase system (glyoxalase I, glyoxalase II and GSH as cofactor) is involved in the detoxification of methylglyoxal (a byproduct of the glycolytic pathway) and other alpha-oxoaldehydes. We have transfected a 622 bp cDNA encoding human glyoxalase I into murine NIH3T3 cells. The recipient cells were shown to express elevated transcript and protein levels and a 10-fold increase in glyoxalase I enzyme activity. This was accompanied by an increased tolerance for exogenous methylglyoxal and enhanced resistance to the cytotoxic effects of two glyoxalase I inhibitors (s-p-bromobenzylglutathione diethyl ester and s-p-bromobenzylglutathione dicyclopentyl ester), a glutathione analogue [gamma-glutamyl-(S)-(benzyl)cysteinyl-(R)-(-)-phenylglycine diethyl ester] and the anti-cancer drugs mitomycin C and adriamycin. Steady-state levels of GSH were significantly lower in the transfected cells, perhaps reflecting increased flux as a consequence of elevated glyoxalase activity. This decrease did not alter the sensitivity to the alkylating agent chlorambucil. Although transfection did not affect the growth or doubling time of the NIH3T3 cells, analysis of glyoxalase I activity showed a consistent increase in tumour tissue when compared with pair-matched controls. Thus increased glyoxalase I is associated with the malignant phenotype and may also contribute to protection against the cytotoxicity of certain anti-cancer drugs.
7768882: !lactoylglutathione Evidence for a (triosephosphate isomerase-like) "catalytic loop" near the active site of glyoxalase I. The conformational mobility of glyoxalase I (Glx I) during catalysis has been probed using stable analogs of the enediol intermediate that forms along the reaction pathway: GSC(O)N(OH)R, where GS = glutathionyl and R = CH3 (1), C6H5 (2), C6H4Cl (3), or C6H4Br (4). For human erythrocyte Glx I, catalysis is unlikely to be coupled to major changes in protein secondary structure, as the circular dichroism spectrum of the enzyme (190-260 nm) is insensitive to saturating concentrations of either enediol analog or S-D-lactoylglutathione, the product of the Glx I reaction. However, a small conformational change is indicated by the fact that binding of enediol analog to the active site decreases intrinsic protein fluorescence by 11%, and protects the enzyme from proteolytic cleavage by Pronase E at the C-side of Ala-92 and Leu-93. In contrast, binding of S-D-lactoylglutathione does not affect protein fluorescence, and increases the rate of proteolytic cleavage by 1.5-fold. These observations are consistent with a model of catalysis in which a flexible peptide loop folds over and stabilizes the enediol intermediate bound to the active site. Indeed, a highly conserved sequence of amino acid residues is found near the proteolytic cleavage sites, for human Glx I (100-111) and Pseudomonas putida Glx I (93-105), that shows significant sequence homology to the "catalytic loop" of chicken muscle triosephosphate isomerase (TIM) (165-176). The active site base (Glu-165) of TIM, which catalyzes the proton transfer reaction during isomerization, corresponds in position to Glu-93 of P. putida Glx I. Consistent with a functional role for Glu-93, a mutant enzyme in which Glu-93 is replaced by Asp shows no detectable catalytic activity.
7672318: !lactoylglutathione In situ regulation of methylglyoxal metabolism. 
7738403: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of radiation-induced changes of glyoxalase I activity in mouse spleen and liver by phenothiazines. Swiss albino mice (male) were irradiated with gamma-rays at a dose-rate of 0.05 Gy s-1, and the activities of glyoxalase I (GI) and glyoxalase II (GII) were determined after 24 h in the spleen and liver. Radiation up to 4 Gy increased the activity of GI and decreased that of GII. It was possible that the radiation-induced changes in the activity of the glyoxalase system, particularly that of GI, were suggestive of the regeneration status of the tissue. Phenothiazines such as chlorpromazine (CPZ), promethazine (PMZ) and trimeprazine (TMZ) inhibited the radiation-enhanced activity of GI in a concentration-dependent manner. On the other hand, almost no change in the activity of GII was observed using phenothiazines. The effect of phenothiazines on radiation-induced changes of glyoxalase activity were reversed in the presence of ferrous (Fe2+) ions. However, phenothiazines inhibited the radiation effect in the presence of ferric (Fe3+) ions. This combined effect was predominant in the liver. A possible mechanism for the modifying effect of phenothiazines is suggested.
7627127: !lactoylglutathione N,S-bis-fluorenylmethoxycarbonylglutathione: a new, very potent inhibitor of mammalian glyoxalase II. A very potent competitive inhibitor of mammalian glyoxalase II activity, N,S-bis-fluorenylmethoxycarbonylglutathione (DiFMOC-G) has been synthesized and characterized. The Ki value for inhibition of glyoxalase II purified from calf liver is 0.08 microM. The Ki values for glyoxalase I inhibitions range from 285 to 500 fold higher than the values obtained for glyoxalase II inhibitions, depending on the source of the enzyme. Among other enzymes involved in glutathione metabolism, such as glutathione S-transferase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione peroxidase, only glutathione S-transferase is inhibited to a small extent by DiFMOC-G. Diesters of DiFMOC-G were prepared in order to improve transport of DiFMOC-G into mammalian tumor cells (rat adrenal pheochromocytoma, PC-12) in culture. Among the diesters synthesized, diisopropyl DiFMOC-G was found to be the most inhibitory to cell viability, with a [I]0.5 value of 3 microM.
7793109: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I activity in erythrocytes from severely malnourished children. The enzyme glyoxalase I (Glyox I) is involved in metabolic detoxification, and requires glutathione (GSH) as a cofactor. Given the low concentration of whole blood GSH in children with oedematous malnutrition, it is possible that the function of this pathway may be compromised in these children. Glyox I activity was therefore assayed in erythrocytes taken from 133 severely malnourished children and 21 age-matched controls. The mean values (+/- SEM) for the marasmic group (Marasmus: 105 +/- 4/u/gm Hb) and the group with kwashiorkor (Kwash: 103 +/- 4/u/gm Hb) were not significantly different from controls (Cont: 104 +/- 2 u/gm Hb). In the group with marasmic-kwashiorkor (M-K: 88 +/- 4 u/g Hb) Glyox I activity was significantly lower than in controls (p < 0.005), as well as in children with Marasmus (p < 0.005), and kwashiorkor (p < 0.05). Enzyme activity was lower than normal in 45% of the MK group. Seven children died subsequent to admission; in five cases Glyox I activities were exceedingly low. There was a weak positive correlation between Glyox I activity and whole blood levels of GSH (r = 0.215). We conclude that Glyox I activity is relatively unaffected in malnutrition, except in those with M-K and especially those who do not survive the acutely malnourished state.
7709595: !lactoylglutathione Alteration of glucose tolerance in mice fed low levels of aflatoxins and with depressed glyoxalase-I activity. Glyoxalase-I activity plays an important role in glucose metabolism and has been reported to be depressed in mice fed low levels of aflatoxin B1. In the present study examination of glyoxalase-I activity, glucose tolerance and pancreatic beta cell sensitivity was made in mice fed 0.045 ng aflatoxin B1 + 0.450 ng aflatoxin G1/g feed prenatally and for 6 mo after birth. After glucose challenge the ratios between 0-h and 2-h serum glucose levels were significantly higher than controls, indicating an increase in tolerance of glucose in the aflatoxin-fed mice with lower glyoxalase-I activity. Pancreatic beta cell sensitivity to stimulation by tolbutamide was similar in both groups. However, liver malonic dialdehyde was significantly higher in the aflatoxin-fed mice, suggesting that the altered tolerance for glucose in the aflatoxin-fed mice might be a consequence of aflatoxin mediated peroxidative actions in the liver.
7608125: !lactoylglutathione cDNA cloning and characterization of human glyoxalase I isoforms from HT-1080 cells. We have isolated two kinds of cDNA clones encoding glyoxalase I from a human fibrosarcoma HT-1080 cDNA library. One of them is identical to the glyoxalase I cDNA isolated by us, and the other encodes a protein in which alanine at position 111 of the reported sequence for glyoxalase I is replaced by glutamic acid. When the two cDNAs were co-translated in vitro, three bands representing two homodimers and one heterodimer appeared on native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, as observed for glyoxalase I purified from human erythrocytes or derived from a HT-1080 cell lysate. Escherichia coli cells carrying an expression vector of one of the novel glyoxalase I cDNAs showed glyoxalase I activity. These results reveal that two isoforms of human glyoxalase I showing different electrophoretic properties result from a change in one amino acid residue.
8657641: !lactoylglutathione [Role of glyoxalases and methylglyoxal in cell proliferation and differentiation]. The glyoxalase system catalyses the conversion of methylglyoxal (and other 2-ketoaldehydes) to D-lactic acid via the intermediate S-D-lactoylglutathione. It comprises two enzymes, glyoxalases I and glyoxalases II, and catalytic amount to reduced glutathione. Methylglyoxal inhibits cell growth, while the glyoxalase system by breaking down methylglyoxal may act as a promoter of cell growth. Inhibitors of glyoxalases may serve as possible therapeutic agents against cancer by virtue of their ability to elevate the level of methylglyoxal in the body.
8540421: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal and regulation of its metabolism in microorganisms. 
7959071: !lactoylglutathione The gene encoding glyoxalase I from Pseudomonas putida: cloning, overexpression, and sequence comparisons with human glyoxalase I. The gene encoding glyoxalase I (GlxI) from Pseudomonas putida has been cloned into the high-expression plasmid pBTacI. In the presence of IPTG, JM109 cells transformed with this vector give expression levels of GlxI 4000-fold higher than wild-type Escherichia coli. Contrary to a previous report, the nucleotide sequence of the gene encodes a 173-amino-acid polypeptide. Edman analysis indicates that the predicted N-terminal methionine is lost post-translationally to yield a 19407-Da protein. Mass spectrometry of the intact protein, and of the peptides generated from treatment with CNBr, does not indicate any additional post-translational modifications of the enzyme. Contrary to previous conclusions, there are no major regions of dissimilarity between the human and bacterial enzymes.
7662608: !lactoylglutathione Red cell enzymes and serum protein polymorphisms in three population groups of south India. Blood and serum samples from random individuals of three populations in south India, the first being an endogamous group from the Nilgiri hills (Tamil Nadu), the second from the Shevroy hills (Tamil Nadu), and the third from a semi-urban area of Tamil Nadu, were screened for ESD, GLO1 and Hp polymorphisms. The allelic frequencies for these markers have been estimated. High GLO1*1 (0.379) frequency was observed in the tribal Malayalis, in contrast with other Indian population groups.
7864594: !lactoylglutathione A note on testing the Hardy-Weinberg law across strata. The problem of testing the Hardy-Weinberg law when the data are stratified in K strata is considered. Previous methods lose power when the departure from the law is irregular from stratum to stratum. Two methods based on the squared distance are proposed to overcome this problem. Simulations show that the new methods can have a dramatic improvement over the previous methods. The methods are applied to red cell glyoxalase genotype data from populations in India.
7859825: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal concentration and glyoxalase activities in the human lens. The activities of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II and the concentration of methylglyoxal were determined in 26 human lenses. The activity of glyoxalase I (mean +/- S.D.) was 15.62 +/- 3.90 U (g wet weight)-1 and the activity of glyoxalase II was 0.189 +/- 0.087 U (g wet weight)-1 (n = 26). The concentration of methylglyoxal of the human lenses was 1.78 +/- 0.84 nmol (g wet weight)-1 (n = 26). There was a significant negative correlation of both the activity of glyoxalase I and the activity of glyoxalase II with subject age but no correlation of methylglyoxal concentration with subject age. The concentration of methylglyoxal in the lenses was approximately 20-fold higher than in blood samples from normal human subjects. Given the previously reported decrease in the concentration of reduced glutathione in the human lens with age, there is expected to be a marked decrease in in situ activity of glyoxalase I and concomitant susceptibility of human lens proteins to modification by methylglyoxal with age. The metabolism of methylglyoxal and the formation of methylglyoxal-modified proteins may be linked to the development of senile and diabetic cataract.
7842138: !lactoylglutathione Developmental aspects of detoxifying enzymes in fish (Salmo iridaeus). The activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione transferase and glyoxalase I have been studied during the embryologic development of rainbow trout (Salmo iridaeus) and in several other trout tissues to investigate the protective development metabolism. A gradual increase of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione reductase, glyoxalase I and glutathione transferase activities was noted throughout embryo development. In all trout tissues investigated glutathione peroxidase was found to be extremely low compared to catalase activity. The highest activity of superoxide dismutase, glyoxalase I and glutathione reductase was found in liver followed by kidney. No change in the number of GST subunits was noted with the transition from the embryonic to the adult stages of life according to the SDS/PAGE and HPLC analyses performed on the GSH-affinity purified fractions.
8086426: !lactoylglutathione Small molecule probes of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II. A number of synthetic tropolones and hydrophobic S-blocked glutathione analogues were investigated as potential inhibitors of glyoxalase I from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and glyoxalase II from bovine liver. Several tropolones containing a free C-2 hydroxy group were found to be potent inhibitors of glyoxalase I, whereas the glutathione conjugates were found to be modest to poor inhibitors of this enzyme. Most tropolones and glutathione conjugates, except 5-p-tolylazotropolone and S-carbobenzoxy-L-glutathione, were found to be poor inhibitors of glyoxalase II. A recent report on an extremely active glyoxalase system from Plasmodium falciparum suggested that several of the more potent inhibitors may have antimalarial properties. A number of these compounds in fact, exhibited antimalarial activity in the low micromolar range. Further studies are required to fully elucidate the mechanism(s) of the antimalarial properties of these compounds.
7934147: !lactoylglutathione Prevention of S-D-lactoylglutathione-induced inhibition of human leukaemia 60 cell growth by uridine. The anti-proliferative activity of S-D-lactoylglutathione is of interest since it has a low toxicity to differentiated and non-malignant proliferating tissues, and its mechanism of action appears to be dissimilar to other anti-proliferative agents. Addition of uridine completely and addition of cytidine partially prevented S-D-lactoylglutathione-induced growth inhibition of human leukaemia 60 (HL60) cells in vitro. Other nucleosides had no significant effect. The concentrations of UTP, CTP, UDP and also ATP, ADP, GTP and GDP decreased in S-D-lactoylglutathione-treated HL60 cells, whereas the concentration of UDP-N-acetylhexosamine (UDP-N-acetyl-glucosamine + N-acetyl-galactosamine) increased, prior to cell death. This suggests that the anti-proliferative effects of S-D-lactoylglutathione are mediated by inhibition of uridylate synthesis.
7835212: !lactoylglutathione HLA, ESD, GLOI, C3 and HP polymorphisms and juvenile insulin dependent diabetes mellitus in Tamil Nadu (south India). Fifty juvenile insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (JIDDM) patients of Tamil Nadu (South India) were typed for HLA-A, -B, -C, -DR, and -DQ, ESD, GLOI, C3 and HP polymorphisms. The frequencies of B8, DR3, DR4, DR53 and DQ2 antigens of the HLA system were significantly higher in the patients than in controls (relative risk, RR = 4.81; 5.14; 3.98; 3.36 and 2.53, respectively). However HLA-DR2, -DR5 and -DQ1, observed less frequently in the patient group, appear to play a role of protection against the disease (RR = 0.32; 0.30 and 0.20 respectively). HLA haplotype analysis demonstrated very high relative risk associated with two hitherto unreported haplotypes namely A3,DR1 and Cw3,DR4 (RR = 27.30 and 20.00, respectively) and also scanty distribution of the haplotypes A1,B17 and DR2,DQ1 (RR = 0.39 and 0.36, respectively) in the patient group. Among other genetic markers tested, GLOI is informative with its phenotype GLOI 2-1 showing positive association with JIDDM (RR = 4.06).
8035422: !lactoylglutathione S-(N-aryl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathione derivatives are tight-binding inhibitors of glyoxalase I and slow substrates for glyoxalase II. S-(N-Aryl-N-hydroxycarbamoyl)glutathione derivatives are powerful competitive inhibitors of the anticancer target enzyme glyoxalase I. Indeed, the N-p-bromophenyl derivative is the strongest inhibitor of the enzyme from human erythrocytes yet reported (Ki = 1.4 x 10(-8) M). Structure-activity correlations indicate that the high affinities of the derivatives for both human and yeast glyoxalase I are due to the fact that the derivatives are hydrophobic analogs of the enediol(ate) intermediate associated with the glyoxalase I reaction. The derivatives also proved to be slow substrates for the thioester hydrolase glyoxalase II (bovine liver). Compounds of this type are of interest as potential tumor-selective anticancer agents, based on the abnormally low levels of glyoxalase II activity in some types of cancer cells.
8062515: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase system in clinical diabetes mellitus and correlation with diabetic complications. 1. The metabolism of methylglyoxal by the glyoxalase system may be linked to the development of diabetic complications. The glyoxalase system was characterized in blood samples from patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (n = 43), patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (n = 107) and 21 normal healthy control subjects. 2. The concentrations of glyoxalase metabolites, methylglyoxal, S-D-lactoylglutathione and D-lactate, were increased in diabetic patients, relative to normal control subjects: methylglyoxal [median, range (n) pmol/g], insulin-dependent patients, 470.7, 85.6-1044.3 (42), P < 0.001, non-insulin-dependent patients, 286.8, 54.7-2370 (105), P < 0.001, control subjects, 79.8, 25.3-892.9 (21); S-D-lactoylglutathione [mean +/- SD (n)pmol/10(6) erythrocytes], combined diabetic patients, 3.37 +/- 0.85 (24), control subjects 4.76 +/- 1.95 (8) P < 0.05; D-lactate [mean +/- SD or median, range (n)nmol/g], insulin dependent patients, median 18.3, 5.7-57.4 (42), P < 0.001, non-insulin-dependent patients, 20.0 +/- 8.9, 2.6-48.4 (105), P < 0.001, control subjects 9.7 +/- 4.3, 1.8-19.7 (21). The reduced glutathione concentrations in blood samples from the insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetic patient groups were not different from the control group values (P > 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8005351: !lactoylglutathione Thrombin induces S-D-lactoylglutathione accumulation by enhancing platelet glycolytic pathway. 1. Thrombin addition to human platelets stimulates L(+)lactate formation and S-D-lactoylglutathione (SDL) accumulation. 2. Monoiodoacetamide decreases lactate formation and potentiates SDL accumulation through a significant increase of dihydroxyacetone phosphate and fructose1,6bisphosphate intracellular levels both in resting and in activated platelets. 3. A similar effect is produced by exogenous methylglyoxal on L(+)lactate formation and SDL accumulation. 4. Resting platelets completely transform (1 hr at 37 degrees C) the ketoaldehyde into D(-)lactate: 5. When platelets are incubated in the presence of thrombin only 60% of the ketoaldehyde is found as D(-)lactate and the accumulated S-D-lactoylglutathione represents about the 0.7% of the initial substrate. 6. During platelet stimulation with thrombin the hemithioacetal adduct, formed as a by-product of glycolytic pathway, can be rapidly removed for important steps of cellular activation.
8142352: !lactoylglutathione Stereospecificity of substrate usage by glyoxalase 1: nuclear magnetic resonance studies of kinetics and hemithioacetal substrate conformation. The specificity of glyoxalase 1 for the diastereomers of its hemithioacetal substrate [which forms spontaneously between an alpha-keto aldehyde and reduced glutathione (GSH)] was investigated by exploiting the differences between their 1H NMR spectra at pH* 4.4. The 1H NMR spectra of the hemithioacetals of glutathione with phenylglyoxal or methylglyoxal were assigned with the aid of conventional decoupling and two-dimensional NMR spectroscopic techniques. The rate of interconversion of the diastereomers was determined at 30 degrees C from the results of an inversion-transfer technique and found to be 0.30 +/- 0.04 s-1 (+/- sd) in the case of phenylglyoxal and 0.15 +/- 0.02 s-1 in the case of methylglyoxal. Stereopreference of the enzyme was tested by the addition of large amounts of yeast glyoxalase 1 to a reaction mixture; glyoxalase 1 preferentially operated on one diastereomer of the phenylglyoxal hemithioacetal but the diastereomers of methylglyoxal appeared to be operated upon indiscriminately. From computer models of the kinetics of possible reaction schemes, a mechanism involving glyoxalase 1 catalysis of both diastereomers of the hemithioacetals was shown to be the most consistent with the experimental data. Estimates of internuclear distances in the diastereomers, obtained from 2D NMR spectra were used in "dynamical simulated annealing" calculations to generate likely structures of the substrates. Relative ring-current shifts obtained from 1D NMR spectra were used, together with a ring-current shift algorithm, to select structures with compatible conformations. We conclude that the rate of conversion of substrate by the enzyme is dependent upon the overall conformation of the substrate molecule, rather than merely its stereochemical configuration (R or S).
8192431: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase-I (GLO) polymorphism among two endogamous populations of Andhra Pradesh, India. Glyoxalase-I phenotypes have been screened electrophoretically in the Kotia and Relli populations of the Visakhaptnam District, Andhra Pradesh (India). The GLO*1 allele varies from 0.2560 in the Kotia to 0.3258 in the Relli, which is well within the range of South Indian populations.
24190739: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal, glyoxalases and the development of diabetic complications. The formation of the reactiveα,β-dicarbonyl metabolite, methylglyoxal, is increased during hyperglycaemia associated with diabetes mellitus. Methylglyoxal is metabolised to S-D-lactoylglutathione and D-lactate by the glyoxalase system and to hydroxyacetone (95%) and D-lactaldehyde by aldose reductase. Methylglyoxal and hydroxyacetone bind and modify protein, producing fluorescent products. Red blood cell activities of glyoxalase enzymes are risk factors for the development of clinical complications of diabetes. Aldose reductase inhibitors decrease the concentration of methylglyoxal in experimental diabetic rats to normal levels, aminoguanidine and L-arginine scavenge methylglyoxal; these effects may be involved in their prospective preventive therapy of diabetic complications. Biochemical and clinical evidence suggests that the metabolism of methylglyoxal in diabetes mellitus is linked to the development of diabetic complications. A causal relationship may involve modification of protein by methylglyoxal and hydroxyacetone.
8304987: !lactoylglutathione Antimalarial activity in vitro of the glyoxalase I inhibitor diester, S-p-bromobenzylglutathione diethyl ester. S-p-Bromobenzylglutathione diethyl ester induced toxicity in the malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum in infected human red blood cells in culture. The median inhibitory concentration, IC50, was 4.77 +/- 0.12 microM (N = 10) for incorporation of [3H]hypoxanthine in nucleotide synthesis and 5.20 +/- 0.1 microM (N = 10) for incorporation of [14C]isoleucine into protein. The prospective mechanism of action is inhibition of glyoxalase I by the de-esterified metabolite, S-p-bromobenzylglutathione, and accumulation of the cytotoxic substrate methylglyoxal.
8589803: !lactoylglutathione S-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl glutathione and diesters: inhibition of mammalian glyoxalase II. Inhibitors having high specificity toward mammalian glyoxalase II, but not glyoxalase I, were sought as part of a program to study glyoxalase enzyme function in mammalian cells. The compound, S-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl glutathione (FMOC-G), was synthesized and found to be a competitive inhibitor of purified calf liver glyoxalase II (Ki = 2.1 mumol/l). Inhibition constants (Ki values) for the other glyoxalase enzyme, glyoxalase I, and the glutathione-requiring enzyme, glutathione S-transferase, from other sources, were found to be 17 and 25 mumol/l, respectively. FMOC-G is a very poor inhibitor of glutathione reductase and glutathione peroxidase. Diesters (dimethyl, diethyl, diisopropyl) of FMCO-G were also synthesized, as proinhibitors, to improve transport of FMOC-G into mammalian tumor cells (rat adrenal pheochromocytoma, PC-12) in culture. The diesters were inhibitory to cell growth and variability; the most effective of these, diisopropyl FMOC-G, exhibited an [I]0.5 value of approximately 275 mumol/l. Diesters of FMOC-G may be useful in studies of the glyoxalase enzyme system in cultured mammalian cells.
8028396: !lactoylglutathione Age related changes in the activity of the glyoxalase system. Male Swiss albino mice of progressive age (1-25 months old) were collected regularly from the Animal Facility of the university at monthly intervals and were sacrificed by cervical dislocation. The specific activities of glyoxalase I (GI) and glyoxalase II (GII) were determined immediately in liver, spleen and kidney. Our results indicate that the activity of GI increased with an increase in the age of mice up to 12-14 months depending on the type of the tissue, thereafter it decreased progressively in the old animals. The increase in the activity of GI may be suggestive of the rapid rate of cell division in these organs needed for the growth and development of the animal; the progressive decline in the activity of GI in old age may be related to the decreased proliferative capacity of these organs. This decline may increase the oxidative damage and in turn enhance the process of ageing. The activity of GII decreased with increase in age up to 12-13 months. The mode and the magnitude of the activity of GII in old age depends on the type of tissue. The pattern of the GI/GII ratio in all the three tissues was similar up to 13-14 months of age.
7727035: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal and lipid hydroxperoxide as endogenous cytotoxic molecular species: detoxification and regulation of gene expression in yeasts. 
8122034: !lactoylglutathione The influence of porphyrogenic drugs on the glyoxalase enzymes. A variety of drugs, known to induce acute attacks in porphyric patients has been found to inhibit the glyoxalase pathway. Glyoxalase I is competitively inhibited by sulphadimidine, oxytetracycline, chloramphenicol, etc. Allylisopropyl acetamide (AIA) seems to inhibit glyoxalase II. This inhibition could play a contributing role in the overproduction of porphyrins in porphyria and thus help explain the mechanism of induction of porphyric attacks. The results indicate, that the Heme pathway and the glyoxalase cycle are closely connected.
8288025: !lactoylglutathione S-D-lactoylglutathione accumulation in activated human platelets. 1. S-D-Lactoylglutathione accumulates in human platelets activated by agonists. Among the tested inducers thrombin is the most active. 2. The effect is dose and time-dependent. S-D-Lactoylglutathione, corresponding to depleted pool of reduced glutathione, can also be detected in platelets incubated with exogenous methylglyoxal. 3. A further significant increase was observed in platelets stimulated with thrombin in the presence of methylglyoxal. 4. No change in glyoxalase activities upon platelet stimulation with thrombin was shown.
8399366: !lactoylglutathione Analysis of glyoxalase-I from normal and tumor tissue from human colon. Glyoxalase-I (Gly-I) is part of the glyoxalase system which converts methylglyoxal to D-lactic acid via an S-D-lactoylglutathione intermediate. This glutathione (GSH)-binding protein was purified from human colon tumors and corresponding normal tissue. The GSH-affinity purified fraction from normal human colon tissue showed enzyme activity of 30.6 +/- 11.5 mumol/min per mg protein, with methylglyoxal as substrate. Corresponding fractions from carcinomas showed significantly elevated Gly-I activity of 54.5 +/- 15 mumol/min per mg protein. Polyclonal antibodies made against human Gly-I cross-reacted weakly with mouse liver Gly-I but not with yeast Gly-I. Isoelectric points of Gly-I from human, mouse and yeast were determined to be 4.6, 4.9 and 7.0, respectively, by horizontal IEF. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed the increase of Gly-I in human colon carcinoma in 16 out of 21 samples when compared to corresponding normal tissue. The elevated levels of Gly-I in colon tumors may be an indicator of the enhanced proliferative status of the neoplastic condition.
8295852: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of hepatic xenobiotic metabolism and of glutathione-dependent enzyme activities by zinc ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate in the rabbit. Effects of either a single (300 mg/kg) or a subchronic (0.3 and 0.6% for 70 days) oral administration of a dithiocarbamate fungicide (zinc ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate, zineb) on hepatic drug metabolism and on the activity of several glutathione-dependent enzymes were investigated in male New Zealand White rabbits. While a pronounced reduction in the rate of oxidative biotransformations occurred after either single or repeated exposure, both cytochrome P450 and total haem content were lowered following acute challenge to zineb. None of the experimental protocols affected microsomal carboxylesterase but induced a marked increase in glutathione content and none of the examined glutathione-dependent enzymes was altered by the single administration of zineb, whereas the subchronically exposed rabbits showed a fall in the activities of both total glutathione S-transferase and selenium-independent glutathione peroxidase. In the 0.6% treated animals, a decrease in class mu glutathione S-transferase and glyoxalase I, and an increase in thiol-transferase activities were also recorded. It is concluded that (1) zineb is able to selectively impair oxidative drug metabolism with possible different mechanism(s) according to the duration of the exposure, (2) only the subchronic treatment affects glutathione-dependent enzymes, (3) the decrease in glutathione S-transferase activity would seem to be ascribed to a direct interaction with the fungicide.
8179292: !lactoylglutathione Testing the Hardy-Weinberg law across strata. The problem of testing the Hardy-Weinberg law when data are sampled from several populations with different allele frequencies is considered. An odds-ratio representation of disequilibrium is proposed. This ratio is assumed to be constant across strata, an assumption that seems more reasonable than that of previous authors of a constant difference in true and expected (under equilibrium) heterozygote proportions. A score-type test which optimally combines information from the separate strata is then derived using the theory of unbiased estimating equations. Simulations show that the new test has greater power than previously proposed tests when the disequilibrium ratio is constant across strata. The method is applied to glyoxalase genotype data from populations in India.
8373819: !lactoylglutathione Reinvestigation of the role of thiol groups of glyoxalase I purified from yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Glyoxalase I has been purified to homogeneity from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and tested with two different thiol reagents, i.e., 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB) and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). DTNB reacts with four thiol groups per molecule of enzyme and leads to a complete inhibition which is not reversed by addition of the disulfide-reducing agent dithiothreitol. On the other hand, CDNB slightly affects the glyoxalase-I activity and alkylates only one thiol residue/enzyme. In agreement, DTNB reacts with three thiol residues of the CDNB-reacted enzyme and no reactivation is observed after dithiothreitol treatment. The peptide containing the CDNB-reactive thiol group has been isolated and the sequence overlaps the segment 58-63 of the only known primary structure of glyoxalase I from Pseudomonas putida.
8373434: !lactoylglutathione Modification of the glyoxalase system in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Effect of the aldose reductase inhibitor Statil. The glyoxalase system was characterized in tissue (liver, skeletal muscle, kidney cortex and medulla, lens and sciatic nerve) and blood from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and normal controls. The effect of the aldose reductase inhibitor, Statil [3-(4-bromo-2-fluorobenzyl)-4-oxo-3H-phthalazine-1-yl-acetic acid; ICI 128 436], was also investigated. Glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II activities were decreased in the liver and increased in skeletal muscle of diabetic rats and of Statil-treated diabetic rats, relative to normal controls. The concentration of non-protein sulphydryl (NPSH) was decreased in the liver and lens of diabetic rats, relative to normal controls; Statil prevented these effects. The concentrations of methylglyoxal in the kidney cortex and medulla, lens and blood were increased in diabetic rats, relative to normal controls. Statil prevented these increases except in the kidney cortex. The concentration of D-lactate was increased in the lens and blood of diabetic rats, relative to normal controls, which was partially prevented in blood but not in the lens by Statil. These data suggest that the glyoxalase system is modified in tissues and blood of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and some of the modifications may be prevented by Statil. The increased concentrations of methylglyoxal in the kidney, lens and blood, and the decreased concentration of NPSH in the lens may be related to the development of diabetic complications.
8298667: !lactoylglutathione HLA class I, class II, and class III antigen sharing is not found in couples with unexplained infertility. To find the degree of HLA antigen sharing in couples with infertility of unknown etiology and compare it with that in couples with infertility of known etiology as well as couples with normal fertility.
8146387: !lactoylglutathione [The association between glyoxalase I and paracoccidioidomycosis infection]. With the purpose to study the genetic susceptibility to paracoccidioidomycosis infection we searched for a possible association between glyoxalase I and the intradermic paracoccidioidin reaction. The phenotype GLO 1 was significantly more frequent among positive reactors.
7684374: !lactoylglutathione Human glyoxalase I. cDNA cloning, expression, and sequence similarity to glyoxalase I from Pseudomonas putida. Glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) catalyzes the transformation of methylglyoxal and glutathione to S-lactoylglutathione. We have isolated human cDNA clones encoding glyoxalase I from a phorbol myristate acetate-treated U937 cDNA library. This cDNA encodes a protein of 184 amino acids with a calculated M(r) of 20,719. The amino acid composition calculated from the deduced amino acid sequence agreed with that reported for glyoxalase I purified from human erythrocytes. The Escherichia coli cells carrying the expression vector of this cDNA acquired methylglyoxal resistance and the cell lysate showed the high activity of glyoxalase I. The amino acid sequence of human glyoxalase I exhibited 57% identity with Pseudomonas putida glyoxalase I at the C-terminal two-thirds, suggesting that the two enzymes may have originated from a common ancestor.
8323036: !lactoylglutathione The assay of S-D-lactoylglutathione in biological systems. A procedure for the assay of S-D-lactoylglutathione, the physiological intermediate of the glyoxalase system, in biological systems is described, together with sample storage, sample processing, and statistical evaluation. Specimen data are presented. S-D-Lactoylglutathione was assayed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with spectrophotometric detection of the thiolester chromophore at 233 nm. The biological sample was deproteinized with perchloric acid and partially purified by strong anion-exchange solid-phase extraction prior to HPLC. The limit of detection was 3.7 nmol, the recovery 49 +/- 4%, and the intra- and interbatch coefficients of variance 0.7 and 12%, respectively. The concentration of S-D-lactoylglutathione in whole blood from normal control human subjects was (mean +/- SD, nmol/ml whole blood) 16.5 +/- 4.4 (n = 8), and from diabetic patients 21.2 +/- 9.2 (n = 25), which is a significant increase (P < 0.05) from normal controls. The assay of S-D-lactoylglutathione is of increasing interest in studies of the elevation of glyoxalase metabolites in diabetes mellitus and in investigations of the antiproliferative activity of S-D-lactoylglutathione.
8504817: !lactoylglutathione Purification and characterisation of glyoxalase II from human red blood cells. Glyoxalase II was purified from human red blood cells. The purification factor was 83,300 and the yield was 24% or 1.7 micrograms/ml red blood cells. The purified protein was a monomer with a molecular mass of 29,200 Da and an isoelectric point of 8.3. The rate of hydrolysis of S-D-lactoylglutathione to reduced glutathione and D-lactate, catalysed by glyoxalase II, followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics where the Km and kcat values were 146 +/- 9 microM and 727 +/- 16 s-1, respectively in 50 mM Tris/HCl, pH 7.4 at 37 degrees C. Other S-2-hydroxyacylglutathione derivatives were also acceptable substrates. S-p-Nitrobenzoxycarbonylglutathione was a potent competitive inhibitor of glyoxalase II with a Ki value of 1.20 +/- 0.21 microM, and the hemithioacetal formed non-enzymically from the reaction of methylglyoxal with reduced glutathione was a weak competitive inhibitor with a Ki value of 834 +/- 98 microM.
8359528: !lactoylglutathione Structural relationships between glyoxalase I and membrane transport proteins. 
8359527: !lactoylglutathione Inhibitors of glyoxalase I: design, synthesis, inhibitory characteristics and biological evaluation. 
8359526: !lactoylglutathione Modification of the glyoxalase system in disease processes and prospects for therapeutic strategies. 
8359525: !lactoylglutathione The glyoxalase system in higher plants: regulation in growth and differentiation. 
8359523: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I in micro-organisms: molecular characteristics, genetics and biochemical regulation. 
8359522: !lactoylglutathione Catalytic and molecular properties of glyoxalase I. 
8359427: !lactoylglutathione Oxygen effects on yeast glyoxalase system. 
8359426: !lactoylglutathione In situ kinetics of yeast glyoxalase I. 
8359425: !lactoylglutathione Population genetics of human glyoxalases and the development of diabetic complications. 
8359424: !lactoylglutathione Simple chromatographic methods for the purification of human red blood cell glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II to homogeneity. 
8359422: !lactoylglutathione The hydrolysis of S-D-lactoylglutathione. 
8359420: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase activity in human tumour cell lines in vitro. 
8359419: !lactoylglutathione Mechanism of the inhibition of growth of human leukaemia 60 cells by S-D-lactoylglutathione. 
8359418: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of growth of human leukaemia 60 cells by S-2-hydroxyacylglutathione derivatives. 
8359417: !lactoylglutathione The assay of S-D-lactoylglutathione in biological systems. 
8359415: !lactoylglutathione Modification of the glyoxalase system in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and the effect of the aldose reductase inhibitor Statil. 
8359414: !lactoylglutathione The effect of S-D-lactoylglutathione on the movement of neutrophils. 
8359413: !lactoylglutathione The potentiation of GTP-dependent assembly of microtubules by S-D-lactoylglutathione. 
8359411: !lactoylglutathione Modification of the glyoxalase system in clinical diabetes mellitus. 
8359410: !lactoylglutathione In vitro testing of a glyoxalase I inhibitor. 
8489699: !lactoylglutathione A simplified method for the purification of human red blood cell glyoxalase. I. Characteristics, immunoblotting, and inhibitor studies. Glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) was purified from human red blood cells by a simplified method using S-hexylglutathione affinity chromatography with a modified concentration gradient of S-hexylglutathione for elution. The pure protein had a specific activity of 1830 U/mg of protein, where the overall yield was 9%. The pure protein had a molecular mass of 46,000 D, comprised of two subunits of 23,000 D each, and an isoelectric point value of 5.1. The KM value for methylglyoxal-glutathione hemithioacetal was 192 +/- 8 microM and the kcat value was 10.9 +/- 0.2 x 10(4) min-1 (N = 15). The glyoxalase I inhibitor S-p-bromobenzylglutathione had a Ki value of 0.16 +/- 0.04 microM and S-p-nitrobenzoxycarbonylglutathione, previously thought to inhibit only glyoxalase II, also inhibited glyoxalase I with a Ki value of 3.12 +/- 0.88 microM. Reduced glutathione was a weak competitive inhibitor of glyoxalase I with a Ki value of 18 +/- 8 mM. The polyclonal antibodies were raised to the purified enzyme and were found to react specifically with glyoxalase I antigen by immunoblotting. This procedure gave a protein of high purity with simple low pressure chromatographic techniques with a moderate but adequate yield for small-scale preparations.
8487580: !lactoylglutathione Characteristics of the inhibition of human promyelocytic leukaemia HL60 cell growth by S-D-lactoylglutathione in vitro. The mechanism of the inhibition of proliferation of human leukaemia 60 (HL60) cells by S-D-lactoylglutathione in vitro was investigated. The median inhibitory concentration IC50 value was 66 microM (95% C.I. 50-87 microM; n = 18). The inhibition of leukaemia cell growth required exposure of HL60 cells to S-D-lactoylglutathione (and metabolites) for 12 h, with maximum growth inhibition achieved after 24 h. Removal and replacement of culture medium within the initial 12 h of culture prevented inhibition of growth and toxicity. S-D-lactoylglutathione was consumed within the initial 3 h of culture. Pretreatment of culture medium containing 10% foetal calf serum for 3 h produced no subsequent inhibition of HL60 cell growth. Incubation of HL60 cells in culture medium with low serum content (5% v/v) produced a decreased rate of cell proliferation and a decreased response to S-D-lactoylglutathione. S-D-lactoylglutathione inhibited uptake of 3H-thymidine into DNA in the third hour of culture where the median inhibitory concentration IC50 value was 74 microM (95% C.I. 51-102; n = 10). The mechanism of inhibition of HL60 cell growth by S-D-lactoylglutathione is unknown but may be cell cycle related, mediated by inhibition of DNA synthesis and involve an active metabolite which may be removed and/or inactivated by a change in culture medium.
8472535: !lactoylglutathione Chicken eggshell porphyrins and the glyoxalase pathway: its possible physiological role. 1. The plasma 4,5-dioxovaleric acid (DOVA) levels of two different breeds of chicken were determined and found to be higher in the group with a higher porphyrin eggshell content. 2. The erythrocyte and uterus glyoxalase II activity, investigated by means of a new spectrophotometric method, was found to be significantly higher in the group with a low porphyrin eggshell content. 3. A comparative genetic study of two chicken populations, one with white and one with dark eggshells, showed different gene frequencies for the glyoxalase I polymorphism. 4. An interpretation of these data suggests that the glyoxalase pathway may be involved in the metabolism of early porphyrin precursors.
8449929: !lactoylglutathione Cloning and characterization of human colon glyoxalase-I. Glyoxalase-I cDNA clones were isolated from a human colon cDNA library using polyclonal antibodies raised against the protein purified from human colon tissue. Positive clones were purified, subcloned, and their nucleotide sequence determined. The glyoxalase-I cDNA encodes a 184-amino acid protein with a predicted molecular weight of 20,774, corresponding to the monomeric subunit weight of the purified protein from human colon glyoxalase-I. The human enzyme showed 51% homology at the nucleotide level and 42% at the amino acid level with bacterial glyoxalase-I. Transfection of COS-1 cells with the 622-base pair cDNA containing the entire coding region cloned into a pMT2 vector produced an immunoreactive protein and an approximate 180-fold increase in glyoxalase-I enzyme activity as determined with methylglyoxal as a substrate. Transfection of a truncated cDNA lacking 94 base pairs of the 5'-coding sequence also produced an approximately 15-kDa immunoreactive protein, but with no detectable increase in enzyme activity. Northern analysis of the RNA showed an approximately 12-fold increase of the 2.2-kilobase glyoxalase-I transcript in carcinoma when compared to normal colon tissue from the same patient. Examination of colon carcinomas for the amplification of the glyoxalase-I gene by Southern blot analysis revealed no change in gene copy number. These results suggest induction of the glyoxalase-I gene expression in colon carcinomas.
8094420: !lactoylglutathione Effect of radiation on glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II activities in spleen and liver of mice. Swiss albino mice (7-8 weeks old) were irradiated with different doses (0-25 Gy) of gamma-radiation at a dose-rate of 0.05 Gy/s. The specific activities of glyoxalase I (GI) and glyoxalase II (GII) were determined in the spleen and liver immediately and on the 3rd and 6th day postirradiation. The results indicate that the glyoxalase system is radiosensitive, particularly glyoxalase I whose activity was enhanced even at low doses (0.5 Gy). The magnitude and mode of the radiation effect depends on dose and tissue. The patterns of the GI/GII ratio in the liver and spleen was very similar when measured immediately after irradiation. The radiation effect on the glyoxalase system persists even in the postirradiation period and was inversely related to the dose-rate. GSH and caffeine increased and chlorpromazine decreased the radiation-induced activity of GI, but all three modifiers enhanced radiation-induced inactivation of GII. Since the glyoxalase system may play an important role in the regulation of cell division and differentiation, radiation effects on this system may have some biochemical consequences.
8487033: !lactoylglutathione Blood groups and enzyme types from human teeth. Paired human teeth and fresh blood samples were analysed for the genetic markers ABO, PGM1, GLO-I, EsD, EAP, AK, ADA, 6-PGD, G-6-PD and CA-II. ABO blood groups were successfully determined from dentine, pulp and cement samples whereas only dental pulp could be typed for different isozymes. Studies on the persistence of these genetic markers in teeth stored at room temperature showed that ABO blood groups were the most stable, followed by PGM1 and ADA isozymes, whereas CA-II isozymes were the least stable.
8476206: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase activities in human tumour cell lines in vitro. The activities of glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) and glyoxalase II (EC 3.1.2.6) were measured in 3 human non-malignant and 28 tumour cell lines. The activity of glyoxalase I was in the range 321-8751 mUnits/mg of protein. The glyoxalase I/glyoxalase II activity ratio was in the range 7-147; glyoxalase I activity was always markedly greater than glyoxalase activity. There was no significant difference between glyoxalase activities in non-malignant and tumour cell lines. The activity of glyoxalase I was within and above the range found in normal human tissues and the activity of glyoxalase II was within the range and below that found in normal human tissues.
8277832: !lactoylglutathione The glyoxalase system in health and disease. 
8204920: !lactoylglutathione Putative role of antioxidant enzymes and glyoxalases in carcinogenesis. The effects various drugs exert on antioxidant enzyme and glyoxalase activity in rat livers were studied. All drugs tested provoked a marked reduction in glutathione peroxidase and a small drop in both glyoxalase I and II activity. It is hypothesized that the substances tested support tumour development by neutralizing organic peroxides, thereby favouring the oxidation of carcinogens and, as a consequence, the formation of metabolites that trigger neoplastic transformation. The reduction in glyoxalase activity is probably attributable to the enhanced cell proliferation induced by the treatment.
7763577: !lactoylglutathione Physiological and biochemical characterization of glyoxalase I, a general marker for cell proliferation, from a soybean cell suspension. Using a strictly auxin-dependent soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) cell suspension, we studied the correlation of auxin-dependent cell proliferation and the activity of glyoxalase I (S-lactoylglutathione-lyase EC 4.4.1.5), and enzyme generally associated with cell proliferation in animal, microbial and, as reported recently, also plant systems. We found the activity of glyoxalase I to be modulated during the proliferation cycle, with a maximal activity between day 2 and day 4 of culture growth. After starving the culture of auxins for three subsequent periods, both the enzyme activity and cell-growth could be re-initiated with auxin. Enzyme activity reached its maximum 1 d before cell number was at a maximum. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity and characterized.
1472100: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of proliferation of human leukaemia 60 cells by diethyl esters of glyoxalase inhibitors in vitro. Diethyl esters of the glutathione S-conjugate S-p-bromobenzylglutathione, an inhibitor of glyoxalase I, and S-p-nitrobenzoxycarbonylglutathione, an inhibitor of glyoxalase II, induced growth arrest and toxicity in human leukaemia 60 cells in culture. The median growth inhibitory concentration IC50 values were 8.3 microM (95% C.I. 7.0-9.9 microM) for S-p-bromobenzylglutathione diethyl ester and 56 microM (95% C.I. 36-86 microM) for p-nitrobenzoxycarbonylglutathione. Monoethyl ester and unesterified derivatives were inactive. The diethyl ester derivatives were also toxic to mature human neutrophils under the same culture conditions where the respective median toxic concentration IC50 values were 39.7 (95% C.I. 35.4-44.5 microM) and 127 (95% C.I. 123-132 microM) microM. Diester derivatives may be of future interest in studying the cytotoxicity of glutathione S-conjugates and for the development of cytotoxic anti-tumour agents.
1459997: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of glyoxalase I by the enediol mimic S-(N-hydroxy-N-methylcarbamoyl)glutathione. The possible basis of a tumor-selective anticancer strategy. In principle, competitive inhibitors of glyoxalase I that also serve as substrates for the thioester hydrolase glyoxalase II might function as tumor-selective anti-cancer agents, given the role of these enzymes in removing cytotoxic methylglyoxal from cells and the observation that glyoxalase II activity is abnormally low in some types of cancer cells. In support of the feasibility of this anticancer strategy, an inhibitor of this type has been synthesized by a thioester-interchange reaction between glutathione and N-hydroxy-N-methylcarbamate 4-chlorophenyl ester to give S-(N-hydroxy-N-methylcarbamoyl)glutathione (1). This compound was designed to be a tight-binding inhibitor of glyoxalase I, on the basis of its stereoelectronic similarity to the enediol(ate) intermediate that forms along the reaction pathway of this enzyme. Indeed, 1 is a competitive inhibitor of yeast glyoxalase I, with an inhibition constant (Ki = 68 microM) that is approximately 30-fold lower than that reported for S-D-lactoylglutathione and approximately 7-fold lower than the Km for glutathione-methylglyoxal thiohemiacetal. In addition, 1 is a substrate for bovine liver glyoxalase II, with a Km (0.48 mM) approximately equal to that of the normal substrate S-D-lactoyglutathione and a kcat approximately 2 x 10(-5)-fold that of the normal substrate. Membrane transport studies show that 1 can be delivered into human erythrocytes (used here as a model cell) either by direct diffusion of 1 across the cell membrane or by more rapid diffusion of the glycylethyl ester of 1 across the cell membrane, followed by the catalyzed hydrolysis of the ester to give 1.
1339487: !lactoylglutathione Distribution of some erythrocytary enzymes in the Piaroa Indians of Venezuela. Eight enzyme gene markers were studied in a sample of Piaroa Indians of Venezuela. ADA, DIA, PGD and AK markers seemed to be non-polymorphic whereas the following markers were found to be polymorphic: ACP1, where the only common electrophoretic alleles present were ACP1*A and ACP1*B (.955); ESD (ESD*1 = .781); PGM1 (PGM1*1 = .736) for which the subtypes (PGM1*1S = .546; PGM1*1F = .190; PGM1*2S = .140; PGM1*2F = .124) were also tested, and GLO1 (GLO1*1 = .347). Some showed a certain heterogeneity in distribution within the Piaroa population. The Piaroa Indians turned out to be different from other ethnic groups living in the same territory.
1449514: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of growth of human leukaemia 60 cells by S-2-hydroxyacylglutathiones and monoethyl ester derivatives. S-2-Hydroxyacylglutathione derivatives were found to induce growth arrest and toxicity in human leukaemia 60 cells in culture. S-D-Lactoylglutathione was the most effective with a median inhibitory concentration IC50 of 82 microM (95% C.I. 65-105 microM). No similar toxicity was induced by reduced glutathione and/or the corresponding aldonic acid (500 microM) in human leukaemia 60 cells, nor by S-D-lactoylglutathione (500 microM) in mature human neutrophils under the same culture conditions. Monoethyl ester derivatives of the S-2-hydroxyacylglutathiones were prepared and also induced growth arrest and toxicity but were less effective than the corresponding unesterified compounds. S-2-Hydroxyacylglutathione derivatives also inhibited the incorporation of [3H]thymidine into DNA early in the development of toxicity: for S-D-lactoylglutathione, the median inhibitory concentration was 74 microM (95% C.I. 47-116 microM). The mechanism of the inhibition of human leukaemia cell growth by S-D-lactoylglutathione and other S-2-hydroxyacylglutathione derivatives is unknown but appears to be mediated by the inhibition of DNA synthesis.
1456422: !lactoylglutathione Fluorimetric assay of D-lactate. A fluorimetric assay for D-lactate in human blood samples was developed using an endpoint enzymatic assay with D-lactate dehydrogenase from Staphylococcus epidermidis. The intrabatch and interbatch coefficients of variance were 8.7% (n = 4) and 16.6% (n = 4), respectively. The limit of detection in blood was 3.73 nmol/ml. The assay suffers minor interference from S-D-lactoylglutathione, which was also present in the blood samples. The concentration of D-lactate in blood was (mean +/- SE, nmol/ml) normal healthy individuals, 11.0 +/- 1.2 (n = 7); and diabetic patients, 20.0 +/- 1.3 (n = 55) (a significant increase in diabetes mellitus; P < 0.01, Mann-Whitney U test).
1390924: !lactoylglutathione Caution: the glycylmethyl and glycylethyl esters of glutathione are substrates for glyoxalase I. The glycylmethyl and glycylethyl esters of glutathione have been synthesized and carefully characterized by both 1H-NMR and tandem FAB mass spectrometry. Contrary to previously published studies, these compounds (as their methylglyoxal-thiohemiacetals) do indeed serve as moderately efficient substrates for yeast glyoxalase I, with kcat values that are approx. 3-fold smaller and Km values that are approx. 3-fold larger than those of the thiohemiacetal formed from glutathione. Product inhibition studies show that the glycylmethyl and glycylethyl esters of (S)-D-lactoylglutathione bind approx. 1.4-fold less tightly to the active site than (S)-D-lactoylglutathione. These observations exclude an essential role for the glycyl-CO2- of substrate in active site binding and catalysis.
1627549: !lactoylglutathione Isomerization of (R)- and (S)-glutathiolactaldehydes by glyoxalase I: the case for dichotomous stereochemical behavior in a single active site. The ability of glyoxalase I to isomerize both diastereomeric thiohemiacetals formed between glutathione and alpha-ketoaldehydes has been probed with stereochemically "locked" substrate analogues. Both (R)- and (S)-glutathiolactaldehyde (5 and 5') were unambiguously synthesized by employing the Sharpless epoxidation procedure as a key step. In the presence of human erythrocyte glyoxalase I, high-field 1H NMR analysis reveals that the R and S isomers (approximately 20 mM) are both converted to glutathiohydroxyacetone at rates of 0.8 and 0.4 s-1, respectively. This reaction is characterized by a nonstereospecific proton abstraction followed by a partially shielded proton transfer to the si face of the cis-enediol intermediate. Glyoxalase I catalyzes the exchange of the pro-S proton of glutathiohydroxyacetone with solvent deuterium. Glutathiohydroxyacetone was found to be a good competitive inhibitor of the normal glyoxalase I reaction (KI = 1.46 mM), suggesting that the slow processing rate of these compounds with respect to the normal thiohemiacetals is not due to poor binding. The results are consistent with a nonstereospecific proton abstraction and a stereospecific reprotonation at contiguous substrate carbons.
1616937: !lactoylglutathione Accumulation of S-D-lactoylglutathione and transient decrease of glutathione level caused by methylglyoxal load in isolated hepatocytes. Methylglyoxal is converted to D-lactic acid through a conjugation with glutathione and S-D-lactoylglutathione is an intermediate of this pathway. In isolated hepatocytes prepared from fed mice incubated without nutrients (glucose, pyruvate and amino acids) the formation and release of S-D-lactoylglutathione and also a continuous lowering of cellular glutathione were demonstrated upon addition of methylglyoxal (20 mM). Under these incubation conditions, the glutathione content of the cells decreased in the controls. On the other hand, in hepatocytes incubated in a medium supplemented with the above-mentioned compounds an accumulation of S-D-lactoylglutathione and a transient decrease of glutathione were shown after addition of methylglyoxal. Under these experimental circumstances the glutathione content of the cells was preserved. Buthionine sulfoximine--an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis--prevented the restoration of glutathione level in hepatocytes observed in the presence of methylglyoxal; emetine--an inhibitor of protein synthesis--was ineffective. It is suggested that increased methylglyoxal formation may have a role in alterations of glutathione metabolism under conditions when serum acetone is increased and methylglyoxal production from acetone is elevated.
1533751: !lactoylglutathione Genetic structure of the population of Sicily. Genetic heterogeneity within Sicily was investigated on the basis of ACP1, ADA, ESD, GLO1, PGD, PGM1, PGM2, SODA, ABO, and MN gene frequencies, and compared to those of other regions of Italy for which these same loci have been examined. Correspondence analysis revealed no differences within the island, at least at the provincial level, but showed genetic differentiation among Italian regions, distinctly clustering northern, central, and southern populations, respectively. These data indicate a close relationship between Sicily and southern Italy. In addition, the contribution of Middle Eastern populations to the gene pool of Sicily was evident.
1532788: !lactoylglutathione Genetic study of five populations of Bihar, India. Four-hundred fifty-nine people, including 106 Santals, 43 Bhuiyas, 107 Sakaldipi Brahmins, 108 Chamars, and 95 Ansari Muslims, of the Giridhi district of Bihar have been tested for transferrin, group-specific component, phosphoglucomutase subtypes, and glyoxalase-I, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, and adenylate kinase types. Genetic distance estimates by both dendrogram and principal component methods for these 5 populations and the Oraons on the basis of 19 alleles at 6 polymorphic loci indicate 2 major clusters: Brahmins and Muslims, the latter of which is composed of two subclusters (Santals and Bhuiyas, and Oraons and Chamars). The Santal and Bhuiya tribes both speak Mundari, whereas the Oraons speak a Dravidian language. The Chamars, although low-caste Hindus, seem to have a non-Europoid origin, as do the Oraons.
1549324: !lactoylglutathione [Medical aspects of methylglyoxal metabolism]. Methylglyoxal is produced under both normal and pathological conditions and it is mainly eliminated by glyoxalases. This article gives an overview on the chemical properties, metabolism of methylglyoxal, and its role in acetone metabolism. Possible pathological role of that in diabetes mellitus and thiamine-deficiency is also discussed. Although the majority of data comes from animal experiments and relatively little is known of its human importance this review gives a new aspect to the understanding of its pathological role. With respect to the high incidence of diabetes mellitus the clinical investigation of alpha-oxoaldehydes is perspectivical.
1626930: !lactoylglutathione Sample storage conditions for the assay of glyoxalase activities in whole blood samples. 
1543528: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis and cytotoxicity of shikimate analogues. Structure:activity studies based on 1-crotonyloxymethyl-3R,4R,5R-trihydroxycyclohex-2-enone. Syntheses are described for and structure:activity studies undertaken of the anti-tumour activity of (2-crotonyloxymethyl-(4R,5R,6R)-4,5,6-trihydroxycyclohex-2-+ ++enone) (1) and its analogues 1-crotonyloxymethyl-(3R,4S,5R)-3,4,5-trihydroxycyclohex-1-en e (3), 1-crotonyloxymethyl-(3R,4S,5S)-3,4,5-trihydroxycyclohexene (4) and 2-crotonyloxymethyl-2-cyclohexenone (5), which differ from 1 in the presence/absence of the cyclic keto group and/or the stereochemistry at one of the -OH bearing carbon atoms. None of the above compounds, including 1, directly inhibited glyoxalase I, isolated for the first time to homogeneity from rat Yoshida sarcomas and for which a purification protocol was developed. The apparent inhibition of glyoxalase I by 1 and 5 (but not detected for 4 or 3) could be explained by reaction of 1 and 5 with the glutathione present in the assay buffer and the consequent depletion of substrate. 1 and 5 were found to react readily with glutathione whereas 4 and 3 did not react. In vitro chemosensitivity studies against a panel of tumour cell lines of both mouse and human origin showed that in parallel with their thiol reactivity, 1 and 5 exhibited significant in vitro cytotoxicity whereas 4 and 3 did not. Concentrations of drug required to cause 50% cell kill (ID50 values) were in the range 0.5-19 microM (0.1-2.8 micrograms/ml) for 5, and 3-44 microM (0.7-10 micrograms/ml) for 1. The structural features causing the differences in antitumour effects were localized on this basis to the alpha,beta-unsaturated ketone linkage as opposed to the stereochemistry of the (trihydroxy) alcoholic sites.
1518371: !lactoylglutathione The physiological consequences of glutathione variations. The major low molecular weight thiol inside cells, the tripeptide glutathione (GSH), is of importance for protection of the cell against oxidative challenge, for thiol homeostasis required to guarantee basic functions, and for defence mechanisms against xenobiotics. Since the pathophysiological significance of a perturbed GSH status in human disease is less clear, this review evaluates the consequences of in vivo variations of GSH. Owing to intracellular GSH concentrations above 2 mM depletion of GSH as such has little metabolic consequences unless an additional stress is superimposed. The kinetic properties of GSH-dependent enzymes imply that loss of up to 90% of intracellular GSH may still be compatible with cellular integrity. Mitochondrial GSH, which accounts for about 10% of total cellular GSH, may define the threshold beyond that toxicity commences. Thus, in cases of severe GSH-depletion a substitution of GSH as a therapeutic measure seems justified. Such a severe depletion of GSH has been described for some diseases such as liver dysfunction, AIDS or pulmonary fibrosis.
1374268: !lactoylglutathione Electrophoretic analysis of isoforms of glyoxalase II in clinical blood samples. A non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis procedure is described for the analysis of isoforms of human red blood cell glyoxalase II (EC 3.1.2.6). A cathodic, continuous buffer electrophoresis system was developed, using a 60 g/l polyacrylamide gel with 25 g/l N,N1-methylene-bis-acrylamide in 50 mmol/l sodium succinate buffer, pH 5.5 and 1 degrees C. Staining for glyoxalase II activity involved (a) washing the gel with 50 mmol/l Tris-HCl buffer, pH 7.4 and 37 degrees C, and (b) incubation with developing agent (0.5 g/l 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]- 2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide, 0.1 g/l 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol, 1 mmol/l S-D-lactoylglutathione in 100 mmol/l Tris-HCl, pH 7.4). Two activity bands were found in all human blood samples studied to date, probably reflecting the presence of two major isoforms. Optimal sample storage and preparation procedures and validation studies are described. This method is currently in use in an ongoing investigation of glyoxalase II isoforms in disease processes.
1352156: !lactoylglutathione Characterization of a new hybrid mink-mouse clone panel: chromosomal and regional assignments of the GLO, ACY, NP, CKBB, ADH2, and ME1 loci in mink (Mustela vison). To expand the mink map, we established a new panel consisting of 23 mink-mouse clones. On the basis of statistical criteria (Wijnen et al. 1977; Burgerhout 1978), we developed a computer program for choice of clones of the panel. Assignments of the following mink genes were achieved with the use of the hybrid panel: glyoxalase (GLO), Chromosome (Chr) 1; acetyl acylase (ACY), Chr 5; creatine phosphokinase B (CKBB), Chr 10; alcohol dehydrogenase-2 (subunit B) (ADH2), Chr 8. Using a series of clones carrying rearrangements involving mink Chr 1 and 8, we assigned the gene for ME1 to the short arm of Chr 1 and that for ADH2 to Chr 8, in the region 8p12-p24. Mapping results confirm the ones we previously obtained with a mink-Chinese hamster panel. However, by means of an improved electrophoretic technique, we revised the localization of the gene for purine nucleoside phosphorylase (NP), which has been thought to be on mink Chr 2. It is reassigned to mink Chr 10.
1819456: !lactoylglutathione Optimisation of non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic analysis of glyoxalase I phenotypes in clinical blood samples. 
1755849: !lactoylglutathione Enzyme chemistry of dithiohemiacetals: synthesis and characterization of S-D-dithiomandeloylglutathione as an alternate substrate for glyoxalase I. Both the D- and L-forms of S-dithiomandeloylglutathione (1) have been synthesized by a dithioester-interchange reaction between GSH and S-carboxy-methyl(D,L)-dithiomandelate. Kinetic and product analysis studies indicate that yeast glyoxalase I efficiently catalyzes the stereoselective conversion of D-1 to GSH-phenylglyoxal dithiohemiacetal (2), isolated as a disulfide adduct between 2 and a second molecule of GSH. This observation suggests that dithioester substrate analogues should be generally useful as mechanistic probes of enzyme catalyzed reactions involving thiohemiacetal intermediates.
1952942: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase 2 deficiency in the erythrocytes of a horse: 1H NMR studies of enzyme kinetics and transport of S-lactoylglutathione. In mammalian red blood cells the metabolism of methylglyoxal, and some alpha-ketoaldehydes, takes place via two, generally, highly active enzymes, glyoxalase 1 and 2. The 1H NMR spin-echo spectra of horse erythrocytes, and the various reactants in the glyoxalase system, were characterized as a prelude to obtaining series of spectra in time courses of methylglyoxal metabolism. We characterized the kinetics of the enzyme system in red cells from a normal horse and also from one which had very low activity of glyoxylase 2. The kinetics of the reaction scheme, with methylglyoxal as the starting substrate, were obtained from 1H NMR spectra and analyzed with a computer model of the scheme. The most salient feature of the normal system was the very high feed-forward inhibition (KiHTA = 0.1 microM) of glyoxalase 2 by the hemithioacetal which is the substrate of glyoxalase 1. The glyoxalase-2-deficient red cells were used to test whether S-lactoylglutathione is transported from red cells via the glutathione-S-conjugate transporter; this transport appeared not to occur. Because methylglyoxal is extremely rapidly removed (half-life, approximately 5 min) from normal red cells, it is difficult to assess the effect of this compound on glycolysis but the slow decline evident in the deficient cells allowed a study of the effects on L-lactate production; no effects were apparent.
1777125: !lactoylglutathione Positive effect of GAC gene product on the mRNA level of glyoxalase I gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A DNA fragment carrying a part of the structural gene for yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) glyoxalase I was cloned from a lambda gt11 expression library using anti-glyoxalase IIgG as a probe. By Northern blotting analysis, the amount of glyoxalase I mRNA was found to increase in yeast cells containing plasmids carrying the GAC gene, which is a positive regulator for yeast glyoxalase I activity. This suggests that the GAC gene product may accelerate the transcription of glyoxalase I gene or may have some positive effects on the accumulation of glyoxalase I mRNA in yeast cells.
1757272: !lactoylglutathione Population genetics of human glyoxalases. The gene for glyoxalase I (E.C. 4.4.1.5), Glo, has two alleles, Glo1 and Glo2, which are autosomally inherited in a co-dominant manner. Glo1 allele-frequency is highest in native Alaskan-Eskimo and Indian populations and decreases geographically south and east, to minimum levels in Aboriginal-Australian populations and native tribes in Papua New Guinea. There was no correlation between Glo1 frequency and incidence of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). The frequencies of GLO phenotypes, Glo 1-1, Glo 1-2 and Glo 2-2, are disturbed in IDDM and there is a suggestion that IDDM patients with or without chronic, clinical complications have characteristic phenotype frequencies.
1835494: !lactoylglutathione Effects of luminol on the subsequent analysis of bloodstains. The effects of luminol upon additional presumptive chemical tests, subsequent confirmatory blood tests, species determination by immunoelectrophoresis, ABO typing by absorption elution, and genetic marker analysis by multienzyme system electrophoresis were examined. Results indicate that luminol does not affect additional presumptive chemical tests, confirmatory tests, species determination, or ABO typing, but does affect certain genetic marker systems.
2043110: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis and initial characterization of gamma-L-glutamyl-L-thiothreonylglycine and gamma-L-glutamyl-L-allo-thiothreonylglycine as steric probes of the active site of glyoxalase I. The diastereomeric GSH derivatives gamma-L-Glu-L-allo-thioThr-Gly (6) and gamma-L-Glu-L-thioThr-Gly (6a) have been synthesized as specific probes of the steric environment near the cysteinyl residue of enzyme bound glutathionyl substrates. Experiments with glyoxalase I indicate that while 6a-methylglyoxal thiohemiacetal is a substrate for the enzyme, 6-methylglyoxal thiohemiacetal forms a tight-binding abortive complex with the active site (Ki congruent to 100 microM). Apparently, the small size of the cysteinyl C beta-Hs proton of the normal GSH-methylglyoxal thiohemiacetal substrate for glyoxalase I is a strict requirement for productive substrate binding. These compounds may provide a novel approach to the inhibition of GSH-dependent enzymes.
2021650: !lactoylglutathione Kinetic parameters for the elimination reaction catalyzed by triosephosphate isomerase and an estimation of the reaction's physiological significance. Kinetic parameters for triosephosphate isomerase catalysis of the elimination reaction of an equilibrium mixture of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) and D-glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (DGAP) to form methylglyoxal and phosphate ion are reported for the enzyme from rabbit muscle. Pseudo-first-order rate constants for the disappearance of substrate (kelim) were determined for reactions at [Enzyme] much greater than [Substrate]. The second-order rate constant kEnz = 10.1 M-1 s-1 was determined from a plot of kelim against enzyme concentration. The kinetic parameters, determined from a steady-state kinetic analysis at [Substrate] much greater than [Enzyme], are kcat = 0.011 s-1, Km = 0.76 mM, and kcat/Km = 14 M-1 s-1. The estimated rate-constant ratio for partitioning of the enzyme-bound intermediate between protonation at carbon 2 and elimination, 1,000,000, is much larger than the ratio of 6.5 determined for the reaction of the enediolate phosphate in a loose complex with quinuclidinonium cation, a small buffer catalyst. There is a 10(5)-10(8)-fold decrease in the rate constant for the elimination reaction of the enediolate phosphate when this species binds to triosephosphate isomerase. The kinetic parameters for the elimination reaction catalyzed by the native triosephosphate isomerase and for the reaction catalyzed by a mutant form of the enzyme, which is missing a segment that forms hydrogen bonds with the phosphate group of substrate [Pompliano, D. L., Peyman, A., & Knowles, J. R. (1990) Biochemistry 29, 3186-3194] are similar.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2037046: !lactoylglutathione Purification and partial characterization of glyoxalase I from a higher plant Brassica juncea. The glyoxalase I was purified from Brassica juncea by affinity chromatography on S-hexyl GSH sepharose 4B. Homogeneity of the protein was confirmed electrophoretically by a silver stained gel. Activity staining on a native starch gel also showed a single band. The effect of glutathione, methylglyoxal, and pH on enzyme kinetics was studied. Magnesium was found to stimulate the enzyme activity.
1884914: !lactoylglutathione Subchronic oral toxicity of glyoxal via drinking water in rats. The subchronic oral toxicity of glyoxal via drinking water and the effect on in vivo protein synthesis in tissues following a single treatment with this substance were assessed in Sprague-Dawley male rats. Animals received drinking water containing glyoxal levels of 2000, 4000, and 6000 mg/liter ad libitum for 30, 60, and 90 days in Phase I. In Phase II, the high-dose and control-1 groups fed the diet ad libitum, and a diet-limited control-2 group given the same amount of diet as consumed by the high-dose group were maintained for 90 and 180 days. The study designs included observations of clinical signs, body weights, major organ weights, gross and histopathological examinations, serum clinical chemistry, and biochemical examinations such as glyoxalase activity and glutathione content in selected tissues. Body weight gain and organ weights significantly decreased with dosage. Although consumption of food and water was also depressed in the exposed group, the reduction of body weight gain was greater in the high-dose group than in the diet-limited control 2 group. Histopathological examinations revealed only a slight papillary change in the kidneys from the high-dose group at both 90 and 180 days terminations in Phase II. The induction of both glyoxalase I and II was observed in liver and erythrocytes at 30-day termination of the exposed groups. Serum enzyme and protein levels were significantly reduced by the mid- and/or high-dose exposures. With a single oral high-dose treatment of glyoxal, a great decline in the incorporation of L-[3H]leucine was shown particularly in the liver, and this probably led in part to a reduction in the serum protein levels in rats following subchronic exposure to glyoxal. These data indicated an overall low degree of systemic toxicity to rats exposed subchronically to glyoxal via drinking water.
1840292: !lactoylglutathione ESD, GLO1, PGD, PGM1 and PGM2 gene frequencies in the Salerno Province (Italy). Esterase D (ESD), glyoxalase 1 (GLO1), phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (PGD) and phosphoglucomutase 1 and 2 (PGM1 and PGM2) systems have been studied in the Salerno province (Campania, Southern Italy). The mean weighted frequencies for the Campania region were calculated. These frequencies show a general similarity to those reported for the other Italian regions.
1855662: !lactoylglutathione [Enzyme proteins of different classes of northern red-backed and large-toothed red-backed voles]. Electrophoretic characters of 9 enzyme systems from different tissue homogenates supposedly controlled by 17 loci are described. Polymorphism detected in loci for glutamate-oxalate transaminase, adenylate kinase, esterase D. glucosephosphate isomerase was thoroughly investigated. Methodic characteristics of enzyme electrophoresis and population-genetic characters of the species studied are under discussion.
1675045: !lactoylglutathione Spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA1) in two large Italian kindreds: evidence in favour of a locus position distal to GLO1 and the HLA cluster. Two large Italian pedigrees with HLA-linked spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA1) were typed for HLA-A, -B and -DR as well as for markers either distal (F13A, D6S8) or proximal (D6S29, GLO1) to HLA. Pairwise linkage analyses of SCA1 vs. HLA-A, -B, and -DR showed peak lodscores of 5.3, 5.6 and 3.3 respectively at 7% recombination. Negative lodscores significantly excluded linkage with F13A at less than 5% and with GLO1 at less than 10%. The lodscores with D6S8 and D6S29 had only low peaks. Recombination events in the two pedigrees and the estimated genetic distances of SCA1 from GLO1 and HLA favour the hypothesis of a SCA1 location distal to both of them. An order cen-GLO1-HLA-SCA1-tel appears therefore most likely with present data. These results are discussed in relation to previous reports placing SCA1 distal to HLA in two families and
2264148: !lactoylglutathione Computer program for the identification of quantitative phenotypes. 
2253848: !lactoylglutathione DNA modification in vivo by derivatives of glucose: enhancement by glutathione depletion. When BHK or HTC cells are cultured for 20 min with [U-14C]glucose in the presence of agents that deplete reduced glutathione, DNA banded from the cells in cesium salt gradients containing guanidium HCl is radioactively labeled. This depletion-dependent labeling required live cells. It was not caused by reactive contaminants in the radioactive glucose preparations, by carbohydrate or protein comigration into the DNA band, or by metabolism of glucose into deoxyribose. Labeling levels are similar whether depletion is achieved by oxidation (with the drug diamide) or by inhibition of synthesis (with methionine sulfoximine). A temporal association between GSH repletion and the appearance of D-lactate, the putative unique product of GSH-dependent glyoxylase action on pyruvaldehyde, suggests possible involvement of 3-carbon dicarbonyls.
2076100: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II from Aloe vera: purification, characterization and comparison with animal glyoxalases. Glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II from the outer green rind of Aloe vera leaves were purified by (matrix) affinity ligand-enzyme binding methods. The purified enzymes exhibited single protein bands on SDS-PAGE electrophoresis, with MW values of approximately 44,000 and 27,000 for glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II, respectively. The glyoxalase I is a basic protein (pI 7.8), while the glyoxalase II (3 protein bands) is acidic (pI 4.7, 4.8 [prevalent form], and 5.0). The kinetic constants, Km and Vmax, and Ki values for certain inhibitors are reported for both glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II. The glyoxalase enzymes from Aloe vera were compared with reported animal and plant glyoxalases.
2226450: !lactoylglutathione Kinetic analysis of the human erythrocyte glyoxalase system using 1H NMR and a computer model. 1H NMR was used with methylglyoxal, purified by an HPLC technique, to study the kinetics of the human erythrocyte glyoxalase system. 1H NMR enabled the direct measurement of the time-dependent changes in concentrations of the two hydrates of methylglyoxal, which have not previously been directly measurable, as well as measurement of substrates and products of the glyoxalase enzyme system in the human red blood cell. A computer model of the reaction scheme was developed and NMR data numerically analyzed, thus allowing a complete kinetic description of the reactions. The rate constants describing the chemical equilibria between the hydrated species of methylglyoxal were determined by this numerical analysis or by a saturation-transfer technique, and found to be much slower (by several orders of magnitude) than previously determined by other methods. The kinetic parameters describing the enzyme-catalyzed reactions were also determined from experiments using a dilute haemolysate that was added to solutions of methylglyoxal and reduced glutathione (GSH). The maximal velocity of glyoxalase 1 is threefold greater (Vmax = 70.4 +/- 4.7 mmol.min-1.1 packed cells-1) than glyoxalase 2(Vmax = 24 +/- 5 mmol.min-1.1 packed cells-1) and it exhibits threefold-greater affinity for its substrate (Km = 0.46 +/- 0.04 mM) than the second enzyme (Km = 1.5 +/- 0.4 mM). Both enzymes are subject to competitive inhibition; glyoxalase 1 by reduced glutathione (KiGSH = 7.88 +/- 0.16 mM) and glyoxalase 2 by the hemithioacetal (HTA) of methylglyoxal and GSH (KiHTA = 0.29 +/- 0.04 mM).
2222410: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis of carboxy-residue-modified coenzyme derivatives as probes to the mechanism of glutathione enzymes. a general procedure for the preparation of the monoglycyl and dimethyl ester and amide derivatives of s-(4-bromobenzyl)glutathione are reported, in addition to purification procedures.
2401046: !lactoylglutathione Differences among human tumor cell lines in the expression of glutathione transferases and other glutathione-linked enzymes. A large number of human tumor cell lines of various origins have been investigated with respect to expression of glutathione-linked enzymes in the cytosol fraction. The amounts of the different enzymes were estimated by use of activity measurements and by silver staining or immunoblot analysis after electrophoresis of cytosol fractions purified by affinity chromatography on S-hexylglutathione Sepharose. Class Pi glutathione transferase was the most abundant enzyme in most tumor cells; the cell lines HepG2 and Raji were exceptions in not expressing significant amounts of this enzyme. HepG2 cells derive from hepatocytes, which normally do not express the class Pi enzyme, whereas Raji cells originate from B-lymphocytes, which normally do express a class Pi glutathione transferase. The highest level of the class Pi transferase, in terms of protein reacting with antibodies as well as enzyme activity, was noted in the colon carcinoma cell line LS174T. Hu549Pat cells, EBV-transformed B-lymphocytes, also expressed high levels of a protein reacting with antibodies specific for class Pi glutathione transferases, but did not display any significant activity with ethacrynic acid, a substrate characteristic for this class. Class Alpha and class Mu glutathione transferases, in cell lines expressing these isoenzymes, were present in significantly lower concentrations than the class Pi enzyme. Most of the tumor cells contained a class Alpha transferase composed of 27.5 kd subunits, which has the physicochemical and immunological properties of the most basic glutathione transferase found in human skin. In several cell lines, a protein was detected with an apparent subunit Mr value of 30 kd that was tentatively identified as an additional class Alpha glutathione transferase not previously described. In addition, other glutathione-linked enzyme activities, namely glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and glyoxalase I, were assayed with specific substrates in the cytosolic fraction of the tumor cells; glyoxalase I could also be estimated semiquantitatively by silver staining of SDS-PAGE cells after affinity chromatography. Like the glutathione transferases, these enzymes displayed distinctly different levels of expression in the various cell lines. Thus, virtually every cell line was found to have a unique pattern of glutathione-linked enzymes, suggesting that the resistance phenotypes of the cells differ accordingly.
2278045: !lactoylglutathione Analysis of HLA-DP in HLA-DR/GLO recombinant families and in the population of south-western France. The existing estimates of the recombination fraction between DR and DP are quite variable and often based on anecdotal observations. We have estimated the DR/DP crossover frequency on the basis of families typed for HLA markers and GLO. The frequency of DR/GLO crossing over was 8.7% (23/264 informative meioses), maternal recombinations being about twice as frequent as paternal ones. Of 17 DR/GLO recombinant families typed for DPw1-6, DP was informative in 11 (13 recombinations) but only one of these gave rise to a DR/DP crossover. According to these data the DR/DP recombination fraction is below 1%, in contrast to some earlier published materials. HLA-DR/DP haplotypic associations on 127 informative Caucasoid haplotypes have been evaluated. In agreement with previous studies, DR3 was positively associated with DPw1 and, in addition, DR7 was found to be positively associated with DP-blank (not DPw1-6). The rare DPw6 allele is possibly associated with the DR4, Dw14 allele. The DR-DP haplotype profiles suggest other associations which might become significant if larger materials are tested. The frequency of DP alleles in a random material (N = 201) was found to be in accordance with most of the previously published frequences on European Caucasoids with DPw4 as the predominating frequency (gene frequency 40%) and a blank frequency of 27%.
2278043: !lactoylglutathione Familial Mediterranean fever--linkage studies with genetic markers on chromosome 6. Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF) is an autosomal recessive disease manifested by recurrent short episodes of fever associated with polyserositis. Although the biochemical defect is unknown, there are several immunologic abnormalities which have been described in this disease. To examine critically whether there is linkage between FMF and the immunogenetic region (major histocompatibility complex-MHC) on chromosome 6, including the HLA, BF, and GLO1 loci, blood samples from members of 13 nuclear Armenian families were tested for these genetic markers. These 13 families included 28 affected and 42 unaffected family members. Linkage could be excluded at 7.5% recombination with the HLA ABC and D loci. Linkage could be excluded at 2.5% recombination for GLO1. Linkage could not be excluded with BF individually, but can be rejected based on the haplotype data. No association was found with either BF, GLO1, and HLA DQ alleles. HLA DR4 was found more often in affected cases than in controls; however, after adjusting for the number of antigens tested this was not significant. Our results would appear to exclude the immunogenetic region on chromosome 6 from linkage with FMF in the Armenian population.
2148356: !lactoylglutathione The distribution of some serum protein and red cell enzyme polymorphisms in the Koch ethnic group of West Bengal, India. Three populations (Poliya, Deshi, and Tiyor) of the Koch ethnic group have been studied for the distribution of three serum protein and four red cell enzyme polymorphisms. There was no significant difference in the allelic frequencies of these systems in the three populations of the Koch ethnic group. The overall gene frequencies were as follows: Hp1, 0.21; Gc1F, 0.34; Gc1S, 0.36; Gc2, 0.30; TfC1, 0.66; TfC2, 0.26; TfC3, 0.001; TfD, 0.06; GLO1, 0.21; PGI2, 0.04; AK2, 0.01; PGM1+, 0.80; PGM1-, 0.06; PGM2+, 0.11 and PGM2-, 0.02. The phenotypic distribution at all the loci was at Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.
2101256: !lactoylglutathione Red cell enzyme polymorphisms in the Balearic Islands. II. A comparison based on multivariate analyses. A sample of 2143 individuals from Mallorca, coming from six geographic regions of this island: "Es Raiguer", "La Muntanya", "Es Plà", "Mijgorn", "Llevant" and "Palma", as well as 390 individuals from Eivissa island have been studied for the following six red cell enzyme systems: Esterase-D (ESD), acid phosphatase-1 (ACP1), glyoxalase-I (GLO1) 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (PGD), phosphoglucomutase-1 (PGM1) and adenylate-kinase (AK1). The data were processed by means of multivariate statistical procedures: principal components, factorial correspondence and cluster analyses. The results indicate that ACP1 and ESD were the most suitable systems for the characterization of these caucasian populations, while GLO1 was important when different ethnic groups were included in the analyses. The Balearic gene frequencies fell within the European standard. Slight genetic distances were detected among the different Balearic populations, notably with the exception of the high differentiation of "La Muntanya".
2101255: !lactoylglutathione Red cell enzyme polymorphisms in the Balearic Islands. I. Substructuring of the Mallorca population. A sample of 2143 individuals belonging to six natural geographic regions from Mallorca (Balearic Is. Spain, 39.5N, 3.0E) was studied for the red cell enzyme polymorphisms: Esterase-D (ESD), acid phospatase-1 (ACP1), glyoxalase-I (GLO1), phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (PGD), phosphoglucomutase-1 (PGM1) and adenylate-kinase (AK1). The following gene frequencies were obtained: ESD*2'3 = 0.142, ACP1*A = 0.248, ACP1*C = 0.027, GLO1*2 = 0.529, PGD*C = 0.010, PGM1*2 = 0.221 and AK1*2 = 0.033. Most of these gene frequencies were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The subpopulation of "La Muntanya" showed significant differences for some allozymes respect to the others, in accordance with its geographic peculiarity.
2229009: !lactoylglutathione Sexual response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae: phosphorylation of yeast glyoxalase I by a cell extract of mating factor-treated cells. The phosphorylation of glyoxalase I was observed when the phosphatase-treated enzyme was incubated in the presence of [gamma-32P]ATP and a cell extract prepared from alpha-type yeast cells which had been treated with the culture supernatant of a-type yeast cells. The phosphorylated protein was identified as glyoxalase I by using anti-glyoxalase I rabbit immunoglobulin G.
2198020: !lactoylglutathione The glyoxalase system: new developments towards functional characterization of a metabolic pathway fundamental to biological life. 
1974661: !lactoylglutathione HLA extended haplotypes in steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome of childhood. Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome has been postulated to have an immunopathogenic basis. To determine whether steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome is associated with greater than expected frequencies of specific extended haplotypes of the major histocompatibility complex, we studied genetic markers (Class I, II, III HLA alleles and glyoxalase I) in 173 subjects in 42 families of patients with nephrotic syndrome of childhood. The single allele, DQW2, was found in 72% of steroid sensitive patients compared with only 35% of the controls (P = 0.003). In half of 32 steroid sensitive, but not 10 steroid resistant, patients, one or both of two specific extended haplotypes (alleles that segregate together) were identified. The first, [HLA-A1, B8, DR3, DRW52, SCO1], occurred in 11 of 64 haplotypes, or 17%, compared to 5% of controls (P = 0.017). The other, [HLA-B44, DR7, DRW53, FC31], occurred in 10 of 64 haplotypes, 16% compared to 3.8% of controls (P = 0.014). Five patients had both haplotypes. Patients with these specific extended haplotypes had a greater frequency of relapses than did those with other haplotypes. These data provide additional support for the hypothesis that steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome has an immunogenetic basis.
2193656: !lactoylglutathione Nucleotide sequence of a gene which enhances the activity of glyoxalase I in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A gene whose product enhances glyoxalase I activity in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells was cloned as a 6-kbp DNA fragment in the vector YEp13. The DNA fragment was subcloned in approximately 2 kbp and its base sequence determined. An open reading frame with 318 nucleotide pairs (encoding 106 amino acids) was found. According to Northern blotting analysis, the yeast transformed with the hybrid plasmid harboring the 2-kbp fragment yielded two different transcripts. From the DNA sequence of the fragment, it is deduced that the gene product would contain seven cysteine residues, five of which would be located near the carboxy terminus of the peptide.
2332283: !lactoylglutathione Relative distribution of glutathione transferase, glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II in helminths. Glutathione transferase, glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II activities were not evenly distributed among the major helminth groups. Intestinal cestodes and digeneans had higher glutathione transferase activity than parasitic nematodes. High glyoxalase II activity was found in cestodes and digeneans but no glyoxalase I was detectable. Glyoxalase I and II were both detected in nematodes. These results are discussed in relation to the enzymes' suggested role in protection against secondary lipid peroxidation products.
2278900: !lactoylglutathione Genetic polymorphisms of HLA class III and GLO1 in Chinese Yao nationality. Yao is one of the minority nationalities located mainly in the South of China (Guang Xi province). The purpose of this study was to examine HLA class III and GLO1 in Yao nationality to identify the difference between Yao and Han. Han is the major nationality in China. Yao has the lowest C2*C frequency (0.9336) in the world. Before this study the lowest C2*C frequency known was that of the Japanese (0.9386). Gene frequencies in Yao are the following: C2*C = 0.9336, C2*B = 0.0664; BF*S = 0.9071, BF*F = 0.0929; C4A*4 = 0.0253, C4A*3 = 0.6061, C4A*2 = 0.2121, C4A*1 = 0.0152, C4A*Q0 = 0.1414; C4B*3 = 0.0051, C4B*2 = 0.0657, C4B*1 = 0.7071, C4B*92 = 0.0455, C4B*95 = 0.0253, C4B*96 = 0.0253, C4B*12 = 0.0051, C4B*Q0 = 0.1212; GLO1*1 = 0.1161, GLO1*2 = 0.8839. We have compared these data with those reported for Han.
2108687: !lactoylglutathione Depressant effect of very low levels of aflatoxin B1 on mouse glyoxylase-I activity and methylglyoxal disposal. 
1967060: !lactoylglutathione High frequencies of B8, DR3 and C4A null alleles and immunological disorders in a family of four generations. In a Finnish family covering four generations many members had immunological symptoms or disorders (mostly skin or joint oriented) with the presence of the B8 antigen positive Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) haplotype. Immunological parameters including the presence of autoantibodies, quantitative analysis of the complement components C4, Factor B (BF) and C3 and the serum capacity to inhibit immune precipitation were investigated in relation to the genetic MHC markers. The results showed the importance of the high frequency of the C4A null alleles to these disorders.
2340795: !lactoylglutathione Immunogenetics of early-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus among the Japanese: HLA, Gm, BF, GLO, and organ-specific autoantibodies--the J.D.S. study. The Japan Diabetes Society (JDS) conducted a multicenter study on the immunogenetics of early-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) of the Japanese. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA), properdin factor B (BF), immunoglobulin heavy-chain complex (Gm), and glyoxalase of erythrocytes (GLO) were typed, and organ-specific autoantibodies, including islet cell antibody (ICA), were assayed in 159 Japanese IDDM patients and their family members and in 258 healthy Japanese controls. The HLA-DRw9 phenotype and HLA-Bw61/DRw9 haplotype were significantly increased among the patients with autoantibodies other than ICA but with no autoimmune diseases (RR = 5.84, cP less than 0.001; and RR = 7.45, P less than 0.001), whereas the HLA-DR4 phenotype and HLA-Bw54/DR4 haplotype were significantly increased in those without either the autoantibodies or autoimmune diseases (RR = 2.64, cP less than 0.001; and RR = 4.55, P less than 0.001). The HLA-DR4 phenotype was significantly increased in the patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases (RR = 6.21, cP less than 0.05). In all groups of patients, the HLA-DR2 phenotype was significantly decreased, and the relative risk of the HLA-DRw9/DR4 genotype was highest among all HLA-DR genotypes. No significant association was found between HLA type and the duration or incidence of ICA. Gm types of g and gft were significantly increased in the patients with the autoantibodies (RR = 2.11, P less than 0.05; and RR = 34.11, P less than 0.05), whereas the BF-F phenotype was significantly decreased in the patients either with or without autoantibodies (RR = 0.43, P less than 0.05; and RR = 0.46, P less than 0.05). There was no association between IDDM and GLO type. These data indicate that immunogenetic bases underlying IDDM of the Japanese are heterogeneous, as are those in Caucasians.
2329336: !lactoylglutathione The effects of heat upon the glyoxalase I isoenzyme. It was observed during the course of routine casework that different bloodstains from the same individual could produce anomalies in the glyoxalase I band patterns. Bloodstains were heated at different temperatures for periods of 4 and 6 h and then examined using electrophoretic techniques. It was demonstrated that upon heating, band alterations in the glyoxalase I Type 1 phenotype can occur, causing the analyst to render the results inconclusive.
14545903: !lactoylglutathione Overproduction of glutathione and its derivatives by genetically engineered microbial cells. In order to improve the biotechnological potentials of Escherichia coli cells to produce glutathione, S-D-lactoylglutathione and other gamma-glutamyl compounds, the genes for enzymes [gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteine synthetase (GSH A) in E. coli B, glutathione synthetase (GSH B) in E. coli B, glyoxalase I (GLO I) in Pseudomonas putida] were cloned and amplified in E. coli. E. coli B cells transformed with both GSH A and GSH B genes exhibited a high activity in the synthesis of glutathione and other gamma-glutamyl compounds in bioreactor systems containing immobilized cells. E. coli C600 cells transformed with GLO I gene of P. putida showed a high GLO I activity and were used for the preparation of S-D-lactoylglutathione and other glutathione thiol esters.
2369408: !lactoylglutathione Induction of mouse liver glyoxalase I by hypobaric hypoxia. Hypobaric hypoxia at 0.45 atm induced a reversible increase of mouse liver glyoxalase I. The levels of this enzyme increased after an exposure of 20 h and 20 + 20 h, whereas the activity decreased to the control values after 20 h at room pressure. Before the treatment, some animals received tritiated leucine (i.p.). Glyoxalase I was purified to homogeneity. The pure enzyme from the treated animals showed 20-times more radioactivity than the controls. Thus, the increase in specific activity is due to new protein synthesized in response to the treatment at 0.45 atm. The activities of glyoxalase II and glutathione S-transferase were not affected by the treatment.
2365380: !lactoylglutathione Studies of association between some genetic systems (ABO, MN, EsD, GLO, C3 and Hp). Using random population data on the ABO, MN, esterase D (EsD), glyoxalase I, complement (C3) and haptoglobin markers in the population of Madras City associations were studied between these genetic systems. Out of a total of fifteen comparisons one significant association (chi 2 = 11.0; d.f. 4; 0.05 greater than p greater than 0.02) was found between the EsD and C3 phenotypes.
2348487: !lactoylglutathione Genetic polymorphism of MHC class III and GLO in Chinese Yao nationality. Yao nationality is one of the minority nationalities living mainly in South China (Guangxi Province). The purpose of this study was to provide data of MHC class III and GLO in Chinese Yao nationality and the different genetic background of Yao and Han nationality, the latter representing the major nationality in China. The genetic polymorphism of MHC class III and GLO in Chinese Yao nationality was determined. Previously the Japanese were considered to have the lowest C2*C frequencies (0.9386), but now we ascertained that the Yao have the lowest C2*C frequencies (0.9336). The data concerning gene frequencies of Yao are presented. They were also compared with the available data of Han.
2222487: !lactoylglutathione Presence of a plant-like glyoxalase II in Candida albicans. Glyoxalase II from Candida albicans was purified by affinity chromatography on S-carbobenzoxyglutathione-Affi Gel 10. The enzyme was characterized and compared with the glyoxalases II from animal and plant sources. The relative molecular mass is 29 kDa, and the isoelectric point (pI) is 6.0. The acidic pI value appears to be typical for plant glyoxalase II, in contrast to the uniformly basic glyoxalase II pI values from animals. S-D-Lactoylglutathione and S-acetoacetylglutathione are the best substrates, and S-carbobenzoxyglutathione is the best inhibitor of the yeast enzyme. Glutathione derivatives with a thioether bond are not inhibitory. Glyoxalase II from Candida albicans is compared either with animal and plant enzymes.
2148301: !lactoylglutathione Red-cell enzyme polymorphisms in the Reggio Calabria province (Italy). Acid phosphatase (ACP1), adenosine deaminase (ADA), esterase D (ESD), glyoxalase 1 (GLO1), phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (PGD) and phosphoglucomutase 1 and 2 (PGM1 and PGM2) polymorphisms have been studied in the Reggio Calabria province (Southern Italy). The ACP1*A allele and ADA, GLO1, PGD and PGM1 systems have frequencies similar to those reported for Sicily and Southern Italy.
2139982: !lactoylglutathione [The determination of the phenotypes of 3 enzyme systems by the polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis method]. Possibility of combined determination of phenotypes of three enzyme system (glyoxylase-1, phosphoglucomutase and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase) in the apparatus with two vertical blocks of polyacrilamide gel (PAAG) was shown. The method is based on the principle of combination of differently composed blocks of PAAG and single universal electrode buffer. High productivity and economy of the method equally with good quality of resulting phoregrams make this method useful for medicolegal practical work.
2134680: !lactoylglutathione Glutathione-linked enzymes in normal and tumor cells and their role in resistance against genotoxic agents. Glutathione is the most abundant low molecular mass thiol in human cells. It is involved in the inactivation of genotoxic electrophilic compounds, and a variety of glutathione-linked enzymes catalyze such detoxication reactions. Within this group, the enzymes occurring in highest intracellular concentrations are the glutathione transferases, which catalyze the detoxication of a broad spectrum of alkylating and oxidizing compounds such as epoxides, reactive alkenes and organic hydroperoxides. Multiple forms of glutathione transferase with distinct substrate specificities exist, and their differential expression in cells contributes to differences in detoxication capacities in tissues. Glyoxalase I catalyzes the inactivation of 2-oxoaldehydes and may also be considered as part of the cellular detoxication system. Characterization of the different enzymes and their differential expression in normal and tumor cells will help to clarify their cellular functions and their significance to human cancer. Clear differences in the occurrence of the various enzyme forms in normal and tumor cells have been demonstrated and variations between different tumors appear to be linked to their degree of resistance to alkylating cytostatic drugs. Modulation of catalytic activities in vitro by administration of enzyme inhibitors may help to overcome this resistance.
2125027: !lactoylglutathione Serogenetic variation in four caste populations of Haryana, India. The phenotypes and gene frequencies of 3 blood groups, 7 red-cell enzymes and a serum protein were studied in 4 caste population groups of Haryana, North India. The results indicate that the distribution of these blood markers is rather homogeneous in the 4 groups and generally resembles that observed in various populations from neighbouring North Indian states.
1696817: !lactoylglutathione Toxicity of methylglyoxal towards rat enterocytes and colonocytes. Effect of methylglyoxal, a bacterial metabolic product, on protein, DNA, and RNA synthesis in rat enterocytes and colonocytes was investigated. Results showed that 1 mM methylglyoxal inhibited protein, DNA, and RNA synthesis to the extent of 65-85, 65-80, and 10-20 per cent, respectively, in villus and crypt cells and colonocytes. The inhibitory pattern was similar in these various cell types. The inhibitory effect on protein and DNA synthesis was more marked than that on RNA synthesis. Inclusion of thiol compounds up to 4 mM concentration did not protect the cells from the inhibitory effect of methylglyoxal. No alteration in the level of cellular reduced glutathione and glyoxalase enzyme activity was observed when cells were incubated with 2 mM methylglyoxal. These results suggest that the antiproliferative action of methylglyoxal on eukaryotic cells may be through the inhibition of macromolecular synthesis.
2692559: !lactoylglutathione Sexual response in Saccharomyces cerevisiae: alteration of enzyme activity in the glyoxalase system by mating factor. Glyoxalase I activity in alpha-type budding yeast of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain was increased by exposure of alpha-type cells to supernatant of a culture of a-type yeast cells, although glyoxalase II activity was decreased by the same treatment. The alteration of enzyme activity in the glyoxalase system occurred during the 30-60 min period after exposure of alpha-type cells to a-type culture supernatant. No change of glyoxalase I and II activities was found in the case of the alpha-type strain, S. cerevisiae VQ3 (alpha ste3-1), which is deficient in a-factor receptors.
2635162: !lactoylglutathione The detoxification of xenobiotic compounds by Onchocerca gutturosa (Nematoda: Filarioidea). In common with other helminths O. gutturosa appears to lack cytochrome P450 linked phase 1 enzymes and so its ability to metabolize aromatic nuclei may be severely restricted. The parasite could reduce azo- but not nitro-compounds and low levels of epoxide hydrolase activity were also detected. Glutathione S-transferase was the only phase 2 enzyme which could be demonstrated in O. gutturosa. High levels of glyoxalase I and in particular glyoxalase II were found in the parasite, suggesting an important role for these enzymes in detoxification.
2686643: !lactoylglutathione Investigation on glyoxalase I inhibitors. Several classes of compounds - flavones, coumarins, S- and N-substituted glutathione analogs, transition state analogs, porphyrins, nucleotides and nucleosides - have been reported to inhibit the enzyme gloxalase I. In the current study, examination of some of the aforementioned compounds has revealed that squaric acid does not function as an inhibitor of glyoxalase I and several other compounds are much less effective in this regard than previously reported. Several new potent inhibitors of yeast glyoxalase I have been identified. Compounds containing the tropolone structure were especially inhibitory. Glutathione adducts of benzoquinone and naphthoquinone were also inhibitory and may be of particular interest with regard to the toxicology of normal aromatic metabolites in vivo.
2597126: !lactoylglutathione Effects of inducers of drug metabolism on basic hepatic forms of mouse glutathione transferase. The cytosolic glutathione transferases (GSTs) with basic pI values have been studied in mouse liver after treatment with 2,3-t-butylhydroxyanisole (BHA), cafestol palmitate (CAF), phenobarbital (PB), 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC) and trans-stilbene oxide (t-SBO). The cytosolic GST activity was induced by all compounds except for 3-MC. Three forms of GST were isolated by means of affinity chromatography and f.p.l.c. The examination of protein profiles and enzymic activities with specific substrates showed that the three GSTs correspond to those found in control animals, i.e. GSTs MI, MII and MIII. The class Mu GST MIII accounted for the major effect of induction, whereas the class Alpha GST MI and the class Pi GST MII were unchanged or somewhat down-regulated. The greatest induction was obtained with BHA, PB and CAF. The activities of other glutathione-dependent enzymes were also studied. An increase in glutathione reductase and thioltransferase activities was observed after BHA, PB or CAF treatment; glyoxalase I and Se-dependent glutathione peroxidase were depressed in comparison with the control group in all cases studied.
2804125: !lactoylglutathione Isolation of glyoxalase II from two different compartments of rat liver mitochondria. Kinetic and immunochemical characterization of the enzymes. Two separate pools of glyoxalase II were demonstrated in rat liver mitochondria, one in the intermembrane space and the other in the matrix. The enzyme was purified from both sources by affinity chromatography on S-(carbobenzoxy)glutathione-Affi-Gel 40. From both crude and purified preparations polyacrylamide gel-electrophoresis resolved multiple forms of glyoxalase II, two from the intermembrane space and five from the matrix. Among the thioesters of glutathione tested as substrates, S-D-lactoylglutathione was hydrolyzed most efficiently by the enzymes from both sources. Significant differences were observed in the specificities between the intermembrane space and matrix enzymes with S-acetoacetylglutathione, S-acetylglutathione, S-propionylglutathione and S-succinylglutathione as substrates. Pure glyoxalase II from rat liver cytosol was chemically polymerized and used as antigen. Antibodies were raised in rabbits and the antiserum was used for comparison of the two purified mitochondrial enzymes with cytosolic glyoxalase II by immunoblotting. The enzyme purified from the intermembrane space cross-reacted with the antiserum, but the matrix glyoxalase II did not. The results give evidence for the presence in rat liver mitochondria of two species of glyoxalase II with differing characteristics. Only the enzyme from the intermembrane space appears to resemble the cytosolic glyoxalase II forms.
2801904: !lactoylglutathione Genetic structure of three Naikpod subpopulations of Andhra Pradesh, India. The genetic structure of three subpopulations of the Naikpod tribe of Andhra Pradesh, India, was examined by studying three blood group, six red cell enzyme, and five protein systems and phenylthiocarbamide taste sensitivity. The gene frequency data of 15 loci are compared among the subpopulations as well as with those reported for other population groups from India. The analysis of gene diversity revealed that the gene differentiation among the subpopulations relative to total population is only 0.02, indicating that the genetic differentiation between subpopulations is very small compared with that within them. This is corroborated by the small genetic distances found among them. The effect of differentiation of microgeographical and breeding isolation on gene diversity and genetic differentiation among the three subpopulations is apparently low.
2776650: !lactoylglutathione The human red blood cell glyoxalase system in diabetes mellitus. Methylglyoxal and other alpha-oxoaldehydes are formed from glycolytic intermediates and may be involved in the development of diabetic microangiopathy. Glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II metabolise methylglyoxal to D-lactic acid, via the intermediate S-D-lactoylglutathione. The activities of the glyoxalase enzymes and the concentrations of methylglyoxal and S-D-lactoylglutathione were measured in erythrocytes of 45 control and 85 diabetic subjects (41 with retinopathy and 44 uncomplicated). The concentration of S-D-lactoylglutathione was increased in diabetic patients vs. controls (21.4 +/- 9.3 vs. 12.4 +/- 4.8 mumol/l, P less than 0.001), as was methylglyoxal (3.6 +/- 2.3 vs. 1.4 +/- 0.2 mumol/l, P less than 0.001). There were no significant differences in the activities of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II between diabetic patients and controls. For insulin-dependent patients only, those without retinopathy had a higher activity of glyoxalase II than those with retinopathy (P less than 0.05). A group of age- and duration-matched insulin-dependent diabetic patients with retinopathy also had a higher activity of glyoxalase I compared with a group of diabetic patients without retinopathy (P less than 0.025). This study provides evidence for elevated concentrations of oxoaldehydes in diabetes mellitus which might have pathogenic significance.
2587840: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis and biological activity of a new squaric acid-formylmethionine peptide conjugate. A new squaric acid-formylmethionine peptide has been synthesized. In view of its biological properties to induce lysosome release and to inhibit glyoxalase, this compound may be of pharmacologic value.
2781146: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of yeast glyoxalase I by biologically active peptides. The antiglyoxylase activity of biologically active peptides f-Met-Leu-Phe-OCH3 and Boc-Phe-Leu-Phe-OCH3 has been evaluated and compared with those of standard inhibitors s-octylglutathione and squaric acid. The inhibitory properties of these peptides are discussed in terms of biological and pharmacological aspects.
2627763: !lactoylglutathione Erythrocyte glyoxalase activity in genetically obese (ob/ob) and streptozotocin diabetic mice. Hyperglycemia associated with the manifestation of the obese diabetic (ob/ob) syndrome in mice and the short and long term streptozotocin treatment of lean MF1 mice was accompanied by a significant decrease in erythrocyte glyoxalase 1 activity and a marked increase in the concentration of the alpha-oxoaldehyde methylglyoxal. Erythrocyte glyoxalase II activity was modestly but significantly elevated in both obese mice and short term streptozotocin treated MF1 mice but no significant changes in S-D-lactoylglutathione concentration could be detected. Modification of the cells glyoxalase system during hyperglycaemia, especially the enhanced production of methylglyoxal may be a significant biochemical factor in the development of diabetic complications.
2738571: !lactoylglutathione True paternity or exclusion: analysis in the case of a deceased party. State-of-the-art technology can play a significant role in solving forensic and parentage problem cases if an expert scientist is employed in the analysis and interpretation of test results. As presented in this paper, there are differences of opinion among witnesses examining the same evidence, therefore illustrating the need for careful examination of evidence even by the expert.
2725076: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase activity in human red blood cells fractioned by age. Human red blood cells were fractionated by density, which correlates with cell age, and the activities of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II were determined for each fraction. The activity of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II both significantly increased during maturation of the red blood cells (P less than 0.001), except in the most dense, old cell fraction where both glyoxalase activities decreased. The increase in glyoxalase activity from the reticulocyte-rich fraction to mature erythrocytes was substantial and markedly different from other glycolytic enzymes which typically decrease. This suggests that glyoxalase activity changes markedly during and probably after the maturation of reticulocytes to erythrocytes. The decrease in glyoxalase activity from the mature to old red blood cell fractions may be caused by oxidative inactivation of glyoxalases. The decreased capacity to metabolise methylglyoxal may be an important factor in red blood cell senesence. This is expected to be particularly important in diabetes mellitus where the rate of methylglyoxal formation is increased during hyperglycaemia.
2926792: !lactoylglutathione Formation of methylglyoxal by bacteria isolated from human faeces. Bacteria present in the human gut may produce methylglyoxal--a cytotoxic substance in mammals. This was investigated by studying the activity of methylglyoxal synthase, which produces methylglyoxal from dihydroxyacetone phosphate, and methylglyoxal concentration in growth medium of various bacteria isolated from human faeces. Facultative and strictly anaerobic bacteria isolated from faeces were able to produce methylglyoxal in both defined and complex media. Proteus spp. produced large amounts of methylglyoxal and had the greatest methylglyoxal synthase activity. Supplementing defined medium for facultative anaerobes with glucose 1% w/v did not significantly alter enzyme activity or methylglyoxal production. Inclusion of short chain fatty acids or bile acids in the medium reduced methylglyoxal synthase activity and methylglyoxal production by Proteus spp. None of the organisms examined had amine oxidase activity which could have contributed to methylglyoxal production from aminoacetone.
2727397: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of glyoxalase I by new squaric acid derivatives. Synthesis and antiglyoxalase activity of new squaric acid derivatives have been studied. It has been established that the substitution of one hydroxyl group of the squaric acid (1,2-dihydroxy cyclobutene 3,4-dione) by an N-substituted group decreased the antiglyoxalase activity while the corresponding - 2 methoxy substituted derivatives were comparatively equipotent.
2714991: !lactoylglutathione [Scleroderma and HLA antigens]. A possible HLA disease association was investigated in 40 patients (38 female, 2 male) with progressive systemic scleroderma (PSS), and 42 patients (32 female, 10 male) with morphea. HLA ABCDR/DQ, glyoxalase and properdin factor B (GLO and BF) phenotypes of patients were compared with 193 healthy controls. Four PSS family studies were performed. The following relative risk (rR) values were determined in PSS: A1 (1.38), A2 (1.39), B8 (1.67), B15 (3.22) and in morphea: A3 (1.43), B7 (1.39), B40 (1.81), BW60 (2.49), DR2 (2.38) and DRW8 (2.55), indicating a relatively weak, HLA-linked genetic predisposition for the manifestation of these dermatological disorders. The HLA "risk" antigens for the two clinically different subtypes of the disease are also different: raised A1/B8 frequencies such as those in our PSS group are related to high (or pathologic) immune response (autoimmune disorders). In contrast, A3 B7 DR2 elevations such as those recorded in our morphea group correlate with low immune response. Following exposition to certain suspected environmental factors (quartz, chemical solvents, drugs, viral fragments), the HLA phenotype may thus predipose some individuals--predominantly women--to different clinical patterns of the disease. HLA typing may thus be useful in clinical differential diagnosis (recent subtyping protocols) and possibly also for determination of the prognosis, i.e. HLA-B8 seems to be related to an acute, inflammatory course of PSS, and HLA-B7/DR2, to rather mild morphea patterns.
2495695: !lactoylglutathione Implication of a gene distal to HLA-A in the etiology of graft-versus-host disease. 
2909253: !lactoylglutathione Expression of glyoxalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione S-transferase isoenzymes in different bovine tissues. (1) The tissue-specific expression of various glutathione-dependent enzymes, including glutathione S-transferase (GST), glutathione peroxidase and glyoxalase I, has been studied in bovine adrenals, brain, heart, kidney, liver, lung and spleen. Of the organs studied, liver was found to possess the greatest GST and glyoxalase I activity, and spleen the greatest glutathione peroxidase activity. The adrenals contained large amounts of these glutathione-dependent enzymes, but significant differences were observed between the cortex and medulla. (2) GST and glyoxalase I activity were isolated by S-hexylglutathione affinity chromatography. Glyoxalase I was found in all the organs examined, but GST exhibited marked tissue-specific expression. (3) The alpha, mu and pi classes of GST (i.e., those that comprise respectively Ya/Yc, Yb/Yn and Yf subunits) were all identified in bovine tissues. However, the Ya and Yc subunits of the alpha class GST were not co-ordinately regulated nor were the Yb and Yn subunits of the mu class GST. (4) Bovine Ya subunits (25.5-25.7 kDa) were detected in the adrenal, liver and kidney, but not in brain, heart, lung or spleen. The Yc subunit (26.4 kDa) was expressed in all those organs which expressed the Ya subunit, but was also found in lung. The mu class Yb (27.0 kDa) and Yn (26.1 kDa) subunits were present in all organs; however, brain, lung and spleen contained significantly more Yn than Yb type subunits. The pi class Yf subunit (24.8 kDa) was detected in large amounts in the adrenals, brain, heart, lung and spleen, but not in kidney or liver. (5) Gradient affinity elution of S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose showed that the bovine proteins that bind to this matrix elute in the order Ya/Yc, Yf, Yb/Yn and glyoxalase I. (6) In conclusion, the present investigation has shown that bovine GST are much more complex than previously supposed; Asaoka (J. Biochem. 95 (1984) 685-696) reported the purification of mu class GST but neither alpha nor pi class GST were isolated.
2921565: !lactoylglutathione [Study of the HLA system and glyoxalase in 31 insulin-dependent diabetics free from micro and macro-angiopathies after more than a 20-year development]. Insulin-dependent diabetics are not equal as concerns vascular complications. Many factors have been incriminated. The object of this study was to determine if a genetic factor protected the insulin-dependent diabetic from vascular complications. The population included 31 unrelated, white insulin-dependent diabetic subjects (18 females and 13 males), with diabetes of over 20 years' duration (21 to 43 years, m +/- SD 27.82 +/- 6.03 years; age at diagnosis: 2 to 57 years, m +/- SD 22.7 +/- 15.19 years). The absence of vascular lesions was checked for by the following investigations: visual acuity, fundoscopic examination, retinal fluorescein angiography (Canon F 60 Z), systolic pressure on the thigh and ankle, Doppler velocimetry, plethysmography of the lower limbs, serum creatinine level, urinary protein. The study of the HLA A, B, DR specificities was carried out using the Tersaki microlymphocytotoxicity assay, those of C4 by high voltage gel electrophoresis followed by hemolytic detection, those of B1 using Alper's method and those of glyoxalase by gel electrophoresis followed by a glutathione redox reaction in order to test for a marker for a possible protective genetic factor against complications. The antigen frequencies found were compared with: 1) Those in the general Caucasian reference population (9th Histocompatibility Workshop, 1984). The study group presented the HLA characteristics known to occur in insulin-dependent diabetes: increase in A30, B8, B18, D6, DR3, DR4, BfF1 and decrease in A3, B7, DR2. Furthermore an increase in the frequency of DRw53, DQw2 and DQw3 alleles was noted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2721483: !lactoylglutathione Effects of some S-blocked glutathione derivatives on the prevalent glyoxalase II (a form) of rat liver. The prevalent glyoxalase II (S-2-hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase, EC 3.1.2.6, a form) of rat liver cytosol has been studied with a series of seven S-blocked glutathione derivatives. At pH 7.4 and 20 degrees C, only p-nitrobenzyl-S-glutathione was found completely inactive. All the other derivatives are linear competitive inhibitors of the enzyme. Ki values using S-D-lactoylglutathione as substrate are reported. Alkyl-S-glutathiones are weak inhibitors and their inhibition increases with the decrease of the length of the alkyl chain. The best inhibitors are those glutathione derivatives which contain a thioester bond (carbobenzoxy- and p-nitrocarbobenzoxy-S-glutathione) or a carbonyl group (p-chlorophenacyl-S-glutathione). Inhibition by carbobenzoxy-S-glutathione seems to be more complex since the double reciprocal plot shows deviation from linearity at low substrate concentration.
2684702: !lactoylglutathione Chemical modification of tyrosine residues in glyoxalase I from yeast and human erythrocytes. 1. Yeast glyoxalase I was inactivated by N-acetylimidazole and tetranitromethane, the latter process following pK app 7.31 and irreversibly producing a protein with a spectrum typical of 3-nitrotyrosine. 2. For yeast glyoxalase I, amino-acid analysis and protection studies with S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione, a competitive inhibitor, indicated two classes of tetranitromethane-reactive tyrosine residues, fast- and slow-reacting, with the latter class containing the crucial tyrosine(s). 3. Human erythrocyte glyoxalase I was inactivated by tetranitromethane in fast and slow processes, protection studies in this case indicating the important tyrosine(s) as fast-reacting.
2613259: !lactoylglutathione No evidence for an association between glyoxalase 1 and haptoglobin in the white population of Victoria, Australia. No association between the glyoxalase 1 (GLO1) and haptoglobin (HP) systems was found in a sample of 1,270 white blood donors in the State of Victoria, Australia. This finding is in contrast to previous data for blood donors in Newfoundland, Canada, a population also of Anglo-Irish descent. However, the differences between the joint phenotypic distributions of GLO and HP in the 2 data sets were statistically insignificant.
2613257: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I 'null' allele in the Polish population. A silent allele of red-cell glyoxalase I was found in three generations of a Polish family.
2534281: !lactoylglutathione [Distributions and gene frequencies of PGM1 subtype, EsD, GLO1, AK, ADAand 6-PGD in 20 races of China]. The distributions and gene frequencies of PGM1, subtype EsD, GLO1, AK, ADA and 6-PGD of 4171 healthy donors in 20 races of China were detected using gel electrophoresis. Some isoenzymes such as PGM1, PGM1 subtype, EsD and GLO1 have better distribution and higher discriminating power than the others. Sixty-eight samples with PGM1(6) gene were observed in 12 races. The frequency in zhuang population is the highest among 20 races. The phenotype of PGM1 6-1 is up to 4.15%. The band of PGM1(6) of all 68 samples is in the same position in the gel. In general speaking, the gene frequencies of EsD in most races of southern part of China are higher than those of northern part. Phenotype EsD 2 in Hani, Lisu, Dai, Naxi, She, Zhuang, Dong, Miao are over 15%, Hani is up to 32.4%. The gene frequency of GLO1 in Tajik and Uygur are 0.297 and 0.2112 respectively. The others range from 0.0714 to 0.1527. In Qiang it is 0.0583. The gene frequencies of AK1. ADA1 and 6-PGDA are very high in 20 races, and with very low discriminating power.
2533163: !lactoylglutathione Red-cell enzyme polymorphisms in Ibiza (Balearic Islands, Spain). A sample of 390 individuals from Ibiza (Balearic islands, Spain) was studied for the red-cell enzyme polymorphisms: esterase D (ESD), acid phosphatase 1 (ACP1), glyoxalase I (GLO), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (PGD), phosphoglucomutase 1 (PGM1) and adenylate kinase 1 (AK1). The following allele frequencies were observed: ESD*2 = 0.181; ACP*A = 0.249; ACP*B = 0.719; ACP*C = 0.032; GLO*2 = 0.556; PGD*C = 0.018; PGM1*2 = 0.235, and AK1*2 = 0.032. These results were compared with those reported from other Balearic populations. There was a heterogeneity between island samples in the ESD and PGD systems. In spite of this, the whole Balearic population could be differentiated from most European and circum-Mediterranean populations.
2488765: !lactoylglutathione Activity of erythrocytic glycoxalases I and II in bearers of certain neoplasms. Activity of red cell glycoxalase I and glyoxalase II was investigated in 92 cancer-bearing subjects. This parameter was either higher or lower than in the control group consisting of blood donors, and changed in the course of disease. Its initial rise was followed by the fall.
3242611: !lactoylglutathione Diffusion-dependent rates for the hydrolysis reaction catalyzed by glyoxalase II from rat erythrocytes. Glyoxalase II from rat erythrocytes is a near optimal catalyst for the hydrolysis of S-D-lactoylglutathione in the sense that the magnitude of kcat/Km is limited, in large part, by the rate constant for diffusion-controlled encounter between substrate and active site. The experimental basis for this conclusion is derived from the dependencies of the kinetic properties of the enzyme on solution viscosity (pH 7, Ic = 0.1 M, 25 degrees C). When sucrose is used as a viscogenic agent, kcat/Km for S-D-lactoylglutathione (8.8 x 10(5) M-1 s-1) decreases markedly with increasing solution viscosity. This effect appears not to be due to a sucrose-induced change in the intrinsic kinetic properties of the enzyme, since kcat/Km for the slow substrate S-acetylglutathione (3.7 x 10(4) M-1 s-1) is nearly independent of solution viscosity. Quantitative treatment of the data using Stoke's law indicates that the rate of hydrolysis of S-D-lactoylglutathione will be approximately 50% diffusion limited when [substrate] much less than Km; the encounter complex between enzyme and substrate partitions nearly equally between product formation and dissociation to form free enzyme and substrate. The same conclusion is reached when glycerol is used as a viscogenic agent, once the apparent activation effect of glycerol on the intrinsic activity of the enzyme is taken into account. Finally, the rate of formation of the encounter complex between substrate and active site may be governed to a significant extent by charge-charge interactions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
3214431: !lactoylglutathione Selective elution of rodent glutathione S-transferases and glyoxalase I from the S-hexyglutathione-Sepharose affinity matrix. 1. The major hepatic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) from gerbil, guinea-pig, hamster, mouse and rat comprise Ya- (Mr 25,500-25,800), Yb- (Mr 26,100-26,400), Yc- (Mr 27,000-27,500) and Yf- (Mr 24,800) type subunits. 2. In all rodent species the GST subunits possess characteristic affinities for S-hexyglutathione-Sepharose and are eluted at distinct positions when a gradient of counter-ligand is employed to develop this affinity gel. The enzymes that bind to this matrix can be eluted, according to their subunit composition, in the order Ya-, Yc-, Yf- and Yb-containing GST; glyoxalase I, also retained by S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose, is eluted after the major GST YbYb peak. 3. Conditions are also described for the isocratic affinity elution of S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose that allow rat GST to be divided into four separate fractions (pools 1-4). A further fraction (pool 5) can be prepared from material that does not bind S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose and is obtained by chromatography on glutathione-Sepharose. 4. The sequential use of S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose and glutathione-Sepharose has facilitated the isolation of novel GSTs by enriching the various affinity-purified fractions with different subunits. This strategy allowed the Yk (Mr 25,000) and Yo (Mr 26,500) subunits from rat testis as well as Y1 (Mr 25,700) from rat kidney to be rapidly purified. 5. The binding properties of GST subunits for S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose have been compared with their Km values for GSH. The elution order from this matrix is inversely related to the Km value. The GSTs that do not bind to S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose have considerably higher Km values for GSH (i.e. greater than 2.0 mM) than do those enzymes that readily bind to the affinity gel (i.e. 0.13-0.77 mM). GST YkYk and YoYo, which have weak affinities for S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose, possess intermediate Km values for GSH of 1.0 and 1.2 mM respectively.
2974826: !lactoylglutathione Bloodstain characterization in the EAP, Hp, Hb, AK and Glo I typing systems using minigels and the PhastSystem. Application of minigels and the PhastSystem to obtain phenotyping results from bloodstains in the EAP, Hp, AK, and Glo I typing systems was investigated. Nonequilibrium isoelectric focusing with 4-6.5 PhastGel produced readily interpretable phenotypes in the EAP typing system. Both 4-6.5 and 5-8 PhastGel produced AK typing system phenotypes using nonequilibrium isoelectric focusing conditions. The 8-25% PAG PhastGel developed by two staining techniques allowed discrimination of phenotypes for the Hp typing system. Phenotypes from the Glo I typing system were also obtained with this gel type. Variant haemoglobins could be detected on pH 5-8 PhastGel using isoelectric focusing conditions. Much potential for standardized, rapid phenotyping of bloodstains was found to exist utilizing the PhastSystem.
3207683: !lactoylglutathione Optimization of efficiency in the glyoxalase pathway. A quantitative kinetic model for the glutathione-dependent conversion of methylglyoxal to D-lactate in mammalian erythrocytes has been formulated, on the basis of the measured or calculated rate and equilibrium constants associated with (a) the hydration of methylglyoxal, (b) the specific base catalyzed formation of glutathione-(R,S)-methylglyoxal thiohemiacetals, (c) the glyoxalase I catalyzed conversion of the diastereotopic thiohemiacetals to (S)-D-lactoylglutathione, and (d) the glyoxalase II catalyzed hydrolysis of (S)-D-lactoylglutathione to form D-lactate and glutathione. The model exhibits the following properties under conditions where substrate concentrations are small in comparison to the Km values for the glyoxalase enzymes: The overall rate of conversion of methylglyoxal to D-lactate is primarily limited by the rate of formation of the diastereotopic thiohemiacetals. The hydration of methylglyoxal is kinetically unimportant, since the apparent rate constant for hydration is (approximately 500-10(3))-fold smaller than that for formation of the thiohemiacetals. The rate of conversion of methylglyoxal to (S)-D-lactoylglutathione is near optimal, on the basis that the apparent rate constant for the glyoxalase I reaction (kcatEt/Km congruent to 4-20 s-1 for pig, rat, and human erythrocytes) is roughly equal to the apparent rate constant for decomposition of the thiohemiacetals to form glutathione and methylglyoxal [k(obsd) = 11 s-1, pH 7]. The capacity of glyoxalase I to use both diastereotopic thiohemiacetals, versus only one of the diastereomers, as substrates represents a 3- to 6-fold advantage in the steady-state rate of conversion of the diastereomers to (S)-D-lactoylglutathione.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
3196289: !lactoylglutathione Modification of the glyoxalase system in human red blood cells by glucose in vitro. The human red-blood-cell glyoxalase system was modified by incubation with high concentrations of glucose in vitro. Red-blood-cell suspensions (50%, v/v) were incubated with 5 mM- and 25 mM-glucose to model normal and hyperglycaemic glucose metabolism. There was an increase in the flux of methylglyoxal metabolized to D-lactic acid via the glyoxalase pathway with high glucose concentration. The increase was approximately proportional to initial glucose concentration over the range studied (5-100 mM). The activities of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II were not significantly changed, but the concentrations of the glyoxalase substrates, methylglyoxal and S-D-lactoylglutathione, and the percentage of glucotriose metabolized via the glyoxalase pathway, were significantly increased. The increase in the flux of intermediates metabolized via the glyoxalase pathway during periodic hyperglycaemia may be a biochemical factor involved in the development of chronic clinical complications associated with diabetes mellitus.
3166382: !lactoylglutathione Modification of the glyoxalase system in human HL60 promyelocytic leukaemia cells during differentiation to neutrophils in vitro. The glyoxalase system of human promyelocytic leukaemia HL60 cells was substantially modified during differentiation to neutrophils. The activity of glyoxalase I was decreased and the activity of glyoxalase II was markedly increased relative to the level in control HL60 promyelocytes. There was a decrease in the apparent maximum velocity, Vmax, of glyoxalase I, and an increase in the Vmax of glyoxalase II. The apparent Michaelis constants for both enzymes remained unchanged. The flux of intermediates metabolised via the glyoxalase system increased during differentiation, as judged by the formation of D-lactic acid, whereas the percentage of glucotriose metabolised via the glyoxalase system remained unchanged. The cellular concentrations of the glyoxalase substrates, methylglyoxal and S-D-lactoylglutathione, were markedly decreased during differentiation. The maturation of HL60 promyelocytes is associated with an increased ability to metabolise S-D-lactoylglutathione by glyoxalase II and a concomitant decrease in the mean intracellular concentrations of S-D-lactoylglutathione and methylglyoxal. The maintenance of a high concentration of S-D-lactoylglutathione in HL60 promyelocytes may be related to the status of the microtubular cytoskeleton, since S-D-lactoylglutathione potentiates the GTP-promoted assembly of microtubules.
3412324: !lactoylglutathione Computer-automated structure evaluation of flavonoids and other structurally related compounds as glyoxalase I enzyme inhibitors. The Computer-Automated Structure Evaluation (CASE) methodology has been applied to a set of flavonoids and other structurally related compounds tested for glyoxalase I enzyme inhibition. CASE identified several structural features believed to be responsible for activity. A total of five fragments were isolated. The most important structural feature is the alpha-hydroxy-alpha,beta-unsaturated carbonyl group attached to a fused ring carbon atom. This fragment tautomerizes into a transition state analog of the substrate of the enzyme. Five tested compounds initially removed from the database were submitted to CASE in the predictive mode. The predictions generally matched the tested values for enzyme inhibition. A set of chromones and phenyl-pyrones, although untested, were also submitted to CASE. CASE predicts that, as a class of compounds, chromones would be more effective inhibitors than phenyl-pyrones.
3290487: !lactoylglutathione The hypothetical active site lattice. An approach to modelling active sites from data on inhibitor molecules. Microcomputer-assisted methods are described that allow the mathematical construction of a hypothetical active site lattice (HASL) which can model enzyme-inhibitor interactions and provides predictive structure-activity relationships for a set of competitive inhibitors. The inhibitor set can be structurally dissimilar, including acyclic and cyclic moieties normally refractory to classical parameter-based quantitative structure-activity relationship strategies. With use of three-dimensional Cartesian coordinates representing energy-minimized inhibitor conformations, a four-dimensional space-filling description is generated, wherein the fourth dimension can be a user-selected physiochemical property such as hydrophobicity or electron density. The multidimensional lattices thus generated are used to quantitatively compare molecules to one another. Composite lattices of more than one molecule are merged with binding data to form a HASL capable of predicting inhibitor binding and relative orientation. Details of the algorithms and assumptions utilized are illustrated for competitive inhibitors of yeast glyoxalase-I and E. coli dihydrofolate reductase.
3252567: !lactoylglutathione [Determination of glyoxalase 1 groups in liquid and dried blood by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis]. 
3187991: !lactoylglutathione HLA-A,B,C, and DR antigens, GLO I and Bf marker profiles in 75 Cape coloured patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). HLA-A,B,C and DR antigens were tested in 75 Cape Coloured systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients, and the GLO I and Bf markers in 51. The patients with HLA-DR2 had a relative risk significantly greater than one (p=0.0005). Twenty-two (29%) patients had only one detectable DR antigen. Of these, 11 (50%) were found to have DR2 only. The HLA-DR7 antigen was associated with severe disease (p less than 0.02). Bf and GLO I markers were not associated with SLE.
3074382: !lactoylglutathione [Glyoxalase I and its application to production of S-lactoylglutathione]. 
2900213: !lactoylglutathione Analysis for linkage between F13A and three chromosome 6 marker loci: evidence for 6pter:F13A:HLA:GLO1:cen gene order. The results of the present study provide independent support for F13A:HLA linkage and refine the F13A:HLA and F13A:GLO1 linkage relationships. Analysis of the corresponding recombination fractions for the total paternal F13A:HLA and F13A:GLO1 peak lod scores (z) indicates a locus order of 6pter:F13A:HLA:GLO1:cen. Lod scores between F13A and PLG, a locus recently assigned to chromosome 6, exclude close linkage between these loci.
3402860: !lactoylglutathione Studies on glyoxalase 1 isoenzymes in semen stains: polymorphism in Himachal (India) population. One hundred and ten pairs of blood and semen samples and their stains were studied to type glyoxalase 1 (GLO 1) isoenzymes using agarose-starch medium. A good agreement was observed between the phenotypes expressed in blood and semen samples of the same donor. No GLO 1 activity however could be demonstrated in the vaginal swabs tested. The gene frequencies of GLO 1 polymorphs in Himachal population has been worked out and their stability studies carried out at -12 degrees C and at room temperature.
3166548: !lactoylglutathione Distribution of properdin factor B and glyoxalase I (further genetic markers) in Northern Ireland. The normal distribution in Northern Ireland of the genetic markers properdin factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase I (GLO) are described. These markers are available for comparison in disease studies, family studies and paternity studies.
3154776: !lactoylglutathione Population polymorphism of the GLO1 enzyme. Identification of two new variants. A new electrophoretic technique for the determination of the glyoxalase I (GLO1) polymorphism on mixed agarose and starch gel is applied to the genetic study of "Provinces Françaises" and some other human populations. Four rare electrophoretic variants are revealed; two of them (GLO1*4, GLO1*5), both new, are discussed. In the "Provinces Françaises" the mating GLO1 2-1 x GLO1 2-1 shows an irregular segregation of the GLO1 alloenzymes.
3363227: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of glyoxalase I by various clinically used anticancer drugs. The antiglyoxalase activity of eight well-known anticancer drugs has been evaluated, their I50 values were determinated and compared to those of standard inhibitors S-octylglutathione and squaric acid. Among them methotrexate was found to be as potent as S-octylglutathione.
3130573: !lactoylglutathione D-lactate production by Leishmania braziliensis through the glyoxalase pathway. Leishmania braziliensis promastigotes incubated anaerobically produce D-lactate from glucose, ribose, and methylglyoxal, but not from glycerol, alanine, or pyruvate, suggesting the presence of glyoxalases I and II but the absence of D-lactate dehydrogenase. Further support for this is shown by: (1) conversion of methylglyoxal to D-lactate in sonicates of promastigotes in the presence of reduced glutathione, (2) utilization of phenylglyoxal at rates comparable to methylglyoxal, (3) lack of utilization of exogenously supplied D-lactate by promastigotes under aerobic conditions. Sonicates of promastigotes catalyze the conversion of dihydroxyacetone phosphate to methylglyoxal, suggesting the presence of methylglyoxal synthase. Whereas the rate of production of D-lactate from glucose is much greater under anaerobic conditions, the rate from methylglyoxal is independent of oxygen tension, indicating that control of flux through the methylglyoxal pathway occurs at, or before, methylglyoxal synthase.
3422028: !lactoylglutathione DNA and multiple sclerosis, inherited ataxias, and spastic parapareses. 
3350535: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I polymorphism in Catalonia (Spain). Blood samples from two Catalonian populations (North-East of Spain) were analysed for glyoxalase (GLO) I polymorphism. Gene frequencies of GLO1 (0.46 and 0.41) are comparable to those reported for Central-European Caucasoid populations.
3348023: !lactoylglutathione Major histocompatibility complex markers in patients with nomifensine-induced immune hemolytic anemia. To evaluate a possible role of major-histocompatibility-complex (MHC)-related immune-response genes for the selective production of drug-induced antibodies, HLA class I (ABC), class II (DR, DQ), class III (BF, C2, C4A, C4B) as well as glyoxalase-1 allotypes were investigated in 26 patients with nomifensine-induced immune hemolytic anemia. No statistically significant deviations of MHC antigen frequencies were noted. The possible implications of these findings are discussed.
3341017: !lactoylglutathione Human MHC class III (Bf, C2, C4) genes and GLO: their association with other HLA antigens and extended haplotypes in the Spanish population. C4 allotype frequencies and their combination with factor B and C2 alleles (complotypes) were studied in a sample of the Spanish population in relation to MHC class I, class II and GLO alleles. The shorter genetic distances found for C4 between Spaniards and North Africans and the high frequency of extended HLA haplotypes (GLO 2) HLA-DR3 F1C30 HLA-B18 HLA-Cw5 (HLA-A30) and HLA-DR7 S1C21 HLA-Bw50 HLA-Cw6 are consistent with a paleo-North African ethnic origin (about 20,000 years B.C.) of a part of present Spaniards (Iberians), and with the effect of racial admixture during late Moslem invasions (from the 8th to the 15th century). The complotype null alleles C4A QO and C4B QO may be under natural selection pressure when found in cis position, since they are never in the same haplotype in families. The underestimation of these C4 null alleles' frequencies in unrelated individuals as compared to genotyped families is shown to be a very likely event and a serious hindrance for C4-disease association studies. We have not found any C4 duplications in the Spanish population; this may be due to sample size limitations or to the degree of admixture of our population. Strikingly, no positive linkage disequilibrium between C4A and C4B alleles is detected in unrelated individuals nor in families, although strong associations are maintained among Bf, C2, C4, HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C and HLA-DR markers. Assuming that all MHC polymorphisms have reached equilibrium, several explanations are proposed, including the possibility of no, different or additional natural selection mechanisms operating on some MHC class III genes (Bf, C2, C4 alleles combinations for most appropriate C3 convertases), as compared to those affecting class I and class II gene clusters (most advantageous immune response genes sets).
3219692: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase activity and cell proliferation in Burkitt's lymphoma and transformed lymphoblast cells in vitro. 
2905755: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of proliferation of human promyelocytic leukaemia HL60 cells by S-D-lactoylglutathione in vitro. Human promyelocytic leukaemia HL60 cells were incubated with the glyoxalase intermediate S-D-lactoylglutathione in culture. The effects on cell proliferation, maturation, viability and cell cycle were investigated. When HL60 cells (5 x 10(4)/ml) were incubated with 50-500 microM S-D-lactoylglutathione for two days, the rate of cell proliferation was decreased. This effect was maximal at 500 microM S-D-lactoylglutathione where the cell proliferation rate was only 16% of control levels. There was a concomitant decrease in cell viability but little differentiation. During the first day of treatment, there was a significant decrease in the percentage of cells in the G2-M phase of the cell cycle with a concomitant increase in the G0-G1 phase. In contrast, when HL60 cells were incubated with 1.0-1.5 mM S-D-lactoylglutathione, the inhibition of cell proliferation was progressively lifted, with a concomitant increase in the percentage of differentiated cells (27% differentiation with 1.5 mM S-D-lactoylglutathione). The activities of glyoxalase II and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase were increased in these cells. S-D-Lactoylglutathione slowly entered the HL60 cells and was consumed over the period when changes in cell cycle distribution, growth arrest and decrease in cell viability were observed. The mechanism of inhibition of proliferation of HL60 promyelocytes by S-D-lactoylglutathione is unknown but it may be related to the ability of S-D-lactoylglutathione to stimulate the assembly of microtubules.
3154121: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase-I and esterase D polymorphisms in Kotas and Badagas of Nilgiri Hills, south India. Blood samples from 217 unrelated individuals belonging to two endogamous populations, Kotas and Badagas of the Nilgiri Hills, South India, were screened for glyoxalase I and esterase D polymorphisms using mixed starch-agarose gel electrophoresis. The GLO1*1 gene frequency estimates were 0.1887 and 0.1982 for Kotas and Badagas. The ESD*1 gene frequency estimates were 0.7123 and 0.7568 for Kotas and Badagas, respectively. The results are compared with those available for other Indian populations.
3663711: !lactoylglutathione Modification of the glyoxalase system during the functional activation of human neutrophils. The glyoxalase system catalyses the metabolism of methylglyoxal to D-lactic acid, via the intermediate S-D-lactoylglutathione. It is present in human neutrophils and undergoes a significant modification during functional activation--induction of chemotaxis, phagocytosis and degranulation. During the activation of neutrophils with serum-opsonised zymosan and the tumour-promoting phorbol diester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate, the activity of glyoxalase I increases and the activity of glyoxalase II decreases by 20-40% of their activities in resting cells, in the initial 10 min of the activation period. Determination of the Michaelis constant, Km, and the apparent maximum velocity, Vmax, for these enzymatic reactions indicates that the change in activity is due to a non-competitive activation and inhibition of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II, respectively. This is consistent with a modification of the glyoxalase enzyme protein during the activation response. This modification occurs under aerobic and anaerobic incubation conditions. The concentration of S-D-lactoylglutathione increases approx. 100% of the resting cell concentration during the initial 10 min of the activation period. The presence of S-D-lactoylglutathione in neutrophils may be related to its ability to stimulate microtubule assembly.
2963087: !lactoylglutathione Discussion of "The simultaneous separation of the enzymes glyoxalase I, esterase D, and phosphoglucomutase". 
2827734: !lactoylglutathione Electron paramagnetic resonance study of the active site of copper-substituted human glyoxalase I. Zn2+ in native glyoxalase I from human erythrocytes can be replaced by Cu2+, giving an inactive enzyme. Cu2+ was demonstrated to compete with the activating metals Zn2+ and Mn2+, indicating a common binding site on the enzyme for these metal ions. The electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra of 63Cu(II) glyoxalase I at 77 K and of its complexes with glutathione and some glutathione derivatives are characteristic of Cu2+ in an elongated octahedral coordination (g parallel = 2.34, g perpendicular = 2.09, and A parallel = 14.2 mT). The low-field bands of the free enzyme are asymmetric and become symmetrical upon addition of glutathione or S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione but not S-(D-lactoyl)glutathione. The results indicate the existence of two conformations of Cu(II) glyoxalase I, in agreement with the effects caused by these compounds on the protein fluorescence. The copper hyperfine line at low field in the EPR spectrum of the S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione complex of 63Cu(II) glyoxalase I shows a triplet structure, indicative of coupling to one nitrogen ligand in the equatorial plane. Similar results were obtained with the glutathione complex. By addition of the spectrum of the S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione complex and a spectrum corresponding to two nitrogen ligands with two different coupling constants, a good fit was obtained for the low-field region of the asymmetric spectrum of free 63Cu(II) glyoxalase I. The first two spectra are assumed to correspond to two separate conformational states of the enzyme. The results demonstrate that at least one nitrogen ligand is involved in the binding of Cu2+.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2820418: !lactoylglutathione Molecular cloning of the Pseudomonas putida glyoxalase I gene in Escherichia coli. The glyoxalase I gene of Pseudomonas putida was cloned onto a vector plasmid pBR 322 as a 7.5 kilobase Sau 3AI fragment of chromosomal DNA and the hybrid plasmid was designated pGI 318. The gene responsible for the glyoxalase I activity in pGI 318 was recloned in pBR 322 as a 2.2 kilobase Hin dIII fragment and was designated pGI 423. The P. putida glyoxalase I gene on pGI 318 and pGI 423 was highly expressed in E. coli cells and the glyoxalase I activity level was increased more than 150 fold in the pGI 423 bearing strain compared with that of E. coli cells without pGI 423. The E. coli transformants harboring pGI 318 or pGI 423 could grow normally in the presence of methylglyoxal, although the E. coli cells without plasmid were inhibited to grow and showed the extremely elongated cell shape.
3123469: !lactoylglutathione Metabolism of 2-ketoaldehydes in mold: purification and characterization of glyoxalase I from Aspergillus niger. Glyoxalase I catalyzing the conversion of methylglyoxal into S-lactoylglutathione in the presence of glutathione was purified approximately 1,400-fold with 2.9% activity yield from mold, Aspergillus niger. The enzyme consisted of a single polypeptide chain with a relative molecular weight of 36,000 on both SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Sephadex G-150 gel filtration. The enzyme was most active at pH 7.0, 35-37 degrees C. Among the various aldehydes tested, the enzyme was active on methylglyoxal and 4,5-dioxovalerate with Km values of 1.25 and 0.87 mM, respectively. The activity of the enzyme was completely inhibited by Zn2+ at 0.5 mM. An equimolar amount of EDTA (0.5 mM) protected the enzyme from inactivation by Zn2+. EDTA competitively (K1 = 1.3 mM) inhibited the activity of the enzyme. Fe2+ was a potent activator for the enzyme, the activation being approximately 2.4-fold at 0.5 mM.
2959745: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I typing and phosphoglucomutase-1 subtyping of a single hair. A technique is described for the typing of glyoxalase I (GLO I) and the subtyping of phosphoglucomutase-1 (PGM-1) from the root sheath cells of a single forcibly removed hair. This procedure does not require sample preparation and does not alter the morphological characteristics of the hair. The combined discrimination probability (DP) of the two markers taken together is 0.90 for whites and 0.89 for blacks. GLO I can be typed after four weeks, and PGM-1 can be typed after eight to fifteen weeks in hairs maintained at room temperature. Hairs mounted with Permount showed loss of enzyme activity and loss of band sharpness.
3315772: !lactoylglutathione The enzymes of glutathione metabolism: an overview. 
3109489: !lactoylglutathione Purification and active site modification studies on glyoxalase I from monkey intestinal mucosa. Glyoxalase I ((R)-S-lactoylglutathione methylglyoxal-lyase (isomerizing), EC 4.4.1.5) from monkey intestinal mucosa was purified to homogeneity. The purified enzyme had a molecular weight of 48,000, composed of two apparently identical subunits. Active-site modification was carried out on the purified enzyme in presence and absence of S-hexylglutathione, a reversible competitive inhibitor of glyoxalase I. Modification by tetranitromethane and N-acetylimidazole caused inactivation of the enzyme. Inactivation by N-acetylimidazole was reversible with hydroxylamine treatment, suggesting the importance of tyrosine residues for the activity of the enzyme. The enzyme was inactivated by 2-hydroxy-5-nitrobenzyl bromide, N-bromosuccinimide, 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulphonic acid, pyridoxal phosphate and 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide, indicating the importance of tryptophan, lysine and glutamic acid/aspartic acid residues for the activity of the enzyme. The enzyme was inactivated by diethyl pyrocarbonate and the activity was not restored by hydroxylamine treatment, suggesting that histidine residues may not be important for activity. Modification by N-ethylmaleimide and p-hydroxymercuribenzoate did not affect its activity, indicating that sulphydryl groups may not be important for activity. These studies indicated that the amino acids present in the active site of glyoxalase I from intestinal mucosa which may be important for activity are tyrosine, tryptophan, lysine and glutamic acid/aspartic acid residues.
2979792: !lactoylglutathione Identification of quantitative phenotypes in backcross and intercross offspring. The computer program SKUMIX was used to analyze the values of quantitative traits in controlled breeding experiments using inbred rat strains. The SKUMIX program iterated parameters were used to determine the number of expected phenotypes, the values of means and their ratios in the progeny. The computer computed parameters were identical with the results calculated using the real values. The SKUMIX program may be valuable to analyze quantitative data obtained from intercross and backcross breeding experiments yielding overlapping values that cannot be individually assigned to a particular phenotype.
3593370: !lactoylglutathione S-D-lactoylglutathione in resting and activated human neutrophils. Zymosan particles opsonised with human serum factors functionally activate human neutrophils and induce a substantial modification of the human neutrophil cytosolic glyoxalase system. The activity of glyoxalase I increases and the activity of glyoxalase II decreases by 20-40% of their resting cell activities during the initial 10 min of activation. The cellular concentration of the glyoxalase intermediate S-D-lactoylglutathione increases by ca. 100% of resting cell levels during this period. This modification may be related to the ability of S-D-lactoylglutathione to stimulate the assembly of microtubules.
3610828: !lactoylglutathione Conversion of shikimic acid into 2-crotonyloxymethyl-(4R,5R,6S)-4,5,6-trihydroxycyclohex-2- ene analogous to a glyoxalase I inhibitor. 
3579235: !lactoylglutathione Genetic polymorphism of GPT and GLO-I in Galicia (northwest Spain): a comparative study. GPT and GLO-I phenotypes were determined by means of isoelectric focusing and starch gel electrophoresis, respectively, in a sample of the Galician population (Northwest Spain); GPT: n = 302, GLO-I: n = 500. The gene frequencies come to: GPT1 = 0.5099, GPT2 = 0.4901; GLO1 = 0.4930, GLO2 = 0.5070. No rare variants were found. The Galician gene frequencies are compared with those obtained on other populations from different parts of the world.
2950638: !lactoylglutathione Discrimination value of class III and glyoxalase alleles for selection of histocompatible bone marrow donors. 
3793924: !lactoylglutathione Extended major histocompatibility complex haplotypes in patients with gluten-sensitive enteropathy. We have studied major histocompatibility complex markers in randomly ascertained Caucasian patients with gluten-sensitive enteropathy and their families. The frequencies of extended haplotypes, defined as haplotypes of specific HLA-B, DR, BF, C2, C4A, and C4B allelic combinations, occurring more frequently than expected, were compared on patient chromosomes, on normal chromosomes from the study families, and on chromosomes from normal families. Over half of patient chromosomes consisted almost entirely of two extended haplotypes [HLA-B8, DR3, SC01] and [HLA-B44, DR7, FC31] which, with nonextended HLA-DR7, accounted for the previously observed HLA markers of this disease: HLA-B8, DR3, and DR7. There was no increase in HLA-DR3 on nonextended haplotypes or in other extended haplotypes with HLA-DR3 or DR7. The distribution of homozygotes and heterozygotes for HLA-DR3 and DR7 was consistent with recessive inheritance of the major histocompatibility complex-linked susceptibility gene for gluten-sensitive enteropathy. On the other hand, by odds ratio analysis and from the sum of DR3 and DR7 homozygotes compared with DR3/DR7 heterozygotes, there was an increase in heterozygotes and a decrease in homozygotes suggesting the presence of modifying phenomena.
3583296: !lactoylglutathione No evidence for an association between glyoxalase I and haptoglobin in nine Spanish populations. No association between glyoxalase I and haptoglobin phenotypes was found in 9 Spanish populations. This is in accordance with two out of three papers published.
3557463: !lactoylglutathione Joint phenotype distributions at the glyoxalase I and haptoglobin loci in Finland. 
3480403: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase activity during differentiation of human leukaemia cells in vitro. The activities of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II were determined in human promyelocytic leukaemia HL60 and erythroleukaemia K562 cells in culture. The activity of glyoxalase I is ca 10-20 times greater than the activity of glyoxalase II under assay conditions. When HL60 and K562 cell lines were incubated with N-methylformamide and 8-carbamoyl-3-methylimidazo-[5,1-d]-1,2,3,5-tetrazin-4(3H)-one (CCRG 81045), substantial changes in the glyoxalase activities were induced. With HL60 cells, treatment with N-methylformamide and CCRG 81045, both of which induce functional differentiation of this cell line, there is a dose-dependent decrease in glyoxalase I activity and a concomitant dose-dependent increase in glyoxalase II activity, both of which are directly proportional to the number of differentiated cells. With K562 cells, N-methylformamide and CCRG 81045 induce an increase in both glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II activities, although only CCRG 81045 induces the appearance of haemoglobin producing cells. N-Methylformamide and CCRG 81045 do not activate or inhibit the activities of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II from HL60 and K562 cells when studied in cell-free systems. The changes in the glyoxalase activities of HL60 and K562 cells during the incubations therefore appear to be due to alteration in the synthesis and/or regulatory modification of the glyoxalase enzymes induced by N-methylformamide and CCRG 81045. Despite the apparent disparity of the effect of differentiation on the glyoxalase system in the two cell lines, in both cases the glyoxalase I/glyoxalase II activity ratio decreases with the appearance of differentiated cells. Since glyoxalase II catalyses the rate-determining step in the glyoxalase system, this suggests that immature cells have an impaired capacity to metabolise S-D-lactoylglutathione.
2953666: !lactoylglutathione Blood genetic markers in Bengali Muslims of Bangladesh. Serum protein (albumin, haptoglobin, ceruloplasmin, transferrin and group-specific component), haemoglobin, and red cell enzyme (glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, acid phosphatase, esterase D, adenylate kinase, glyoxalase I, phosphoglucomutase, lactate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, phosphohexose isomerase and superoxide dismutase) polymorphisms were studied among the Bengali Muslims of Bangladesh. In general, the gene frequencies of the polymorphic systems were similar to those in West Bengal and Assam. There appears to be a relatively strong Mongoloid influence in the present population as evidenced by the presence of HbE and TfDChi, higher frequencies of Hp1 and GcIF, and a lower AK2 frequency.
2953665: !lactoylglutathione A genetic study among the Lepchas of the Darjeeling area of eastern India. A total of 215 Lepchas (75 Buddhists and 140 Christians) living in the Kalimpong subdivision, Darjeeling district, West Bengal, India, were investigated for the distribution of haemoglobin, serum proteins and red cell enzymes. The gene frequencies were as follows: HbE = 0.02; Hp1 = 0.18; TfB = 0.007; TfDChi = 0.005; Gc2 = 0.22; pa = 0.18; pc = 0.03; PGM2(1) = 0.18; PGM6(1) = 0.002; PGDc = 0.17; AK2 = 0.02; GLO1 = 0.21. The most striking features were the complete lack of G6PD deficiency and very high frequency of PGDC. The remaining loci (serum albumin, lactate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, phosphohexose isomerase and superoxide dismutase) were monomorphic. The gene frequencies were similar in the Buddhist and Christian Lepchas. The observed average heterozygosity (9 loci) was 0.20 in the entire sample.
2880477: !lactoylglutathione Mechanism of action of glutathione-dependent enzymes. 
3101683: !lactoylglutathione Purification and characterization of glyoxalase I from Pseudomonas putida. Glyoxalase I was purified to apparent homogeneity from Pseudomonas putida. The enzyme was a monomer with a molecular weight of 20,000. The enzyme was most active at pH 8.0. The Km values for methylglyoxal and 4,5-dioxovale-rate are 3.5 mM and 1.2 mM, respectively. Contrary to the case of eukaryotic enzymes, chelating agents showed little inhibitory effects on the enzyme activity. Among the metal ions tested, Zn++ specifically and completely inhibited the activity of the enzyme at a millimolar level. The properties of bacterial glyoxalase I were quite different from mammalian and yeast enzymes.
3793531: !lactoylglutathione The HLA system in the Korean population. The frequencies of HLA-A, B, C, DR, and DQ antigens, HLA-D (HTC-defined) haplotypes, and the HLA-linked genetic markers glyoxalase I (GLO), factor B (Bf), C2 and C4 were studied in 162 healthy unrelated Koreans. Antigens A2, A24, A26, B44, B51, Bw62, B35, Cw1, Cw3, DR2, DR4, DRw6, DR7, and DRw8 were observed at frequencies of 15% or greater, and GLO-2, BfS, C4A*3, C2C, C4A*4, C4B*1, and C4B*2 were also frequently observed. The antigens A23, A25, B18, Bw42, Bw47, and B21 were not observed at all. HLA-DR4 was the most common class II antigen and was associated with a series of HLA-D-defined haplotypes including Dw4, Dw10, Dw13, and Dw15. The HLA-DRw6, DR2,Dw8, and DRw8 haplotypes were also found frequently. DR2 haplotypes were either Dw2 or Dw12, while all DRw8 haplotypes tested corresponded to the DB7 or Dw "8.3" specificity that has been described in other Oriental populations. Significant linkage disequilibrium was found between the alleles A2,Cw1; A30,B13; A30,Cw6; A30,DR7; Cw1,Bw22; Cw5,B12; Cw6,B13; Cw6,DR7; B7,DR1; B12,Dw6; B12,DR7; B12,Dw7; B13,DR7, B17,DR3; Bw22,C4B*6; DRw6,BfF; and C4A*4,C4B*2. A comparison of gene frequencies and commonly observed haplotypes between Koreans, Chinese, Japanese, and Caucasians showed that while Koreans share several characteristics in common with other Oriental populations, there are allelic frequencies and haplotypes in Koreans that are distinct.
3781560: !lactoylglutathione Polymorphism of human red cell glyoxalase I in six ethnic groups of China. A total of 1242 individuals from six Chinese ethnic groups were studied with respect to the glyoxalase I polymorphism using agarose gel electrophoresis. The GLO1*1 gene frequency and the number of subjects tested in each population are as follows: Uygur 0.2466 (219), Hui 0.1621 (219), Dong 0.1866 (201), Bai 0.1921 (203), Tujia 0.1075 (200), and Miao 0.1600 (200). The differences in the GLO1 gene frequencies between some of these populations are significant.
3098628: !lactoylglutathione Several galactosyltransferase activities are associated with mouse chromosome 17. Indirect evidence suggests that some major histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins are glycosyltransferases. No sequence or mapping information is available for transferases, although ganglioside variations in mice are linked to the H-2 complex on chromosome 17, and one galactosyltransferase activity on mouse sperm varies with T/t complex genotypes, also on chromosome 17. In the present experiments, diploid and trisomy 17 mouse embryos were assayed for four different galactosyltransferase activities. The same preparations were assayed for isocitrate dehydrogenase (Id-1, chromosome 1) and glyoxalase-1 (Glo-1, chromosome 17). Galactosyltransferase specific activities in trisomy 17 embryos are almost 1.5 times higher than in diploid embryos. The correlation between galactosyltransferase activities and chromosome 17 dosage indicates that the structural or regulatory gene for these enzymes are located on chromosome 17.
3097244: !lactoylglutathione Population frequencies of carbonic anhydrase II (CA II), esterase D (EsD), and glyoxalase I (GLO) in the Metropolitan Birmingham, Alabama area. Both black and white populations from Birmingham, Alabama were analyzed for the frequencies of carbonic anhydrase II (CA II), glyoxalase I (GLO) and esterase D (EsD) isoenzymes. The results compared favorably with published frequencies of these genetic markers in other populations.
2946810: !lactoylglutathione The simultaneous separation of the enzymes glyoxalase I, esterase D, and phosphoglucomutase. A procedure for the multisystem analysis of bloodstains using the simultaneous separation of the enzymes glyoxalase I, esterase D, and phosphoglucomutase has been developed. The amount of bloodstain required has therefore been reduced threefold without any loss in resolution and sensitivity. Bloodstains at least seven weeks old have been correctly phenotyped in all three systems.
3777887: !lactoylglutathione Population genetics of glyoxalase I (GLO) polymorphism in India. Phenotype and gene frequency data are presented on the glyoxalase I (GLO) polymorphism in seven endogamous caste groups: Jat Sikh, Ramdasia Sikh, Ramgarhia Sikh, Khatri, Brahmin and Bania of Patiala district, and Jat Sikh of Faridkot district of Punjab, North-West India. Apparently, there is considerable heterogeneity in the frequency distribution of the GLO1 gene that varies from 0.168 in Bania to 0.287 in Brahmin. However, these differences are not statistically significant, and the overall GLO1 frequency in Punjab is well within the North Indian range.
3641479: !lactoylglutathione HLA and narcolepsy in a German population. In this paper the first MHC data including HLA-A, B, C, DR, DQ and complement BF, C4A, C4B determinants in German narcoleptics are presented together with the first family studies in European Caucasoids. 57 out of 58 unrelated patients (98.3%) were positive for DR2 and DQw1, respectively. In contrast to all other reports, one patient with typical signs of narcolepsy was found to be DR2/DQw1 negative. Data showing significant increase in the frequency of B7, and normal frequencies of B35 were discordant with data from Japanese patients. Definition of the extended DR2 linked haplotypes, deduced from 6 families, revealed that 5 out of 12 were DQw1, DR2, BFS, C4B1, C4A3, B7 (Cw7), while 11/12 had DR2, DQw1, BFS, C4A3, C4B1 in common. In one multiple case family two genotypically different DR2 haplotypes were identified in affected siblings. Results from the family study were concordant with a dominant mode of inheritance with incomplete penetrance of a hypothetical disease susceptibility gene.
3538189: !lactoylglutathione [Cloning of metabolic regulators and regulation of cell proliferation]. 
3522272: !lactoylglutathione Reinvestigation of the roles of the carboxyl groups of glutathione with yeast glyoxalase I. Implications as to the mechanism and coenzymic role of glutathione. A number of carboxyl-substituted S-blocked glutathiones have been shown to be competitive inhibitors of yeast glyoxalase I at 25 degrees C, pH 6.6. Amidation of the glycyl carboxyl group of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione has no appreciable effect on binding whilst methylation reduces binding by 8.9-fold, indicating a steric constraint and the possible presence of a hydrogen bond in this region of the enzyme. Amidation of both carboxyl groups of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione reduces binding significantly by 237-fold; this result agrees with electrostatic interaction of the Glu COO- group with a group located within the enzyme surface as opposed to the Gly COO- group, previously proposed.
3769094: !lactoylglutathione Studies on methylglyoxal. II. Changes of methylglyoxal level accompanying the changes of glyoxalase I and II activities in mice bearing L1210 leukemia and sarcoma 180. 
3767307: !lactoylglutathione A cline for glyoxalase I allele frequencies in Italy. A gradient of glyoxalase I allele frequencies is described in Italian populations. The association between longitude and allele frequency is assessed through simple and multiple correlation, and gene flow is suggested as a major factor in the origin of such a pattern.
3489300: !lactoylglutathione Immunogenetics of rheumatoid arthritis in Israel. In an attempt to study the variation of associations between HLA and rheumatoid disease a population of 44 Ashkenazi and 29 non-Ashkenazi patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis were tested for HLA-A, B, C and DR antigens and compared with the relevant control groups. In contrast to the results obtained in Middle European or North American Caucasians, Rheumatoid Arthritis in Israel is not associated with B15 and Cw3, indicating that it is very unlikely that B- and C-locus antigens are involved in coding for disease susceptibility for RA. The allele DR4 which is found associated with RA in almost all populations tested so far was in the total patient group (47.9%) slightly but not significantly more frequent than in the control group (38.3%). This difference was entirely due to a nonsignificant increase in the frequency of DR4 in the Ashkenazi patients (54.5%) compared to controls (40%), while the frequency of DR4 in non-Ashkenazi patients and controls was virtually identical (38.0% vs 36.7%). Another surprising finding was that the frequency of HLA-DR1, which has been reported to be increased in different populations of patients with RA was found to be completely normal in the present study on Israeli patients. The alleles of the Bf and the GLO system did not show any significant difference between patients and controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
3458025: !lactoylglutathione Major-histocompatibility-complex extended haplotypes in membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is often associated with evidence of immune derangement, especially hypocomplementemia. We studied genetic markers for membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis within the major histocompatibility complex in 34 patients and their families and in 29 normal families. We examined the frequencies of extended haplotypes (combinations of alleles that tend to occur together) in patients and controls. The extended haplotype HLA-B8,DR3,SC01,GLO2(glyoxalase I 2) was observed in 9 of 68 disease-associated haplotypes (13 percent), but in only 3 of 205 controls (1 percent) (relative risk, 14.79; P less than 0.001). An extended haplotype similar except for a different glyoxalase allotype (B8,DR3,SC01,GLO1) did not occur with increased frequency, nor did any other extended haplotypes. Patients with the extended haplotype B8,DR3,SC01,GLO2 had a higher incidence of renal insufficiency than those without it (P less than 0.01). The data support the hypothesis that a specific extended haplotype of the major histocompatibility complex is associated with susceptibility to membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, and that patients with glomerulonephritis who have this extended haplotype have a poorer prognosis for kidney survival than those without the haplotype.
3744044: !lactoylglutathione Induction of new mutations in a mouse t-haplotype using ethylnitrosourea mutagenesis. 
3710145: !lactoylglutathione A glyoxalase-1 variant associated with the t-complex in house mice. A quantitative variant of glyoxalase-1 associated with the t-complex in house mice is described. GLO-1C in red cell lysates from mice heterozygous for complementing t-haplotypes and from mice homozygous for the tw8-haplotype had less than one-third the GLO-1 activity of NZB/BlNJ, the inbred strain with the lowest activity previously reported. GLO-1C appeared to be determined by the structural locus Glo-1 and, together with two partial t6-haplotypes, was used to map Glo-1 to the telomeric portion of the t6-haplotype. Glo-1c was associated with all t-haplotypes tested and has not been found in mice that lack a t-complex. Thus, this variant of Glo-1c provides both a further example of gametic disequilibrium between the t-complex and linked loci and a readily identifiable marker for the t-complex.
3699819: !lactoylglutathione Genetic analysis of human lymphocyte proteins by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. VIII. Genetic polymorphism of cytosol polypeptide with molecular weight of 20,000. We describe a genetic polymorphism of cytosol polypeptide with mol. wt. of 20,000 detected in lymphocytes and erythrocytes by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Three different electrophoretic phenotypes (type 1-1, 2-1, and 2-2) of the polypeptide have been identified in a Japanese population. Family studies indicate that the phenotypes are determined by two common alleles at a single autosomal locus. The polypeptide is present in the cytosol of various kinds of cells and is abundant in erythrocytes. The data on a gel filtration of the erythrocyte cytosol proteins on a Sephadex G-100 column suggest that the polypeptide exists as a dimer in cells. In nine out of 79 individuals, the phenotypes of the polypeptide were different from those of glyoxalase 1 (GLO1) which has similar properties in subunit size, cell distribution, and allele frequencies. These data indicate that the polypeptide with mol. wt. of 20,000 is a new polymorphic cellular polypeptide. We propose that the polypeptide be temporarily designated as cytosol polypeptide with mol. wt. of 20,000 (CP20) and that the gene for CP20 be designated as CP20. The gene frequencies of two common alleles (CP20(1) and CP20(2) are 0.955 and 0.045, respectively, in a Japanese population.
3955057: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition by glutathione derivatives of bovine liver glyoxalase II (hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase) as a probe of the N- and S-sites for substrate binding. The nature of the binding determinants used in the interaction of glutathione-based derivatives and bovine liver glyoxalase II (S-(2-hydroxyacyl)glutathione hydrolase, EC 3.1.2.6) has been investigated. Linear competitive inhibition was observed for S-blocked and S,N-blocked glutathiones with bovine liver glyoxalase II (molecular weight 22 500 by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; pI = 7.48 by analytical isoelectric focussing). There is a significant hydrophobic region on the enzyme to bind substituents around the sulphydryl-derived moiety of the substrate--a hydrophobic S-site. However, there is no evidence for binding of the N-site of the substrate (or inhibitor) to glyoxalase II. In contrast to glyoxalase I, there is no linkage between binding forces used at the S- and N-sites. Binding of S,N-dicarbobenzoxyglutathione is pH-dependent, showing dependence on an ionisation with pKapp approximately equal to 7.2 (binding more tightly at higher pH), as is the kcat value (pKapp approximately equal to 7.8) for S-D-lactoylglutathione.
3947646: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of mammalian glyoxalase I (lactoylglutathione lyase) by N-acylated S-blocked glutathione derivatives as a probe for the role of the N-site of glutathione in glyoxalase I mechanism. A series of twelve S-blocked and N,S-blocked glutathione derivatives has been studied as inhibitors of glyoxalase I [R)-S-lactoylglutathione methylglyoxal-lyase (isomerising), EC 4.4.1.5) from human erythrocytes. A number of new N,S-blocked glutathiones have been synthesised. Inhibition at pH 7.0, 25 degrees C was linear-competitive in all cases and the Ki values were interpreted in terms of the absence of a specific binding interaction for the N-site of the inhibitor and the absence of coupling between binding processes at N- and S-sites (the regions around the NH2 and HS groups, respectively, of GSH analogues bound to enzyme). These observations are in strong contrast to previous results with the yeast enzyme. Some Ki values were measured for yeast glyoxalase I. A special binding interaction of the phenyl groups with enzyme from both species was found for glutathione derivatives with N-acyl groups of structure -NH X CO X X X Y X Ph but not for -NH X COPh, where X and Y were variously -CH2-, -NH- and -O-. Studies were made of the range of stability of human erythrocyte glyoxalase I to pH. The pH profiles for the Ki values of S-p-bromobenzyl)glutathione and N-acetyl-S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione indicated no pH dependence for the latter and little, if any, for the former inhibitor. The mean Ki over the pH range 5-8.5 for S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione was 1.21 +/- 0.37 microM and for N-acetyl-S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione in the same pH range, Ki decreased from 1.45 +/- 0.26 microM to 0.88 +/- 0.11 M.
3708662: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase activity in quiescent and proliferating human fibroblasts. 
3699839: !lactoylglutathione 22 new data on the association between the glyoxalase I and haptoglobin loci. No association between GLO and Hp was found in three Brazilian samples (153 Whites, 216 Blacks from Porto Alegre and 564 mixed individuals from Aracaju). In a sample of 174 Blacks (settled along the Trombetas river) a moderate (p less than 0.02) association was found, but not of the same kind as that observed by other authors. Population stratification instead of interactions in fitness may explain our findings.
3699838: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxylase I phenotypes in some endogamous populations of Andhra Pradesh, India. The distribution of glyoxylase (GLO) I phenotypes in six endogamous subgroups of Brahmins and in the Mala and Madiga castes of Andhra Pradesh was investigated. The GLO I gene frequencies ranged from 0.2444 to 0.3575. The frequency of 0.3565 found in the Mala is the highest recorded on the Indian subcontinent.
3519311: !lactoylglutathione Yeast glyoxalase I. Circular dichroic spectra and pH effects. Large scale isolation and physicochemical characterisation of yeast glyoxalase I showed that this enzyme contained small amounts of carbohydrates. Circular dichroic spectra of the enzyme measured in the presence and absence of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione indicated perturbation of a tyrosine on binding of this competitive inhibitor. Values of Ki for competitive inhibitors were pH invariant over the accessible pH range.
3457571: !lactoylglutathione Frequencies of glyoxalase I phenotypes as biological markers in chronic alcoholism. Biological markers for alcoholism would be a valuable tool for early diagnosis. We have studied the phenotype frequencies of genetically determined erythrocyte enzymes in 397 alcoholics, including two populations with liver disease: steatosis (n = 86) and cirrhosis (n = 128) and a population of alcoholics without apparent liver disease (n = 183) compared to a well selected control population (n = 177). Only for Glyoxalase I (GLO) phenotypes (1,2 and 2-1) were significant differences found between the male controls and the male alcoholics. In the total male alcoholic population the frequency of phenotype 1 was significantly increased (23.2% vs. 11%, p less than 0.02), and the frequency of phenotype 2 was significantly decreased (32.3% vs. 46.3 p less than 0.02) compared to the male control population. For normal women the frequency of phenotype 1 and 2 was significantly different from normal men. (1: +177% p less than 0.001, 2: -45% p less than 0.01), but no significant differences were found between alcoholic and normal women. Our results suggest that in male subjects Glyoxalase I phenotype 1 may provide a marker for predisposition to alcoholism.
3025078: !lactoylglutathione Population structure of eastern Sicily. A sample of 465 persons from Eastern Sicily was studied for 11 red-cell enzymes, namely GLO, GPT, EsD, PGP, PGD, Dia, AcP, PGM, SOD, CAI and CAII. The allele frequencies were compared with those of other Italian populations and showed that the island is homogeneous with the mainland for these systems. The rate of heterozygosity was studied as a function of interparental distance; although high (0.77) the correlation did not reach significance.
2944816: !lactoylglutathione Population genetic studies in the Kimberley of Western Australia. More than 800 blood samples from members of 13 tribal groups in the northwest of Australia have been tested for 18 enzyme systems controlled by 21 loci and for haemoglobin. Two novel alleles, PGM2(11) and ACP1F, are each restricted to a single tribal population, suggesting relatively recent mutations. Other alleles conform very broadly with their distributions in other Australian Aboriginal populations. In particular, PGM2(3) maintains its inland distribution whilst PGDE and PEP B6 continue to be restricted to the north of the continent. Comparisons between tribes show the Baada to be distinctive, with high values of PGM1(2), GPT2, CA2(4) and ESD2 as well as having the novel allele ACP1F.
3906658: !lactoylglutathione Mutations that impair a posttranscriptional step in expression of HLA-A and -B antigens. Mutations can interfere with posttranscriptional expression of the HLA-A and -B genes. B-lymphoblastoid cells that contain one copy of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) were subjected to mutagenesis and immunoselection for MHC antigen-loss mutants. Some mutations partially reduced surface expression of HLA-A and eliminated HLA-B expression concurrently, although the HLA-A and -B genes were present and transcribed. Antigen expression was fully restored in hybrids of these mutants with other B-lymphoblastoid cells. Therefore, normal cell surface expression of the HLA-A and -B antigens on B lymphoblasts requires (i) execution of at least one trans-active step in the production of the antigens after transcription of the HLA-A and -B genes or (ii) association of the class I antigens with other molecules. DNA analysis of one mutant suggests the possibility that a locus required for the normal expression of the HLA-A and -B antigens is located between the MHC complement genes and the HLA-DP alpha II locus.
2934305: !lactoylglutathione Simultaneous identification and determination of species origin, ABH antigens and isoenzyme markers in the same bloodstain. A reliable procedure for the simultaneous identification of blood, determination of species origin and ABH antigens, and typing of isoenzyme markers from a sample of three 1-cm threads is described. Results obtained from known control as well as from casework bloodstains using this procedure were consistent with those obtained in parallel, conventional, individual tests under blind trial conditions.
3001309: !lactoylglutathione Genetics and biochemical variability of variants of 21 hydroxylase deficiency. In a population and family study we have examined the relationship between HLA types, classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), and variants of 21 hydroxylase (21 OH) deficiency detected by increased blood levels of 17 hydroxyprogesterone (17 PO) in response to ACTH after overnight suppression with dexamethasone ('short Synacthen test'). In a non-CAH population, 7.7% of subjects were found to have raised 17 PO response suggesting reduced activity of 21 OH. Such subjects with raised 17 PO levels were designated simply as type 2 responders because the relationship with genotype was unknown. Post-ACTH levels of 17 PO were significantly greater in type 2 responders than in obligate carriers of CAH. A total of 2.5% of the population studied also had raised progesterone (PO) levels in the Synacthen test. HLA-A28 and B14 (in linkage disequilibrium) were significantly increased in frequency and HLA-B12 decreased in the type 2 responders. HLA-Bw47, which is known to be associated with CAH, was found only among obligate carriers of classical CAH. Because type 2 response and classical CAH are linked to HLA but are associated with different antigens, it is likely that they are determined by two (or more) alleles.
2933484: !lactoylglutathione An agarose gel electrophoretic method for typing phosphoglucomutase-1, esterase D, or glyoxalase I. A conventional agarose gel electrophoretic method was described for typing phosphoglucomutase-1, esterase D, or glyoxalase I as single systems. Bloodstain extracts were absorbed into 1-mm-thick agarose gels via an application mask. The electrode wick distance was 12 cm and electrophoresis was carried out at 400 V at 6 degrees C. The electrophoretic run times were 30 min for glyoxalase and 1 h for esterase D or phosphoglucomutase. This method is reliable and produces highly resolved band patterns. Additionally, the shorter separation times as a result of the increased voltage gradient permitted typing of more samples in a given time period compared with presently used methods. This technique requires little technical expertise and can be incorporated into the laboratory at a minimal cost.
4029613: !lactoylglutathione Recombination between the t6 complex and linked loci in the house mouse. 
2931337: !lactoylglutathione Population data on the forensic genetic markers: phosphoglucomutase-1, esterase D, erythrocyte acid phosphatase and glyoxylase I. Blood specimens from white and black sample populations from Baltimore, Maryland, were analyzed for the four most forensically important, polymorphic red cell enzyme systems-phosphoglucomutase-1, esterase D, erythrocyte acid phosphatase and glyoxalase I. The distributions of the phenotypes for each marker in each racial group were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The population data were similar to previously reported data for Whites and Blacks from different geographical locations within the United States.
3888272: !lactoylglutathione Trapping of reactive intermediates in enzymology. Exogenous flavin reduction during catalytic turnover of substrate by glyoxalase I. Although but weak inhibitors of glyoxalase I under steady-state conditions, flavins are reduced by yeast glyoxalase I (lactoyl-glutathione lyase, EC 4.4.1.5) plus its substrate (the hemithiolacetal from glutathione and phenylglyoxal) during catalytic turnover. Studies with 10-ethylisoalloxazine showed that this flavin reduction was peculiar not merely to glyoxalase I's substrate, but was characteristic of the complete system, enzyme plus substrate undergoing catalytic turnover. Flavins are poor hydride-ion acceptors and the reduction observed most likely represents an oxidative trap of a transient carbanion formed in the glyoxalase I mechanism of action. Hydrophobic flavins were more efficient traps than the hydrophilic ones, and values of the Km for the phenylglyoxal: glutathione hemithiolacetal adduct measured by the flavin-reaction and by normal steady-state kinetics were closely similar. This argues that trapping has occurred of an enediolate ion (an enzyme-generated carbanion) still bound to glyoxalase I.
3888271: !lactoylglutathione Partial transition-state inhibitors of glyoxalase I from human erythrocytes, yeast and rat liver. Glyoxalase I (lactoylglutathione lyase, EC 4.4.1.5) converts the hemithiolacetal of glutathione and an alpha-ketoaldehyde to S-D-lactoylglutathione which is hydrolysed under the catalytic influence of glyoxalase II to produce D-lactate and regenerate glutathione. There is much evidence that glyoxalase I operates via an enediol intermediate, and in this study a number of inhibitors are described which were designed based on the enediol moiety of this reactive intermediate. These enediol and paene-enediol moieties were combined with groups designed to make use of an adjacent hydrophobic site and can be described as partial transition-state analogues. Derivatives of lapachol and kojic acid were good competitive inhibitors of glyoxalase I from various sources unless the free hydroxy group was blocked or replaced. Flavones with strong inhibitors of glyoxalase I and gallocyanine (a dye) showed spectral changes on binding to glyoxalase I indicative of binding to a metal-ion site (probably Zn2+ or Mg2+). The use of the enediol-binding determinant to produce glyoxalase I inhibitors is discussed as a route to potential antitumour derivatives.
3986216: !lactoylglutathione The effect of glyoxalase I on the metabolism of 4,5-dioxovaleric acid. Biosynthesis of 5-aminolevulinic acid in mammalian cells is catalyzed by aminolevulinic acid synthase in a condensation reaction utilizing glycine and succinyl X coenzyme A. An alternate pathway in mammalian cells may involve the biosynthesis of aminolevulinic acid via a transamination reaction in which L-alanine is the amino donor and 4,5-dioxovaleric acid is the acceptor. This transamination reaction, or one very similar, is employed by plants for the biosynthesis of aminolevulinic acid which is ultimately converted to chlorophyll. The effect of glyoxalase I on the diversion of dioxovaleric acid to other products was tested using both purified glyoxalase I and crude tissue homogenates. Glyoxalase I is a metalloenzyme and glutathione is a co-substrate. Purified glyoxalase I reduced the amount of aminolevulinic acid formed in the presence of dioxovaleric acid, L-alanine, glutathione, and purified L-alanine: 4,5-dioxovaleric acid aminotransferase (dioxovalerate transaminase). The conversion of dioxovaleric acid to aminolevulinic acid was inhibited by the addition of glutathione when a dialyzed bovine liver homogenate served as the source of both glyoxalase I and dioxovalerate transaminase. Removal of metals from bovine liver homogenates produced an 85% decrease in glyoxalase I activity. These 'metal-free' homogenates still affected the conversion of dioxovaleric acid to aminolevulinic acid after preincubation with MgSO4. The effect of glyoxalase I on the metabolism of dioxovaleric acid was also studied using a fluorometric enzyme assay for the quantification of dioxovaleric acid via a coupled enzyme reaction converting it to uroporphyrin. Homogenates of both liver and barley diminished the amount of dioxovaleric acid detected by the coupled assay, but this effect could be prevented by dialysis of the homogenates. Addition of glutathione to dialyzed homogenates markedly reduced the amount of uroporphyrin generated from dioxovaleric acid. Metal-free homogenates supplemented with glutathione reduced the conversion of dioxovaleric acid to uroporphyrin in the coupled assay, but preincubation with MgSO4 greatly augmented this effect. These studies point out the difficulty in evaluating dioxovaleric acid as a heme precursor using whole cell homogenates.
3889626: !lactoylglutathione Mutagenicity studies on coffee. The influence of different factors on the mutagenic activity in the Salmonella/mammalian microsome assay. Recently, mutagenic activity on several strains of Salmonella typhimurium has been found in many heat-processed foodstuffs. The previously reported direct-acting mutagenic activity of coffee in Salmonella typhimurium TA100 (Ames assay) was confirmed in our study. In addition to TA100, a mutagenic effect of coffee was also found by using the newly developed strain TA102. The mutagenic activity was abolished by the addition of rat-liver homogenate. 10% S9 mix completely eliminated the mutagenic activity of 30 mg of coffee per plate. The addition of reduced glutathione to active S9 further decreased the mutagenic activity and also reduced the mutagenicity together with inactivated S9. The compound or compounds responsible for this inactivation are heat-labile and seem to be located in the cytosol fraction of the S9. Part of the mutagenicity of coffee was also lost spontaneously upon incubation at temperatures between 0 degrees and 50 degrees C. The loss of activity was dependent on temperature, being more pronounced at 50 degrees C compared to 0 degrees C (at 50 degrees C approximately 50% of the mutagenic activity was lost after 6 h). As anaerobic conditions prevented this loss of mutagenicity almost totally, oxidative processes are probably responsible for the inactivation. The stability of the mutagen was not influenced by incubation at low pH values (pH 1-3), with or without the addition of pepsinogen. The mutagenic properties of methylglyoxal, which to some extent could be responsible for the mutagenic activity of coffee, were compared with those of coffee. Methylglyoxal was strongly mutagenic towards Salmonella typhimurium TA100 and TA102. Its mutagenic activity was partially inactivated by the addition of 10% S9. Glyoxalase I and II together with reduced glutathione abolished the mutagenic activity of methylglyoxal but reduced the mutagenicity of coffee by only 80%. Since these enzymes occur in mammalian cells, the mutagenic compound(s) of coffee could also be degraded in vivo. This conclusion is supported by the fact that a long-term carcinogenicity study with rats was negative. These results clearly demonstrate that the effects observed in vitro do not necessarily also occur in vivo, but that in vitro experiments may contribute to the understanding of fundamental mechanisms of chemical carcinogenesis.
3879724: !lactoylglutathione HLA, complement C2, C4, properdin factor B and glyoxalase types in South Indian diabetics. A series of diabetic patients from 3 centres in South India have been tested for HLA A, HLA B, BF, C2, C4A, C4B and GLO types. For insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) patients there was a significant increase in HLA B8, of BF F and decrease of C4 A6. No significant variation in HLA, BF, C2 or GLO frequencies was found in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients, but there was a significant decrease in C4B 1 and an increase in C4B 2. The HLA and BF association in South Indian IDDM patients is very different from that reported previously in North India.
3857723: !lactoylglutathione HLA polymorphisms in Saudi Arabs. The HLA-A, -B, -C, -DR, Bf and GLO phenotypes of 109 unrelated Saudi Arab males have been determined. HLA-A and -B antigen frequencies were compared with data reported for European Caucasoids and various Arab populations. Most similarities in antigen frequencies were seen between Saudi Arab and Iraqi populations. A high frequency of Bw50 was observed in Saudi Arabs. The frequencies of HLA-DR antigens in Saudi Arabs were compared to European Caucasoids. HLA-DR7 was at high frequency in Saudi Arabs. Linkage disequilibria between alleles of HLA loci was examined. Many instances of previously reported antigen associations were seen in Saudi Arabs, together with a number of associations which have not been described elsewhere. HLA-Cw6-Bw50-DR7-BfS0.7 is suggested as being a common haplotype in Saudi Arabs.
3856541: !lactoylglutathione Factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase genes in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The frequency distribution of alleles controlled by the factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase genes that are found close to the HLA system on chromosome 6 was studied in 170 insulin-dependent diabetic patients. The data were compared with those for HLA-A, -B and -DR antigens and were related to age of onset of diabetes. All the diabetics were ketosis prone and on permanent insulin therapy. A significant excess of BfF1 was seen in the diabetic patients (p less than 10(-4]. Glyoxalase frequency distribution showed no significant deviation from controls, whereas HLA-DR3 (p less than 10(-4] HLA-DR4 (p less than 10(-4] were increased. Breakdown of data by age of diagnosis of disease showed no increase in the frequency of BfF1 and GLO1-2 but an increase of HLA DR3 and DR4 in patients with early onset diabetes. The findings of the study are consistent with data reported by others investigators and support the notion that one or more genes mapping close to the HLA A. B and DR and to the Bf loci confer susceptibility to insulin dependent diabetes.
4050290: !lactoylglutathione Possible linkage relationship between genetic markers and blood magnesium and zinc. A twin study. In a sample of 63 like-sex dizygotic twins, red blood cell and plasma magnesium and red blood cell zinc concentrations were analyzed for linkage to each of 23 genetic systems by estimating correlation between proportion of genes identical by descent and biological resemblance for the trait. The results suggest possible linkage of red blood cell magnesium with the HLA locus and of red blood cell zinc with the GLO1 locus. However, studies applying more powerful tests are needed to confirm such conclusions.
4019075: !lactoylglutathione Effect of ascorbic and dehydroascorbic acid on glyoxalase enzyme system. The authors studied the effect of ascorbic and dehydroascorbic acid on glyoxalase enzyme system, in order to establish if these substances influence cell proliferation by interfering with glyoxalase activity. The results demonstrate that both ascorbic and dehydroascorbic acid do not alter glyoxalase activity in vitro, even if employed at high doses.
3988298: !lactoylglutathione Polymorphism of red cell glyoxalase I in Serbia, Yugoslavia. Red cell glyoxalase I (GLO) phenotypes were determined in 258 unrelated adults from the population of Serbia (Yugoslavia). The GLO1 gene frequency was estimated to be 0.384.
3988294: !lactoylglutathione No association between GLO I and Hp in the Austrian population. In contrast to the data published by Payne and Huntsman in 1982, no association between GLO I and Hp phenotypes could be found in a sample of 973 unrelated Austrians.
3937656: !lactoylglutathione Immunological comparison of glyoxalase I from yeast and mammals and quantitative determination of the enzyme in human tissues by radioimmunoassay. Antibodies to glyoxalase I from yeast, rat liver, porcine erythrocytes and human erythrocytes were raised in rabbits. Gel precipitation and immunotitration experiments demonstrated that the mammalian enzymes were immunologically related, but distinct from the yeast enzyme. Fab fragments of the antibodies to human glyoxalase I did not inhibit the catalytic activity, indicating that the antigen binding sites were not directed towards the active site of the enzyme. A radioimmunoassay for glyoxalase I was developed. Quantitative analysis of human adult as well as fetal organs demonstrated that glyoxalase I was present in a concentration of approximately 0.2 micrograms/mg protein in most human tissues.
3907422: !lactoylglutathione Quantitative differences in GLO enzyme levels associated with the MHC of miniature swine. 
3879127: !lactoylglutathione Extended MHC haplotypes in salt-losing 21-hydroxylase deficiency. 
3871424: !lactoylglutathione Complotype genetic loci segregate more frequently with HLA-DR than with HLA-B. The loci for BF, C2, C4A, and C4B are very closely linked to each other so that alleles of these plasma protein markers occur in populations in linkage disequilibrium and are inherited as single genetic units called complotypes. These complotypes are coded by a DNA region of the short arm of chromosome 6 embracing approximately 100 kilobases, which serve as a marker of the major histocompatibility complex. We have studied the complotypes of nine families with known HLA-B/DR crossovers. In seven families, the complotypes were inherited with HLA-DR, including in one family with a double recombination. The haplotype HLA-A28, Cw1, B27, FC3, 20, DR4 of JTr resulted from two recombinations between HLA-A2, Cw1, B27, SC42, DR7 and HLA-A28, Cwx or Cw1, B37, FC3, 20, DR4. In the remaining two families (Ro and Lo) the complotypes were inherited with HLA-B. The haplotype A2, Cw5, Bw44, SC30, DR3 of StLo resulted from paternal recombination between the haplotypes A2, Cw5, Bw44, SC30, DR4 and A24, B8, SC01, DR3, and the haplotype A24, Cw4, Bw35, SC31, DR3 of NaRo resulted from maternal recombination between A24, Cw4, Bw35, SC31, DR4 and A26, Bw41, FC31, DR3. Our data suggest that the complotype region maps closer to HLA-D than to HLA-B.
2979299: !lactoylglutathione Possible interaction between Hp and GLO systems. 
2931091: !lactoylglutathione Erythrocyte enzyme allotypes in the X-linked recessive disorders, Duchenne muscular dystrophy and haemophilia-A hemizygotes and heterozygotes. The erythrocyte enzyme-systems acid phosphatase, phosphoglucomutase, glutamate pyruvate transaminase, adenosine desaminase, adenylate kinase, glyoxase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and esterase-D-isoenzyme phenotypes were studied for their percentile distribution and were compared with their incidence in the diseases with X-linked recessive heredity, Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and haemophilia-A, in hemizygous male children and heterozygous mothers. Considering the frequency distribution of the above mentioned isoenzyme phenotypes of the enzyme-systems in DMD, the phenotypes proved to be homogeneous, only the X transmitted 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6-PGD) isoenzyme types were found to be genetic markers in DMD hemizygotes and heterozygotes. In these genotypes the 6-PGD A phenotype showed a decrease while the phenotypes 6-PGD AB and B were significantly increased. The adenylate kinase (AK) 2-1 isoenzyme phenotype was increased to 25% against the population frequency of 6.34%, while the AK 1-1 phenotype occurred in 75% against its population frequency of 93.59%, showing a significantly decreasing tendency in haemophilia-A hemizygotes and heterozygotes.
2930957: !lactoylglutathione Genetic markers in Liberia: studies of Glo, AcP, EsD, 6-PGD, Ak, Sub PGM and alpha 1 at polymorphisms. 
2580041: !lactoylglutathione Examination of the correlation of groupings in blood and semen. The grouping of blood/saliva samples from a male so as to predict his semen groups is only justified if there is a strict correlation between the groupings in these body fluids. This correlation has been examined in the ABO, phosphoglucomutase (PGM1) and glyoxalase I (GLO) grouping systems in blood and semen samples collected from more than 250 individuals. Though no results proved inconsistent with this correlation, a number of semen gave inconclusive grouping results. Reasons for this are discussed as well as the relevance of the results to semen stain analysis. Semen amylase activities are also reported.
6515682: !lactoylglutathione [Determination of glyoxalase I in blood stains]. 
6547959: !lactoylglutathione NMR and computer modeling studies of the conformations of glutathione derivatives at the active site of glyoxalase I. The conformations of four derivatives of glutathione bound at the active site of the metalloenzyme glyoxalase I have been determined by NMR measurements and by computer model building using a distance geometry approach. Paramagnetic effects of Mn2+-glyoxalase I on the longitudinal relaxation rates of the carbon-bound protons of the substrate analog S-(acetonyl)-glutathione at three frequencies, the hydrophobic competitive inhibitor S-(propyl)glutathione at four frequencies, and the charged competitive inhibitor S-(carboxymethyl)glutathione at a single frequency were used to calculate Mn2+ to proton distances in each complex. These and previously determined distances from Mn2+ to the protons and 13C-enriched carbon atoms of the product S-(D-lactoyl)glutathione were used in a distance geometry program to compute the conformations of each enzyme-bound derivative which best fit the measured distances and other known constraints such as bond lengths, van der Waals radii, planar and trans-peptide bonds, and thioester linkages. The distance geometry program also provided a measure of the uniqueness of the conformations consistent with the experimental data. Extended Y-shaped conformations were detected for each of the bound glutathione derivatives, similar to the x-ray structure and the theoretically calculated conformation of glutathione itself, suggesting this to be a low energy form. Acceptable conformations of each enzyme-bound derivative fell into two classes with the metal either above or below the mean plane through the glutathione compound. The conformational uncertainty within each class was relatively small, ranging from deviations of 0.9-1.9 A in the average positions of each of the atoms. A small but significant difference in the conformation of the substrate analog as compared to the product was detected in the position of the reaction center carbon directly bonded to the glutathione sulfur atom. Unlike the second-sphere metal complexes formed by the bound substrate analog, the product, or the hydrophobic competitive inhibitor, the charged competitive inhibitor S-(carboxymethyl)glutathione binds farther from the metal, in the third coordination sphere.
6470005: !lactoylglutathione Metal dissociation constants for glyoxalase I reconstituted with Zn2+, Co2+, Mn2+, and Mg2+. Metal dissociation constants for glyoxalase I from human erythrocytes were determined by use of nitrilotriacetic acid as a metal buffer. The constants for Zn2+, Co2+, Mn2+, and Mg2+ were (2.7 +/- 0.3) X 10(-11) M, (3.0 +/- 0.8) X 10(-10) M, (4.9 +/- 0.5) X 10(-9) M, and (1.0 +/- 0.2) X 10(-6) M, respectively, demonstrating that the natural cofactor, Zn2+, has the highest affinity for the apoprotein. The results are consistent with the proposal of nitrogen and oxygen atoms as ligands to the metal in the active site of glyoxalase I. In the application of the metal buffer technique, it was found that both 1:1 and 1:2 complexes of the metal ions and nitrilotriacetic acid have to be considered.
6331772: !lactoylglutathione Amish study, IV: Genetic linkage study of pedigrees of bipolar probands. Genetic linkage studies were conducted on five Old Order Amish bipolar pedigrees in 1979 and 1982, with 94 members tested for color blindness and typed for 42 red blood cell and related markers in 17 antigen systems. Also, 59 individuals in two pedigrees were typed for HLA, Bf, and GLO. Linkage analyses assuming X-linkage and autosomal inheritance of bipolar illness were done with diagnostic schemes ranging from strict bipolar to milder forms of affective disorder. Linkage to affective disorders was not strongly supported for any marker locus. Close linkage to HLA was excluded, with weaker evidence against linkage to GLO.
6743693: !lactoylglutathione The effect of glyceraldehyde on red cells. Haemoglobin status, oxidative metabolism and glycolysis. Glyceraldehyde induces changes in the flux of glucose oxidised through the hexose monophosphate pathway, the concentrations of intermediates in the Embden-Meyerhoff pathway, the oxidative status of haemoglobin and levels of reduced and oxidised pyridine nucleotides and glutathione in red cells. Glyceraldehyde autoxidises in the cellular incubations, consuming oxygen and producing glyoxalase I- and II-reactive materials. Major fates of glyceraldehyde in red cells appear to be: (i) adduct formation with reduced glutathione and cellular protein; (ii) autoxidation and reaction with oxyhaemoglobin and pyridine nucleotides, and (iii) phosphorylation of D-glyceraldehyde and entry into the glycolytic pathway as glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate. The production of glycerol from glyceraldehyde by red cell L-hexonate dehydrogenase appears not to be a major reaction of glyceraldehyde in red cells. These results indicate that high concentrations of glyceraldehyde (1-50 mM) may induce oxidative stress in red cells by virtue of the spontaneous autoxidation of glyceraldehyde, forming hydrogen peroxide and alpha-ketoaldehydes (glyoxalase substrates). The implications of glyceraldehyde-induced oxidative stress for the in vitro anti-sickling effect of DL-glyceraldehyde and for the polyol pathway metabolism of glyceraldehyde are discussed.
6463589: !lactoylglutathione Platelet glyoxalases in thrombocytosis. In platelets of patients suffering from thrombocytosis due to myeloproliferative disorders, glyoxalase I activity is significantly higher than in controls (P less than 0.01), while glyoxalase II levels are the same (P less than 0.3). The cellular concentration of glutathione is also increased in patients. Km values for methylglyoxal (glyoxalase I) and S-lactoylglutathione (glyoxalase II) are identical both in normal and pathological subjects, as are the thermostability of the two enzymes. The higher activity observed for glyoxalase I in patients could be related to a specific role of this enzyme in platelets.
6519704: !lactoylglutathione Influence of therapeutic radiation on serum enzyme levels in patients with cancer of thoracic oesophagus. 
6726645: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis and evaluation of N-alkanoyl-S-benzyl-L-cysteinylglutamic acid esters as glyoxalase I inhibitors and anticancer agents. Esters of several glutathione analogues have been synthesized in which the glycine moiety was replaced by straight-chain fatty acids and the mercapto group was benzylated . Two of the derivatives (sufficiently water-soluble for the assay) were found to inhibit glyoxalase I to a greater extent than did S-methylglutathione. The two glyoxalase I inhibitors did not inhibit P388 lymphocytic leukemia in mice, however.
6487002: !lactoylglutathione Major histocompatibility system and complotype in sarcoidosis. 
6370255: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase-I activity and cell cycle regulation in yeast. The status of glyoxalase-I was explored in exponentially growing and G1 arrested temperature sensitive (ts) cell division cycle (cdc) mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It was observed that the specific activity of this enzyme was correlated with overall growth status. The activity was high in actively growing cells and was low in G1 arrested cells. Specific activities of glyoxalase-I were also low in G1 arrested prolonged stationary phase (PSP) cells of S. cerevisiae and Candida albicans. The activity of glyoxalase-I recovered when G1 arrested S. cerevisiae (ts) cells were allowed to regrow under permissive conditions. Results demonstrate that although glyoxalase-I activity is a good indicator of cell growth status, it is not involved in cell cycle regulation of this eukaryotic organism.
6585138: !lactoylglutathione An unusual "morphologic" variant of BF S. In the course of family studies of haplotypes of the alleles of the sixth chromosome loci HLA-A, C, B, D/DR, BF, C2, C4A, C4B, and glyoxalase I, we encountered an unusual BF variant. Its mobility was similar to BF F but it appeared to have a lesser intensity after straining with Coomassie Blue, and it was demonstrated by crossed immunoelectrophoresis to be present in lower concentration. It was therefore designated BF FQL. This variant was found on the haplotype HLA-A1, B17, DR7, BF*FQL, C2*C, C4A*6, C4B*1, GLO2. All other haplotypes of this type so far identified carry the BF variant BF S. Following activation of serum samples with zymosan, BF was analyzed by both agarose electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing and immunofixation. On both treatments, serum with BF SFQL produced a Ba pattern identical to that of a sample which was BF S. The Bb pattern for F and S are similar but differ from those of the rare variants BF F1 and BF S1. The Bb pattern of BF FQL was, thus, as expected, the same as BF F or BF S. Hence, we conclude that the variant is a mutant from BF S with mobility similar to BF F. The mutation seemed also to have resulted in a lower concentration of product than normal.
6538270: !lactoylglutathione HLA-linked complement markers in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease: C4 variant (C4B2) a possible marker for senile dementia of the Alzheimer type. We determined the gene frequencies for the alleles of the HLA-linked complement markers C2, properdin factor B (BF), C4A (Rodgers) and C4B (Chido), and the red cell enzyme glyoxalase-I in 38 unrelated patients with senile dementia of the Alzheimer type, 42 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease, and 59 unaffected, aged-matched control blood donors. In senile dementia of the Alzheimer type and in Parkinson's disease, no significant difference was found in the gene frequencies of alleles at either the BF, C2, or GLO-I locus compared with those of age-matched controls. In senile dementia of the Alzheimer type, a striking increase in the frequency of the rare C4B locus allele, C4*B2, was apparent, resulting in the high relative risk of RR = 8.8 (p less than 0.0001) for this disorder.
6712919: !lactoylglutathione X-ray absorption studies of the Zn2+ site of glyoxalase I. X-ray edge and extended absorption fine structure spectra of Zn2+ at the active site of glyoxalase I have been measured. The edge spectrum reveals a simple set of transitions consistent with a 7-coordinate or distorted octahedral Zn2+ model complex. Analysis of the fine structure rules out sulfur ligands to Zn2+ and yields a best fit complex with Zn2+-N (or Zn2+-O) distances of 2.04 and 2.10 A, which are too great for tetrahedral Zn2+ coordination but are appropriate for an octahedral or more highly coordinated complex. Peaks of electron density in the Fourier-transformed region of the higher order shells at distances of 3-4 A from the Zn2+-imidazole model similar to those found with known Zn2+-imidazole model complexes, including carbonic anhydrase [Yachandra, V., Powers, L., & Spiro, T.G. (1983) J. Am. Chem. Soc. 105, 6596-6604], indicating at least two imidazole ligands to Zn2+ on glyoxalase I. Binding of the heavy atom substrate analogue S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione did not significantly alter the number of atoms directly bonded to Zn2+ or their distances. No evidence for coordination of the cysteine sulfur of glutathione by the Zn2+ was obtained, and no heavy atom signal from bromine was detected, indicating this atom to be greater than or equal to 4 A from the Zn2+. However, conformational changes of the imidazole ligands of Zn2+ upon binding of the substrate analogue were suggested by changes in the relative intensity of the doublet peaks at 3-4 A from the Zn2+ and assignable to imidazole.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
6365176: !lactoylglutathione The autoxidation of glyceraldehyde and other simple monosaccharides under physiological conditions catalysed by buffer ions. Glyceraldehyde and other simple monosaccharides autoxidise under physiological conditions generating 1-hydroxyalkyl (carbon-centred) free radicals and intermediates of dioxygen reduction: superoxide, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radicals. The major glyceraldehyde-derived product is the alpha-ketoaldehyde, hydroxypyruvaldehyde. Close similarities between the temperature dependence of the kinetics of glyceraldehyde autoxidation and glyceraldehyde enolisation to an ene-diol indicates that enolisation is the rate-determining step in the autoxidative process. Inspection of a wide range of carbonyl compounds showed that the monosaccharide moiety -CH(OH)-C- is conserved in carbonyl compounds reactive towards autoxidation, indicating that the ability to form an ene-diol is a prerequisite to monosaccharide autoxidation. The ene-diol intermediate autoxidises rapidly to the products: hydrogen peroxide, water and alpha-ketoaldehydes: beta-hydroxypyruvaldehyde is produced from glyceraldehyde and dihydroxyacetone, glyoxal from glycolaldehyde autoxidation. Ene-diol autoxidation is catalysed by hydrogen peroxide and trace metal ion contaminants; removal of either of these factors sufficiently retards ene-diol autoxidation such that ene-diol autoxidation rather than enolisation becomes the rate determining step in the overall autoxidative process. Under enolisation control, the rate of monosaccharide autoxidation is influenced by pH and the buffer system used for pH control.
6724588: !lactoylglutathione HLA antigens, glyoxalase I, and esterase D in Hong Kong Chinese. 
6503685: !lactoylglutathione [Effect of low doses of lead and cadmium on glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II activities of the liver and brain of rats]. The effects of low doses of lead and cadmium on the activities of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II in liver and brain of male Wistar rats were examined. Generations P, F1 and F2 received lead acetate and cadmium acetate in drinking water. The doses were as follows: group I-Pb 5 ppm, group II-Pb 50 ppm, group III-Cd 0,1 ppm, group IV-Cd 5 ppm. group V-Pb 5 ppm + Cd 0,1 ppm, group VI-Pb 50 ppm--Cd 5 ppm. The control group received sodium acetate with water. P population received Pb and Cd for 40 days before fertilization, and then the pregnant females were given the same doses until the end of pregnancy. Animals of F1 and F2 generation were killed after 30, 60 or 90 days. In liver and brain homogenates the activities of glyoxalase enzyme system were determined by the spectrophotometric method at 240 nm. A little inhibition of glyoxalase I was observed in rats that were given lead for 30 days, while in rats treated for 60 and 90 days the activities of glyoxalase I increased. Glyoxalase II was activated both by lead and cadmium in all groups. In vitro examinations demonstrated that lead and cadmium inhibited the activity of glyoxalase I and activated glyoxalase II.
6479987: !lactoylglutathione Genetic polymorphism of glutamate-pyruvate transaminase and glyoxalase I in Colombia. Genetic polymorphism of red cell enzymes glutamate-pyruvate transaminase (GPT) and glyoxalase I (GLO) was investigated in five villages of the Colombian Andes. The GPT1 and GLO1 gene frequencies show a considerable range, but compatible to the range of European populations. In both the systems there is slight excess of observed homozygosity suggesting that the infrastructure of the subpopulations may be influenced by inbreeding.
6469266: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I polymorphism in Belgium. The phenotypes of red cell glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) were determined by cellogel electrophoresis in 750 Belgian persons. The gene frequencies found were 0.432 for GLO1 and 0.568 for GLO2.
6420328: !lactoylglutathione Human C4 polymorphism: pedigree analysis of qualitative, quantitative, and functional parameters as a basis for phenotype interpretations. Ten families with 82 members were investigated for C4A- and B polymorphism in a blind trial. Phenotyping was done on neuraminidase treated sera by immunofixation and simultaneously by hemolytic overlay electrophoresis. In addition Rg, Ch, BF, C2, HLA-A, B, C, DR, and GLO were determined. After decoding the samples the reliability of blind typing was found to be 84.4% according to segregation patterns. Inconsistencies occurred mostly when A4, A2, or A92 were present. The detection of silent A*Q0 and B*Q0 alleles was more critical than that of "difficult" allotypes. The quantitation of the C4A/B ratio by densitometry of stained gels or by conventional immunochemical measurements of serum C4 level could not substantially improve the identification of A*Q0 or B*Q0. C4 dependent activity in radial diffusion hemolysis showed satisfactory correspondence with the number of expressed C4B alleles. At least three haplotypes with two C4A genes (duplicated A genes) were observed as ascertained from offspring analysis in accordance with the MHC segregation pattern. Individuals with the duplicated C4A gene (C4A*3, A*2, in the absence of any other expressed A allele or together with C4A*92) showed only partial inhibition of Rodgers antisera. Partial inhibition of Chido antisera was seen in individuals with C4B 2 (in the absence of other B allotypes). The findings support the hypothesis of at least two structural C4 loci. They also demonstrate the inconsistency of quantitative data in the recognition of silent alleles.
6093685: !lactoylglutathione Metabolism of methylglyoxal in microorganisms. 
6360161: !lactoylglutathione Assay of glyoxalase I in blood. Glyoxalase I (S-lactoyl-glutathione methylglyoxal-lyase (isomerizing), EC 4.4.1.5) was assayed using alcoholic, acidic 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine to follow the disappearance of methylglyoxal over time, with the absorbance of formed methylglyoxal bis-hydrazone measured at 432 nm. Erythrocyte glyoxalase I activities were found to be 64, 41, and 18 mumole of S-lactoyl glutathione formed min-1 X ml-1 of red blood cells in rat, human, and rabbit blood and 174 mumole X min-1 X mg-1 of protein for yeast. The Km values found in millimolar hemimercaptal were about 0.5. Glyoxalase I activity can be determined in crude tissue preparations without interference from biological materials.
6580815: !lactoylglutathione The search for heterogeneity in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM): linkage studies, two-locus models, and genetic heterogeneity. One hundred families with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) were analyzed for linkage with 27 genetic markers, including HLA, properdin factor B (BF), and glyoxalase 1(GLO) on chromosome 6, and Kidd blood group (Jk) on chromosome 2. The linkage analyses were performed under several different genetic models. An approximate correction for two-locus linkage analysis was developed and applied to four markers. Two different heterogeneity tests were implemented and applied to all the markers. One, the Predivided-Sample Test, utilizes various criteria thought to be relevant to genetic heterogeneity in IDDM. The other, the Admixture Test, looks for heterogeneity without specifying a prior how the sample should be divided. Results continued to support linkage of IDDM with three chromosome 6 markers: HLA, BF, and GLO. The total lod score for Kidd blood group, under the recessive model with 20% penetrance, is 1.63--down 1.2 from the 2.83 reported by us earlier. The only other marker whose lod score exceeded 1.0 under any model was pancreatic amylase (AMY2). The two-locus correction, which involved lowering the penetrance values used in the analysis, affected estimates of theta (recombination fraction) but did not markedly change the lod scores themselves. There was little evidence for heterogeneity within any of the lod scores, under either the Predivided-Sample Test or the Admixture Test.
6354270: !lactoylglutathione pH Dependence of the inhibition of yeast glyoxalase I by porphyrins. A number of porphyrin derivatives have been found to inhibit yeast glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) at 25 degrees C, including haemin, protoporphyrin IX, coproporphyrin III, haematoporphyrin, deuteroporphyrin as well as meso-(tetrasubstituted) porphines. Bilirubin and chlorophyllin were also inhibitory, but not cobalamin, adipic, pimelic or suberic acids. Whilst the Ki value for linear competitive inhibition by meso-tetra(4-methylpyridyl)porphine was pH-dependent, analogous Ki values for meso-tetra(4-carboxyphenyl)- and meso-tetra(4-sulphonatophenyl)porphines followed the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation with pKapp values of 7.10 and 6.50, respectively. Protoporphyrin showed similar behaviour (pKapp 7.06) with a deviation at lower pH. The haemin pH profile for Ki showed a maximum at approx. pH 6.5. The redox reaction between haemin and glutathione did not interfere in the inhibition studies. The Ki value for S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione was pH-independent. A detailed analysis of porphyrin binding modes was undertaken.
6416912: !lactoylglutathione Association studies between Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes and 27 genetic markers: lack of association between Type 1 diabetes and Kidd blood group. One hundred and three unrelated patients with Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes were typed for HLA, properdin factor B (BF), glyoxalase 1 (GLO), Kidd blood group, and 24 other genetic markers. Observed distributions of marker phenotypes among these patients were compared with those expected according to population frequencies, in an attempt to detect associations between Type 1 diabetes and the markers. Strong associations between Type 1 diabetes and both HLA and properdin factor B were confirmed, as was a lack of association between Type 1 diabetes and glyoxalase (GLO). There was an apparent deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium at the GLO locus, and statistically significant distortions in the distributions of pancreatic amylase (AMY2), galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT), and group-specific component (GC) among Type 1 diabetes patients, but these results are not significant when corrected for performance of multiple tests. An increase in the Lewis-negative phenotype reported elsewhere was observed here but was not statistically significant. A distortion in the distribution of Kidd types reported elsewhere was not confirmed.
6665803: !lactoylglutathione Enzymes involved in glutathione metabolism in rat liver and blood after carbon tetrachloride intoxication. Some glutathione-metabolizing enzymes in rat liver cytosol, blood plasma and urine of rats administered carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) were investigated. After CCl4 at different doses (0.3, 1.2, 2.5 ml/kg at 24, 12 and 3 or 6 h, respectively) liver glutathione reductase (GR), glyoxalase I (GLY-I) and glutathione S-transferases (GST) significantly decreased, while thioltransferase and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) did not change their activity. At the times under investigation the glutathione level significantly increased in the liver and the above-mentioned enzymes in plasma, thus evidencing a liver injury. The GR, GPX and GST assayed in urine within 72 h after CCl4 administration showed a maximum of activity at 35-48 h.
6613997: !lactoylglutathione A new rare variant of the glyoxalase I system of the red cell: GLO-Sicily. A fast variant of the red cell enzyme glyoxalase I was identified in a sample of 663 persons from Eastern Sicily; the allele was designated GLOSi. The gene frequencies for the common alleles GLO1 and GLO2 are not different from those observed in other southern Italian populations, and are in agreement with the hypothesis of a westward gene flow from Asia.
6677759: !lactoylglutathione Genetic polymorphism of red cell enzymes in Yamanashi Prefecture. 
6089810: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I in regenerating mouse liver exposed to carcinogens. Glyoxalase I is the first component of glyoxalase system which is involved in detoxification of alpha-ketoaldehydes and converts them to nontoxic substances. This study reports changes in Glyoxalase I activity in relation to DNA synthesis in regenerating liver treated with two polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons - 7,12-dimethylbenz (a) anthracene and benzo(a)pyrene. Livers after partial hepatectomy show consistent increase in Gly. I which reaches to its peak at 24 hr after surgery. [3H]Thymidine incorporation into DNA also follows the same trend as does Gly. I in regenerating liver. Both the carcinogens have significantly reduced the activity of Gly. I and DNA biosynthesis when compared with untreated partially hepatectomized control livers. The study reveals that though regenerating liver has been considered as an experimental model for neoplasia, unlike tumors (where Gly. I is either absent or in undetectable quantities) it possesses more Gly. I than in normal liver. On the other hand, preneoplastic liver during initiation (in regenerating liver treated with carcinogens, initiation is expected to occur) has very low activity. This suggests that Gly. I is not only involved in controlling growth but possibly is involved in some other phenomenon which is somehow depressed in preneoplastic and cancerous tissues.
6863314: !lactoylglutathione Reversal of the reaction catalyzed by glyoxalase I. Calculation of the equilibrium constant for the enzymatic reaction. Glyoxalase I catalyzes the formation of S-D-lactoyl-glutathione via the hemimercaptal adduct of methylglyoxal and glutathione. This enzymatic reaction, which has been considered virtually irreversible, was found to be reversible under such conditions that glutathione liberated from the thiolester was trapped. The reverse reaction could be monitored spectrophotometrically by use of 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoate). In addition to 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoate), 2,2'-dithiobispyridine and cystamine were used to promote the reverse reaction. S-D-Lactoylglutathione did not hydrolyze in the presence of glyoxalase I under the conditions investigated, as shown by its stability in the absence of thioltrapping agents. Proof of the reversal of the reaction was obtained by demonstrating the formation of stoichiometric amounts of methylglyoxal and glutathione from S-D-lactoylglutathione. Catalysis of the reverse reaction was dependent upon the presence of a bivalent metal ion in the active site of the enzyme. Apoenzyme, obtained by removal of the essential Zn2+ from the active site, did not catalyze the reverse reaction, but catalytic activity was restored by addition of Zn2+, Mg2+, Mn2+, or Co2+. The reverse reaction was also catalyzed by glyoxalase I from yeast. Linear competitive inhibition (Ki = 0.64 mM) was obtained with 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoate), which necessitated correction of the apparent kinetic parameters of the reverse reaction. The corrected values for the reverse reaction catalyzed by glyoxalase I from human erythrocytes with S-D-lactoylglutathione as substrate were kcat = 3.6 s-1 and Km = 1.9 mM. Combination of these values with the corresponding parameters for the forward reaction allowed calculation, through the Haldane relation, of the equilibrium constant, Keq = 1.1 X 10(4), for the isomerization between the hemimercaptal of methylglyoxal and glutathione and S-D-lactoylglutathione. The strong reversible competitive inhibitor of the forward reaction, S-p-bromobenzylglutathione, also inhibited the reverse reaction competitively (Ki = 0.38 microM).
6853506: !lactoylglutathione 13C NMR studies of the product complex of glyoxalase I. The paramagnetic effects of Mn2+ . glyoxalase I on the 13C relaxation rates of the reaction product, S-(D-lactoyl)glutathione, separately enriched in the lactoyl carbonyl (C-1) and hydroxymethylene (C-2) carbons, have been measured at 62.8 MHz. The 1/fT1p values of C-1 (1100 +/- 120 s-1) and C-2 (712 +/- 290 s-1) and the previously determined tau c (0.74 ns) yield Mn2+ to carbon distances of 5.7 +/- 0.3 and 6.1 +/- 0.5 A, respectively. These distances, together with previously determined Mn2+-proton distances (Sellin, S., Rosevear, P.R., Mannervik, B., and Mildvan, A.S. (1982) J. Biol. Chem. 257, 10023-10029) constrain the thioester carbonyl group of the product to point toward the metal, with the oxygen positioned to accept a hydrogen bond from a water ligand, in a kinetically competent, second sphere complex. Model-building studies indicate that any averaging of multiple second sphere complexes would require as a major contributor at least one conformation with the lactoyl carbonyl oxygen within hydrogen-bonding distance of an intervening water ligand. Such a structure would facilitate polarization of the carbonyl group in the reverse glyoxalase reaction.
6347254: !lactoylglutathione Nonstereospecific substrate usage by glyoxalase I. Glyoxalase I operates on a mixture of rapidly interconverting diasteriomeric thiohemiacetals, formed in a preequilibrium step between glutathione and alpha-ketoaldehyde. That both diasteriomers are directly used as substrates by the enzyme from yeast and from porcine erythrocytes is an outcome of a series of isotope-trapping experiments in which pulse solutions composed of the two diasteriomeric thiohemiacetals, due to [3H]glutathione and phenylglyoxal, are rapidly mixed with chase solutions containing excess unlabeled glutathione and successively increasing concentrations of glyoxalase I. As the enzyme approaches infinite concentration in the chase solution, the radioactivity incorporated into the S-mandeloylglutathione product approaches 100% of the total radioactivity due to both diasteriomers from the pulse solution. The special properties of the active site that allow the enzyme to accommodate both diasteriomeric substrate forms may also account for the fact that the cis and the trans isomers of various para-substituted S-(phenylethenyl)glutathione derivatives are both strong competitive inhibitors of the enzyme. A catalytic mechanism is proposed for glyoxalase I involving catalyzed interconversion of the bound diasteriomeric thiohemiacetals before transformation to final product.
6615496: !lactoylglutathione Inhibitors of glyoxalase I in vitro. Inhibition in vitro of human red blood cell glyoxalase I activity was measured by the decrease in the rate of formation of S-D-lactoyl-glutathione as determined by the change in absorbance at 240 nm. The percentage activity remaining was determined after addition of various potential inhibitor compounds and the concentration for 50% activity was obtained by graphical interpolation. The inhibitors were selected on the basis of their similarity to a possible transition-state enediol intermediate of methylglyoxal. The most effective inhibitors were dihydroxycoumarins with a 50% inhibition of 0.03 mM. Inhibition of methylglyoxal catabolism suggests possible application as chemotherapeutic agents based on the inhibitor characteristics of methylglyoxal.
6343368: !lactoylglutathione The glutathione-dependent glyoxalase pathway in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5), which catalyzes the reaction methylglyoxal + GSH leads to S-lactoylglutathione, is a ubiquitous enzyme for which no clear physiological function has been shown. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, methylglyoxal may derive from the spontaneous decay of intracellular glyceraldehyde-3-P, which may accumulate during growth on glycerol as the carbon source. The half-life time for the triose phosphate was found to be 4.6 h under physiological conditions (pH 6.2, 0.05 M phosphate at 30 degrees C). Glyoxalase I is induced by growth on glycerol or by the addition of methylglyoxal to the growth medium. The enzyme is also subject to carbon catabolite repression. A mutant strain, fully defective in glyoxalase I and bearing only one nuclear mutation, was obtained. The strain, which is killed by exposure to glycerol, excretes methylglyoxal into the medium. Growth of the mutant on glucose as carbon source appears to be similar to that of the wild type strain. This investigation has clearly demonstrated a physiological role of glyoxalase I in a eucaryotic cell.
6552216: !lactoylglutathione Multiple sclerosis: immunogenetic analyses of sib-pair double case families. II. Studies on the association of multiple sclerosis with C2, C4, BF, C3, C6, and GLO polymorphisms. The complement component polymorphisms of C2, C4, BF, C3, C6, and the enzyme polymorphism GLO were studied in 13 sib-pair double case families with multiple sclerosis. A significant association was seen between MS patients and the C4 haplotype A4,B2 as compared with their healthy siblings. This finding seems to parallel reports on C2 hypocomplementemia in MS patients since C4 A4,B2 in normal individuals was also seen to be in linkage disequilibrium with the C2 deficiency allele (C2QO) by other investigators.
6220172: !lactoylglutathione Polymorphic enzyme analysis of cultured human tumor cell lines. Of the total of 137 cultured cell lines from a wide variety of human neoplasms now typed at a maximum of 16 of their polymorphic enzyme loci, the phenotype combinations for 72 are described in this paper. The phenotype frequency product of each line was less than 0.05, and only 148 of the 9,316 (1.6%) pairwise comparisons between lines had phenotypes that did not differ in at least one locus. Thus the probability of any two randomly selected lines having indistinguishable genetic signatures in this sample of 137 lines was 0.016. Fifty-two of the 137 lines (38%) had phenotype combinations distinguishable from each of the other 136 lines. The frequency products of the 85 lines that could not be distinguished from at least one other line were all sufficiently high to preclude a suspicion that contamination had occurred among them. No additional cell lines with phenotype combinations indistinguishable from the combination characteristic of HeLa cells were identified among these 72 cell lines.
6296126: !lactoylglutathione Octahedral metal coordination in the active site of glyoxalase I as evidenced by the properties of Co(II)-glyoxalase I. Co(II)-glyoxalase I has been prepared by reactivation of apoenzyme from human erythrocytes with Co2+. The visible absorption spectrum showed maxima at 493 and 515 nm and shoulders at 465 and 615 nm. The absorption coefficients at 493 and 515 nm were 35 and 33 M-1 cm-1/cobalt ion, respectively; i.e. 70 and 66 M-1 cm-1 for the dimeric metalloprotein. The product of the enzymatic reaction, S-D-lactoylglutathione, although binding to Co(II)-glyoxalase I, had no demonstrable effect on the visible absorption spectrum, indicating binding outside the first coordination sphere of the metal. The EPR spectrum at 3.9 K was characterized by g1 approximately 6.6, g2 approximately 3.0, and g3 approximately 2.5, and eight hyperfine lines with A1 = 0.025 cm-1. Binding of the strong competitive inhibitor S-p-bromobenzylglutathione to Co(II)-glyoxalase I gave three g values: 6.3, 3.4, and 2.5, indicating a conformational change affecting the environment of the metal ion. Both optical and EPR spectra strongly suggest a high spin Co2+ with octahedral coordination in the active site of the enzyme. The similarities in kinetic properties between native Zn(II)-glyoxalase I and enzyme substituted with Mg2+, Mn2+, or Co2+ is consistent with the view that these enzyme forms have the same metal coordination in the protein.
6679323: !lactoylglutathione Activity changes of glyoxalases I-II and glutathione reductase in regenerating rat liver. In regenerating rat liver Glyoxalase I activity shows a significant increase 24-48 hrs after partial hepatectomy. Glyoxalase II activity is significantly increased at 16, 48, and 72 hrs, and shows a transient decrease at 24 hrs after surgery. It is likely that the observed changes in Glyoxalases I and II activities during hepatic regeneration are correlated with the different roles of these enzymes. Glutathione reductase activity, significantly reduced within 8-72 hrs after surgery, does not show any correlation with Glyoxalases. These studied enzyme activities do not display significant changes in the sham-operated animals.
6337639: !lactoylglutathione Involvement of arginine residues in glutathione binding to yeast glyoxalase I. Yeast glyoxalase I was inactivated by arginine-specific reagents. Inactivation by 2,3-butanedione, phenylglyoxal and camphorquinone 10-sulfonic acid followed pseudo first-order kinetics with the rate dependent upon modifier concentration. Extrapolation to complete inactivation showed modification of approx. two of the ten total arginyl residues in the native enzyme, with approx. one residue protected by glutathione (GSH) as determined by [ring-14C]phenylglyoxal incorporation. GSH protected the enzyme from inactivation, whereas methylglyoxal, glutathione disulfide (GSSG) and dithiothreitol afforded partial protection. The hemimercaptal of methylglyoxal and GSH and the catalytic product, S-lactoylglutathione provided substantial protection from inactivation. A methyl ester placed on the glycyl carboxyl moiety of GSH abolished all protective capability which suggests that this functionality is responsible for binding to the enzyme. These results provide the first evidence concerning the molecular binding mode of GSH to an enzyme. Arginyl residues are proposed as anionic recognition sites for glutathione on other GSH-utilizing enzymes.
6130199: !lactoylglutathione Extended MHC haplotypes in 21-hydroxylase-deficiency congenital adrenal hyperplasia: shared genotypes in unrelated patients. HLA, complement, and glyoxalase I alleles were studied in 29 families in which at least one member has classical 21-hydroxylase-deficiency congenital adrenal hyperplasia. A rare complement allele, C4B*31, was found in over 20% of the haplotypes defined in these families and was always part of the complement haplotype BF*F, C2*C, C4A*Q0, C4B*31 (abbreviated FCO,31). The haplotype containing this rare set of complement alleles always carried the rare HLA allele, HLA-Bw47, usually carried HLA-A3, and almost always had the alleles HLA-Cw6, HLA-DR7, and the glyoxalase I (GLO) allele GLO1. Thus over 20% of the haplotypes in the population studied contained all or almost all of the rare extended haplotype HLA-(A3), Bw47, Cw6,DR7, FCO,31, GLO 1. 3 other haplotypes were each found twice in unrelated patients concordant for their disease phenotype and ethnic background. Extended MHC haplotypes may be markers for different genetic mutations causing 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
11892808: !lactoylglutathione H-2 hemizygous mutants from a heterozygous cell line: role of mitotic recombination. Variants that no longer express an entire H-2 haplotype were readily isolated, by immunoselection with antisera directed against the haplotype, from an H-2b/H-2d heterozygous Friend leukemia cell line carrying a Robertsonian translocation of the chromosomes bearing the H-2 genetic region. These variants can be denoted as being of the phenotype H-2b- H-2d+ or H-2b+ H-2d-. Some of the H-2b- H-2d+ variants: (1) lack the restriction enzyme fragments characteristic of the missing H-2b haplotype, as assessed by Southern blot analysis; (2) express more cell surface H-2d antigens than wild-type cells, as assessed by flow microfluorimetry; and (3) appear to have become homozygous for the more active H-2d-linked allele at the Glyoxalase I locus. These variants thus seem to have lost genetic material corresponding to the H-2b haplotype and may have gained genetic material corresponding to the H-2d haplotype. These results are consistent with the possibility that these variants were generated by mitotic recombination.
6885048: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I "null" allele in a new family: identification by abnormal segregation pattern and quantitative assay. A GLO-I "null" allele in a family was indicated by an abnormal segregation pattern and by half normal red cell enzyme activity in carriers. This is the third reported instance of this uncommon allele, and the first with confirmation by quantitation of enzyme activity.
6868831: !lactoylglutathione [Detection of esterase D and glyoxalase I in human hair roots using agarose gel thin-layer electrophoresis]. 
6840816: !lactoylglutathione Genetic analysis of the T-H-2 region in non-t chromosomes. I. Two new congenic strains isolate Qglo-1 from H-2. A general breeding protocol useful in the construction of congenic lines of mice disparate in the 15 cM T-H-2 region of chromosome 17 in non-t chromosomes is described. Two such congenic lines, B6.TC2/Rn and B6.TC3/Rn, were derived from the C57BL/6J and B6.C-H-2d/By strains using this protocol. Both B6.TC2 and B6.TC3 dissociate the quantitative activity locus for glyoxalase I (Qglo-1) from the H-2 complex, and hence possess BALB/cBy DNA centromeric to H-2. However, neither new strain is able to map any H-2-associated restriction fragment length polymorphism with an H-2 cDNA probe even though both strains are recombinant in the 2 cM Qglo-1-H-2K interval.
6833991: !lactoylglutathione The screening of blood samples for haemoglobin variation in conjunction with glyoxalase typing. 
6618491: !lactoylglutathione Red cell glyoxalase I polymorphism in Basque and Castilian populations. In samples of Arratia and Gernika populations, who are indigenous Basque ethnic groups, the frequency of the GLOI1 allele was respectively 0.457 +/- 0.042 and 0.459 +/- 0.041. Four samples belonging to Castilian populations were also studied. The results of this work suggested homogeneity between the Spanish and other populations.
6572032: !lactoylglutathione Properdin factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase in Graves' disease. Patients with Graves' disease were phenotyped for properdin factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase, which are coded for by genes mapping close to the HLA region on the sixth chromosome. Frequency data were analysed in relation to HLA-A, -B and -DR typing data. Diagnosis of Graves' disease was based on the usual criteria including elevated T3 and T4 levels and free T4 index and a homogeneous thyroid scan. Ninety-four patients with Graves' disease were phenotyped for properdin factor B (Bf) and 37 for red cells glyoxalase (GLO). HLA-A, -B and -DR antigens were typed in 94 patients using a lymphocyte microcytotoxicity assay. The frequency distribution of Bf and GLO alleles showed no significant differences from control subjects. This finding contrasts with the reports of an increased frequency of BfF1 in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The difference in the two diseases which are both associated with an increased frequency of the antigen combination D8-DR3, is accounted for by linkage disequilibrium between B18 and BfF1.
6417008: !lactoylglutathione Mapping SB in relation to HLA and GLO1 using cells from first-cousin marriage offspring. A newly defined leukocyte antigen system, the secondary B-cell (SB) system, was shown to be linked to HLA. The SB marker has been investigated in lymphocyte donors presumed to be genetically homozygous for HLA-A through HLA-D/DR by virtue of descent from a first-cousin marriage and of phenotypic homozygosity for these HLA markers. Of 19 donors, 3 were found to be heterozygous for SB. Studies of the families of these three donors could not distinguish with certainty whether the heterozygosity resulted from SB/DR recombination or from "pseudohomozygosity" for HLA-A through -D/DR by inheritance of two genetically unrelated but similar haplotypes. However, our data favored the occurrence of SB/DR recombination with a meiotic distance perhaps as large as 3.3 cMorgan. Recombinations were identified which mapped SB between HLA-B and GLO1. These studies demonstrate the usefulness of cells from first-cousin marriage offspring in mapping a polymorphic genetic system.
6353539: !lactoylglutathione Regulation of metabolite overproduction in Klebsiella aerogenes. 
6352223: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I: mechanism-based inhibitors. 
6234899: !lactoylglutathione On regional mapping of human chromosome 6. Review and own findings. In addition to the committee Reports on the Constitution of Chromosome 6 also the mapping contributions from patients with no. 6 imbalances were added to the scheme. Moreover own PGM 3 : GLO : HLA linkage data are given. The controversially discussed gene order of these three loci was analysed from appropriate backcross families. The most likely gene order is HLA-A, C, B : BF (C2, C4) : HLA-D/DR : GLO (all at about 6p 21-p22) : 6 ph (centromer) : PGM3 (6q12): ME 1 (6q12-q15) : SOD 2 (6q21).
6223532: !lactoylglutathione An anthropobiological study in Basse Kotto (Central Africa). I. Erythrocyte and sero-genetic markers: an analysis of the genetic differentiation. Phenotype and allele frequencies for hemoglobin types (Hb beta), acid phosphatase (AcP), phosphoglucomutase (PGM1 and PGM2), esterase D (EsD), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6-PGD), glyoxalase I (GLO), superoxide dismutase (SOD A), and adenylate kinase (AK) as well as for haptoglobins (Hp), group-specific component (Gc), transferrin (Tf), Gm, and Inv groups and albumin, are reported in the Mbugu, Sango, Yakpa, and Baya Mandja ethnic groups in the Basse Kotto district of the Central African Republic. The total sample size amounts to 133 males and 128 females aged from 16 to 60, unrelated and healthy. A new albumin variant (albumin Mbugu) is described and discussed. The average heterozygosity is high in each group because of a high degree of exogamy. the FST average standardized value among the four groups indicates that the genetic differentiation in Basse Kotto is at level of about 2%. This indicates that the four examined groups might be considered genetically homogeneous, in spite of their different ethnic origins. The genetic distances among the four groups show that only the Baya Mandja are less closely related to the other three groups because of their foreign origin.
7185227: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalases and glutathione reductase activity changes in chicken liver during embryo development and after hatching. 
7159385: !lactoylglutathione Role of the N-terminus of glutathione in the action of yeast glyoxalase I. A number of S-substituted glutathiones and the corresponding N-substituted S-substituted analogues have been found to be linear competitive inhibitors of yeast glyoxalase I at 26 degrees C over the pH range 4.6-8.5. N-Acetylation of S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione weakens binding by 13.7-fold. N-benzoylation by 25.6-fold, N-trimethylacetylation by 53.3-fold and N-carbobenzoxylation by 7.8-fold, indicating a minor steric component in the binding at the N-site. The Ki-weakening effect of N-substitution of glutathione depends on the chemical nature of the S-substituent, indicating flexibility in the glutathione and/or glyoxalase I contributions to the binding site for glutathione derivatives. The effect of N-acylation on Ki is in accord with a charge interaction of the free enzyme with S-blocked glutathione in a region of reasonably high dielectric constant. There is a slight pH effect on Ki for S-(m-trifluoromethylbenzyl)glutathione but not for S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione.
7141365: !lactoylglutathione Electrophoretic typing of glyoxalase I (GLO I) isoenzymes using a mixed starch/agarose gel. A technique was developed to type the glyoxalase I (GLO I) isoenzymes using a mixed agarose/starch gel. Over six hundred blood samples from Caucasoid people living in separate regions of South Australia were examined and the results compared with other Caucasoid population surveys. Paired blood and semen samples were also tested and the limitations of the technique with regard to blood and semen stains analysis was evaluated.
6183242: !lactoylglutathione Cloned cellular reagents to define antigens encoded between HLA-DR and glyoxylase. Primed lymphocyte typing reagents have been used to define antigens encoded by genes of a locus (loci) mapping between HLA-DR and glyoxalase I. This locus, which we shall refer to as the third locus of the HLA-D region, has been variously referred to as D beta, PL beta, PL3, and SB. Generating discriminatory primed lymphocyte typing reagents which can be used to define these antigens, however, has been extremely difficult. Donors of responding and stimulating cells for the priming combinations have usually been matched not only for the DR, D, and MB/MT antigens but also for the HLA-A, -B, and -C antigens. Even under these very restricted conditions, not all bulk primed lymphocyte typing reagents that are generated are discriminatory enough to be useful for antigen definition. We have derived "clones" from bulk priming combinations in which stimulator and responder differed for known antigens of this third locus. Even though the bulk reagents that were prepared did not provide discriminatory results, approximately 7-12% of the clones derived from the bulk priming combination proved to be highly discriminatory. We have been able to obtain these results with regard to all three antigens of the third locus so far evaluated. The very ease of screening clones and deriving discriminatory reagents, as compared with screening responder-stimulator combinations, allows the ready derivation of cellular reagents that define the antigens of this third locus.
7138835: !lactoylglutathione Fluorescence and nuclear relaxation enhancement studies of the binding of glutathione derivatives to manganese-reconstituted glyoxalase I from human erythrocytes. A model for the catalytic mechanism of the enzyme involving a hydrated metal ion. The apoenzyme of glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) from human erythrocytes was prepared by removal of Zn2+ with ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA). Methanol was used as a stabilizing agent. Extended dialysis was required to remove EDTA from the resulting solution of apoenzyme. Reconstitution with Mn2+ was followed by measuring enzyme activity, electron paramagnetic resonance of free Mn2+ ions, and nuclear magnetic resonance of water protons. The holoenzyme contained two Mn2+ per protein dimer and had approximately 50% of the catalytic activity of the native enzyme. The binding of the cosubstrate glutathione (gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteinylglycine), the product S-D-lactoyl-glutathione, and the competitive inhibitor S-(p-bromo-benzyl)glutathione was monitored by the quenching of the intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence and by the proton relaxation enhancement of water bound to Mn2+ in the active site of the enzyme. The dissociation constants were 1.1 mM, 0.42 mM, and 0.54 microM for glutathione, S-D-lactoylglutathione, and S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione, respectively. The temperature and frequency dependences of the longitudinal and transverse paramagnetic relaxation rates, 1/T1p and 1/T2p, were studied for water. The results were analyzed in terms of correlation and exchange times. In addition proton and deuteron relaxation rates were measured in parallel at two different magnetic fields. Good agreement between the two approaches of analysis was noticed. The data show that two water molecules are bound in the first coordination sphere of Mn2+ in the active site of glyoxalase I. When S-(p-bromobenzyl)glutathione or S-D-lactoylglutathione is bound to the enzyme, only one exchangeable water molecule could be detected, indicating occlusion of the second water molecule. An enediol mechanism involving the metal-bound water is proposed for the catalysis effected by glyoxalase I.
7107595: !lactoylglutathione Nuclear relaxation studies of the role of the essential metal in glyoxalase I. 
6811668: !lactoylglutathione Orientation of loci in the major histocompatibility complex of the rat and its comparison to man and the mouse. Among 290 F2 progeny of an r10 X ACP cross were two recombinants which allowed the loci for glyoxalase-1 and neuraminidase-1 to be mapped relative to the RT1.A and dw-3 loci in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) of the rat. In 673 progeny of the same cross there was a recombinant between ft and dw-3, and in 403 progeny of the backcross BY1 X (BY1 X BDIX)F1 there was another recombinant between ft and dw-3. These data, combined with those from previous studies, provide the information for constructing a detailed map of the rat major histocompatibility complex: the gene order and size in the rat are very similar to those in the mouse and different from those in man and in the other species that have been studied. Comparison of the structures of the MHC in the various species leads to a hypothesis about the evolution of the MHC which involves sequential duplications of the genes coding for class I and class II loci and an inversion in the prototypic muridae which placed the class II loci between the class I loci.
7117723: !lactoylglutathione No evidence for linkage between HLA and maturity onset type of diabetes in young people. 
6924395: !lactoylglutathione [Genetic factors Bf and glyoxalase in Basedow's disease]. 
6955994: !lactoylglutathione HLA-A, B, C, DR antigens, Bf, C4 and glyoxalase I (GLO) polymorphisms in French Basques with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). The Basques were previously shown to present a high frequency of HLA-B18 and BfF1, which are known to be associated with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). During the VIII International Histocompatibility Workshop, we studied HLA-A, B, C, DR; Bf, C4 and GLO.I polymorphisms in 51 unrelated French Basque IDDM patients and in 50 controls. Haplotypes were established by family studies in all controls and some patients. Two haplotypes were frequently found in the controls: HLA-A1, Bw57, BfS, C4 F1S, DR7 and HLA-Aw30, Cw5, B18, Bf F1, C4Fs degree, DR3. The first one was not found in the patients. All the components of the second haplotype had increased frequencies possibly as a consequence of linkage disequilibrium with HLA-DR3: a highly significant association between IDDM and HLA-DR3 was observed (90.2% vs 24.0%, relative risk (RR) = 29.1, P less than 10(-11)). The HLA-DR4 frequency was slightly increased (37.3% vs 16.0%), and HLA-DR2 was not found. The silent allele C4s degree was particularly associated with early diagnosed IDDM (86.7% in patients with age at onset under 20 years vs 57.1% in other patients, P less than 0.02). The high relative risk for HLA-DR3/DR4 heterozygous vs that of individuals, possibly HLA-DR3 homozygous, supported the hypothesis that two HLA-DR linked genetic factors could be involved in the inheritance of IDDM susceptibility.
7101372: !lactoylglutathione [Polymorphism and population genetics of glyoxalase I in Moscow inhabitants]. 
7097242: !lactoylglutathione Polymorphic enzyme systems in human hair sheath cells. 
7071060: !lactoylglutathione The glyoxalase system in rat blood. 
6212637: !lactoylglutathione Multiple enzyme typing of the sheath cells associated with the root of a single human head hair. 
7092802: !lactoylglutathione Erythrocyte glyoxalase I polymorphism in the owl monkey, Aotus. Three erythrocyte glyoxalase I phenotypes were observed in a sample of 235 karyotypically defined New World owl monkeys, Aotus. The selective distribution of glyoxalase I allele (GLO1, GLO2) is related to the karyotype of each animal. Owl monkeys with a karyotype VI had an equal distribution of GLO1 and GLO2 genes in the population. Aotus with karyotype II, III, IV, or V had, exclusively, the GLO2 allele (expressed as the fast electrophoretic phenotype), in contrast with monkeys with karyotype I or VII, which had only the GLO1 allele (expressed as the slow electrophoretic phenotype).
7092798: !lactoylglutathione Genetic control of the quantitative variation of erythrocytic glyoxalase-1(GLO-1) in mice. 
6951171: !lactoylglutathione Gene dosage and gene expression in the HLA region: evidence from deletion variants. Among variants selected in a human cell line for nonexpression of a single gene product in the HLA complex, most are single-gene variants, but several have been isolated that are cis-acting and abolish expression of a series of closely linked genes. The two most plausible mechanisms by which such variants could arise are mitotic crossing-over and chromosome deletion. In two HLA variants the presence of a visible chromosome deletion, a 50% reduction in activity of glyoxalase I (a closely linked marker), or both provided evidence for deletional origins. In a third variant these changes were not demonstrable. All three variants showed reductions in amount of cell surface HLA antigens: 40% for the Ia antigens (HLA-DR) and 20-25% for HLA-ABC antigens. The reductions in cell surface antigen in deletion variants have an important implication: in the case of the HLA-A, -B, and -C heterodimer, which consists of a subunit coded for within the major histocompatibility complex and another subunit (beta(2)-microglobulin) coded for on a different chromosome, it is the gene of the major histocompatibility complex that is limiting. The nonmutant haplotype includes A2; binding of an A2 monoclonal antibody in two of the mutants was found to be approximately equal to that in the wild-type cells. Thus, loss of one copy of HLA-ABC genes does not lead to gene dosage compensation-i.e., increased activity by the remaining ABC alleles. The results with the two types of antibodies support a deletional mechanism and are inconsistent with mitotic crossing-over. Of interest with respect to the potential use of deletion variants for purposes of mapping is the fact that each of these variants has distinctive breakpoints. The absence of mitotic crossing-over in 1.2 x 10(7) cells selected suggests that the event is rare in this autosomal region, if it occurs at all.
6460723: !lactoylglutathione HLA-DR, D recombination in a kidney transplant recipient. Immunogenetic studies of a consanguineous family revealed discordance in the inheritance pattern of the HLA-D and HLA-DR antigens in one offspring. The findings suggest a recombination between the HLA-D and HLA-DR loci in one of the paternal chromosomes. Results on segregation of B-cell alloantigens. MLC reactivity, and glyoxalase isoenzyme determination map the DR gene between the HLA-B and D loci.
7154967: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I from mouse liver. 
7154966: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I from human erythrocytes. 
7152529: !lactoylglutathione Electrophoretic evidence that GLO2 is the ancestral allele at the glyoxalase-I locus in humans. Glyoxalase-I (EC 4.4.1.5) is polymorphic in humans but not in the closely related hominoid species, Pan troglodytes (the common chimpanzee). The electrophoretic mobility of chimpanzee glyoxalase-I is identical to that of human GLO2, as is that of another Old World primate, Macaca fasicularis. These evidences suggest that GLO2 may be the ancestral allele at this locus in hominoids. The significance of the human GLO variation is discussed in the light of other recent findings showing balanced polymorphism at this locus.
7152526: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase i polymorphism and racial admixture in the Cuban population. 
7129460: !lactoylglutathione Red cell glyoxalase I polymorphism in the Finnish population. 
7129456: !lactoylglutathione Erythrocyte glyoxalase I and superoxide dismutase polymorphisms in the Mbugu and some other populations of the Central African Republic. 
7129426: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I polymorphism and racial admixture in the cuban population. 
7125303: !lactoylglutathione GLO-I studies on cattle and pig breeds in Austria. 
7106786: !lactoylglutathione Evidence for association between alleles at two unlinked loci, GLO (glyoxalase I) and Hp (haptoglobin). 
7095814: !lactoylglutathione Some polymorphic enzymes from Andhra Pradesh. Phenotype and gene frequency distributions of placental alkaline phosphatase, esterase D and glyoxalase I among some population groups of Hyderabad, South India are reported. The Pls, Plf, Pli gene frequencies of placental alkaline phosphatase range from 0.725 to 0.76, from 0.16 to 0.19 and from 0.07 to 0.096 respectively. The EsD2 gene frequency ranges from 0.25 to 0.29 and the GLO1 gene frequency ranges from 0.252 to 0.327.
7087979: !lactoylglutathione [The glyoxalase I isoenzyme polymorphism test and its application in paternity suits]. 
7080674: !lactoylglutathione [Population-genetic examination of the glyoxalase I (GLO) red-cell isoenzyme system in the inhabitants of Szeged and its environment (South-Hungary) (author's transl)]. The authors have examined the gene frequency and phenotype distribution of GLO isoenzyme system in the blood samples from 1,288 randomized, unrelated persons and from 151 mother-child pairs by horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis. The observed gene frequencies (GLO1 = 0.3990, GLO2 = 0.6009) and phenotype distributions (GLO 1 = 18.1%; GLO 2-1 = 43.79%; GLO 2 = 38.20%) were in good accordance with that of the Caucasian population. The authors did not find any difference from the genetic model of two codominant alleles at an autosomal locus. The theoretical exclusion rate in paternity cases based on the GLO gene frequencies is 18.23%.
6924917: !lactoylglutathione Polymorphism of BF, C2, and GLO in Japanese patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: confirmation of an increase of BF*FT. 
6293372: !lactoylglutathione Low-molecular-weight enzyme inhibitors of microbial origin. 
6286442: !lactoylglutathione Heterozygotes and cryptic patients in families of patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (21-hydroxylase deficiency). HLA and glyoxalase I typing and hormonal studies. In a group of 18 unrelated Danish children with 21-hydroxylase deficiency (21-OH def.), human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing revealed a significant increase of Bw47 and a significant decrease of B8. HLA studies of the families of 14 probands predicted among the siblings 11 heterozygote carriers and 3 genetically unaffected. Glyoxalase studies showed a recombination fraction of 8%. ACTH-stimulated 17-OH progesterone is the only hormone value useful in the discrimination between heterozygotes and normals. Two families are described in detail. In one family, one of two HLA-identical brothers had classical virilizing congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), while the other was a normal boy without 21-OH def. In another family with 3 girls, one had classical, salt-wasting CAH, one had "late onset' CAH, and the third sister and the father shared the HLA-B14 antigen and were shown to have "cryptic' 21-OH def.
6217693: !lactoylglutathione [Detection of hereditary enzyme characteristics in vaginal secretion]. Upon investigation of semen- and blood-free vaginal swabs using starch gel electrophoresis the Phosphoglucomutase type was clearly identified in about 40%. Using cellulose acetate membrane electrophoresis PGM could not be demonstrated. In all cases the results correspond with those obtained in blood. No relation was found between secretor type (determined in saliva) and PGM typing. In vaginal material the following could not be determined: Adenylatkinase (AK) using starch gel electrophoresis, Esterase D (EsD) using cellulose acetate membrane electrophoresis, and Glyoxalase I (GLO) using agarose gel thin-layer electrophoresis.
6215329: !lactoylglutathione Glutamate pyruvate transaminase, esterase D, glyoxalase 1, and phosphoglucomutase 1 polymorphisms in Porto District (Portugal). 
6215328: !lactoylglutathione Genetic studies on the Koya Dora and Konda Kammara tribes of Andhra Pradesh, India. A total of 209 persons belonging to the Koya Dora and Konda Kammara tribes in the East Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh, have been tested for electrophoretic variation in 9 red cell enzyme systems. The gene frequencies for the systems showing variation are, in general, within the range for other Andhra Pradesh tribal populations. There is 1 example of PHI 2-1 in the Konda Kammara, while 1 case each of PHI 3-1 and 2-1 are reported in the Koya Dora. In PGM1, there is one example of the 6-2 phenotype and one of 4-1 in the Koya Dora. The Koya Dora show a relatively lower frequency of the EsD2 allele compared to the Konda Kammara. The gene frequencies for the GLO system are reported here for the first time among Indian tribals and these are within the Indian range. LDH Calcutta 1 was not detected in either population.
7344940: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase activity and the proliferative response of human blood lymphocytes to PHA stimulation. 
7325156: !lactoylglutathione A new variant glyoxalase I allele that is readily detectable in stimulated lymphocytes and lymphoblastoid cell lines but not in circulating lymphocytes or erythrocytes. We describe an allele of the human glyoxalase GLO locus that encodes an enzymatically inactive form of the protein, which would not have been detected if only circulating erythrocytes and lymphocytes had been studied. The new allele is named GLO*3 and its protein product, GLO 3. Circulating blood cells of GLO*2/GLO*3 heterozygotes have just one electrophoretic band that migrates as the normal 2-2 dimer. Lymphoblastoid cell lines and phytohemagglutinin-stimulated lymphocytes from the same individuals have two electrophoretic bands, one with the mobility of the 2-2 dimer and one with the mobility of the 2-1 dimer that is present in GLO*2/GLO*1 heterozygotes, but a band with the mobility of the 1-1 dimer is not present. Therefore, the GLO*3 allele encodes a monomer that has the electrophoretic mobility of GLO 1 but is enzymatically inactive unless it is combined with normal monomers in 2-3 and 1-3 heterodimers. The failure to detect the GLO 3 protein in red cells and unstimulated lymphocytes is attributed to a relatively great instability or small rate of production in those cells. Consistent with this interpretation is the reduction of GLO activity in red cells of GLO*2/GLO*3 and GLO*1/GLO*3 heterozygotes to 65% or less of that in normal homozygotes and heterozygotes, while the activity of GLO*3 heterozygous lymphoblastoid cells is about 80% of normal. In contrast, the GLO activity of lymphoblastoid cells that had one copy of the GLO locus deleted by gamma-irradiation was 50%-60% of normal. Our observations indicate that certain kinds of mutant alleles of the GLO locus, and perhaps other loci, may not be detected in electrophoretic surveys on circulating blood cells only. The segregation of alleles that are not expressed in circulating red and white blood cells could confuse attempts to determine parentage, as they might have in the family described here. The observations also demonstrate the feasibility of mapping human genes by using ionizing radiation to create partial chromosome deletions in cultured cells.
7034534: !lactoylglutathione Genetics of Type I diabetes mellitus: a single, recessive predisposition gene mapping between HLA-B and GLO. With an appendix on the estimation of selection bias. Three different published sets of HLA-typed families of juvenile diabetes mellitus (JDM) patients have been analyzed. There was no significant genetic heterogeneity between them according to the criterion of Morton, and the total material was analyzed on the assumption of a single recessive (JDM-P) gene with incomplete penetrance. The analysis, carried out with the NYLIP program modified to account for penetrance less than 1 and for selection bias, yields highly significant lod scores for linkage between HLA and JDM-P, with a maximum value of 7.40 at theta = .05 +/- .03. The segregation of HLA and GLO in five affected sib pairs, in which one of the sibs carries an HLA/GLO recombinant, places JDM-P closer to HLA than the GLO locus: four of these five pairs are HLA-identical and GLO-different, in agreement with the conclusions of the formal linkage analysis. The data from these three independent sets of families are therefore consistent with our earlier claim that JDM is inherited as a recessive trait closely linked to HLA with reduced penetrance, and its analysis does not require more complicated genetic models.
6953615: !lactoylglutathione HLA-linked genetic markers in Chinese and other Oriental populations. The polymorphic variants of the HLA-linked genetic markers Bf, C2, C4 and GLO-I were studied in three mongoloid populations. Analysis of linkage dis-equilibrium between these markers and HLA-A, B, C and DR antigens was carried out on test results from 140 unrelated Chinese individuals. The phenotypes BfS and GLO-2 were found at significantly higher frequencies than in Caucasians. BfS was associated with B12 in Japanese but not in Chinese. A single individual with the rare Bf variant S1 was found. No C2 deficient individuals were observed. The C2C (common) allele occurred at a gene frequency of 0.949 and the more basic allele C2B at 0.039. The acidic variant, C2A, was observed at a frequency of 0.011 and appeared to be associated with BfF. Eighty-nine per cent of the Chinese were phenotypically C4FS. In contrast to Bf and C2, each of which is coded for by codominant alleles at a single genetic locus, C4 is coded for by two genes, C4F (Rodgers) and C4S (Chido). The C4F locus allele, C4F1 (extra fast), was strongly associated with HLA-B17, as has been found in other populations, but a new association of the C4S locus deficiency allele, C4so (Ch-), with B17 was also observed. All HLA-B17;C4so haplotypes were BfS position. As has been previously found in Caucasian populations, individuals of the C4F phenotype (i.e. genotypically FsoFso) were all found to be Chido negative. The frequencies of the various HLA-linked genetic markers, however, as much as the frequencies and associations of the HLA antigens themselves, distinguish these populations from other ethnic groups.
6974826: !lactoylglutathione Family studies define a new histocompatibility locus, SB, between HLA-DR and GLO. 
6117683: !lactoylglutathione Close genetic linkage between diabetes mellitus and kidd blood group. 27 polymorphic genetic markers were analysed for possible linkage with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). The data set contained 71 families with at least one affected member each. Under three different genetic models for IDDM, evidence was found for linkage between the disease and two distinct sets of marker loci: three markers on chromosome 6 (HLA, properdin factor B, and glyoxalase-1), and the Kidd blood group locus. The families apparently do not fall into two groups, one exhibiting linkage to the HLA complex and the other to the Kidd locus. Thus, two distinct disease-susceptibility loci may be involved in the inheritance of IDDM.
7024272: !lactoylglutathione Deuterium isotope effects on the product partitioning of fluoromethylglyoxal by glyoxalase I. Proof of a proton transfer mechanism. Fluoromethylglyoxal in the presence of glutathione has been shown to undergo a novel glyoxalase I-catalyzed product partitioning to S-fluorolactoylglutathione and S-pyruvylglutathione with fluoride elimination. While the partition ratio (fluoride eliminated/total fluoride) was insensitive to pH 5.5-7.5 and concentrations of substrate and glyoxalase I, it was species-dependent. When [1-2H]fluoromethylglyoxal was reacted with glyoxalase I, an increase in the partition ratio and retention of deuterium in the product fluorolactate was observed. This result can only be explained by a selective primary isotope effect on the protonation of an enediol intermediate relative to fluoride elimination.
7298161: !lactoylglutathione 13-Hydroperoxylinoleic acid inhibits rat liver glyoxalase II. 13-Hydroperoxylinoleic acid (13-HPLA) inhibited glyoxalase II in rat liver supernatants with half the maximum inhibition occurring at a 13-HPLA concentration below 0.1 microgram/ml. The extent of inhibition was increased by EDTA and decreased by Mn2+ and Co2+. Zn2+ and Cu2+ inhibited control enzyme activity. Glyoxalase II catalyzes the destruction of S-lactoylglutathione. Both 13-HPLA and S-lactoylglutathione have been shown to potentiate histamine secretion. It is suggested that 13-HPLA does so, in part at least, by inhibiting glyoxalase II and thereby causing a concomitant increase in S-lactoylglutathione level. It is also possible that S-lactoylglutathione mediates other of the effects of 13-HPLA and fatty acid hydroperoxides in general.
6459757: !lactoylglutathione Investigation on the distribution of genetic polymorphisms in Greece. 3. Red cell enzyme polymorphisms and genetic distances G. 112 Greeks living in W. Germany and coming from various parts of Greece and 280 individuals from the Isle of Alonissos (northern Aegean Sea) have been typed for seven polymorphic red cell enzymes, namely red cell acid phosphatase (aP), phosphoglucomutase (PGM1) adenylate kinase (AK), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6-PGD), esterase D (EsD), glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (GPT), and glyoxylase I (GLO). The gene frequencies obtained in these two samples are compared with the hitherto reported corresponding data from other Greek populations. Finally genetic distances (basing on six polymorphic serum protein and red cell enzyme systems) have been computed for seven Greek population samples. The results of these distance measurements are discussed.
7030293: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase phenotypes in patients with diabetes mellitus. Caucasian diabetic patients in Australian surveys showed a significant difference in the distribution of glyoxalase phenotypes. Insulin dependent diabetic patients with age of onset less than 40 years had a relative excess of glyoxalase homozygote 1-1 and a deficiency of types 2-1 and 2-2. Non-insulin dependent diabetic patients were not significantly different from non-diabetic subjects in the distribution of glyoxalase phenotypes. Insulin dependent diabetic patients without the complications of retinopathy or neuropathy also showed a significant excess of glyoxalase type 1-1 in relation to the control group. Genes controlling glyoxalase polymorphism appear to be associated with the variations of diabetes and its complications.
7317034: !lactoylglutathione Probing the active site of glyoxalase I from human erythrocytes by use of the strong reversible inhibitor S-p-bromobenzylglutathione and metal substitutions. Glyoxalase I from human erythrocytes was studied by use of the strong reversible competitive inhibitor S-p-bromobenzylglutathione. Replacements of cobalt, manganese and magnesium for the essential zinc in the enzyme were made by a new procedure involving 10% methanol as a stabilizer of the enzyme. The K(m) value for the adduct of methylglyoxal and glutathione was essentially unchanged by the metal substitutions, whereas the inhibition constant for S-p-bromobenzylglutathione increased from 0.08mum for the Zn-containing enzyme to 1.3, 1.7 and 2.4mum for Co-, Mn- and Mg-glyoxalase I respectively. Binding of the inhibitor to the enzyme caused quenching of the tryptophan fluorescence of the protein, from which the binding parameters could be determined by the use of non-linear regression analysis. The highest dissociation constant was obtained for apoenzyme (6.9mum). The identity of the corresponding kinetic and binding parameters of the native enzyme and the Zn(2+)-re-activated apoenzyme and the clear differences from the parameters of the other metal-substituted enzyme forms give strong support to the previous identification of zinc as the natural metal cofactor of glyoxalase I. Binding to apoenzyme was also shown by the use of S-p-bromobenzylglutathione as a ligand in affinity chromatography and as a protector in chemical modification experiments. The tryptophan-modifying reagent 2-hydroxy-5-nitrobenzyl bromide caused up to 85% inactivation of the enzyme. After blocking of the thiol groups (about 8 per enzyme molecule) 6.1 2-hydroxy-5-nitrobenzyl groups were incorporated. Inclusion of S-p-bromobenzylglutathione with the modifying reagent preserved the catalytic activity of the enzyme completely and decreased the number of modified residues to 4.4 per enzyme molecule. The findings indicate the presence of one tryptophan residue in the active centre of each of the two subunits of the enzyme. Thiol groups appear not to be essential for catalytic activity. The presence of at least two categories of tryptophan residues in the protein was also shown by quenching of the fluorescence by KI.
6981107: !lactoylglutathione Technical and theoretical considerations in the HLA typing of amniotic fluid cells for prenatal diagnosis and paternity testing. HLA typing of amniotic fluid cells has been used for the prenatal diagnosis of the HLA linked diseases congenital adrenal hyperplasia (21-OH-deficiency (21-OH-def) type) and complement C4 deficiency and it has also been used for the prenatal determination of paternity. There are, however, technical difficulties in this test associated with the weak expression of some B locus antigens on amniotic fluid cells, and theoretical difficulties related to associations between particular HLA antigens and the 21-OH-def allele. Since certain HLA-B locus antigens are found in significantly increased frequencies among patients with 21-OH-def, there is a relatively high incidence of HLA-B homozygosity among the patients and over 40 per cent of the parents of these patients share one or more HLA-B locus antigens. Results of some prenatal HLA typing tests may thus be difficult to interpret, and supplementary tests should be used whenever possible. HLA typing of amniotic cells is, however, the only available procedure for prenatal diagnosis of C4 deficiency and it is the best available procedure for prenatal determination of paternity. A modification of our original procedure allows HLA typing to be performed with increased numbers of HLA typing sera, and sera with optimum reactivity for amniotic fluid cells have now been selected for the definition of most of the more commonly expressed HLA antigens. Although amniotic fluid cells do not express DR Antigens, amniotic fluid cells can be typed for the HLA-linked marker glyoxalase I (GLO) and this may be the informative for prenatal diagnosis in some cases.
6972642: !lactoylglutathione Characterization of glyoxalases 1, 2, and 3 in the rat and the linkage of glyoxalase-1 to the major histocompatibility complex. 
7336415: !lactoylglutathione HLA-A,B,C, Bf and glyoxalase I polymorphisms in a sample of the Kabyle population (Algeria). HLA (A,B and C) gene and haplotype frequencies were determined in 44 Berber families from the Kabyle tribe. The Bf and Glo polymorphisms were also defined and the haplotypes were deduced from these family data. The main association (A1, B8, BfS; A29, B12, Glo2, Aw33, B14, BfS, Glo1; Cw5, B18, BfF1; A1, Bw17) showed the relationship between the populations from the southwest of Europe, and this population. Another association, A11 and Bw21, was found also in Twareg, which are probably of the same origin.
7020600: !lactoylglutathione Methylgloxal: enzyme distributions relative to its presence in Douglas-fir needles and absence in Douglas-fir needle callus. 
7261977: !lactoylglutathione Clinical significance of glyoxalase and creatine phosphokinase during therapeutic radiation of the myocardium. 
6937161: !lactoylglutathione Hereditary ataxia and the sixth chromosome. Possible linkage of the gene or genes for dominant hereditary ataxia and three genetic markers on the short arm of the sixth chromosome (HLA, properdin factor B [Bf], and glyoxalase I) was investigated in five families. Logarithmic odds (lod scores) were calculated for the linkages and found to be either inconclusive or in favor of nonlinkage. Caution is advised in the summing of lod scores for separate families because of the wide spectrum of clinical and anatomical manifestations of dominant hereditary ataxia. Three families with recessive hereditary ataxia were also studied. Identical haplotypes occurred in affected and unaffected siblings. It did not appear likely that the recessive genes of the parents were transmitted in linkage with the markers on the short arm of the sixth chromosome.
6266985: !lactoylglutathione Intra-HLA recombinations localizing the 21-hydroxylase deficiency gene within the HLA complex. Close linkage between HLA and the gene for 21-OH deficiency causing congenital virilizing adrenal hyperplasia (CVAH) has been well documented. HLA-A/B and HLA/GLO recombination data placed the CVAH gene within the HLA-A to GLO interval, with CVAH invariably segregating with HLA. HLA-A,B,C,DR and GLO typing and ACTH stimulation to determine carrier status was done on seven families. Carrier status correlated with the appropriate HLA haplotypes in all offspring, with two exceptions. Two intra-HLA recombinants were detected in one three-generation family. The father of the proband is homozygous for HLA-A2,Cw2,B27 but is a DR2/DR4 heterozygote. The CVAH gene segregated with DR2 in all but one of his offspring who is a carrier and is DR4. This finding is consistent with recombination between the CVAH gene and DR. Study of the father's family confirmed synteny of the CVAH gene and DR2. Three of four sibs of the father inherited this haplotype and were CVAH carrier, as was the paternal grandmother, whose other haplotype was A1, Bw44,DR1. One of the father's sibs was shown serologically to be a HLA-B/D maternal recombinant and a noncarrier. she inherited the A1,Bw44 of one maternal haplotype, but the DR2 of the other. In both recombinants in this family the CVAH gene segregated with the A to B interval, separate from D. While we cannot determine whether the CVAH gene is in the HLA-A to B or B to D interval, this is the first report of two intra-HLA recombinations in one family that unequivocally map the CVAH gene inside HLA-D.
6165751: !lactoylglutathione A high-yield purification of glyoxalase i from rabbit liver by affinity chromatography on Blue Dextran-Sepharose 4B. An improved method is described for the purification of glyoxalase I from rabbit liver. The method involves homogenization, ammonium sulfate precipitation followed by choloroform/ethanol precipitation, affinity chromatography on Blue Dextran-Sepharose 4B and chromatography on Sephadex G-100. The enzyme is specifically eluted from the affinity column by S-hexylglutathione, a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme. This procedure offers a convenient method for obtaining electrophoretically pure glyoxalase I in high yields (60--70%).
7213621: !lactoylglutathione S-2-hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase (glyoxalase II): active-site mapping of a nonserine thiolesterase. S-2-Hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase (glyoxalase II) from rat erythrocytes is a specific thiolesterase. Chemical modification studies with phenylmethanesulfonic acid, N-ethylmaleimide, and 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoate) suggest that glyoxalase II does not have a serine or a cysteine residue at the active site. The effect of pH on the rate of hydrolysis of S-lactoylglutathione indicates the existence of an active-site residue, pK = 8.87, essential for binding of the substrate. Inactivation studies with phenylglyoxal implicate the existence of an active-site arginine residue that also is essential for binding of the substrate. The effects of pD on the rate of hydrolysis of S-lactoylglutathione in D2O give no evidence for general acid-general base catalysis. 1H NMR studies of the glyoxalase II catalyzed hydrolysis of S-mandeloylglutathione show no evidence for a carbanion (E1cB) mechanism. the catalytic role of glyoxalase II appears to involve direct nucleophilic attack of the thiol ester by an active-site histidine residue, based upon inactivation experiments using diethyl pyrocarbonate and photoinactivation with methylene blue.
6908967: !lactoylglutathione Properdin factor Bf polymorphism and glyoxase I allotypes in Graves' disease. 
7225106: !lactoylglutathione The tumor promoting phorbol diester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) increases glyoxalase I and decreases glyoxalase II activity in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes. 
7329314: !lactoylglutathione Assay of glutathione, glutathione disulfide, and glutathione mixed disulfides in biological samples. 
7287082: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase 1 (GLO) in the chicken: genetic variation and lack of linkage to the MHC. Electrophoretic variation of glyoxalase 1 (GLO) has been detected in chicken red-cell lysates. Three phenotypes are shown to be inherited through a diallelic system, just as in humans and mice. The chicken GLO phenotype differ from their mammalian counterparts in that one of the homozygotes is devoid of GLO activity. The heterozygote produces two bands, while the other homozygote yields a single band of GLO activity with mobility equal to the faster of these two bands. In noninbred White Leghorn birds, the GLO2 allele occurred significantly more often in birds homozygous for the B1 allele at the chicken MHC than in those homozygous for B19, suggesting that the products of these loci may have population associations in the chicken. Absence of close linkage between the GLO and B loci was, however, demonstrated by appropriate test crosses.
7287011: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I polymorphism: gene frequencies in two Italian populations. The gene frequencies for human red cell glyoxalase I have been determined in 1,222 unrelated subjects from two areas of Central Italy (Rome and Viareggio). No significant difference has been found between the two samples. Therefore the data have been pooled. The cumulative GLO1 gene frequency estimate is 0.376 +/- 0.010. This gene frequency is comparable to that reported for another sample from Rome and very similar to that found in Naples while it is significantly lower than those reported for Northern Italy (Milan and Genoa) and for the Northern European Caucasian populations studied so far.
7250987: !lactoylglutathione No linkage disequilibrium HLA-GLO found in 1,004 normal, unrelated Danes. 
7234136: !lactoylglutathione [Glyoxalase I polymorphisms: distribution of phenotypes and gene frequencies in Portugal (author's transl)]. Phenotypes of glyoxalase I (GLO I) were determined in 1,000 unrelated persons from Portugal giving the gene frequencies GLO1 = 0.463 and GLO2 = 0.537.
7228154: !lactoylglutathione Wild-derived alleles of five allozyme-encoding loci in B10.W mice. 
6941923: !lactoylglutathione Linkage of GLO with HLA in a sample of the Spanish population. GLO allele frequencies are studied in 100 unrelated normal Spaniards. GLO-S shows a frequency similar to that found in Caucasoids. Weak linkage disequilibria between some HLA-B and some HLA-DR antigens are described. DR3 and DR4 are GLO-F associated both in normal and insulin dependent diabetic Spaniards. GLO/HLA-DR loci distance is about 6cM according to our family studies; females show a higher GLO/HLA-DR recombination rate than males in our sample. NO GLO heterozygous excess or "nul" alleles are found.
6910464: !lactoylglutathione Red cell glyoxalase I polymorphism in Alsace, France: linkage of GLO with Bf. 
6454280: !lactoylglutathione Intra HLA-D region recombinant maps HLA-DR between HLA-B and HLA-D. A consanguineous family has been typed for HLA-A, B, C, D, DR and GLO, Bf, C2 and C4 and other red cell markers. The results indicate that an expected Dw7 homozygous sibling is a "Dw1"/Dw7 recombinant, probably derived from a crossing over between DR and D on the paternal haplotypes. The anomalous typings by Dw1 HTCs of the recombinant haplotype are best explained by the likely presence of an additional Lad polymorphism which could be a serologically detectable second epitope on the same molecule as the HLA-D determinant or in the form of two linked chains, one encoded by HLA-D and one by another Lad gene in the HLA haplotype.
6280409: !lactoylglutathione [Simultaneous representation of EsD, DIA, GLO, and UDPGP in a starch block (author's transl)]. 
6269514: !lactoylglutathione Hereditary of the three enzyme systems EsD, Gt and GLO in the Polish population. The family studies and mother/child combinations. Hereditary of the three enzyme systems EsD, Gt and GLO was studied in families and mother/child combinations. EsD types were determined in 88 families with 197 children and 1813 mother/child combinations. Gt types were studied in 78 families with 174 children and 114 mothers with one child. GLO types were determined in 82 families with 180 children and 298 mother/child pairs. The segregation in the different family combinations is in accordance with the simple formal model of two alleles at the autosomal loci.
6269171: !lactoylglutathione [Changes of certain enzymes and glutathione status in rat liver regeneration (author's transl)]. 
6173571: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I (rat liver). 
7453570: !lactoylglutathione Metabolites of the aminoacetone pathway in blood after exercise. The following article reports (A) data on glyoxalase I activity in skeletal muscle of untrained men and endurance--trained athletes, and (B) the presence at rest and the rise in blood after exercise of two metabolites of the aminoacetone pathway of amino acid degradation in man. Glyoxalase I showed an average activity of 191 +/- 38 U/g wet weight (37 degrees C) in bioptic samples of m.vastus medialis quadricipitis of young adults whereas this was of 235 +/- 64 U/g (p < 0.15) in athletes. After an ergometer exercise test with increasing intensity (50 to 400 Watt (W), 3 min-steps) by well trained cyclists, blood (L-(+)-lactate increased to 10.12 mmole/liter, whereas methylglyoxal rose by 48.4% and D-(-)-lactate by 70% (resting levels 92 and 100/mumole/liter, respectively). The possible physiologic significance of the assumed aminoacetone pathway was discussed with respect to muscular activity.
7014775: !lactoylglutathione Excretion of glutathione by methylglyoxal-resistant Escherichia coli. A methylglyoxal-resistant mutant of Escherichia coli B excreted glutathione into the growth medium, especially during growth on medium containing methylglyoxal. In the presence of methylglyoxal, the total amount of glutathione excreted was increased about 50-fold over that of the wild-type strain. The resistant mutant had high activities of two enzyme systems: a glutathione-forming enzyme system (consisting of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and glutathione synthetase) and a glyoxalase system (consisting of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II). Methylglyoxal resistance appeared to be due to the simultaneous increase in the activities of these two enzyme systems.
7439089: !lactoylglutathione The effect of alcohol and nutritional deficiencies on growth and development in rats. 
6967892: !lactoylglutathione The linkage of glyoxylase-I to the major histocompatibility complex in the rat. 
6901543: !lactoylglutathione Properdin factor B and glyoxalase 1 polymorphism in celiac disease. 
7417280: !lactoylglutathione Inhibitors of glyoxalase enzymes. 
7389005: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of protein and DNA synthesis in tissue culture cells by a derivative of methyl glyoxal and ascorbate. The inhibitory effect of a methyl glyoxal-ascorbate (MGA) adduct (NFCR 278021) on protein and DNA synthesis in monolayer cultures of GPK epithelial cells has been compared with the inhibitory action of methyl glyoxal (MG). GPK cells exhibited an ID50 of 0.98 microM MG for both protein and DNA synthesis compared with an ID50 of 0.92 mM for the adduct. Hill plots demonstrate that the characteristics of the receptor saturation are the same for MG and MGA, suggesting that the action of the two agents is mediated through the MG moiety which is modified by the presence of the ascorbate portion of the molecule in MGA. It is shown that MGA undergoes spontaneous oxidation in solution and is a substrate for ascorbate oxidase, but that no additional MG activity is released by total enzymic oxidation of MGA, and oxidised MGA possesses the same inhibitory characteristics as MGA. Inhibition of protein synthesis by ascorbate or dehydroascorbate were not demonstrated in the dose range employed for MGA. The inhibitory effect of the adduct on protein synthesis was found to be diminished in the presence of glutathione and glyoxalase I (Glo I) and II( Glo II).
6933474: !lactoylglutathione Gamma ray-induced loss of expression of HLA and glyoxalase I alleles in lymphoblastoid cells. Gamma rays from a cesium source were used to generate human lymphoblastoid cell line variants that had lost expression of all major histocompatibility complex antigens coded for by a single haplotype. The cell line was heterozygous at the glyoxalase I locus and had the HLA haplotypes HLA-A1, B8, DRw3, and HLA-A2, B5, DRw1. We selected with anti-HLA-B8 antiserum in a population of cells that had been irradiated with 300 R. The incidence of B8-loss variants was 4.1 X 10(-5) on day 5 after irradiation. Analysis of variants showed that expressions of HLA and GLO alleles trans to B8 were retained. However, expression of additional cis-linked HLA and GLO gene products was lost in 12 of 17 variants. Variants that had lost expression of (i) HLA-B8, (ii) HLA-B8, A1, (iii) HLA-B8, A1, DRw3, or (iv) HLA-B8, A1, DRw3 and the cis-linked glyoxalase I allele were obtained. Karyotype analysis was performed on eight variants that had lost expression of two or more cis-linked alleles. Three variants had two normal appearing no. 6 chromosomes, four variants had a deletion that included the region coding for HLA genes on the short arm of one no. 6 chromosome, and one variant had an inversion or translocation involving the short arm of one no. 6.
7390349: !lactoylglutathione The determination of glyoxalase I phenotypes in human bloodstains. A method is described for the determination of glyoxalase I phenotypes in liquid blood and dry bloodstains. The frequencies of glyoxalase I phenotypes in various populations of S.E. England are included.
6989412: !lactoylglutathione Hydrophobic binding is not an independent stereochemical determinant in the yeast glyoxalase I reaction. For yeast glyoxalase I, a stereospecific proton-transfer mechanism requires the formation of either a cis or a trans-enediol intermediate. Analogs of the two possible isometric enediol intermediates, formed from the hemimercaptal due to phenylglyoxal and glutathione, have been synthesized in which the oxygen atoms of the enediol are replaced by protons. Both isomeric analogs are strong linear competitive inhibitors of the enzyme having nearly equal inhibition constants: Ki(cis) = 0.10 mM; Ki(trans) = 0.16 mM. This suggests that while hydrophobic interactions between substrate, enediol intermediate and enzyme may contribute significantly to binding, this type of interaction is not an independent stereochemical determinant of the reaction.
7387324: !lactoylglutathione [The detection of glyoxalase in stored blood samples]. 
6989637: !lactoylglutathione A photoaffinity label derivative of glutathione and its inhibition of glyoxalase I. 
7350914: !lactoylglutathione Purification and characterization of mouse liver glyoxalase II. Glyoxalase II (S2-hydroxyacylglutatione hydrolase, EC 3.1.2.6) was purified from Swiss mouse liver to homogeneity by a rapid, two-step affinity chromatographic scheme. Homogeneity was established by multiple electrophoretic determinations. The purified enzyme exhibited a specific activity of 920 I.U./mg protein and has a molecular weight of approx. 29 500 as estimated by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The enzyme is a basic protein with a pI of approx. 8.1. Mouse liver glyoxalase II is competitively inhibited by the substrate of glyoxalase I (the hemimercaptal of methylglyoxal and glutathione); the Ki is 0.3 mM. The Km for S-D-lactoylglutathione is 0.27 mM, and the enzyme has a turnover number of approx. 27 000 mumol substrate per min per mumol enzyme.
7445911: !lactoylglutathione A method based on the use of methanol as a stabilizing agent to prepare metal-free glyoxalase I and to reconstitute activity by addition of bivalent metal ions. 
7438789: !lactoylglutathione Linkage studies on glyoxalase I (GLO), pepsinogen (PG), spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA1), and HLA. Pedigree analyses of five families in which a form of spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA1) is present have been used to obtain additional information on the location of SCA1 on chromosome 6. Recombination rates with HLA and glyoxalase I (GLO) suggest that the order is HLA-GLO-SCA1. There was no evidence for linkage of pepsinogen isozyme-5 (PG) either to HLA or GLO.
7415571: !lactoylglutathione [Glyoxalase I (GLO) in human tissues (author's transl)]. In 49 autopsies (23 samples of tissue per case--skin, skeletal muscle, cerebrum, cerebellum, tongue, tonsil, submandibular gland, thyroid gland, lymph node, lung, heart, stomach, small and large intestine, liver, spleen, suprarenal gland, kidney, prostate, testicle, uterus, uterusleiomyoma and bone marrow) identical GLO phenotypes with analogous blood pattern were found.
7390517: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I (GLO; EC4.4.1.5): gene frequency variation in Iraq. 472 individuals were studied for the gene frequency variation Glyoxalase I (GLO) in three different regional populations of Iraq. No genetic heterogeneity exists among the three populations of the country but the GLO1 gene in Iraq appears to share European frequency.
7390515: !lactoylglutathione Erythrocyte glyoxalase I and esterase D polymorphisms in four French populations. The genetic polymorphism of two new erythrocyte markers GLO I (EC 4.4.1.5) and esterase D (EC 3.1.1.1) has been investigated in four French populations: Basques and Toulouse groups (southwest area), Lille and Strasbourg (northern and eastern part of the territory). The distribution of GLO I and EsD alleles within these communities has shown some significant differences. Basques samples are characterized by the highest frequency of EsD1 gene (0.911) and the lower rate of GLO1 (0.364). The observed data are compared with other results previously reported in France and in Western European populations.
7390510: !lactoylglutathione Isoenzymes of red cell glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) in a Finnish population. The phenotypes of red cell glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) were determined by polyacrylamide-gel slab electrophoresis in a Finnish population sample of 517 unrelated persons. The gene frequencies found were 0.361 for GLO1 and 0.639 for GLO2.
7216230: !lactoylglutathione GLO polymorphism in Iceland. The phenotypes of red cell glyoxalase I (GLO) were determined in two Icelandic population samples using starch-gel electrophoresis and high-voltage agarose-gel electrophoresis. The gene frequencies of 178 individuals were 0.46 for GLO1 and 0.54 for GLO2. In a group of Icelandic insulin-dependent diabetics the gene frequencies were found to be very similar. The evaluation of 30 mother-child pairs is also shown.
7190262: !lactoylglutathione [Activity of glyoxalase and glyoxalase II under the effect of toxohormone from melanoma]. 
6996042: !lactoylglutathione [Glyoxalases in normal and neoplastic tissues (author's transl)]. 
6967447: !lactoylglutathione Data on linkage relations between GLO and 21-hydroxylase. Linkage between GLO and 21-hydroxylase was investigated in 11 families with 24 children. Positive lod score values with a maximum of +1.618 at theta = 0.05 indicate close linkage between these marker loci.
6892568: !lactoylglutathione Association of glyoxalase I allotypes with Graves' disease and diabetes mellitus. In view of the demonstrated linkage of glyoxalase I (GLO) with HLA, we studied the possible association of Graves' disease and juvenile diabetes with GLO allotypes. Both these diseases are known to show significant HLA associations. The distributions of the two GLO allotypes in the two disease groups were identical to those found in the control group.
6782560: !lactoylglutathione [Glyoxalase enzyme system (author's transl)]. 
6772543: !lactoylglutathione A linkage study of hereditary ataxias and related disorders. Evidence of heterogeneity of dominant cerebellar ataxia. 
547085: !lactoylglutathione Red cell glyoxalase I polymorphism among the selected tribes of the Sudan. 
316936: !lactoylglutathione Gene frequencies and genetic linkage disequilibrium for the HLA-linked genes Bf, C2, C4S, C4F, 21-hydroxylase deficiency, and glyoxalase I. 
161092: !lactoylglutathione Tests for linkage between genes for HLA and immunoglobulin heavy chains (Gm). 
93794: !lactoylglutathione Blood genetic markers in man. 
93000: !lactoylglutathione Glutathione thiol esterases of human red blood cells. Fractionation by gel electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing. The number and the substrate specificities of glutathione thiol esterases of human red blood cells have been investigated by gel electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing and staining methods devised for the location of these enzymes on gels. Several glutathione thiol esterase forms, both unspecific (with respect to the S-acyl group of the substrate) and specific were found. Electrophoresis on both polyacrylamide and agarose gels resolved three enzyme components with apparently similar substrate specificity. Isoelectric focusing in liquid column separated two unspecific thiol esterase components with S-lactoylglutathione (pI = 8.4) and S-propionylglutathione (pI = 8.1) as the best substrates, respectively, and two specific enzymes, S-formylglutathione hydrolase (pI = 5.2) and S-succinylglutathione hydrolase (pI = 9.0). Isoelectric focusing on polyacrylamide gel resolved nine unspecific glutathione thiol esterase bands (between pH values 7.0 and 8.4). Partially purified glyoxalase II (S-2-hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase, EC 3.1.2.6) from erythrocytes or liver still gave three components on electrophoresis and several activity bands on gel electrofocusing. These results indicate that human red cells contain at least four separate glutathione thiol esterases. Glyoxalase II, one of these enzymes, apparently occurs in multiple forms. These were neither influenced by preptreatment of the samples with neuraminidase or thiols nor were interconvertible during the fractionations.
499526: !lactoylglutathione Inhibition of glyoxalase I: a possible transition-state analogue inhibitor approach to potential antineoplastic agents? 
541654: !lactoylglutathione The typing of human hair sheath cells in the glyoxalase system using cellogel membranes. 
478186: !lactoylglutathione Genetic susceptibility to diabetes mellitus: the distribution of properdin factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase (GLO) phenotypes. The distribution of phenotypes controlled by two loci on chromosome 6 has been studied in a series of 239 patients with type 1 (insulin-dependent) and 297 patients with type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. At the properdin factor B (Bf) locus there is a significant increase in the frequency of the BfSu and BfF1 alleles for type 1 patients, and the combined inc;rease in frequency of BfS1 and BfF1 in those patients is highly significant. The relative risk for F1 is 6.2 and for F1 and S1 combined is 5.3. These results confirm the association with F1 reported recently by Raum and co-workers in Boston. The two rare alleles BfS1 and BfF1 are in significant negative disequilibrium with HLA B8. For the glyoxalase (GLO) locus there is a slight but nonsignificant increase in the frequency of the GLO2 allele, but a significant disturbance in the distribution of the GLO phenotypes for type 2 patients. These results for the GLO alleles may be due to stratification in our series of type 2 patients. Further studies are in progress to test this hypothesis.
393249: !lactoylglutathione Comparison of glyoxalase I purified from yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) with the enzyme from mammalian sources. Glyoxalase I from yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) purified by affinity chromatography on S-hexylglutathione-Sepharose 6B was characterized and compared with the enzyme from rat liver, pig erythrocytes and human erythrocytes. The molecular weight of glyoxalase I from yeast was, like the enzyme from Rhodospirillum rubrum and Escherichia coli, significantly less (approx. 32000) than that of the enzyme from mammals (approx. 46000). The yeast enzyme is a monomer, whereas the mammalian enzymes are composed of two very similar or identical subunits. The enzymes contain 1Zn atom per subunit. The isoelectric points (at 4 degrees C) for the yeast and mammalian enzymes are at pH7.0 and 4.8 respectively; tryptic-peptide ;maps' display corresponding dissimilarities in structure. These and some additional data indicate that the microbial and the mammalian enzymes may have separate evolutionary origins. The similarities demonstrated in mechanistic and kinetic properties, on the other hand, indicate convergent evolution. The k(cat.) and K(m) values for the yeast enzyme were both higher than those for the enzyme from the mammalian sources with the hemimercaptal adduct of methylglyoxal or phenylglyoxal as the varied substrate and free glutathione at a constant and physiological concentration (2mm). Glyoxalase I from all sources investigated had a k(cat.)/K(m) value near 10(7)s(-1).m(-1), which is close to the theoretical diffusion-controlled rate of enzyme-substrate association. The initial-velocity data show non-Michaelian rate saturation and apparent non-linear inhibition by free glutathione for both yeast and mammalian enzyme. This rate behaviour may have physiological importance, since it counteracts the effects of fluctuations in total glutathione concentrations on the glyoxalase I-dependent metabolism of 2-oxoaldehydes.
489018: !lactoylglutathione Population frequency distribution of erythrocyte glyoxylase I (EC 4.4.1.5) in the greater Detroit area. 
384622: !lactoylglutathione Bone marrow transplantation using typing for glyoxalase I as a tool in histocompatibility testing. 
289626: !lactoylglutathione Biochemical genetic markers in the Kadazans of Sabah, Malaysia. Kadazans, the largest indigenous group in Sabah, northern Borneo, were surveyed for glyoxalase I, phosphoglucomutase I, red cell acid phosphatase, esterase D, adenosine deaminase, soluble glutamate pyruvate transaminase, soluble glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, uridine monophosphate kinase, adenylate kinase, peptidase B and D, superoxide dismutase, C5, group specific component, haptoglobin and transferrin. Kadazans were found to be polymorphic for GLO I, PGM I, RCAP, esterase D, ADA, s-Gpt, 6PGD, UMPK, Gc, C5, haptoglobin and peptidase B. Rare variants were found for transferrin and peptidase D. No variant was found for s-Got, SOD and AK.
572830: !lactoylglutathione Involvement of glutathione in the inhibition of sea urchin egg mitosis by phenyl glyoxal. Cell division in fertilized sea urchin eggs was reversibly inhibited when the ketoaldehyde phenyl glyoxal (PG) at a concentration of 0.1 mM was added to eggs for ten minutes prior to the formation of the mitotic spindle. We investigated whether inhibition of mitosis was due to PG binding to the cell surface (as previously suggested by Stein and Berestecky, '74) or to some intracellular effect. When 14C-PG was added to eggs, label was readily taken up into the egg cytoplasm; very little label was associated with the egg surface. In the cytoplasm PG combined with equimolar amounts of reduced glutathione (GSH), decreasing the levels of cellular GSH to less than 15% of normal and accounting for at least 50% of the PG taken up by eggs. The concentrations of oxidized and protein-bound glutathione were unaffected by PG treatment. We showed that glyoxalase enzymes were present in sea urchin eggs and were capable of metabolizing the PG-GSH complex, thereby restoring GSH to normal levels after PG was removed from the sea water. Though some other effect of PG cannot be ruled out, the major fate of PG in eggs was to combine with GSH, and the transient decrease in GSH which resulted could lead to inhibition of mitosis. While other reports (Nath and Rebhun, '76; Oliver et al., '76) have shown that reagents which oxidize GSH disrupt microtubule-related events, our results showed that such inhibition could be caused by decreased GSH levels alone.
475391: !lactoylglutathione Isolation and kinetic analysis of the multiple forms of glyoxalase-I from human erythrocytes. 
112033: !lactoylglutathione Linkage studies on the human Pi, Gm, GLO, and HLA genes. Linkage data of the four gene markers Pi, Gm, GLO, and HLA exclude Gm and Pi gene assignment to the short arm of chromosome 6. The findings, however, do not disprove the following gene order: HLA--GLO--centromere--Gm--Pi.
453083: !lactoylglutathione Phenotyping of eight erythrocytic enzymes in one acrylamide gel. A procedure has been developed to phenotype eight erythrocytic enzymes, phosphoglucomutase (PGM1), adenylate kinase (AK), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD), adenosine deaminase (ADA), glyoxalase (GLO), esterase-D (EsD), acid phosphatase (AcP), and glutamic pyruvate transaminase (GPT) in one acrylamide gel and also to detect the presence of common abnormal hemoglobins. The agar overlay technic has been eliminated. This simplified procedure renders the phenotyping of erythrocytic enzymes practical in paternity testing.
448134: !lactoylglutathione The location of the C3 and GLO (glyoxalase 1) loci of the IXth linkage group in mice. 
378697: !lactoylglutathione Binding of the competitive inhibitor S-(p-bromobenzyl)-glutathione to glyoxalase I from yeast. 
468237: !lactoylglutathione Distribution of glyoxalase I (GLO) variants in Western Europe and the Indian subcontinent. English, Italian (including Sardinian), and Spanish populations from Europe and Muslim, Hindu, Sikh, Punjabi, and other populations from the Indian subcontinent currently living either in Birmingham or in India were screened for electrophoretically detectable genetic variants of red cell glyoxalase I (GLO), and their frequencies were reported. All the western European populations investigated, including those reported, exhibited an incidence of close to 44% for the GLO1 gene. The frequency distribution of the GLO1 gene in various populations from the Indian subcontinent, in contrast, was found to range between 0.15 and 0.33. These observations suggest that the European populations in general are genetically more homogeneous than are the populations of the Indian subcontinent.
227318: !lactoylglutathione Genetic diversity of Athabaskan Indians. If Athabaskan Indians are subdivided by linguistic group, a wide diversity in gene frequencies is disclosed. This diversity approximated that found when linguistically unrelated groups were compared. It was greater than that found for Eskimo-Aleus, even though the latter are more heterogeneous linguistically and subject to a wider variety of environmental conditions. Contiguity, geographic distance, and linguistic similarity were not reflected in similarity of gene frequencies. The gene found for Athabaskans appear to be the result of random process-survivor effects and genetic drift of small isolated groups. They appear to be of no value in detecting ethnic relationships.
36096: !lactoylglutathione alpha-Ketoaldehydes, specific catalysts for thiol formation from levamisole. 
447152: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I in studies of paternity cases in Poland. The distribution of glyoxalase I (GLO) types in cases of disputed paternity is reported. On the basis of 553 paternity cases, it is concluded that the GLO system is a valuable supplement to other systems of genetic markers in cases of disputed paternity. The theoretical probability of paternity exclusion in the GLO system, in the Polish population, is 18.6%.
420861: !lactoylglutathione Purification, characterization and kinetic studies of glyoxalase I from rat liver. 
420900: !lactoylglutathione Genetic markers for schizotaxia. Evidence is presented for the occurrence of a locus for schizotaxia on the short arm of chromosome 6. This derives from study of 63 informative members of seven pedigrees in which the proband and a parent (or a sib of parent) suffered with schizophrenia and other kin were either normal or fell within a spectrum of conditions related to schizophrenia. For linkage of HLA and schizotaxia a Lod score, 2.57, at recombination frequency 0.15 is reported, which gives p = 0.008. This is in contrast to data on 54 informative members of six pedigrees with atypical (schizo-affective or mixed) psychoses in two generations. Glyoxalase isoenzymes were of value in linkage analysis in two pedigrees. No evidence for linkage was found for any erythrocyte surface antigen nor for 15 other genetic markers. Details for each pedigree are provided.
443539: !lactoylglutathione Purification of glyoxalase I from human erythrocytes by the use of affinity chromatography and separation of the three isoenzymes. 
83539: !lactoylglutathione Effects of S-lactoylglutathione and inhibitors of glyoxalase I on histamine release from human leukocytes. 
761924: !lactoylglutathione Erythrocyte glyoxalase I polymorphism in several population groups in Israel. The genetic polymorphism of red blood cell glyoxalase I (GLO) has been investigated in 9 population groups in Israel: Ashkenazi Jews, non-Ashkenazi Jews from Iran, Iraq, Balkan, North Africa, Yemen, Turkey and Egypt as well as Arabs living in Israel. The distribution of GL01 and GLO2 genes in the 9 communities was not homogeneous (x2 = 14.48; d.f. = 8; p less than 0.0005). Jews from Iran were found to have the lowest GLO1 frequency (0.2294), while those from Egypt had the highest gene frequency (0.3968). The other investigated communities were shown to have intermediate values for this gene frequency. No significant difference has been found between Ashkenazi and non-Ashkenazi Jews (with the exception of those from Egypt) or Arabs living in Israel.
553818: !lactoylglutathione QSAR of the inhibition of glyoxalase by S-substituted glutathiones. A quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) has been formulated for the inhibition of glyoxalase I from yeast by 37 S-substituted glutathiones: log 1/C = 1.23 pi' + 1.20 MR4 - 0.67 I1 - 0.14 pi'2 + 1.85 C in this expression is the molar concentration of inhibitor producing 50% inhibition, pi' is the usual hydrophobic parameter modified for certain substituents, MR4 is the molar refractivity of certain p-phenyl substituents, and I1 is an indicator variable for those congeners with an acetylated alpha-amino group. This equation should be of help in the design of more effective inhibitors which may be of value in cancer chemotherapy.
511191: !lactoylglutathione HLA-GLO linkage analysis in 57 informative families. The HLA-GLO linkage relationship was investigated among 37 single backcross families with 97 children and 20 double intercross families with 51 children. For the total number of families the value Zmas = 14.600 for theta = 0.060 was found. A total of 11 cross-overs between HLA and GLO were found leading to a recombination fraction of 0.067. 221 unrelated haplotypes were examined for linkage disequilibrium between HLA and GLO, and no disequilibrium was found.
493110: !lactoylglutathione [Genetic polymorphism of erythrocytic enzymes in the Rennes area. Frequency of adenylate kinase, esterase D, adenosine deaminase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, glutamate-pyruvate transaminase and glyoxyalase I phenotypes]. Blood donors from the Centre Régional de Transfusion Sanguine de Rennes were investigated for the phenotypic distribution of seven enzymatic systems : adenylate kinase, adenosine deaminase, esterase D, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, glutamate-pyruvate transaminase, phosphoglucomutase, and glyoxalase I. Two unusual phenotypes were observed: phenotype 6-1 for adenosine deaminase and phenotype 3-1 for transaminase GPT. For five of these enzymes, the statistical analysis points out significant differences in one or several of the European populations described in the literature.
489026: !lactoylglutathione Human red cell glyoxalase I polymorphism in Denmark and its application to paternity cases. Phenotypes of glyoxalase I (GLO) were determined in 1220 unrelated adults from all parts of Denmark giving the gene frequencies GLO1 = 0.4311 and GLO2 = 0.5689. The segregation of phenotypes in 59 families and in 455 mother-child pairs was consistent with the assumed autosomal codominant inheritance. The results of an investigation of 379 parternity cases with respect to exclusions of non-fathers by means of the GLO system are reported, and the application of the GLO system to paternity cases is discussed.
489025: !lactoylglutathione Red cell glyoxalase I polymorphism in Italians. Report of a variant phenotype. The glyoxalase I polymorphism was studied in 1,490 unrelated subjects from three different areas of Italy (Milan, Rome and Naples). The following frequencies of GLO2 allele were observed: Milan 0.57, Rome 0.59, Naples 0.61, and a significant difference between Milan and Naples was found (p less than 0.02). An anomalous phenotype is also described which permits us to postulate a new allele producing an isozyme with low activity and electrophoretically slower than those corresponding to GLO1 and GLO2 alleles.
478555: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase 1: a possible 'null' allele. A three-generation family, ascertained through the presence of two diabetic sibs, provides segregation data suggestive of the existence of a null allele at the glyoxalase (GLO) locus. This conclusion is supported by the GLO 1 phenotype in two children from a GLO 2 father. These two children inherited the same paternal HLA allele, while two other sibs received GLO 2 with the other paternal HLA haplotype. The rest of the pedigree is in agreement with this suggestion, while the segregation of all other informative markers does not suggest nonpaternity.
478552: !lactoylglutathione Polymorphism of glyoxalase I in Vienna. Phenotype and gene frequencies of the GLO I polymorphism in Vienna are given. No exception to the postulated rule of inheritance could be found in 23 families with 51 children and 132 mother-child pairs. Linkage with the HLA system is confirmed, but no linkage disequilibrium between GLO alleles and HLA-A, B, C genes was detected. The use of the GLO I polymorphism in paternity cases is discussed.
161677: !lactoylglutathione Linkage relationship of C2 deficiency, HLA and glyoxalase I loci. Immunogenetic analysis of a homozygous C2-deficient individual and family members demonstrated linkage of HLA-A25, B18 and C2o. HLA-D typing showed that 5 members typed with homozygous Dw2 typing cells from an individual with C2 deficiency but not with Dw2 typing cells from 2 individuals with normal C2. The homozygous C2-deficient propositus and brother were HLA-A and B homozygous but heterozygous at the HLA-D and glyoxalase I loci. Therefore, in this family, the C2o gene is linked with two distinct haplotypes: HLA-A25, B18, Dw2, GLO1 and HLA-A25, B18, D unknown, GL02. These results could be explained by an ancestral recombinant event, which occurred between the C2o locus and HLA-D locus in which C2o segregated with HLA-B. This would suggest that the locus for the C2o gene maps between HLA-B and HLA-D on the sixth chromosome.
94203: !lactoylglutathione Separation of the isoenzymes of glyoxalase I from human red blood cells by electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing on polyacrylamide gel and by ion exchange chromatography. Methods have been devised for the separation of the isoenzymes of glyoxalase I(S-lactoylglutathione methylglyoxal-lyase (isomerizing), EC 4.4.1.5) from human red blood cells by electrophoresis and electrofocusing on polyacrylamide gel slabs. Three different staining methods were used for the location of the enzyme. Three electrophoretic phenotypes of the enzyme were resolved, the fast and slow types with one band and the intermediate type with three glyoxalase I activity bands. In gel electrofocusing (pH gradient 3.5-9.5) two glyoxalase I activity bands were found for all electrophoretic types. In electrofocusing on gel with a narrow pH gradient, at least four separate enzyme components were resolved for the fast and slow electrophoretic types and at least six components for the intermediate type. The phenotypes could be distinguished correspondingly to the electrophoretic results. Preparative separation of the isoenzymes were achieved by ion exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sephacel but gel chromatography on Sephadex G-100 gave the same elution volume for all enzyme phenotypes. This corresponds to an apparent molecular weight of about 47 000.
730184: !lactoylglutathione GLO polymorphism in two Polish population samples. The red cell GLO phenotypes were determined in two Polish population samples. A total of 1310 people from the region of Lublin (Southeastern Poland, n = 797) and Wrocław (Southwestern Poland, n = 513) were investigated. The gene frequencies were calculated for GLO1 (= 0.4427) and GLO2 (= 0.5573). The evaluation of 372 mother-child pairs showed no deviation from a hereditary hypothesis.
730170: !lactoylglutathione Mapping of the linkage group GLO--Bf--HLA-B,C,A--PGM3. 2. Segregation analysis. Segregation analysis of informative families for chromosome 6 markers confirmed the map order GLO--Bf--HLA-(B, C)--HLA-A, and, surprisingly, implies that PGM3 is more probably located on the HLA-A than on the HLA-B side of the linkage group. Therefore the map position of PGM3 should be reconsidered, i.e., more informative families should be tested for all the relevant marker loci available.
730169: !lactoylglutathione Mapping of the linkage group GLO--Bf--HLA-B,C,A--PGM3. 1. Recombination frequencies. This study confirms close linkage for the GLO--Bf--HLA-B,C,A complex, and proves linkage between the MHC loci and PGM3. For GLO--PGM3 and Bf--PGM3, respectively, loose linkage seems to be likely, and close linkage can be excluded. Our mapping data on chromosome 6 favor the hypothesis that the PGM3 locus is situated on the HLA-A side of the MHC complex. Yet fine-structure mapping should be confirmed only by segregation analyses in crossover families by testing simultaneously all of the relevant marker loci within uniform family material.
692595: !lactoylglutathione Genetic mapping of the 21-hydroxylase-deficiency gene within the HLA linkage group. To document further the proposed genetic linkage between congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency and HLA, 34 unrelated families from New York and Zurich, with a total of 48 patients, 48 siblings and their parents, were studied. All patients were HLA genotypically different from the healthy sibs; when two or more children were affected in the same sibship they were always HLA-B identical. The gene for 21-hydroxylase deficiency was separated by genetic recombination from the HLA-A locus and from the locus for glyoxalase I-polymorphism. No HLA-A, HLA-B or HLA-C antigen was selectively increased among the 34 unrelated patients. Lod-score analysis for HLA-B:21-hydroxylase deficiency gave a peak for theta approximately 0.00 at 5.20 for females and 4.30 for males, giving a total peak lod score of 9.5 at theta approximately 0.00 when male and female lod scores were combined. Close genetic linkage between HLA-B and 21-hydroxylase deficiency was thus established.
83027: !lactoylglutathione A haplotype study of HLA complex with special reference to the HLA-DR series and to Bf. C2 and glyoxalase I polymorphisms. Fifty-three French families were typed for alleles at seven loci of the HLA complex (HLA-A, -B, -C, -DR, -Bf, -C2 and -GLO) and 212 haplotypes were demonstrated. Eleven recombinations were observed (two A/B, two A/C, two B/Bf, one Bf/D and four D/GLO). The linkage disequilibrium was calculated not only between two alleles (delta) but between three, four...seven alleles (D). In order to compare the intensity of D values in the various haplotypes, the influence of the differences in gene frequencies was eliminated by the introduction of the standardized Ds (Ds = D/D max). The number of haplotypes in disequilibrium is relatively limited since most of the significant Ds involved about 17 haplotypes. For some haplotypes, the disequilibrium covered the whole distance from A to GLO but the stronger disequilibrium concerns the C to Bf or C to DR segment. Three hypotheses (isolation, admixture of population and selection) concerning the formation and maintenance of the disequilibria are discussed.
732016: !lactoylglutathione Red cell glyoxalase I and placental soluble aconitase polymorphisms in the three major ethnic groups of Malaysia. 
690442: !lactoylglutathione Concanavalin A increases glyoxalase enzyme activities in polymorphonuclear leukocytes and lymphocytes. Glyoxalase I converts methylglyoxal and glutathione to S-lactoylglutathione and glyoxalase II converts this compound to D-lactic acid, regenerating glutathione in the process. A recent study from my laboratory has provided evidence that S-lactoylglutathione modulates microtubule assembly in vitro whereas concanavalin A (Con A) has been shown to increase microtubule occurrence in polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN). The present report describes the dose-dependent activation by Con A of both glyoxalase I and II in PMN and lymphocytes. In nine experiments with PMN, Con A (100 microgram/ml) increased glyoxalase I and II activities by 19 +/- 8% and 12 +/- 10% (mean +/- S.D.). In 17 experiments with lymphocytes, activation of the two enzymes by 10 microgram/ml Con A was 30 +/- 14% and 28 +/- 8%. Changes occurred after a 1-min incubation with Con A and persisted for at least 60 min. Since both enzyme activities are increased it is not clear if S-lactoylglutathione levels are increased or decreased but presumably they change. The present findings are compatible with the hypothesis that Con A increases microtubule occurrence in PMN by affecting the glyoxalase enzymes. They also represent a newly described early biochemical change caused by Con A in lymphocytes.
697868: !lactoylglutathione Two affinity chromatography methods for the purification of glyoxalase I from rabbit liver. 
709808: !lactoylglutathione Searches for clinically exploitable biochemical differences between normal and cancer cells: glyoxalase system in malignancy and its relation to cellular proliferation. 
569476: !lactoylglutathione Assignment of the gene for glyoxylase I to mouse chromosome 17 by somatic cell genetics. Evidence is presented for the assignment of the gene for glyoxylase I to mouse chromosome 17 using mouse X Chinese hamster somatic cell hybrids. GLO I was not expressed concordantly with any known marker enzymes which represented 11 linkage groups. The presence of chromosome 17 and expression of GLO I were concordant in 31/31 clones. GLO I is thus linked to the H-2 histocompatibility locus in the mouse.
685499: !lactoylglutathione [About the polymorphisms of esterase D and glyoxalase I and their forensic application (author's transl)]. Phenotypes of esterase D and glyoxalase I were determined electrophoretically in samples from Northern Germany. Gene frequencies: EsD1 = 0,889 (n = 1430), GLO1 = 0,415 (n = 865). The data of 295 (EsD) and 153 (GLO) mother/child combinations were in full accordance with the genetic model of two codominant alleles at an autosomal locus. Esterase D typing has proved successful in bloodstains up to three weeks old. The forensic scope of serological systems is discussed intensively. According to our own data and the results presented in the literature esterase D and glyoxalase I have proved to be useful additional markers for use in cases of disputed paternity.
669712: !lactoylglutathione Evidence for a 'silent allele' GLO0 at the glyoxalase I locus. In a three-generation family, the segregation of an apparent silent allele at the GLO I locus in association with the rare HLA haplotype 'AW30-CW4-BW35' was observed in four members. In two cases the assumption of homozygosity at the GLO locus would lead to mother-child exclusions. Phenotypically, the GLO activity in the GLO0 carriers is clearly diminished.
691835: !lactoylglutathione Red cell glyoxalase I polymorphism in Japanese: confirmation of a low GLO frequency. 
352355: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I, a zinc metalloenzyme of mammals and yeast. 
646113: !lactoylglutathione A convenient quantitative synthesis of methylglyoxal for glyoxalase I assays. 
566476: !lactoylglutathione Assignment of a Mus musculus gene for triosephosphate isomerase to chromosome 6 and for glyoxalase-I to chromosome 17 using somatic cell hybrids. Chinese hamster X mouse hybrid cells segregating mouse chromosomes have been used to assign a gene for triosephosphate isomerase (TPI-1, EC 5.3.1.1, McKusick No. 19045) to mouse chromosome 6, and a gene for Glyoxalase-I (GLO-1, EC 4.4.1.5, McKusick No 13875) to mouse chromosome 17. The genes for TPI-1 and lactate dehydrogenase B are syntenic in man and probably so in the dog. It is therefore likely that they are syntenic also in the mouse. It is of interest then that there is a mouse gene, Ldr-1, on chromosome 6 that regulates the level of LDH B subunits in mouse erythrocytes. The locus for GLO-1 is closely linked to the major histocompatibility complex in man. Since the major histocompatibility complex in the mouse is present on chromosome 17, this locus and the Glo-1 locus are syntenic in the mouse as well. This finding adds to the number of autosomal gene pairs which are syntenic in both mouse and man and reinforces the belief that there is considerable conservation. of linkage groups during evolution.
340274: !lactoylglutathione Subunit structure of glyoxalase I from yeast. 
752515: !lactoylglutathione Lods and some phase-known information for chromosome 6 loci GLO, Ch, and HLA-A, -B, and -D. 
749767: !lactoylglutathione GLO polymorphism in Polish population. The determination of GLO types was carried out using two methods: on high voltage agarose gel and cellulose acetate foil. In the sample of the Polish population including 201 persons, three GLO types were encountered with the following frequencies: GLO 1-1 0.2438, GLO 2-1 0.4477, GLO 2-2 0.3035. Frequencies of GLO1 gene was 0.4726, GLO2 0.5724.
738511: !lactoylglutathione A re-evaluation of studies on the distribution of glyoxalases in animal and tumour tissues. 
735928: !lactoylglutathione Genetic linkage and spinocerebellar ataxia. 
692805: !lactoylglutathione Further studies on liver glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II. Activity in mice bearing sarcoma 180 and L1210 leukemia. Determinations were made of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II acitivity in the liver of mice (BDF1 and DBA2 strains) bearing sarcoma 180 and L1210 leukemia in ascites form. A progressive decrease in the both glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II activities to about 40--60% of that of the control groups was observed within the developing period 8--9 days. Test results are interpreted in the light of the postulated role of this enzyme system in cell division and in the tumor development process.
680704: !lactoylglutathione GLO I and Bf phenotype distribution in a West German population sample. GLO I phenotypes were determined in 1,075 unrelated West German individuals by starch gel electrophoresis. Gene frequencies were 0.4512 for GLO1 and 0.5488 for GLO2. Association studies between GLO I and Bf in 985 individuals of which Bf phenotypes were known from previous reports gave no significant evidence for close association between the two systems.
680701: !lactoylglutathione Linkage of glyoxalase I and HLA in two Newfoundland communities. Family studies in Newfoundland confirm linkage between the glyoxalase I locus and HLA. The combined data gives a map distance of 4.54 centimorgans between the HLA B locus and glyoxalase I.
649180: !lactoylglutathione Human red glyoxalase I polymorphism in the Swiss population: phenotype frequencies and a simplified technique. 
626478: !lactoylglutathione Polymorphism of red cell enzymes in Alaskan ethnic groups. 1. Gene frequencies of esterase D, glyoxalase I and uridine monophosphate kinase in Alaskan populations were determined. 2. Improved methods for demonstrating phenotypes of glyoxalase I and uridine monophosphate kinase are presented. 3. Rare variants of adenylate kinase (AK1) and diaphorase (DIA) were found. One of the AK1 variants is new. 4. Gene frequencies were notably diverse within major ethnic groups. This variability was consistent with a population structure composed of small groups that were relatively isolated from one another.
259500: !lactoylglutathione Methylglyoxal production in human blood. The research of Szent-Györgyi and others has suggested that the three-carbon ketoaldehyde methylglyoxal has a potential role in the control of cell growth. Its metabolism to D-lactate (not the L-lactate of glycolysis) is catalysed by the mammalian enzymes glyoxalase I (S-lactoyl-glutathione methylglyoxal-lyase, isomerizing; EC 4.4.1.5) and glyoxalase II (S-2-hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase; 3.1.2.6), with glutathione as a coenzyme. Direct determination of methylglyoxal in biological tissues is difficult because of the active glyoxalase system. However, the product of the glyoxalase system, D-lactate, should indicate formed or added methylglyoxal. A stereospecific assay was used to measure D-lactate in human plasma; it involved the spectrophotometric analysis of NADH at 340 nm catalysed by D-lactate dehydrogenase (D-lactate:NAD+ oxidoreductase; EC 1.1.1.28) from Lactobacillus leichmannii. Blood collected by venepuncture was used for the determination of the plasma concentration of D-lactate. The mean concentration for seven normal subjects was 0.023 mM +/- 0.002 S.E.M. When the glycolytic pathway in whole blood was inhibited in vitro with fluoride, a significant increase in D-lactate was found (about 0.15 mM/hour at 37 degrees C). Added methylglyoxal also produced an increase in D-lactate formation. Some specific precursors of L-lactate (dihydroxyacetone phosphate, for example) added to whole blood produced an increased concentration of D-lactate, even when glycolysis was not inhibited. This finding indicates that catabolites of glucose lead to methylglyoxal synthesis and suggest a control function for the glyoxalase enzyme system in glycolysis that could be exploited for cancer therapy.
259497: !lactoylglutathione Thermal copoly(amino acids) as inhibitors of glyoxalase I. A number of copoly(alpha-amino acids) have been prepared thermally; some have been found to function as inhibitors of glyoxalase I, an enzyme which occupies a central position in Szent-Györgyi's theory of tumour genesis. These polymers are also of interest in the search for synthetic peptides having carcinostatic activity, since many natural peptides are active. The way in which the inhibitory activity varies with composition of the synthetic polymers has been investigated. Various properties (hydrophobicity, molecular weight, u.v. absorption, kinetic type) have been examined in a search for correlates of inhibitory activity. The relationship to the origin of enzyme control mechanisms is discussed.
598837: !lactoylglutathione On the population genetics of the red cell glyoxalase I (GLO). The GLO phenotype distribution was studied in the population from the Rostock area (n = 233). The gene frequencies of GLO alleles were estimated to be GLO1 = 0.4249, GLO2 = 0.5751. The electrophoretic separation was achieved on horizontal starch gel.
921946: !lactoylglutathione Comparative kinetics of Mg2+-, Mn2+-, Co2+-, and Ni2+-activated glyoxalase I. Evaluation of the role of the metal ion. 
612703: !lactoylglutathione Enzyme inhibitors in relation to cancer therapy. In the last 11 years the authors have succeeded in isolating nearly 40 enzyme inhibitors of small molecular size from microbial origins. These inhibitors proved to be not only useful tools in analyses of homeostasis of living organisms but also promising agents for cancer chemotherapy. Leupeptin was originally isolated as an inhibitor against serine or thiol proteases such as trypsin, plasmin, papain and cathepsin B. And soon it was demonstrated that leupeptin suppressed chemical carcinogenesis in rats. Pepstatin has an extremely strong activity to inhibit pepsin and cathepsin D. It also inhibits ascites accumulation caused by neoplastic diseases. Bestatin is a specific inhibitor against aminopeptidase B and leucine aminopeptidase. The enzymes are located on the surface membrane in various kinds of cells including lymphocytes. Bestatin was shown to enhance not only blastogenesis of lymphocytes in vitro but also establishment of delayed-type hypersensitivity in vivo. Combined use of bestatin and other antitumor agents gave promising results in animal experiments. Studies on enzyme inhibitors have provided us a new approach to cancer chemotherapy.
924447: !lactoylglutathione Polymorphism of red cell glyoxalase 1. With special reference to South and Southeast Asia and Oceania. Glyoxalase polymorphism has been studied in 7296 persons from populations in South Asia, Southeast Asia, Oceania, Iran and Colombia. The GLO frequencies are very low in most of Oceania, including Australia, somewhat higher in Southeast Asia, and intermediate though variable in India. In Iran the GLO frequency is similar to that in Europe. The value for the single amerindian group in Colombia is nearly 30%.
910130: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I polymorphism in the mouse: a new genetic marker linked to H-2. Two electrophoretically distinct variants of glyoxalase I (Glo-I) are present in mouse (Mus musculus). The two forms are controlled by two codominant alleles Glo-1a (common) and Glo-1b (rare) at an autosomal locus. A linkage study showed that Glo-1 maps at approximately 3 centimorgans from the Ss locus of the H-2 histocompatibility region. A similar linkage relationship exists in man between GLO and HLA, the human homolog of the H-2 gene complex. Thus, the chromosomal segment evolutionarily preserved in the two species is longer than previously suspected, and it includes genes with no obvious functional relation to the other components of the major histocompatibility complex. Several features of the Glo-1 polymorphism in the mouse recommend it as a marker of choice for the H-2 region.
903914: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis and evaluation of alpha-hydroxythiol esters as antitumor agents and glyoxalase I inhibitors. Synthesis of a series of alpha-hydroxythiol esters made available, for the first time, product-like molecules that were evaluated as inhibitors of the enzyme glyoxalase I and as potential antitumor agents. All the alpha-hydroxythiol esters tested were competitive inhibitors of the enzyme, albeit weak; however, the relative [I]50 values suggested information about the active site. Antileukemic activity in L1210 lymphoid leukemia indicated no significant activity by these alpha-hydroxythiol esters.
210870: !lactoylglutathione Red cell uridine monophosphate kinase (UMPK) and glyoxalase I (GLO) polymorphisms in a Japanese population: with a description of the new phenotype UMPK 4--1. 
199399: !lactoylglutathione Systems analysis in enzyme kinetics. 
908570: !lactoylglutathione No evidence for linkage disequilibrium between Bf and GLO in African negroids. A sample of South African Negroids (n = 791) was scored for each individual's Bf and GLO phenotype. (The genes for the Bf and GLO olymorphisms are included in a known cluster of linked genes on chromosome 6.) Following a x2-test the respective two series of alleles were found to be disturbed at random, i.e., there was no evidence for a linkage disequilibrium. This result is discussed in terms of the linkage relationships and map distances of the genetic markers involved.
908569: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I polymorphism in South African Bantu-speaking negroids. The newly described genetic polymorphism of glyoxalase I (GLO) is studied in seven ethnically defined Negroid samples from South Africa (total: n = 843). The allele frequencies between the different Negroid samples studied vary only marginally. However, the allele frequency of GLO1 for the South African Negroid samples combined (i.e., p = 0.259), is highly significantly lower than that for Caucasoid samples.
921763: !lactoylglutathione Characterization of glyoxalase I purified from pig erythrocytes by affinity chromatography. Glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) was purified about 10000-fold from pig erythrocytes in a yield of approx. 20%. The purification included affinity chromatography on S-hexylglutathione coupled to Sepharose 4B. The purified enzyme normally contained two catalytically active components which were resolved by polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. After treatment with reduced glutathione only one component was found. The two components were also demonstrable after isoelectric focusing or DEAE-cellulose chromatography and could also in these cases be fused into one species by preincubation with reduced glutathione. It is proposed that the most acidic form of glyoxalase I is a mixed disulphide with glutathione. Except for these interconvertible forms, the purified enzyme was homogeneous, as judged by disc electrophoresis and sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamidegel electrophoresis. The molecule is a dimer (48000 daltons), composed of apparently identical subunits (24000 daltons). The isoelectric point was 4.8 at 4 degrees C. The amino acid composition was consistent with the low isoelectric point. The enzyme contained about two thiol groups per enzyme molecule. EDTA inactivated the enzyme and bivalent metal ions could restore fully or partially the catalytic activity; Mg(2+) and Mn(2+) gave highest activity. It is proposed that a major biological function of glyoxalase I is the detoxification of methylglyoxal formed by enterobacteria in the alimentary canal.
409660: !lactoylglutathione Investigations on the polymorphism of glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) in the population of Hessen, Germany. The phenotypes of glyoxalase I (GLO) were determined in a random population from Hessen (Germany) by high-voltage agarose gel electrophoresis. The gene frequencies in 1150 unrelated individuals were 0.4391 for GLO1 and 0.5609 fro GLO2. Rare phenotypes were not observed. The segregation of phenotypes in 50 families and 32 mother-child combinations supports the assumed autosomal codominant inheritance. The possibility of a simultaneous typing for GLO, esterase D (EsD), and carbonic anhydrase2 (CA2) on one gel is discussed.
880305: !lactoylglutathione A two-step purification of mouse liver glyoxalase I and evidence of its dimeric constitution. Glyoxalase I (S-lactoyl-glutathione methylglyoxal-lyase (isomerizing), EC 4.4.1.5) was purified from Swiss mouse liver to homogeneity by a rapid, two-step procedure involving hydrophobic and affinity chromatography. Homogeneity was established by multiple electrophoretic determinations and by sedimentation equilibrium centrifugation. The purified enzyme exhibited a specific activity of 944 I.U./mg protein an has a molecular weight of 43 000. The enzyme was shown to be a dimer by sodium dodecyl sulfate disc gel electrophoresis and is apparently composed of identical subunits of molecular weights approximating 21 500.
268635: !lactoylglutathione The living state and cancer. Complex living structures developed on our globe after the appearance of light and oxygen. In functions of these structures, solid state phenomena play a major role. The structural proteins were made into radicals by doping, the covalent incorporation of electron acceptors. This lent mobility to their electrons and a subtle reactivity to their molecules. Cancer is unable to go into the radical state.
141008: !lactoylglutathione Inheritance of recombinant HLA-GLO haplotype suggesting the gene sequence. 
138091: !lactoylglutathione Linkage between the gene (or genes) controlling synthesis of the fourth component of complement and the major histocompatibility complex. In an attempt to map the gene (or genes) controlling the synthesis fo the fourth component of complement (C4), we performed linkage studies in a family with hereditary C4 deficiency. The proband, a seven-year-old boy with lupus erythematosus, consistently lacked deteftable serum C4 by both functional and protein measurements. The complement defect was transmitted as an autosomal recessive disorder. Eight of 15 family members were considered to be heterozygotes, seven because of low C4 levels and one because of genetic data (obligate heterozygote). The gene (or genes) coding for C4 deficiency appeared to be linked to the major histocompatibility complex (A2,B12,DW2 on the maternal side and A2,BW15,LD108 on the paternal side) and to other markers known to be in close proximity to the histocompatibility complex on chromosome 6 (phosphoglucomutase-3, glyoxalase-1 and properdin factor B).
66916: !lactoylglutathione Human red cell glyoxalase I polymorphism. Human erythrocyte glyoxalase I has been subjected to starch gel electrophoresis, and its isoenzymatic forms have been visualized by a new positive staining procedure. The enzyme exhibits polymorphism and holds promise as a useful new genetic marker.
848131: !lactoylglutathione Population genetics of glyoxalase I (E.C.4.4.1.5) in human erythrocytes. 1025 individuals from Southern Germany were examined. The gene frequencies for GLI1 are 0.4235 and for GLI2 0.5765. These frequencies are compared with those of other authors.
833829: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis and kinetic evaluation of S- and N-substituted cysteinylglycines as inhibitors of glyoxalase I. Eight S- and N-substituted L-cysteinylglycines were prepared by condensation of S-benzyl-L-cysteinylglycine or S-(p-bromobenzyl)-L-cysteinylglycine with glutaric anhydride, succinic anhydride, or the appropriately blocked and activated amino acids. In contrast to the previously prepared S-substituted glutathiones, all of the title compounds exhibited noncompetitive inhibition of yeast glyoxalase I. A kinetic evaluation under Yonetani-Thorell conditions established the existence of two binding sites on the glyoxalase I enzyme.
615128: !lactoylglutathione Experimental urolithiasis : Part II--a comparative kinetic study of glyoxalase I, glycolate oxidase, alkaline phosphatase & lactate dehydrogenase in the normal rat kidney & bladder & its alterations in urolithiasis. 
598251: !lactoylglutathione Assignment of the gene for glyoxalase I to region p21 leads to pter of human chromosome 6. Using somatic cell hybrids between TK-deficient mouse cells and white blood cells derived from a patient with a translocation of the region p21 leads to pter of chromosome 17, we have assigned the gene for human GLO, to region p21 leads to pter of chromosome 6. Since the HLA region is only 10 cM distant from GLO, these results also confirm that the HLA region is located on the short arm of human chromosome 6.
198262: !lactoylglutathione Glutathione-dependent enzymes with regulatory properties. 
991975: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis of S-lactoyl-glutathione using glyoxalase I bound to sepharose 4B. Glyoxalase I bound to Sepharose 4B was used for synthesis of S-lactoyl-glutathione. The bound enzyme does not lose its activity during several months storing and can be used many times for synthesis of S-lactoyl-glutathione. This reaction product can be used as a substrate for glyoxalase II without any further purification.
977876: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase I enzyme studies. 2. Nuclear magnetic resonance evidence for an enediol-proton transfer mechanism. 
1015713: !lactoylglutathione Investigations of red cell glyoxalase in recombinant families. The polymorphism of the red cell glyoxalase (GLO), which has recently been found to be linked with the major histocompatibility complex (HLA) in man, was investigated in a number of selected families showing various recombinations between HLA-A, HLA-B and the third locus of the phosphoglucomutase (PGM3). In two families with a recombination between HLA-A and HLA-B, the GLO allele travels with the HLA-B locus fragment of the chromosome, indicating that GLO is located on the side of the HLA-B locus. In other families, recombinations occurred between HLA-A and B on one side and GLO and PGM3 on the other side, demonstrating that GLO and PGM3 are located on the same side of HLA. Other recombinations separated PGM3 from GLO so that it can be assumed that GLO is located between HLA-B and PGM3. Thus the immunogenetic linkage group on human chromosome C6 has been increased by yet another outside marker gene to include now the following genes in this order: HLA-A--HLA-C--HLA-B--Bf--HLA-D--GLO--PGM3.
953039: !lactoylglutathione Purification and kinetic study of glyoxalase-I from rat liver, erythrocytes, brain and kidney. Glyoxalase-I (S-lactoyl-glutathione methylglyoxal-lyase (isomerizing), EC 4.4.1.5) was purified from rat liver, erythrocytes, brain and kidney using two different purification procedures. The similarities of the purification profiles, electrophoretic mobilities and kinetics suggest that a single major form of the enzyme exists in these tissues. The highest purification (9300-fold) of the erythrocyte enzyme gave nearly homogeneous protein, molecular weight 50 000, specific activity 2410 mumol/min per mg. Kinetic studies of the rat glyoxalase-I-catalyzed disproportionation of the hemimercaptals of GSH and aromatic or aliphatic alpha-ketoaldehydes revealed broad substrate specificity with V and Km values quite insensitive to the nature of the alpha-ketoaldehydes. Use of deuterated analogs of the alpha-ketoaldhydes methylglyoxal and phenylglyoxal showed that the intramolecular hydride migration is the rate-determining step.
965004: !lactoylglutathione Rapid detection of glyoxalase I (GLO) on cellulose acetate gel and the distribution of GLO variants in a Dutch population. A rapid electrophoretic procedure is described for detecting the human red cell glyoxalase I variants (GLO 1, GLO 2-1, and GLO 2) on cellulose acetate gel (cellogel) on which the sites of enzymed activity are visualized as purple bands against white background. The frequency of GLO1 gene in a Dutch population living in and around Leiden was found to be 0.4544.
958125: !lactoylglutathione [Demonstration of glyoxalase I (EC 4.4.1.5) in starch gel electrophoresis]. 
939550: !lactoylglutathione Localization of the human GLO gene locus. Data on the linkage relation between the GLO locus and the HLA, Bf, and PGM3 loci are presented. The family material includes 49 GLO/HLA-B (and/or Bf) segregating matings with 134 children informative on 199 parental meioses. Of phase-known meioses, 3 are recombinants and 75 nonrecombinants; linkage is therefore proven. From the total material a distance of 2.5 cM between GLO and HLA-B/Bf is calculated; and from the segregation in some informative family groups it is shown that GLO is situated between PGM3 and HLA-B/Bf.
1270077: !lactoylglutathione Confirmation of linkage between the loci for HL-A and glyoxalase I. Linkage analysis of 7 families with 30 children confirmed previous findings of the linkage between HL-A and GLO. Out of 28 families with 90 children the highest lod score value obtained was + 8.887 (recombination fraction = 0.1).
59405: !lactoylglutathione Linkage of GLO with HLA and Bf. Effect of population and sex on recombination frequency. Further data on the linkage relationships of red cell glyoxalase I(GLO) with HLA and Bf are reported. The most likely order of loci is GLO: Bf: HLA-B: HLA-A. No sex difference in the frequency of recombination between GLO and HLA was noted, but recombination was more frequent for both males and females in the American black population than in the white population.
986362: !lactoylglutathione Possible assignment of the glyoxalase I (GLO) gene to chromosome 6 using man-mouse somatic cell hybrids. A correlation between the expression or absence of human glyoxalase I and chromosome 6 (as well its markers ME1, IPO-B, and PGM3) was observed in man-mouse somatic cell hybrids. This segregation pattern indicates that the GLO gene is situated on chromosome 6.
933064: !lactoylglutathione Proceedings: Human erythrocyte glyoxalase I polymorphism. 
1248833: !lactoylglutathione Possible linkage of HL-A and GLO. In 21 informative families with 60 children, a possible linkage between HL-A and GLO was found (recombination fraction approximatively 0.15). The sequence of the loci on chromosome 6 might be GLO, HL-A, PGM3, MNSs.
1107341: !lactoylglutathione The separation of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II by paper electrophoresis. 
1024659: !lactoylglutathione Assignment of the genes for human glyoxalase I to chromosome 6 and for human esterase D to chromosome 13. 
1024642: !lactoylglutathione Genetic linkage of a locus for erythrocyte glyoxalase (GLO) with HLA and Bf. 
1024634: !lactoylglutathione The locus for glyoxalase I (GLO) is between HLA-A and PGM3 on chromosome 6 of man. 
1024632: !lactoylglutathione A genetic linkage analysis of chromosome 6 markers Chido, HLA, and glyoxalase. 
1024631: !lactoylglutathione Gene linkage studies on glyoxalase I. 
1010527: !lactoylglutathione GLO polymorphism in Norway. GLO phenotype distribution and GLO allele frequencies in samples of the Norwegian population and the Lappish minority of Norway are presented. The GLO frequency is 0.442 in 216 Norwegians, while it is 0.304 in 184 Lapps; the difference is statistically significant. There are furthermore probably differences in gene frequencies between two main groups of Lapps.
975931: !lactoylglutathione Assignment of the genes for human glyoxalase I to chromosome 6 and for human esterase D to chromosome 13. 
975909: !lactoylglutathione Genetic linkage of a locus for erythrocyte glyoxalase (GLO) with HLA and Bf. 
975902: !lactoylglutathione The locus for glyoxalase i (GLO) is between HLA-A and PGM3 on chromosome 6 of man. 
975899: !lactoylglutathione A genetic linkage analysis of chromosome 6 markers Chido, HLA, and glyoxalase. 
975897: !lactoylglutathione Gene linkage studies on glyoxalase I. 
784919: !lactoylglutathione Effect of reductones on glyoxalase I1. The effect of some reductones on glyoxalase I prepared from animal and microbial origins has been studied. The enzyme was extracted from ox liver or baker's yeast and partially purified by ammonium sulfate fractionation, gel filtration and ion exchange chromatography. Aliphatic reductones such as ascorbic acid, ascorbic acid 3-phosphate and triose reductone showed strong to medium inhibition, while dehydroascorbic acid showed no inhibition. Kinetic analysis indicated that the inhibition mechanism of ascorbic acid was uncompetitive. Varying extents of inhibition were observed among three kinds of diphenols belonging to aromatic reductones. They were in the order of increasing inhibitory power resorcinol, hydroquinone and catechol for the ox liver enzyme, and catechol, resorcinol and hydroquinone for the yeast enzyme. p-Benzoquinone, an oxidized reductone, exhibited marked inhibition on both enzymes. Its action seemed due to reaction with amino and/or sulfhydryl functions of enzyme protein and those of glutathione, one of the substrates.
13046: !lactoylglutathione Glutathione metabolism and some possible functions of glutathione in the nervous system. 
1227975: !lactoylglutathione Erythrocyte glyoxalase 1 polymorphism in an African and English population. 
1190480: !lactoylglutathione Spectrophotometric determination of methyl glyoxal with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine. 
1192606: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase enzyme system in human muscular dystrophy. Glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II activities were determined in skeletal muscle of control subjects and of patients with Duchenne dystrophy, other major forms of muscular dystrophies and certain neuromuscular disorders. The glyoxalase I activity was normal in all diseases examined except in Duchenne and limb girdle types of muscular dystrophy, where it showed a significant moderate decrease. The glyoxalase II activity in normal human muscle was very low, and the activity was unaltered in muscle of patients with Duchenne and other major forms of muscular dystrophies and spinal muscular atrophy. The selective decrease of glyoxalase I activity in recessively inherited muscular dystrophies may have some relevance to some phases of these disease processes.
1100829: !lactoylglutathione Growth inhibitory properties of aromatic alpha-ketoaldehydes toward bacteria and yeast. Comparison of inhibition and glyoxalase I activity. The alpha-ketoaldehydes methylglyoxal and substituted phenylglyoxals are similar in their abilities to inhibit the growth of Escherichia coli and yeast. When logarithmically growing cells are added to media containing 0.3-1 mM alpha-ketoaldehyde, growth stops for several hours, after which normal growth resumes. The period of growth inhibition does not appear to show any correlation with the ability of glyoxalase I to detoxify these alpha-ketoaldehydes. E. coli and yeast glyoxalase I show markedly different substrate specificities. For example, although both enzymes show broad specificity for both aliphatic and aromatic alpha-ketoaldehydes, 2,4,6-trimethylphenylglyoxal is a substrate for the E. coli enzyme but not for the yeast enzyme. Nevertheless, this alpha-ketoaldehyde inhibits the growth of both E. coli and yeast, similar to the other alpha-ketoaldehydes. Enzymes other than glyoxalase I must play a major role in the metabolism of these alpha-ketoaldehydes during the period of growth inhibition.
1184466: !lactoylglutathione The structure of a glyoxalase I inhibitor and its chemical reactivity with SH-compounds. The structure of a glyoxalase I inhibitor (I), isolated from a cultured broth of Streptomyces griseosporeus, was found to be 2-crotonyloxymethyl-4,5,6-trihydroxy-cyclohex-2-enone by chemical studies. Stereochemistry and absolute configuration were determined to be 4R, 5R and 6R by X-ray crystallographic analysis of a bromine-containing crystalline derivative. The crotonyloxy group of I shows a surprising proclivity to be displaced by SH-compounds. This property is shown to be the basis for its biological activity.
1102510: !lactoylglutathione A glyoxalase I inhibitor of a new structural type produced by Streptomyces. Many streptomyces strains produced an inhibitor of crude glyoxalase prepared from rat liver which did not inhibit glyoxalase I prepared from yeast. Another inhibitor, C11H14O6, which inhibited glyoxalases prepared from both rat liver and yeast was obtained from a cultured broth of Streptomyces griseosproeus and crystallized. Preincubation of this inhibitor with reuduced glutathione increased its inhibitory activity, which suggested its reaction with reduced glutathione. It showed a strong inhibition of growth of HeLa cells and inhibition of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma by daily injection. It also showed weak inhibition of the solid type of Ehrlich carcinoma and prolonged the survival period of mice inoculated with L-1210 cells.
543: !lactoylglutathione [Glutathione (author's transl)]. Glutathione plays an important role in biology and medicine. Most cells of plants and animals contain high concentrations of reduced glutathione and a much smaller amount of oxidised glutathione. GSH is important for several metabolic functions of live cells, e.g. the protection of oxidative stress by peroxides, mediation of enzyme reactions, regulation of metabolic events, transport of amino acids across cell membranes via the gamma-glutamyl cycle, elimination of foreign compounds by GSH-conjugation, release of neurotransmitter substances. Irreversible perturbations of the glutathione metabolism may be the reason for severe clinical symptoms of hemolytic anemia or, perhaps, of central nervous disease.
240387: !lactoylglutathione Effects of pH and thiols on the kinetics of yeast glyoxalase I. An evaluation of the random pathway mechanism. The disproportionation of alpha-ketoaldehydes, catalyzed by yeast glyoxalase I, has been reported to involve a random pathway mechanism where one branch utilizes the hemimercaptal of glutathione and the alpha-ketoaldehyde in a one-substrate pathway, and the other branch utilizes first glutathione and then the alpha-ketoaldehyde in an ordered two-substrate pathway. The relative importance of the two pathways has been evaluated at 5 degrees in the pH range 3-7, using methylglyoxal and phenylglyoxal as representative aliphatic and aromatic alpha-ketoaldehydes, by comparing initial rates of hemimercaptal formation in the absence of enzyme with initial rates of product formation in the presence of high enzyme concentrations. If the enzyme is not added last, the initial rates of product formation are the same as the initial rates of adduct formation even under conditions where it could be shown that dehydration of the hydrated alpha-ketoaldehyde is not entirely rate determining. If the enzyme is added after hemimercaptal formation, there is a "burst" of product formation equivalent to the amount of hemimercaptal, followed by a slower reaction, consistent with the one-substrate pathway. Additional support for this pathway was obtained from a study of the effects of added thiol reagents on the "burst" kinetics. The broad specificity of yeast glyoxalase I for both aliphatic and aromatic alpha-ketoaldehydes, reflected in Vmax values which are insensitive to the nature of the alpha-ketoaldehyde drops abruptly if the side chain of the alpha-ketoaldehyde is sterically crowded. The hemimercaptal of tert-butylglyoxal has a Vmax 300-fold smaller than Vmax for methylglyoxal; 2,4,6-trimethylphenylglyoxal is essentially inactive as a substrate even though the closely related compound 2,4-dimethylphenylglyoxal is a normal substrate. Analysis of the Vmax and Km (or Ki) values of these alpha-ketoaldehydes suggests that sterically crowded side chains affect both enzyme-substrate formation and the catalytic reaction.
1150284: !lactoylglutathione Red cell glyoxalase i (E.C.: 4.4.1.5): formal genetics and linkage relations. The segregation of GLO-phenotypes was analysed in 119 families with 266 children. The results are in agreement with the formal two-allele-model. Close linkage was ruled out for a number of informative markers.
1150273: !lactoylglutathione Population genetics of red cell glyoxalase I (E.C.:4.4.1.5): Gene frequencies in southwestern Germany. The polymorphism of Glyoxalase I was investigated in a population sample from Southweatern Germany. The frequency of the GLO-2 allele was determined to be 0.427.
1138914: !lactoylglutathione The isolation and characterization of mouse liver glyoxalase I. The purification of glyoxalase I (S-lactoyl-glutathione methylglyoxal-lyase (isomerizing) EC 4.4.1.5) from DBA/1J mouse liver employing ion exchange and affinity chromatography is described. The enzyme was purified 1140-fold and it exhibits a specific activity of 2200 units/mg of protein. The activity was determined to be homogeneous by sedimentation velocity and sedimentation equilibrium ultracentrifugation and by polyacrylamide electrophoresis. The molecular weight is approimately 43 000 and the sedimentation coefficient is 3.4 S. Kinetic data are consistent with a one-substrate (hemimercaptal) reaction mechanism but do not rule out alternate branches at low substrate and free glutathione concentrations.
237756: !lactoylglutathione Inactivation of glyoxalase I from porcine erythrocytes and yeast by amino-group reagents. Glyoxalase I from porcine erythrocytes and from yeast is inactivated by the amino-group reagents 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, 5-dimethylaminonaphthalene-1-sulfonyl chloride, and 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonate (N-3ph-S). The inactivation follows pseudo-first-order kinetics, and the apparent first-order rate constant increases with pH, indicating that the basic form of a nucleophilic group is modified. The effect of increasing the inactivator concentration was tested with N-3PH-S, and it was found that the apparent rate constant increased to a limiting value. Such a result is consistent with a mechanism involving formation of a reversible inactivator x enzyme complex prior to the actual inactivation. Experiments with erythrocyte glyoxalase I and a variety of sulfhydryl-group reagents failed to show a dependence on sulfhydryl groups for catalytic activity, in contrast to previous results with the yeast enzyme. These experiments seem to exclude the possibility that essential sulfhydryl groups of the erythrocyte enzyme are modified by the amino-group reagents. Failure of reactivation of yeast glyoxalase I, and the similarities with the erythrocyte enzyme suggest that yeast glyoxalase I is not modified at essential sulfhydryl groups either by the latter reagents. This assumption has further support from experiments involving simultaneous inactivation with amino and sulfhydryl-group reagents. The results are consistent with the interpretation that amino groups of glyoxalase I are essential for catalytic activity. Glutathione derivatives, which are reversible competitive inhibitors of glyoxalase I, were found to protect the enzyme against inactivation by amino-group reagents. However, the concentration required for half-maximal protection was considerably higher than the inhibition constant of the reversible inhibition, which indicates that at least two molecules of the protector must be bound to the enzyme before full protection is obtained.
1171239: !lactoylglutathione Synthesis and study of glutaryl-S-(omega-aminoalkyl)-L-cysteinylglycines as inhibitors of glyoxalase I. Glutaryl-S-(8-aminooctyl)-L-cysteinylglycine and glutaryl -S-(10-aminodecyl)-L-cysteinylglycine have been prepared by a seven-step procedure as potential ligands for affinity chromatography purification of mouse liver glyoxalase I. Both compounds exhibited nonlinear, mixed-type inhibition of the enzyme. The decyl derivative was a more effective inhibitor than was the octyl analog.
19241: !lactoylglutathione Purification and properties of glyoxalase I from sheep liver. 
1164155: !lactoylglutathione Changes of certain pharmacological and biochemical indices in acute methylglyoxal poisoning. Methylglyoxal in doses over 25 mg/kg injected intravenously in cats and rabbits produces distinct changes in the cardiovascular and respiratory systems, but has no effect on respiration or circulation when injected intraperitoneally even in doses up to 1 g/kg. The effect of MG on blood pressure depends on the species of the animal. The effects of MG are dose-related and dependent on the route of its administration. Biochemical studies showed a significant rise in serum activities of creatine kinase (EC 2-7-3-2), lactate dehydrogenase (EC 1-1-1-27) and aspartate aminotransferase (EC 2-6-1-1-) after intraperitoneal injection of MG in the dose of 200 mg/kg in rabbits and 500 mg/kg in rats. The observed changes probably indicate damage of muscle tissue by MG, presumably as a result of low content of one of the glyoxalases in the muscles of the experimental animals. Elevation of glucose levels by MG was probably an adrenergic effect. These biochemical changes can serve to evaluate toxicity of MG preparations, which exhibit variations probably owing to varying degree of polymerization.
4778269: !lactoylglutathione gamma,delta-Dioxovalerate as a substrate for the glyoxalase enzyme system. 1. Crude gammadelta-dioxovalerate was synthesized from laevulinate by two different methods and was purified by Sephadex chromatography. Some analytical reactions of the compound are described. 2. gammadelta-Dioxovalerate is a substrate for glyoxalase I and the GSH derivative formed by this enzyme is hydrolysed by glyoxalase II to form d-alpha-hydroxyglutarate. The K(m) of glyoxalase I for gammadelta-dioxovalerate is 1.0x10(-3)m at pH5.8.3. The u.v.-absorption spectrum of thiol ester, synthesized enzymically from gammadelta-dioxovalerate and GSH by glyoxalase I, is almost identical with that for S-lactoylglutathione. Some optical properties of this thiol ester were measured. 4. Attempts to show reversibility of the glyoxalase system reactions with d-alpha-hydroxyglutarate as substrate were unsuccessful. 5. The possible metabolic role of the gammadelta-dioxovalerate reaction is discussed. It is suggested that one of the metabolic functions of the glyoxalase system may be to provide a mechanism for the entry of this compound into the tricarboxylic acid cycle.
13694091: !lactoylglutathione The mechanism of the glyoxalase I reaction, and the effect of ophthalmic acid as an inhibitor. 
14409328: !lactoylglutathione The glyoxalase I activity of arterial tissue in individuals of various ages. 
13445752: !lactoylglutathione Mechanism of the action of glyoxalase I. 
13341917: !lactoylglutathione [Knowledge on glyoxalases]. 
13172173: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase and methylglyoxal in thiamine-deficient rats. 
13181881: !lactoylglutathione The effects of analogues of glutathione on the glyoxalase reaction. 
13018264: !lactoylglutathione Glyoxalase; the role of the components. 
14841219: !lactoylglutathione The mechanism of action of glyoxalase. 
15424230: !lactoylglutathione The mode of action of glyoxalase. 
15424229: !lactoylglutathione Production and utilization of methylglyoxal by tissue. 
