17167646: !synaptophysin Skull base neurocytoma: case report and review of the literature of extraventricular neurocytomas. We report a rare skull base neurocytoma. A 44-year-old female with a history of focal seizure and progressive right-sided weakness sought treatment at an outside institution, where she underwent total resection of a "left medial sphenoid wing paraganglioma" in 1984. In 1995 after experiencing intense left-sided headaches for 3 weeks, the patient presented to our institution. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a large local recurrence. She had deficits dating to her initial surgery, including moderate right-sided hemiparesis, complete left ophthalmoplegia, and left facial numbness.The patient underwent a craniotomy with extensive removal of the involved sphenoid bone and a subtotal resection of the tumor. Neurocytoma was diagnosed based on strong immunohistochemical staining for synaptophysin and no reactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Postoperatively, her headaches resolved completely and her neurologic status remained at baseline. The residual tumor was treated with radiation therapy. After 5 years, she remains clinically and radiographically stable.Although typically located adjacent to the foramen of Monro, neurocytomas have now been reported in almost every subcompartment of the craniospinal axis. Finding neurocytomas in extraventricular locations may require revisiting the current theory that subependymal progenitor cells are the cells of origin for these tumors.
16735976: !synaptophysin [Mixed endocrine tumors]. Mixed endocrine tumors are tumors composed of at least two distinct tumor populations, one of which is endocrine. Because of their rarity and unusual presentation, endocrine mixed tumors raise many problems of diagnosis, management and therapy. Three main types of endocrine mixed tumors are recognized: The existence of these various types has been confirmed by recent molecular studies, even if the same studies have also shown that the histogenesis of a mixed endocrine tumor cannot be predicted from its histological features. Composite tumors are the less rare mixed tumors. The recent WHO classification recommends to restrict the term of composite endocrine tumor to the epithelial tumors containing at least 30% of obviously tumoral endocrine cells; some authors recommend to use higher thresholds, of at least 50%, in order to avoid overdiagnosis. The endocrine component is usually well differentiated, easily identified by its suggestive histological features; the endocrine nature of tumor cells is confirmed by the immunodetection of specific endocrine and neuro-endocrine markers (such as chromogranin A and synaptophysin). In some cases, the endocrine component is poorly differentiated: the demonstration of neuro-endocrine markers is necessary to confirm the diagnosis. Mixed tumors can occur in every anatomical site; they are more frequent in organs containing endocrine cells in the normal state (especially the digestive tract and the pancreas), but they can also be observed in organs devoid of endocrine cells (such as the mammary gland). The management of mixed endocrine tumors must take into account the more aggressive component. Mixed tumors containing a well differentiated endocrine component and an adenocarcinomatous component are to be treated like adenocarcinomas. Mixed tumors containing a poorly differentiated endocrine component must be considered as poorly differentiated endocrine carcinomas.
16735972: !synaptophysin [Endocrine tumors: biology and physiopathology]. Endocrine tumors are defined as neoplastic lesions resulting from the proliferation of cells engaged in an endocrine differentiation pathway, as shown by their expression of a set of specific markers, including true endocrine markers (such as chromogranine A) and neuro-endocrine markers, shared between neurons and endocrine cells (such as synaptophysin). The demonstration of the synthesis and secretion of one or several hormones is not necessary for the assessment of the endocrine nature of a tumor; only tumors associated with a clinical syndrome resulting from hormone overproduction can be said functioning endocrine tumors. Beyond their common features, endocrine tumors are characterized by a marked diversity, which results from the large functional, structural and embryological heterogeneity of normal endocrine cells. The natural history of endocrine tumors is also characterized by a marked heterogeneity in their evolution and rate of progression. While most endocrine tumors are locally and slowly evolving, some of them behave as truly malignant tumors, as shown by their capacity of metastatic dissemination and their fatal evolution. A better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in tumor progression and metastatic dissemination is necessary for the identification of new prognostic tools and novel therapeutic targets.
16648660: !synaptophysin A case of primary gastric small cell carcinoma with a rare pattern of lymph node metastasis. We report a very rare case of primary gastric small cell carcinoma (GSCC) that was accompanied with gastric tubular adenocarcinoma. A male in his 60s had an elevated tumor with a central ulceration in the middle stomach. The patient underwent a distal gastrectomy with lymph node dissection. The pathological examination showed two separated lesions of the stomach, which contained the components of primary GSCC and primary gastric tubular adenocarcinoma. Immunohistochemical (IHC) examination demonstrated that the tumor cells in the small cell carcinoma stained positive for synaptophysin, chromogranin A, and neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). GSCC cells and adenocarcinoma cells independently metastasized to each regional lymph node. Further studies on the biological behavior of individual tumors may allow the development of new treatment strategies for GSCC.
21783668: !synaptophysin Neurotoxic effect of maneb in rats as studied by neurochemical and immunohistochemical parameters. Epidemiological investigations document that workers in agriculture, horticulture and people living near areas with frequent use of pesticides have increased risk of developing symptoms of Parkinson's disease. This study investigated the neurotoxic effect of the fungicide maneb by morphological, immunohistochemical and neurochemical methods applying young Sprague-Dawley male rat as the model. Intraperitoneal dosing (7.5, 15 or 30mg maneb/kg bodyweight/week for 12 weeks) demonstrated dose-related increased manganese concentration in corpus striatum. The striatal concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) increased in a dose-related manner, as did the 5-HT concentrations in the rest of the brain indicating early sign of neurotoxicity. Striatal acetylcholinesterase activity was not affected. The concentrations of noradrenaline, dopamine, neurotransmitter amino acids and the levels of the proteins α-synuclein and synaptophysin in corpus striatum and the rest of the brain were not changed. No histological parameter was affected when studied in corpus striatum and substantia nigra.
16536278: !synaptophysin [Desmoplastic small round cell tumor: a clinicopathologic study of 15 cases]. To study the clinicopathologic features and immunophenotype of desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT), and to assess the feasibility of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) as a diagnostic adjunct for DSRCT in routine practice.
16520830: !synaptophysin Differential fate of multipotent and lineage-restricted neural precursors following transplantation into the adult CNS. Multiple classes of precursor cells have been isolated and characterized from the developing spinal cord including multipotent neuroepithelial (NEP) stem cells and lineage-restricted precursors for neurons (NRPs) and glia (GRPs). We have compared the survival, differentiation and integration of multipotent NEP cells with lineage-restricted NRPs and GRPs using cells isolated from transgenic rats that express the human placental alkaline phosphatase gene. Our results demonstrate that grafted NEP cells survive poorly, with no cells observed 3 days after transplant in the adult hippocampus, striatum and spinal cord, indicating that most CNS regions are not compatible with transplants of multipotent cells derived from fetal CNS. By contrast, at 3 weeks and 5 weeks post-engraftment, lineage-restricted precursors showed selective migration along white-matter tracts and robust survival in all three CNS regions. The grafted precursors expressed the mature neuronal markers NeuN and MAP2, the astrocytic marker GFAP, the oligodendrocytic markers RIP, NG2 and Sox-10, and the synaptic marker synaptophysin. Similar behavior was observed when these precursors were transplanted into the injured spinal cord. Predifferentiated, multipotent NEP cells also survive and integrate, which indicates that lineage-restricted CNS precursors are well suited for transplantation into the adult CNS and provide a promising cellular replacement candidate.
16483185: !synaptophysin Unique association of non-functioning pheochromocytoma, ganglioneuroma, adrenal cortical adenoma, hepatic and vertebral hemangiomas in a patient with a new intronic variant in the VHL gene. We analyzed the clinical, hormonal, immunohistochemical and genetic features in a 69-yr-old Caucasian woman with a very rare "composite and mixed pheochromocytoma". This was characterized by right adrenal pheochromocytoma associated with homolateral ganglioneuroma and controlateral adrenal cortical adenoma. The three tumors, incidentally discovered, proved to be non-functioning (normal secretion of catecholamines and of other neuroendocrine peptides, glucocorticoids, mineralcorticoids and androgens). Accordingly, the patient showed no sign or symptom of endocrine disease. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) demonstrated a typical adenomatous lesion on the left adrenal gland with precocious uptake of the radiotracer on radioidine (131I)-norcholesterol adrenal scintigraphy, while the controlateral gland showed hyperdensity on CT, hyperintensity on MR and no uptake at adrenal scintigraphy. In addition, CT and MR revealed a vertebral and two hepatic hemangiomas. The right adrenal gland was surgically removed and, microscopically, pheochromocytoma and ganglioneuroma areas appeared intermixed without a predominant component. The former showed strong immunoreactivity for chromogranin, synaptophysin, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and CD34, while the latter appeared positive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and S-100. Peripheral blood genomic DNA analysis revealed a new intronic variant (5557A > G) in the von Hippel-Lindau gene (VHL) not observed in our control population.
16476346: !synaptophysin [Merkel cell carcinoma. Study of five cases]. Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare malignant skin tumor of neuroendocrine origin with a poor prognosis and rapid progression. It is usually an erythematous nodule on the face, and is associated with other skin neoplasms. Its histology shows a large mass of small cells containing oval nuclei with powdery chromatin in the dermis. These cells are positive for neurospecific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin and cytokeratins AE1/AE3. We present five patients (3 males and 2 females, aged 58 to 89 years) seen at our hospital in the last three years for MCC. Their treatment and evolution were tracked, and many of the aspects indicated were seen. MCC must be kept in mind in the differential diagnosis, as early detection along with aggressive treatment significantly improve the patients survival rate. Close follow up is necessary because of the high recurrence rates. The development of a response protocol in order to better manage this disease would be desirable.
16468305: !synaptophysin [A clinicopathologic study of dysembryoplstic neuroepithelial tumor]. OBJECTIVE To study the clinicopathologic features, radiologic findings, treatment modalities and prognosis of dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT).
16449819: !synaptophysin Secretagogin is a novel marker for neuroendocrine differentiation. Our previous microarray-based studies identified secretagogin to be highly expressed in normal colon mucosa compared to basal expression in colon adenocarcinomas. The aim of this study was to analyze the differential expression of secretagogin in normal mucosa, adenocarcinomas, and neuroendocrine tumors. Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence microscopy and ELISA were applied. Western blot analysis detected a 32-kDa secretagogin band in samples from normal mucosa. Immunohistochemical analyses on tissue specimens showed that secretagogin is exclusively expressed in neuroendocrine cells and nerve cells in normal mucosa of the digestive tract. Tissues adjacent to benign hyperplasic polyps and adenomas showed a decreased number of secretagogin-expressing neuroendocrine cells. Secretagogin co-localized with neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin) in neuroendocrine cells in crypts of normal mucosa, and in tumor cells of carcinoids. Secretagogin was strongly expressed in the cytosol and the nucleus of 19 well-differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoids and carcinoid metastases, as well as in neuroendocrine tumors from the lung, pancreas and adrenal gland. Secretagogin was detected in plasma from carcinoid patients with distant metastasis. Combined immunohistochemical analysis of secretagogin and FK506-binding protein 65, a protein de novo synthesized in adenocarcinomas, distinguished well-differentiated carcinoids, adenocarcinoids and undifferentiated carcinomas. We conclude that secretagogin is a novel marker for neuroendocrine differentiation.
16438281: !synaptophysin Primary carcinoid tumour of the testis. A left radical orchidectomy was performed on a 32-year-old man presenting with a testicular mass. Histology revealed a tumour comprising of cells with monotonous nuclei and granular cytoplasm arranged in an insular pattern. Immunohistochemical expression for NSE, synaptophysin and chromogranin A were positive. No teratomatous elements were seen. Postoperatively, a staging CT and an octreotide scan were normal. Urinary 5-HIAA levels were not elevated. Based on these investigations the tumour was diagnosed as a pure primary carcinoid tumour of the testis. The patient has been followed up for 3 years with no evidence of recurrence.
16422177: !synaptophysin Carcinoid tumor of the Vater's papilla presenting with chronic pancreatitis--a case report--. Carcinoid tumors are common in the duodenum except for in the Vater's papilla [1-9]. We report here a case of carcinoid tumor arising in the Vater's papilla with repeated episods of pancreatitis. The patient is a 28 year-old-woman who had repeated abdominal pain with elevated serum amylase and had been treated as chronic pancreatitis. Computed tomography (CT) revealed a slight dilatation of the main pancreatic duct from the pancreatic head to the tail, and mild swelling of the pancreas. A submucosal tumor measuring 1.3 cm in diameter was detected in the ampulla of Vater by esophagogastroduodenscopy (EGD), and total papillectomy was performed under the suspicious of carcinoid tumor. The tumor was not encapsulated, 1.0 cm in diameter, undefined, and whitish in color. Histologically monomorphic tumor cells with lightly eosinophlic cytoplasm and round nuclei proliferate in trabecular and solid patterns. Immunohistochemically tumor cells were positive for neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A and synaptophysin, and the tumor was diagnosed as carcinoid tumor. It should be noted that carcinoid tumor in the ampulla may occur with initial signs of acute or chronic pancreatitis.
16418955: !synaptophysin Use of synaptophysin immunohistochemistry in intestinal motility disorders. The purpose of this study was to describe synaptophysin (SY) immunoreactivity in colonic specimens from patients with Hirschsprung's disease (HD), chronic constipation (CC), or anal atresia (AA). This membrane protein is specific for the synaptic vesicles in the central and peripheral nervous system and responsible for neurotransmission. Biopsy specimens of the intestinal wall were obtained from 18 patients (age range, 2 days to 7 years). Immunohistochemistry was performed using rabbit anti-human antibodies specific for synaptophysin (DAKO). In the ganglionic colon of HD patients and others the immunoreactivity of SY-positive synapses was abundantly present in the smooth muscle layers. Distinct immunoreactivity showed ganglion cells and nerve fibers inside circular and longitudinal muscle layers. In some non-HD patients' colonic specimens SY-positive synapses were present in the muscularis mucosae. In the aganglionic colonic segment of HD-patients no immunoreactivity of synapses and ganglions was seen. In the transition zone, where ganglion cells appeared sporadically, synapses were very rarely present. In two patients from the CC group the amount of visualized synapses was clearly smaller and the concentration of ganglion cells within ganglions in these cases was much lower than usual (but still within normal ranges). In the AA group in the distal part of the atretic rectum (at the place where the fistula was cut) SY-positive synapses were present in smooth muscle layers and small dysplastic ganglions were seen in the submucosal and muscular region, but not in large numbers. These patients had a normal distribution of ganglion cells and synapses at the place of colostomy. Synaptophysin immunohistochemistry is an indirect labeling method with a high detection rate for intestinal ganglion cells by demonstrating their synapses. Changed intestinal distributions of SY-positive synaptic vesicles usually accompany colonic ganglion cell disorders. The pattern of SY-positive synapses distribution in circular and longitudinal colonic muscles and intermuscular ganglions can reflect functional disturbances of large bowel motility and could be helpful in the description of the innervation status of colonic specimens in HD patients.
16405409: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma-like medullary thyroid carcinoma: a rare entity. The wide variety of rare histologic variants of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) may make the differential diagnosis difficult. Pathologic examination of the resected specimen will not always be able to confirm the diagnosis, leaving the surgeon with an uncertainty as to what type of resection is best for the patient. The following report describes the case of a 58-year-old man with the rare diagnosis of paraganglioma-like MTC.
16400433: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma: report of two cases. Central neurocytomas are rare neuroectodermal tumors believed to arise from the subependymal matrix of the lateral ventricles.
16398403: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine phenotype of non-small cell lung carcinoma: immunohistological evaluation and biochemical study. The prevalence and distribution of neuroendocrine differentiation in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) was estimated by assays for synaptophysin (SYN), chromogranin A (CgA), Leu7 and neuron-specific enolase (NSE). Serum NSE and CgA were determined in parallel to find the values of these markers for distinguishing neuroendocrine differentiation in NSCLC. Fifty-eight resected NSCLC specimens and 34 sera of NSCLC patients entered the study. Neuroendocrine differentiation was graded according to the percentage of neuroendocrine tumor cells as NE0--0%, NE1-NE4--1%->76%. Serum NSE <12.5 ng/mL and serum CgA <46 U/L were taken as cutoff levels.
16389940: !synaptophysin Angiocentric neuroepithelial tumor (ANET): a new epilepsy-related clinicopathological entity with distinctive MRI. Several types of glioneuronal tumors are known to induce intractable partial seizures in children and adults. The most frequent are dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNETs) and gangliogliomas. We report here a new clinicopathological entity within the spectrum of glioneuronal tumors observed in 10 children who underwent surgery for refractory epilepsy. These tumors demonstrate a unique, pathognomonic histological pattern and a specific appearance at magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The most striking neuropathological feature is an angiocentric polarity of the tumor with gliofibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive fusiform and bipolar astrocytic cells arranged around blood vessels (perivascular cuffing with tumoral astrocytes). Characteristic MRI findings include involvement of cortical gray and white matter, intrinsically high signal on T1-weighted images, as well as a stalk like extension to the ventricle. Immunohistochemical neuronal markers (neurofilament protein, synaptophysin and chromogranin) confirm the presence of a neuronal cell component. Therefore, the term angiocentric neuroepithelial tumor (ANET) is proposed.
16386370: !synaptophysin Positive immunoreactivity for vesicular monoamine transporter 2 in Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites in substantia nigra. Vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) is responsible for packing dopamine into vesicles, and reduces the effects of neurotoxins by sequestering them into vesicles. In this report, we tested the hypothesis that VMAT2 is associated with Lewy body (LB) formation by immunohistochemical staining of midbrain and cortical sections of autopsied brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD) for VMAT2 using a polyclonal antibody against VMAT2. LBs in the substantia nigra (SN) of PD and DLBD were immunoreactive for VMAT2, especially in the peripheral zone. Previous electron microscopic studies also revealed the presence of numerous dense core vesicles around the LBs, suggesting that these vesicles are related to LB formation. Indeed, the presence of a few vesicle-linked proteins such as synaptophysin and chromogranin A in LBs has been reported. Together with the low expression of VMAT2 in the SN of PD, the involvement of VMAT2 in LBs of the SN suggests the association of this protein in the neurodegeneration of nigral neurons in PD.
16379583: !synaptophysin Delayed transplantation of human neurons following brain injury in rats: a long-term graft survival and behavior study. The NTera2 (NT2) cell line is a homogeneous population of cells, which, when treated in vitro with retinoic acid, terminally differentiate into postmitotic neuronal NT2N cells. Although NT2N neurons transplanted in the acute (24 h postinjury) period survive for up to 1 month following experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI), nothing is known of their ability to survive for longer periods or of their effects when engrafted during the chronic postinjury period. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 348; 360-400 g) were initially anesthetized and subjected to severe lateral fluid-percussion (FP) brain injury or sham injury. At 1 month postinjury, only brain-injured animals showing severe neurobehavioral deficits received cryopreserved NT2N neurons stereotaxically transplanted into three sites in the peri-injured cortex (n = 18). Separate groups of similarly brain-injured rats received human fibroblast cells (n = 13) or cell suspension vehicle (n = 14). Sham-injured animals (no brain injury) served as controls and received NT2N transplants (n = 24). All animals received daily immunosuppression for three months. Behavioral testing was performed at 1, 4, 8, and 12 weeks post-transplantation, after which animals were sacrificed for histological analysis. Nissl staining and anti-human neuronal specific enolase (NSE) immunostaining revealed that NT2N neurons transplanted in the chronic post-injury period survived up to 12 weeks post-transplantation, extended processes into the host cortex and immunolabeled positively for synaptophysin. There were no statistical differences in cognitive or motor function among the transplanted brain-injured groups. Long-term graft survival suggests that NT2N neurons may be a viable source of neural cells for transplantation after TBI and also that these grafts can survive for a prolonged time and extend processes into the host cortex when transplanted in the chronic post-injury period following TBI.
16378235: !synaptophysin Primary gastric small cell carcinoma: report of a case and review of the literature. A 52-year-old man suffering from a pure-type primary gastric small cell carcinoma was treated with surgery and combination chemotherapy. The small cell carcinoma, approximately 6.5 cm in diameter, was situated in the posterior wall of the antrum and there were no distant metastases. Total gastrectomy and regional lymph node dissection was carried out. Histological examination revealed a solid pattern of proliferation of small cells with hyperchromatic, round nuclei and scant cytoplasm. Neoplastic cells infiltrated into the subserosal layer with severe lymphatic and vascular invasion. Regional lymph node cells were mostly replaced by tumor cells that stained positive for Grimelius, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and synaptophysin. Accumulations of electron-dense core granules in the small neoplastic cells were seen by electron microscopy. Following surgery, the patient was treated with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin and etoposide. The patient is alive and recurrence free 3 years after surgical operation. We review 107 published cases of primary gastric small cell carcinoma, an extremely rare disease first reported in 1976. Small cell carcinoma is an aggressive, malignant tumor. Intensive chemotherapy is essential for patient survival even when curative surgical resection is carried out.
16370289: !synaptophysin Neurocytoma-like neoplasm of the thoracic spine in a 15-month-old child presenting with diffuse leptomeningeal dissemination and communicating hydrocephalus. Case report. This unusual mixed glioneuronal neoplasm of the spine resembling central neurocytoma is only the second reported example of a neoplasm of this type involving the spinal cord and is, seemingly, the first to present with diffuse leptomeningeal dissemination and communicating hydrocephalus. This 15-month-old boy presented with somnolence, bilateral sixth nerve palsy, and lower-extremity weakness and was found to harbor a primary neoplasm within the thoracic spine and associated syrinx, widespread leptomeningeal dissemination, and communicating hydrocephalus. The patient underwent cerebrospinal fluid shunt placement, thoracic laminectomy for tumor debulking and biopsy, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy to the neuraxis. Immunohistochemically, the tumor was marked by evidence of mixed glial (glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive) and neuronal (synaptophysin-positive) differentiation. Mitotic activity was inconspicuous. No areas of vascular proliferation, necrosis, or marked nuclear pleomorphism were noted. Mixed glioneuronal neoplasms are a heterogeneous group of tumors whose biological potential remains incompletely defined. The present case illustrates the reality that some of these neoplasms can be clinically aggressive, despite comparatively bland histological features. The authors' goal is to acquaint neurosurgeons with the expanding spectrum of mixed glioneuronal neoplasms and with the potential of some of these lesions to pursue an aggressive clinical course.
16367802: !synaptophysin Characterization of the rhesus monkey superior olivary complex by calcium binding proteins and synaptophysin. This study was performed in order to characterize the main nuclei of the rhesus monkey superior olivary complex by means of antibodies against the calcium binding proteins parvalbumin, calbindin and calretinin and the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. These markers revealed the neuronal morphology and organization of nuclei located within the rhesus monkey superior olivary complex. The architectural details included the distribution of axonal terminals on neurons. The medial superior olivary nucleus was present as a column of neurons. No clear segregation of calretinin-positive terminals was noticed on the medial and lateral dendritic fields of these neurons. The lateral superior olivary nucleus was characterized by a distinct nuclear shape. Calretinin-, parvalbumin- or calbindin-positive terminals contacted somata and dendrites. The medial nucleus of trapezoid body could be clearly differentiated as a distinct region in the rhesus monkey superior olivary complex. Somata of that nucleus showed calbindin- and parvalbumin-labelling whereas somatic calyces of Held were reavealed by calretinin and synaptophysin labelling. The results are discussed with respect to the processing of acoustic information in primate species and their ability to hear high and low frequencies, which is reflected by anatomical correlates.
16367768: !synaptophysin Differential expression of calcineurin A subunit mRNA isoforms during rat hippocampal and cerebellar development. Calcineurin (protein phosphatase 2B) is a calcium-dependent serine-threonine phosphatase. It has diverse roles and is centrally involved in synaptic plasticity. The catalytic A subunit of calcineurin has three isoforms, alpha, beta and gamma. Their expression and ontogeny in the brain has not been systematically investigated; such data become important with a report that PPP3CC, the gene encoding calcineurin Agamma, is a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia, and the finding that its expression is decreased in the disorder. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry to measure the relative transcript abundance of calcineurin Agamma and the other catalytic isoforms, Aalpha and Abeta, during development of the Sprague-Dawley rat hippocampus and cerebellum. All three isoforms are present in both regions at all time points [embryonic day 19 (E19) to postnatal day 42 (P42)] and undergo developmental regulation, but differ in their ontogenic profile. Calcineurin Aalpha and Abeta mRNAs increased from E19 through to adulthood, whereas Agamma mRNA was most highly expressed during early developmental stages. Calcineurin Aalpha and Abeta mRNAs positively correlated with synaptophysin mRNA (a synaptic marker), whilst Agamma mRNA was either unrelated to, or negatively correlated, with this transcript. These data confirm that all three calcineurin A subunits are expressed in the rodent brain, and indicate that calcineurin Agamma may have different roles than Aalpha and Abeta. The data also suggest a potential importance of calcineurin Agamma in neurodevelopment, and in the genetically influenced neurodevelopmental disturbance that is thought to underlie schizophrenia.
16354790: !synaptophysin Effect of subchronic treatment of memantine, galantamine, and nicotine in the brain of Tg2576 (APPswe) transgenic mice. An increasing number of studies suggest that the present clinical therapy used in Alzheimer's disease (AD), in addition to having a symptomatic effect, also may interact with the ongoing neuropathological processes in the brain. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of the cholinesterase inhibitor galantamine and the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist memantine in comparison to nicotine on the neuropathology of Tg2576 transgenic mice (APPswe). Nontransgenic and APPswe mice at 10 months of age were treated subcutaneously with saline, memantine, galantamine, or nicotine for 10 days. Nicotine reduced the guanidinium-soluble amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) levels by 46 to 66%, whereas the intracellular Abeta levels remained unchanged. Treatment with nicotine also resulted in less glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive astrocytes around the plaques, increased levels of synaptophysin, and increased number of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the cortex of APPswe transgenic mice. Galantamine treatment caused an increase in the cortical levels of synaptophysin in the APPswe mice. Memantine treatment reduced the total cortical levels of membrane-bound amyloid precursor protein (45-55%) in both transgenic and nontransgenic mice, which eventually may decrease the level of Abeta. In conclusion, galantamine, memantine, and nicotine have different interactions with Abeta processes, alpha7 nAChRs, and NMDA receptors in APPswe mice. These different effects might have therapeutic relevance, and this knowledge might be applicable to the development of new effective therapeutic strategies for AD.
16344325: !synaptophysin Signet ring cells in gastric carcinomas are derived from neuroendocrine cells. Adenocarcinomas are malignant tumors with glandular growth and/or supposed intracellular mucin as identified by periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) positivity. Gastric signet ring cell carcinomas are classified as diffuse type. A proportion of diffuse-type adenocarcinomas have previously been suggested to be of neuroendocrine origin. In the present study we examined gastric signet ring cell carcinomas for neuroendocrine differentiation. Of 11 gastric signet ring cell carcinomas, 8 contained areas with PAS-positive signet ring cells that also were immunoreactive for one or several neuroendocrine markers: synaptophysin, chromogranin A, and histidine decarboxylase, the latter an enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cell marker. Whereas PAS positivity was located in the central cytoplasm, neuroendocrine immunoreactivity was often located as a rim surrounding an otherwise non-immunoreactive cytoplasm, presumed to represent the area with PAS-positive material. These findings indicate that signet ring cell carcinomas could be of neuroendocrine origin. We propose that signet ring cell carcinomas develop by gradual dedifferentiation from ECL cells via signet ring cells with neuroendocrine immunoreactivity toward signet ring cells where the cytoplasm mainly consists of PAS-positive material. This finding could have implications for the classification and understanding of gastric carcinogenesis.
16344155: !synaptophysin Neurosteroid synthesis in the hippocampus: role in synaptic plasticity. Neurosteroids are still found in the brain after steroidogenic glands were removed, indicating that they are synthesized either de novo or from endogenous precursors by enzymes present in the CNS. In fact, steroidogenic acute regulatory protein, and aromatase, two molecules essential for estrogen synthesis, are expressed in the hippocampus. We recently showed, for the first time, that estrogens are synthesized de novo in hippocampal neurons and that these hippocampus-derived estrogens are essential for synaptic plasticity. Both estrogen receptor isoforms, estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta, are expressed in the hippocampus, and estradiol treatment of the cultures leads to an upregulation of estrogen receptor alpha. This finding confirmed the presence of functional estrogen receptors in hippocampal neurons and showed the responsiveness of the cultured hippocampal neurons to estradiol. By using letrozole, an inhibitor of aromatase, estradiol levels in hippocampal dispersion cultures as well as in hippocampal slice cultures were significantly suppressed which in turn led to a downregulation of estrogen receptor alpha. Letrozole treatment was followed by a significant decrease in the density of spines and spine synapses and in the number of presynaptic boutons. Quantitative immunohistochemistry revealed a dose-dependent downregulation of spinophilin, a spine marker, and of synaptophysin, a presynaptic marker, and of growth-associated protein 43 after letrozole treatment. Our data provide strong evidence for estrogens being potent modulators of structural synaptic plasticity and point to a paracrine rather than endocrine mechanism of estrogen action in the hippocampus.
16340446: !synaptophysin Prenatal ethanol exposure in rats decreases levels of complexin proteins in the frontal cortex. Rodents that are prenatally exposed to ethanol have been shown to exhibit a wide range of cognitive deficits, including impairments in memory, attention and executive function. To determine a potential molecular substrate for cognitive dysfunction in adulthood, we measured regional levels of the presynaptic proteins complexin I and II in a rat model of prenatal ethanol exposure, as levels of these proteins are altered in cognitive-related synaptic plasticity.
16337911: !synaptophysin Rapid and reversible chemical inactivation of synaptic transmission in genetically targeted neurons. Inducible and reversible silencing of selected neurons in vivo is critical to understanding the structure and dynamics of brain circuits. We have developed Molecules for Inactivation of Synaptic Transmission (MISTs) that can be genetically targeted to allow the reversible inactivation of neurotransmitter release. MISTs consist of modified presynaptic proteins that interfere with the synaptic vesicle cycle when crosslinked by small molecule "dimerizers." MISTs based on the vesicle proteins VAMP2/Synaptobrevin and Synaptophysin induced rapid ( approximately 10 min) and reversible block of synaptic transmission in cultured neurons and brain slices. In transgenic mice expressing MISTs selectively in Purkinje neurons, administration of dimerizer reduced learning and performance of the rotarod behavior. MISTs allow for specific, inducible, and reversible lesions in neuronal circuits and may provide treatment of disorders associated with neuronal hyperactivity.
16330151: !synaptophysin Sex-differences in age-related cognitive decline in C57BL/6J mice associated with increased brain microtubule-associated protein 2 and synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Understanding cognitive aging is becoming more important as the elderly population grows. Here, the effects of age and sex on learning and memory performance were compared in female and male young (3-4 months old) middle-aged (10-12 months old) and old (18-20 months old) wild-type C57BL/6J mice. Old males and females performed worse than young or middle-aged mice in novel location, but not novel object recognition tasks. Old mice, of both sexes, also showed impaired spatial water maze performance during training compared with young or middle-aged mice, however only old females failed to show robust spatial bias during probe trials. While there was no age-difference in passive avoidance performance for males, females showed an age-related decline. There was no difference in cognitive performance between young and middle-age mice of either sex on any task. Cognitive performance was associated with alterations in immunoreactivity of microtubule-associated protein 2-positive dendrites and synaptophysin-positive pre-synaptic terminals in hippocampal CA1, CA3, and dentate, entorhinal cortex, and central nucleus of amygdala. Overall, microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity was increased in old females compared with both young and middle-age females with no significant difference in males. In contrast, synaptophysin immunoreactivity increased from young to middle-age in females, and from middle-age to old in males; females had higher levels of synaptophysin immunoreactivity than males in middle-age only. Elevated levels of microtubule-associated protein 2 and synaptophysin may constitute a compensatory response to age-related functional decline in mice.
16325513: !synaptophysin Solid variant of mammary "adenoid cystic carcinoma with basaloid features" merging with "small cell carcinoma". We describe a rare case of a solid variant of a mammary adenoid cystic carcinoma with basaloid features (sbACC) and its coexistence with a "small cell" carcinoma (SCC), identified and confirmed by histological and immunohistochemical observations: the absence of glandular structures and PAS-positive globules, positivity for neuroendocrine markers (NSE, synaptophysin and chromogranin), and negativity for 34betaE12 and SMA actin were the aspects suggesting the presence of SCC. Furthermore, positivity for CD10 was found both in sbACC and in SCC, supporting the hypothesis that the two components share the same histogenetic myoepithelial origin and represent an example of dedifferentiation along neuroendocrine phenotype lines occurring in a multipotential neoplastic stem line, already committed towards a myoepithelial phenotype. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of a solid basaloid adenoid cystic carcinoma merging with an SCC carcinoma. Furthermore, it is the first study in which CD10 was used to investigate the histogenesis of the two neoplastic components.
16324798: !synaptophysin Direct and indirect effects of estrogen on rat hippocampus. Estrogen-induced synaptic plasticity was frequently shown by an increase of spines at apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons after systemic application of estradiol to ovariectomized rats. Recent findings question this direct endocrine regulation of synaptogenesis by estradiol. We have shown, for the first time, that estrogens are synthesized de novo in rat hippocampal neurons. By using letrozole, an inhibitor of aromatase, estradiol levels in hippocampal dispersion cultures as well as in hippocampal slice cultures were significantly suppressed. Letrozole treatment resulted in a significant decrease in the density of spines and spine synapses and in the number of presynaptic boutons. Quantitative immunohistochemistry revealed a dose-dependent downregulation of spinophilin, a spine marker, and of synaptophysin, a presynaptic marker, in the hippocampus. Surprisingly, exogenous application of estradiol to the cultures had no effect. Indirect effects of estrogens, mediated via subcortical nuclei, may help to explain this phenomenon. Implantation of estrogen-filled cannulae into the median raphe, which projects to the hippocampus, resulted in a significant increase in spine density in the hippocampus after seven days of treatment. This increase was paralleled by a decrease in the density of serotonergic innervation of the strata lacunosum moleculare and radiatum of the CA1 region. Apart from direct endocrine mechanisms our findings suggest that estradiol-induced spinogenesis in the hippocampus is also mediated by indirect mechanisms and is furthermore regulated endogenously, in a paracrine manner.
16319720: !synaptophysin Grey matter pathology in multiple sclerosis. The aim of our study is to evaluate the extent and distribution of grey matter demyelinating lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS), addressing also neuronal loss and synaptic loss. Whole coronal sections of 6 MS brains and 6 control brains were selected. Immunohistochemistry was performed for myelin basic protein, neurofilaments, synaptophysin, ubiquitin, and activated caspase-3. Neuronal density and optical density of synaptophysin staining were estimated in cortical lesions and compared with those observed in corresponding areas of normal (i.e. nondemyelinated) cortex in the same section. Demyelinating lesions were observed in the cerebral cortex, in the thalamus, basal ganglia, and in the hippocampus. The percentage of demyelinated cortex was remarkable in 2 cases of secondary progressive MS (48% and 25.5%, respectively). Neuronal density was significantly reduced in cortical lesions (18-23% reduction), if compared with adjacent normal cortex, in the 2 cases showing the higher extent of cortical demyelination; in the same cases, very rare apoptotic neurons expressing caspase-3 were observed in cortical lesions and not in adjacent normal cortex. No significant decrease in optical density of synaptophysin staining was observed in cortical lesions. Grey matter demyelination and neuronal loss could contribute to disability and cognitive dysfunctions in MS.
16316483: !synaptophysin Selective effects of typical antipsychotic drugs on SNAP-25 and synaptophysin in the hippocampal trisynaptic pathway. Recent studies indicate that levels of presynaptic proteins are altered in the post-mortem brain in schizophrenia. In particular, the hippocampus exhibits reduced levels of synaptophysin and the SNARE protein SNAP-25. The effects of treatment with antipsychotic drugs on levels of SNAP-25 in the hippocampus remains unknown. To determine the effects of typical antipsychotic drugs on levels of synaptophysin and SNAP-25 in the hippocampus, rats were treated with chlorpromazine, haloperidol or trifluoperazine for 21 d. Quantitative immunohistochemistry was used to measure immunoreactivity within the trisynaptic circuit of the hippocampus. Trifluoperazine decreased synaptophysin within the Schaffer collateral region of the radiatum lacunosum in CA1, while haloperidol and chlorpromazine increased SNAP-25 throughout the trisynaptic pathway of the hippocampus, with strongest effects in the mossy fibre region of CA3. These results indicate that presynaptic proteins represent a potential molecular substrate for the effects of antipsychotic drugs on hippocampal synaptic connectivity.
16314705: !synaptophysin Glomus coccygeum: report of a case and review of the literature. The glomus coccygeum is a vestigial structure related to the canals of Sucquet-Hoyer, an arteriovenous anastomosis surrounded by glomus cells derived from modified smooth muscle and involved in thermoregulation. It is an incidental finding in specimens from the sacral area and may represent a diagnostic challenge to the unaware observer. We present a case of a glomus coccygeum, presenting as a 1.5-mm structure adjacent to a typical pilonidal cyst excised from a 7-month-old boy, which was the subject of a second opinion consultation. The lesion showed small to medium sized clusters of predominantly epithelioid cells with moderate amounts of clear to eosinophilic cytoplasm, intercellular borders, and plump, round nuclei with fine chromatin. These cells were closely associated with small vascular channels and nerves. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the epithelioid cells expressed vimentin, muscle-specific actin, neuron-specific enolase, and S-100 protein, were weakly positive for smooth muscle actin, and negative for desmin, synaptophysin, and chromogranin. The endothelial cells of the vascular channels were antibody CD31 positive. Recognition of the histologic features of glomus coccygeum is important to avoid confusion with glomus tumor and neural or smooth muscle neoplasms in the sacral area.
16311358: !synaptophysin Small cell sweat gland carcinoma of childhood. Small cell sweat gland carcinoma appears to represent a very unusual histological type of sweat gland anlage tumour presenting in children. The differential diagnosis from other small blue cell tumours involving the skin is often difficult. The present report confirms the original observation describing two patients of 2 and 5 years of age harbouring cutaneous tumours. The histology of these lesions showed a monomorphic proliferation of small cells with a high mitotic rate and areas of necrosis. Immunohistochemically, the cells were negative for desmin, cytokeratin 7, cytokeratin 20, Cam 5.2, CD99, chromogranin, CD56, synaptophysin, and S-100, and focally positive for the pancytokeratin marker AE1/AE3, carcinoembryonic antigen (one case), and neurone specific enolase (one case). The prognosis of this type of tumour seems to be good. As more cases are added, the clinical pathological spectrum of the lesion will become better defined.
16311122: !synaptophysin Sperm protein 17 expression defines 2 subsets of primary esthesioneuroblastoma. Esthesioneuroblastomas (ENBs) are rare malignant tumors of the nasal vault, the origin, diagnosis, and management of which are still subjects of discussion. That there is no related prognostic factor or generally recognized therapeutic regimen highlights the need for further analyses of its underlying biologic features and investigations of new marker proteins that allow more reliable clinical testing. We here show that sperm protein 17 (Sp17) is expressed in the ciliated cells of the normal olfactory epithelium and in a proportion of primary ENB lesions. We found an association between Sp17 expression and metastases at relapse (P = .035), chromogranin expression (P = .014), and a female sex prevalence. A statistically nonsignificant relation was found between Sp17 and S-100, synaptophysin, and neurofilament expression. No correlation was also found between Sp17 expression and the proliferative capacity of the lesion that was evaluated by Ki-67 immunohistochemistry. The results of this study show the usefulness of Sp17 as a means of discriminating 2 subsets of primary ENB lesions and seem to suggest the existence of 2 distinct cell pathways in their origin and development.
16306173: !synaptophysin Mu opioid receptor activation inhibits GABAergic inputs to basolateral amygdala neurons through Kv1.1/1.2 channels. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is the major amygdaloid nucleus distributed with mu opioid receptors. The afferent input from the BLA to the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is considered important for opioid analgesia. However, little is known about the effect of mu opioids on synaptic transmission in the BLA. In this study, we examined the effect of mu opioid receptor stimulation on the inhibitory and excitatory synaptic inputs to CeA-projecting BLA neurons. BLA neurons were retrogradely labeled with a fluorescent tracer injected into the CeA of rats. Whole cell voltage-clamp recordings were performed on labeled BLA neurons in brain slices. The specific mu opioid receptor agonist, (D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol)-enkephalin (DAMGO, 1 microM), significantly reduced the frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) in 77% of cells tested. DAMGO also significantly decreased the peak amplitude of evoked IPSCs in 75% of cells examined. However, DAMGO did not significantly alter the frequency of mEPSCs or the peak amplitude of evoked EPSCs in 90% and 75% of labeled cells, respectively. Bath application of the Kv channel blockers, 4-AP (Kv1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.5, 1.6, 3.1, 3.2), alpha-dendrotoxin (Kv1.1, 1.2, 1.6), dendrotoxin-K (Kv1.1), or tityustoxin-Kalpha (Kv1.2) each blocked the inhibitory effect of DAMGO on mIPSCs. Double immunofluorescence labeling showed that some of the immunoreactivities of Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 were colocalized with synaptophysin in the BLA. This study provides new information that activation of presynaptic mu opioid receptors primarily attenuates GABAergic synaptic inputs to CeA-projecting neurons in the BLA through a signaling mechanism involving Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 channels.
16303947: !synaptophysin Palisade endings in extraocular muscles of the monkey are immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and vesicular acetylcholine transporter. To analyze palisade endings in extraocular muscles (EOMs) of a primate species and to examine our previous findings in cat that palisade endings are putative effector organs.
16303720: !synaptophysin Prostate cancer with small-cell morphology: an immunophenotypic subdivision. To study the immunophenotypic characteristics and clinical outcome of morphologically undifferentiated prostatic carcinoma with small-cell morphology (U-PC-SCM).
16301837: !synaptophysin Postnatal changes in functional activities of the pig's brain: a combined functional magnetic resonance imaging and immunohistochemical study. Developmental changes in brain activation after pain stimulation and after passive movement of the hind paw were assessed by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in pigs of postnatal ages 2, 4 and 6 months. Response patterns were correlated with histological maturation parameters. At 2 months, fMRI failed to detect brain activation after pain stimulation and revealed weak, but widespread activation after passive movement. At 4 months, strong reaction of numerous cortical areas on the contralateral side was seen after pain stimulation. Following passive movement, activation was weaker but more widespread, and the brainstem was also involved. By 6 months, cortical activation became more restricted to the contralateral sensory cortex and brainstem after pain stimulation and to the contralateral sensory and ipsilateral premotor and motor cortices after passive movement. Neocortical synaptophysin immunoreaction increased significantly between 2 and 4 months and slightly decreased by 6 months. The density of GABA-immunoreactive neurons and fibers significantly increased, reaching a maximum at 6 months. Our studies indicate that remodeling of synapses and development of inhibitory GABA neurons last until 6 months postnatally, when the fMRI response of the pig's brain also attains its mature adult pattern.
16301582: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumor in the spinal cord of a brahman crossbred calf. A variety of embryonal tumors of the central nervous system, typically malignant and occurring in young individuals, are recognized in humans and animals. This report describes an invasive subdural but predominantly extramedullary primitive neuroectodermal tumor developing at the lumbosacral junction in a 6-month-old Brahman crossbred calf. The tumor was composed of spindloid embryonal cells organized in interlacing fascicles. The cells had oval to elongate or round hyperchromic nuclei, single to double nucleoli, and scant discernible cytoplasm. Immunohistochemical staining for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and S-100 protein and formation of pseudorosettes suggested neuronal and possibly ependymal differentiation.
16298076: !synaptophysin Intracarotid transplantation of bone marrow stromal cells increases axon-myelin remodeling after stroke. The present study investigates the induction of axon and myelin remodeling as a possible mechanism by which treatment of stroke with bone marrow stromal cells improves neurological functional recovery. Adult male Wistar rats were subjected to 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion, followed by an injection of 2 x 10(6) rat bone marrow stromal cells or phosphate-buffered saline into the internal carotid artery 24 h later. Animals were killed at 28 days after stroke. Functional tests, histo- and immunohistochemical staining were performed. Significant functional recovery was found after bone marrow stromal cell administration in all the three tests performed (modified neurological severity score, adhesive-removal and corner tests). Bone marrow stromal cell treatment markedly increased vessel sprouting, synaptophysin expression and NG2 positive cell numbers and density in the cortical peri-infarct area. In bone marrow stromal cell-treated rats, the number of Ki-67 positive proliferating cells and oligodendrocyte precursor cells in the corpus callosum increased significantly in concert with the enhancement of the areas of the corpus callosum in both hemispheres. These results suggest that bone marrow stromal cells facilitate axonal sprouting and remyelination in the cortical ischemic boundary zone and corpus callosum, which may underlie neurological functional improvement caused by bone marrow stromal cell treatment.
16286650: !synaptophysin The stress-regulated protein M6a is a key modulator for neurite outgrowth and filopodium/spine formation. Neuronal remodeling is a fundamental process by which the brain responds to environmental influences, e.g., during stress. In the hippocampus, chronic stress causes retraction of dendrites in CA3 pyramidal neurons. We have recently identified the glycoprotein M6a as a stress-responsive gene in the hippocampal formation. This gene is down-regulated in the hippocampus of both socially and physically stressed animals, and this effect can be reversed by antidepressant treatment. In the present work, we analyzed the biological function of the M6a protein. Immunohistochemistry showed that the M6a protein is abundant in all hippocampal subregions, and subcellular analysis in primary hippocampal neurons revealed its presence in membrane protrusions (filopodia/spines). Transfection experiments revealed that M6a overexpression induces neurite formation and increases filopodia density in hippocampal neurons. M6a knockdown with small interference RNA methodology showed that M6a low-expressing neurons display decreased filopodia number and a lower density of synaptophysin clusters. Taken together, our findings indicate that M6a plays an important role in neurite/filopodium outgrowth and synapse formation. Therefore, reduced M6a expression might be responsible for the morphological alterations found in the hippocampus of chronically stressed animals. Potential mechanisms that might explain the biological effects of M6a are discussed.
16280667: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical detection of NRSA on small cell lung cancer with a monoclonal antibody (MAG-1) that recognizes the carboxyl terminus of provasopressin. A single monoclonal antibody (MAG-1) directed against the C-terminal 18-amino acid region (VAGc18) of provasopressin was examined as an agent for recognizing the tumor-specific NRSA marker common to small cell lung cancer (SCLC) in formalin-fixed tissues with ABC immunohistochemistry. SCLC tumors were obtained from several tissue locations and included primary, metastatic, and recurrent disease. Positive staining was found in 91% of cases (53/58). All five of the unreactive tumors were of the lungs or chest wall, and there did not appear to be an association of this negativity with disease stage, age, or sex. Alternatively, almost all primary lesions, almost all metastatic lesions, and all recurrent lesions examined gave a positive reaction with MAG-1. For this study, vasopressin-producing cells of the human anterior hypothalamus served as a positive control, while negative controls comprised normal lung tissue, tumor that received MAG-1 in the presence of an excess of antigen (VAGc18 peptide), or tumor reacted with a commercial IgG1 isotype as primary antibody. All of the results indicate that MAG-1 can be effectively used to selectively identify the NRSA marker on almost all SCLC tumors, at all disease stages, and at all locations. Since all four tumors tested showing no reactivity with MAG-1 gave a positive reaction for synaptophysin, it is proposed that a combined use of MAG-1 with synaptophysin antibodies could allow all SCLC tumors to be detected by ABC immunohistochemistry.
16271399: !synaptophysin Cytoskeletal, synaptic, and nuclear protein changes associated with rat interface organotypic hippocampal slice culture development. Although organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSCs) are used to study function within the hippocampus, the effect of maintenance in vitro upon protein expression is not fully understood. Therefore, we examined developmental changes in cultures prepared from P8 rats and maintained on porous membranes between medium and atmosphere. Between 7 and 28 days following explantation, altered hippocampal morphology could not be detected despite a significant decrease in both MAP-2c and a mid-range tau isoform by 21 DIV. During the same period, lower GFAP expression was observed, and GFAP labeling suggested a migration of astrocytes to the slice-atmosphere interface. In contrast, levels of the synaptic proteins synaptophysin and PSD-95 were significantly increased, but GAP-43 was not. The preservation of myelinated axons and synapses, along with glial and endothelial cells, was confirmed by ultrastructural analysis. Furthermore, intranuclear inclusion bodies, which are associated with normal aging in vivo, were detected in the CA1 pyramidal layer in cultures older than 14 DIV. When OHSCs were maintained for approximately 3, 4, and 10 weeks, a rise and then fall in the expression of synaptophysin and, especially, PSD-95 were found, and the biphasic trend paralleled by significant changes in Schaffer collateral-evoked excitatory post-synaptic potentials from CA1 neurons. Our data not only describe changes in cytoskeletal, synaptic, and nuclear proteins related to the maintenance of interface OHSCs, but also emphasize the potential of the model for the study of age-related phenomena within the hippocampus.
16267122: !synaptophysin Synapse elimination in the corticospinal projection during the early postnatal period. In corticospinal synapses reconstructed in vitro by slice co-culture, we previously showed that the synapses were distributed across the gray matter at 6-7 days in vitro (DIV). Thereafter, they began to be eliminated from the ventral side, and dorsal-dominant distribution was nearly complete at 11-12 DIV. The synapse elimination is associated with retraction of the corticospinal (CS) terminals. We studied whether this specific type of synapse elimination is a physiological phenomenon rather than in vitro artifact. The rat corticospinal tract was stimulated at the medullary pyramid, and field potentials were recorded at the cervical cord along an 200-microm interval lattice on the axial plane. Clearly defined negative field potential were identified as field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) generated by corticospinal synapses. They were recorded from the entire spinal gray matter at postnatal day 7 (P7). These negative fEPSPs reversed to positive in the most ventrolateral part at P8. Reversal extended to the more mediodorsal area at P10, indicative of progressive synapse elimination in the ventrolateral area. To verify that regression of the axons in vivo paralleled the changes in spatial distribution of fEPSPs as observed in vitro, corticospinal axons were anterogradely labeled. Redistribution of the labeled terminals closely paralleled the fEPSP distribution, being present in the ventrolateral spinal cord at P7, decreased at P8, further deceased at P10, but unchanged at P11. Furthermore, double immunostaining for labeled terminals and synaptophysin observed under a confocal microscope suggests that corticospinal fibers at P7 possess presynaptic structures in the ventrolateral area as well as the dorsomedial area. These findings suggest that corticospinal synapses are widely formed in the spinal gray matter at P7, are rapidly eliminated from the ventrolateral side from P8 to P10, a time-course very similar to that observed in vitro, and are associated with axonal regression.
16262660: !synaptophysin Cell type-specific regulation of RE-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) target genes. RE-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) is a transcriptional repressor that represses neuronal gene transcription in non-neuronal cells. REST target genes are expressed in neurons and in neuroendocrine cells. Here, we show that treatment with the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) or expression of a mutant of REST (DP-REST:ER) that contains a transcriptional activation domain enhanced expression of the REST target genes encoding synaptophysin and secretogranin II in neuronal as well as in neuroendocrine cells. These data indicate that the synaptophysin and secretogranin II genes are similarly regulated in neuronal and neuroendocrine cells. In contrast, expression of the connexin36 gene was inducible by TSA or DP-REST:ER only in pancreatic alpha and beta cells, but not in neuronal and pituitary cells, indicating that transcriptional repression by REST functions in a cell type-specific manner. Expression of the BDNF and GluR2 genes, both described as targets of REST, was not induced by either TSA or expression of DP-REST:ER in neuronal or neuroendocrine cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments using antibodies directed against methylated histone H3Lys4 or H3Lys9 showed a perfect correlation between expression of REST target genes in different cell types and nucleosomal modifications that distinguish active from inactive genes. We conclude that the cell type-specific microenvironment, in particular the cell type-specific structure of the chromatin, is crucial for the ability of REST to control gene transcription.
16256380: !synaptophysin Long-term continuous, but not daily, environmental enrichment reduces spatial memory decline in aged male mice. Although environmental enrichment improves spatial memory and alters synaptic plasticity in aged rodents, it is unclear whether all types of enrichment treatments yield similar benefits. The present study examined the effects in aged male mice of three types of enrichment on spatial memory in Morris water maze and radial arm maze tasks, and on levels of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin in several brain regions. Non-enriched young and aged males were compared with males exposed to one of the following treatments for 10 weeks: 5 min of daily handling, 3 h of daily basic enrichment, or 24 h of continuous complex enrichment. Young controls outperformed aged controls in both tasks. Neither daily handling nor daily enrichment affected spatial memory or synaptophysin levels. In contrast, continuous enrichment significantly reduced age-related spatial memory decline in both tasks, such that this group was statistically indistinguishable from young controls in most measures of performance. Continuously enriched mice were also significantly better than other aged mice in several spatial memory measures. Despite these improvements, synaptophysin levels in the continuous enrichment group were significantly lower than those of young and aged controls in the frontoparietal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum, suggesting a negative relationship between synaptophysin levels and spatial memory in aged males. These data demonstrate that different types of enrichment in aged male mice have disparate effects on spatial memory, and that the relationship between enrichment-induced changes in synaptophysin levels and spatial memory in aged males differs from that we have previously reported in aged female mice.
16251122: !synaptophysin Morphological changes in the anterior segment of the Abyssinian cat eye with hereditary rod-cone degeneration. The purpose of this study was to investigate morphological changes of the anterior segment of the eye in Abyssinian cats with progressive rod-cone degeneration and to correlate them with blood flow data obtained in the same animals.
16246116: !synaptophysin Tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptophysin in synaptic vesicle recycling. The integral SV (synaptic vesicle) protein synaptophysin was one of the first nerve terminal proteins identified. However its role, if any, in the SV life cycle remains undetermined. One of the most prominent features of synaptophysin is that its cytoplasmic C-terminus largely consists of pentapeptide repeats initiated by a tyrosine residue. Synaptophysin is heavily phosphorylated by tyrosine kinases in the nerve terminal, suggesting that this phosphorylation is central to its function. This review will cover the evidence for tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptophysin and how this phosphorylation may control its function in the SV life cycle.
16237167: !synaptophysin Transplantation of neuronal and glial restricted precursors into contused spinal cord improves bladder and motor functions, decreases thermal hypersensitivity, and modifies intraspinal circuitry. Transplanting neuronal and glial restricted precursors (NRP/GRP) into a midthoracic injury 9 d after contusion improved bladder and motor function, diminished thermal hypersensitivity, and modified lumbosacral circuitry compared with operated controls (OP-controls). Histological analysis showed that NRP/GRP survived, filled the lesion site, differentiated into neurons and glia, and migrated selectively. Volume of spinal cord spared was increased in NRP/GRP recipients, suggesting local protection. Bladder areflexia developed in both operated groups, but NRP/GRP recipients exhibited an accelerated recovery, with decreased micturition pressure and fewer episodes of detrusor hyperreflexia. Because noradrenergic receptors proliferate after spinal injury and descending noradrenergic pathways contribute to regulation of bladder control, we examined the effects of administering an alpha-1A-adrenergic antagonist, Tamsulosin, on urodynamics. This improved all cystometric parameters in both operated groups, and micturition pressure in NRP/GRP rats recovered to normal levels. Both operated groups initially showed increased sensitivity to a thermal stimulus applied to the tail; the NRP/GRP rats showed significant improvement over time. NRP/GRP grafts also produced greater recovery of hindlimb function in several tests, although both groups showed persistent and similar deficits in locomotion on a grid. Because bladder, hindlimb, and tail sensory and motor functions are organized through lumbosacral cord, we examined descending and primary afferent projections at L6-S1. The density of serotonergic, noradrenergic, and corticotrophin releasing factor-positive fibers increased in the NRP/GRP group compared with OP-controls, suggesting some sparing and/or sprouting of these modulatory pathways. Immunocytochemical staining density of dorsal root axons in the dorsal horn increased in the OP-controls but appeared normal in the NRP/GRP group. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the lumbosacral dorsal horn was similar among groups, consistent with restoration of synaptic density in both groups of operated animals but by different pathways. We suggest that local protection provided by NRP/GRP resulted in increased sparing/sprouting of descending pathways, which prevented sprouting by dorsal root axons, and that this modification in lumbosacral circuitry contributes to the recovery of function.
16228991: !synaptophysin Light microscopic identification and immunocytochemical characterization of glutamatergic synapses in brain sections. Presynaptic proteins are readily identified by light microscopic immunocytochemistry, but immunodetection of postsynaptic proteins in brain sections proves difficult. We performed immunofluorescent double labeling for the NR1 subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) and the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1). In material fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, NMDAR staining in somatosensory cortex was restricted to the section surface, whereas presynaptic staining extended deeper into the tissue. Staining for postsynaptic proteins was enhanced in weakly fixed material and in tissue treated with pepsin, as previously reported, but tissue quality was impaired. Staining was also markedly enhanced, and without impairment of tissue quality, by treatment during perfusion with a mixture of inhibitors of proteases and the ubiquitin/proteosome system. We performed quantitative analysis of confocal images to study how immunostaining varies with depth into the tissue. Virtually all puncta immunopositive for VGLUT1 colocalized with synaptophysin puncta; these presynaptic puncta were most numerous 1-2 microm beneath the section surface. In contrast, puncta immunopositive for the NR1 subunit were most numerous at the surface, as were puncta immunopositive for the NR2 subunit, SynGAP, and CaMKII. Punctate staining for all postsynaptic proteins, but not presynaptic markers, was substantially enhanced in material pretreated with antiproteolytic agents. The large majority of NR1-positive puncta at the surface associated with VGLUT1 in this material are likely to represent synaptic contacts. Approximately eighty-five percent of VGLUT1-positive puncta in layers II-III of SI are associated with NR1-positive puncta, and approximately 80% are associated with NR2, SynGAP, and CaMKII. This approach may permit systematic analysis of the chemistry of glutamatergic synapses with light microscopic immunocytochemistry.
16226751: !synaptophysin Time course of response to estradiol replacement in ovariectomized mice: brain apolipoprotein E and synaptophysin transiently increase and glial fibrillary acidic protein is suppressed. The current study examined the effect of long-term estradiol replacement in ovariectomized mice. Estradiol-17beta (E2) pellets or vehicle pellets were implanted at the time of ovariectomy (OVX) in young adult female mice. Five mice from each group were sacrificed at 5, 14, 28 and 49 days after OVX and pellet replacement. Western blotting of homogenates from somatosensory cortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb and cerebellum was performed to obtain concentrations of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), apolipoprotein E (apoE) and synaptophysin (SYN). At 5 days after OVX, GFAP levels were not affected by E2 replacement. In contrast to GFAP, synaptophysin and apoE concentrations were significantly elevated by 15% and 25%, respectively, in the E2-replaced group compared to the vehicle-replaced group at 5 days but by 14 days concentrations were equivalent. Late in the time course of this study, at 49 days, GFAP concentrations were higher in the E2-deprived mice but did not increase in the E2-replaced group. Immunocytochemistry for GFAP confirmed this observation. Of note was that these effects occurred in all four brain regions measured. These observations suggest that estradiol is able to suppress reactive gliosis. In addition, E2 replacement in OVX mice is associated with transiently higher levels of apoE and synaptophysin.
16226381: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical analysis of synaptic proteins provides new insights into diabetes-mediated plasticity in the rat hippocampus. The hippocampus, an important integration center for learning and memory in the mammalian brain, undergoes neurological changes in response to a variety of stimuli that are suggestive of ongoing synaptic reorganization. Accordingly, the aim of this study was to identify markers of synaptic plasticity using rapid and reliable techniques such as radioimmunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy, thereby providing a "birds-eye view" of the whole hippocampus under hypercorticosteronemic conditions. The regulation of microtubule-associated protein 2, synaptophysin and postsynaptic density-95 was examined in two different animal models of hypercorticosteronemia: corticosterone administration and streptozotocin-induced diabetes using both a short-term (1 week) and long-term (5 weeks) treatment. Glucocorticoids and/or hyperglycemia increased synaptophysin expression in CA1, CA3 and the dentate gyrus, regions that exhibit synaptic plasticity in response to glucocorticoid exposure. In these models, postsynaptic density-95 expression increased in the CA3 region, particularly in the diabetic rats, while microtubule-associated protein 2 exhibited more selective changes. Fluoro-Jade histochemistry did not detect neuronal damage, suggesting that glucocorticoids and/or hyperglycemia induce plastic and not irreversible neuronal changes at these time points. Collectively, these results demonstrate that changes in the expression and distribution of synaptic proteins provide another measure of synaptic plasticity in the rat hippocampus in response to glucocorticoid exposure, changes that may accompany or contribute to neuroanatomical, neurochemical, and behavioral changes observed in experimental models of type 1 diabetes.
16224221: !synaptophysin Composite glandular and endocrine tumors of the stomach with pancreatic acinar differentiation. Composite tumors of the stomach consisting of mixed glandular and endocrine components are rare. We report 3 cases of composite glandular and endocrine tumors with pancreatic acinar differentiation in the stomach with their clinicopathologic findings. The patients' presenting symptoms were variable and included abdominal pain, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, and weight loss. One patient with abdominal pain also had an elevated serum lipase level, clinically mimicking acute pancreatitis. The histology of these tumors was similar. They showed admixture of well-differentiated endocrine components with acinar and glandular components. The glandular component consisted of columnar epithelial cells resembling gastric foveolar or intestinal goblet cells, consistent with a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma. A panel of histochemical and immunohistochemical stains was performed, which included PAS, Alcian blue, Mib1, CEA, cytokeratin 7, cytokeratin 20, Muc2, Muc5AC, chromogranin, synaptophysin, trypsin, chymotrypsin, lipase, insulin, gastrin, serotonin, and pancreatic polypeptide. While the immunoreactivity for cytokeratin 7, cytokeratin 20, Muc2, Muc5AC, and CEA was largely restricted to the glandular component, the endocrine and pancreatic acinar markers showed marked variability and overlap. All cases showed immunoreactivity for at least one of the exocrine pancreatic enzymes, and all expressed endocrine differentiation. Some degree of amphicrine differentiation was suggested in all cases. Two cases showed metastases in perigastric lymph nodes, which histologically resembled the primary tumor. In summary, these tumors represent another distinct type of composite glandular and endocrine gastric neoplasm with pancreatic acinar differentiation.
16220833: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical study of neuroendocrine differentiation in primary glandular lesions and tumors of the urinary bladder. Neuroendocrine (NE) cells are uncommon in primary adenocarcinoma (AC) and other glandular lesions of the bladder, with no recent study series concerning its significance in differential diagnosis, prognosis or biologic significance.
16217794: !synaptophysin Nicotinamide promotes long-term survival and extensive neurite outgrowth in ultimobranchial C cells cultured from chick embryos. In avian species, the ultimobranchial anlage is populated with neuronal cells derived from the distal vagal ganglion. We found that ultimobranchial C cells of chick embryos cultured in the presence of nicotinamide continued to grow for at least 60 days and exhibited profound morphological changes, resulting in the formation of dense networks of neuronal fibers. Nicotinamide, thus, facilitated the manifestation of neuronal features in C cells. The neuronal phenotypes of cultured C cells were analyzed in detail by both scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Their neural nature was also positively established by immunostaining with monoclonal antibodies to the neuronal markers neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin (TuJ1), microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 2, and synaptophysin. Confocal laser scanning microscopy confirmed that these neuron-specific proteins are colocalized with calcitonin in both the somata and the neuronal processes of C cells. Furthermore, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analyses, performed at various times up to 30 days in culture, indicated that the C cells have persistent gene expression of calcitonin, the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase, proenkephalin, proopiomelanocortin, neuron-specific beta-tubulin (cbeta4), SCG10, and Bcl-2. The morphological responses of C cells to nicotinamide treatment were analyzed quantitatively over a period of 60 days. The area of C-cell colonies, number of processes per colony, and length of processes continued to increase until culture day 45. In conclusion, nicotinamide stimulates long-term survival and neuronal differentiation of chick embryo C cells, and this culture system may provide a useful model for studying neuronal differentiation mechanisms.
16216431: !synaptophysin PSA-NCAM expression in the rat medial prefrontal cortex. The rat medial prefrontal cortex, an area considered homologous to the human prefrontal cortex, is a region in which neuronal structural plasticity has been described during adulthood. Some plastic processes such as neurite outgrowth and synaptogenesis are known to be regulated by the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM). Since PSA-NCAM is present in regions of the adult CNS which are undergoing structural remodeling, such as the hypothalamus or the hippocampus, we have analyzed the expression of this molecule in the medial prefrontal cortex of adult rats using immunohistochemistry. PSA-NCAM immunoreactivity was found both in cell bodies and in the neuropil of the three divisions of the medial prefrontal cortex. All cell somata expressing PSA-NCAM corresponded to neurons and 5' bromodeoxyuridine labeling after long survival times demonstrated that these neurons were not recently generated. Many of these PSA-NCAM immunoreactive neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex could be classified as interneurons on the basis of their morphology and glutamate decarboxylase, isoform 67 expression. Some of the PSA-NCAM immunoreactive neurons also expressed somatostatin, neuropeptide Y and calbindin-D28K. By contrast, pyramidal neurons in this cortical region did not appear to express PSA-NCAM. However, some of these principal neurons appeared surrounded by PSA-NCAM immunoreactive puncta. Some of these puncta co-expressed synaptophysin, suggesting the presence of synapses. Since the etiology of some psychiatric disorders has been related to alterations in medial prefrontal cortex structural plasticity, the study of PSA-NCAM expression in this region may open a new approach to the pathophysiology of these mental disorders.
16214365: !synaptophysin Brain-derived neurotrophic factor-induced potentiation of glutamate and GABA release: different dependency on signaling pathways and neuronal activity. The mechanisms underlying BDNF-modulated neurotransmitter release remain elusive. Here, we found that 24-h exposure of postnatal cortical neurons to BDNF potentiated depolarization-evoked glutamate and GABA release in a protein synthesis-dependent manner. BDNF-potentiated glutamate release occurred through the PLC-gamma and MAPK pathways. The expression of synapsin I, synaptotagmin, and synaptophysin, but not of syntaxin or SNAP25, increased through the PLC-gamma and MAPK pathways. In contrast, BDNF-up-regulated GABA release and GAD65/67 expression depended on MAPK. Furthermore, neuronal activity was necessary for the up-regulation of glutamate release and synapsin I, synaptotagmin, and synaptophysin expression, but not of GABA or GAD65/67. PLC-gamma inhibitor attenuated BDNF-stimulated long-lasting MAPK activation. As BDNF rapidly potentiates glutamatergic transmission through PLC-gamma (J. Biol. Chem. 277, (2002) 6520-6529), PLC-gamma-mediated neuronal activity might sustain MAPK activation, resulting in BDNF-potentiated glutamate release. In conclusion, BDNF potentiates the excitatory and inhibitory system separately, which may be important for the regulation of synaptic plasticity.
16207868: !synaptophysin Beta-amyloid immunotherapy prevents synaptic degeneration in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease neuropathology is characterized by key features that include the deposition of the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) into plaques, the formation of neurofibrillary tangles, and the loss of neurons and synapses in specific brain regions. The loss of synapses, and particularly the associated presynaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin in the hippocampus and association cortices, has been widely reported to be one of the most robust correlates of Alzheimer's disease-associated cognitive decline. The beta-amyloid hypothesis supports the idea that Abeta is the cause of these pathologies. However, the hypothesis is still controversial, in part because the direct role of Abeta in synaptic degeneration awaits confirmation. In this study, we show that Abeta reduction by active or passive Abeta immunization protects against the progressive loss of synaptophysin in the hippocampal molecular layer and frontal neocortex of a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. These results, substantiated by quantitative electron microscopic analysis of synaptic densities, strongly support a direct causative role of Abeta in the synaptic degeneration seen in Alzheimer's disease and strengthen the potential of Abeta immunotherapy as a treatment approach for this disease.
16203274: !synaptophysin Primary parathyroid tumors of the mediastinum: a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 17 cases. We describe 17 cases (9 women, 8 men; aged 36 to 72 years) of primary parathyroid tumors occurring primarily in the anterior mediastinum. Clinically and radiologically, all patients had an anterior mediastinal tumor. All patients had metabolic disturbances with calcium and phosphorus. Of 17 patients, 13 had clinical primary hyperparathyroidism, 1 had secondary hyperparathyroidism due to polycystic kidney disease, and 1 had a history of prostatic carcinoma and 1 of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. In 1 patient, the tumor was found at autopsy. Grossly, the tumors varied in size from 2 to 7 cm in greatest dimension. Histologically, 2 tumors showed features of parathyroid carcinoma, and 15 tumors showed more conventional features of parathyroid adenomas. Six tumors were predominantly oncocytic, 6 were composed predominantly of chief cells, and 3 had mixed cellular composition. Immunohistochemical studies for chromogranin, synaptophysin, low-molecular-weight keratin (CAM 5.2), and parathyroid hormone were performed in 10 cases (8 parathyroid adenomas and 2 parathyroid carcinomas). All the tumors examined showed variable positive reaction for those antibodies. The cases highlight the importance of keeping primary parathyroid tumors in the differential diagnosis of anterior mediastinal tumors.
16199900: !synaptophysin Spindle cell pancreatic endocrine tumor associated with Cushing's syndrome. A 59-yr old female presented with Cushing's syndrome due to ectopic ACTH production. At the time of initial diagnosis an obvious source for the Cushing's syndrome was not found and the patient was treated with bilateral adrenalectomy. Three years later she presented with hyperpigmentation and evidence of ACTH overproduction. This time a CT scan localized a mass to the tail of the pancreas and a distal pancreatectomy was performed. The mass was composed of compact plump spindle cells arranged in interlacing fascicles, was well circumscribed, and did not display angioinvasion. Although isolated punctate foci of necrosis were noted, the overall mitotic count was 1 per 10 high power fields. Immunohistochemistry showed the tumor to be positive for chromogranin, synaptophysin, and ACTH. This case highlights an unusual histological variant of pancreatic endocrine tumor (PET), namely, one composed almost exclusively of interlacing spindle-shaped cells. This raises a wide differential diagnosis and the use of immunohistochemistry is required to arrive at the correct diagnosis. ACTH-producing PET are usually aggressive lesions with metastases at the time of presentation and aggressive biological behavior. However, this case was characterized by an indolent clinical course.
16195243: !synaptophysin Envenoming bites by kraits: the biological basis of treatment-resistant neuromuscular paralysis. Beta-bungarotoxin, a neurotoxic phospholipase A2 is a major fraction of the venom of kraits. The toxin was inoculated into one hind limb of young adult rats. The inoculated hind limb was paralysed within 3 h, and remained paralysed for 2 days. The paralysis was associated with the loss of synaptic vesicles from motor nerve terminal boutons, a decline in immunoreactivity of synaptophysin, SNAP-25 and syntaxin, a loss of muscle mass and the upregulation of NaV(1.5) mRNA and protein. Between 3 and 6 h after the inoculation of toxin, some nerve terminal boutons exhibited clear signs of degeneration. Others appeared to be in the process of withdrawing from the synaptic cleft and some boutons were fully enwrapped in terminal Schwann cell processes. By 12 h all muscle fibres were denervated. Re-innervation began at 3 days with the appearance of regenerating nerve terminals, a return of neuromuscular function in some muscles and a progressive increase in the immunoreactivity of synaptophysin, SNAP-25 and syntaxin. Full recovery occurred at 7 days. The data were compared with recently published clinical data on envenoming bites by kraits and by extrapolation we suggest that the acute, reversible denervation caused by beta-bungarotoxin is a credible explanation for the clinically important, profound treatment-resistant neuromuscular paralysis seen in human subjects bitten by these animals.
16191161: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical study of the development of sensorimotor components of the early fetal human spinal cord. Sections from all spinal cord levels from 20 human fetuses, age range 7.5-17 gestational weeks (GW) were immunostained for non-phosphorylated neurofilaments (to reveal motoneurones, spinocerebellar neurones and other large neurones), the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin (large proprioreceptive afferents), growth-associated protein 43 kDa (growing axons), glial fibrillary acidic protein (radial glia), synaptophysin (synaptic terminals) the cell-cell recognition molecule ephrin A4 (EphA4) and the ETS transcription factor Er81 (subclasses of motoneurone and proprioreceptive neurone). Muscle afferents crossed the dorsal horn by 7.5 GW and innervated motoneurones by 9 GW. An alignment of glial fibres guided them from dorsal columns to ventral horn, at right angles to the radial glia. They continued to provide a dense innervation of motoneurone pools up to 17 GW. By 13 GW motoneurones were segregated into distinct columns, all of which expressed EphA4 although only certain lateral groups expressed Er81. However, Er81 expression was more widespread amongst dorsal root ganglion neurones. From 9 GW Clarke's column neurones were identified and by 14 GW were heavily innervated by parvalbumin-positive afferents whilst their efferent axons could be traced to the lateral funiculus. This investigation contributes towards a timetable for the functional development of human motor control and makes comparisons with well-studied rodent models.
16188147: !synaptophysin [The expression and significance of chromogranin A and synaptophysin in adrenal gland tumors]. To investigate the expression of chromogranin A (CgA) and synaptophysin (Syn) for differential diagnosis of different kinds of adrenal gland tumors.
16181871: !synaptophysin Time-dependent regional myocardial denervation as a nonspecific response to transmyocardial laser revascularization. It is known that denervation occurs in the regions of myocardium treated by laser transmyocardial revascularization (TMR). The purpose of this study was to determine when regional denervation occurs in the early postoperative period and whether or not it is specific to laser TMR when compared with TMR using ultrasonically activated energy.
16179808: !synaptophysin Peanut-like 1 (septin 5) gene expression in normal and neoplastic human endocrine pancreas. Peanut-like 1 (PNUTL1) is a septin gene which is expressed at high levels in human brain. There it plays a role in the process of membrane fusion during exocytosis by interacting with syntaxin and synaptophysin. As the secretory apparatus of pancreatic islet cells closely resembles that of neurons, we decided to study the expression of PNUTL1 in the human endocrine pancreas, both in normal islets and in pancreatic endocrine tumors (PETs). Normal pancreatic tissue, purified islets, 11 PETs and two cell lines were used to evaluate the presence of PNUTL1 by RT-PCR and Western blot. The expression of the PNUTL1 protein was also evaluated by immunohistochemistry on normal pancreas, additional 26 PETs, eight pancreatic adenocarcinomas, one mixed endocrine-exocrine pancreatic neoplasm, a specimen of solid papillary pseudomucinous tumor, an adult islet cell hyperplasia and a case of neonatal nesidioblastosis. In addition, a tissue array (LandMark High Density Cancer Tissue MicroArray) comprising 280 various tumor and matched normal specimens was utilized. In PETs, the expression of pancreatic hormones, chromogranin-A, synaptophysin and Ki-67 were also evaluated. In the normal pancreas PNUTL1 expression is almost exclusively confined to the islet cells, weak expression was occasionally seen in some acinar cells, while immunoreactivity was completely absent in the ductal epithelia. PNUTL1 expression is maintained at similar high levels in hyperplastic and neoplastic islet cells, but this did not correlate with any of the clinicopathological data nor with proliferation status in PETs. Weak immunoreactivity was also noted in a proportion of exocrine neoplasms. Our findings describe for the first time the high expression levels of PNUTL1 in human pancreatic endocrine cells that suggests a similar role of this protein in islet cells to that demonstrated in neuronal tissues, and warrants further functional studies of this protein.
16179554: !synaptophysin Expression of prostaglandin E2 synthases in mouse postnatal cortical neurons. Eicosanoids and the enzymes associated with their metabolism play an active role in the neuroinflammatory process that is often a hallmark of neurodegenerative disorders. Cerebral cortical neurons constitute a highly affected cell population in neurologic disorders. To obtain a cellular model to analyze prostaglandin action and metabolism in cortical neurons, we developed postnatal neuronal cultures from mouse cortex in a serum-free medium. Cultured cortical cells were highly enriched in neurons containing only 5 +/- 2% glial cells. The cultures were assayed for expression of several protein markers of neuronal maturity: synaptic markers (synapsin I and synaptophysin) and glutamate receptor subunits (NMDA receptor 1 and glutamate receptor 1). The protein expression of eicosanoid-metabolizing enzymes, including cyclooxygenase-2 and microsomal and cytosolic PGE2 synthases, was investigated as well. Postnatal neurons successfully survived for a long term (up to 40 days) in vitro in serum-free media, as characterized by the expression of synapsin I, synaptophysin, and microtubule-associated protein 2. Glutamate receptor subunit expression increased over time in cultures, with the highest levels at 15 days. Enzymes involved in the eicosanoid metabolism followed a distinct pattern of expression, suggesting potential regulation of PGE2 synthesis with time in cultures under basal conditions. Use of postnatal brain cultures offers several advantages, especially regarding degree of neuronal maturation, use of postnatal pups instead of pregnant mice, and potentially increased clinical relevance in models of neuroinflammation processes and prostanoid cellular neurobiology.
16178895: !synaptophysin Malignant melanoma with neuroendocrine differentiation: clinical, histological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features of three cases. To document the clinical, histological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features of three malignant melanomas showing neuroendocrine differentiation.
16177556: !synaptophysin [A case of primary small cell carcinoma of the liver]. Primary small cell carcinoma of the liver is an extremely rare tumor. Extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma shares many features of pulmonary small cell carcinoma, including the histological appearance, the aggressive clinical behavior and the frequent short-lasting response to either chemotherapy or radiotherapy. We experienced a 56-year-old man with small cell carcinoma that arose in the liver. Abdominal CT scan showed an 8 cm size, low density mass in the segment 4 of the liver and also multiple lymphadenopathies. Chest X-ray showed no abnormal finding, but the chest CT showed a right lower paratracheal lymphadenopathy. The pathological findings showed nests of small round cells with fine granular chromatin, inconspicuous nucleoli and scanty cytoplasm. Distinct and strong immunoreactions were seen for CD56 and c-kit, and sparse immunoreaction was seen for synaptophysin. Thyroid transcription factor-1 showed no immunoreaction. The tumor did not decrease in size despite chemotherapy. We report this case along with a review of the relevant literatures.
16176438: !synaptophysin Reductions in cholesterol and synaptic markers in association cortex in mood disorders. Cholesterol forms an integral part of cell membranes and is a major component of myelin. Furthermore, cholesterol also plays a vital role in the development, function and stability of synapses. While low serum cholesterol has previously been associated with mood disorders, cholesterol levels have yet to be quantified within the brain in these disorders. The aim of this study was to quantify sterol levels in the brains of patients with major psychiatric disorders and further to relate these levels to markers of myelin and synapses.
16176347: !synaptophysin Early changes in synaptic connectivity following progressive photoreceptor degeneration in RCS rats. The Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) rat has a retinal pigment epithelial cell defect that causes progressive loss of photoreceptors. Although it is extensively used in retinal degeneration and repair studies, how photoreceptor degeneration affects retinal circuitry has not been fully explored. This study examined the changes in synaptic connectivity between photoreceptors and their target cells using immunocytochemistry and correlated these changes with retinal function using the electroretinogram (ERG). Immunostaining with bassoon and synaptophysin (as presynaptic markers) and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR6, a postsynaptic marker for ON-bipolar dendrites) was already impaired at postnatal day (P) 21 and progressively lost with infrequent pairing of presynaptic and postsynaptic elements at P60. By P90 to P120, staining became increasingly patchy and was eventually restricted to sparsely and irregularly distributed foci in which the normal pairing of presynaptic and postsynaptic markers was lost. ERG results showed that mixed scotopic a-waves and b-waves were already reduced by P21 but not oscillatory potentials. While cone-driven responses (photopic b-wave) reached normal levels at P30, they were impaired by P60 but could still be recorded at P120, although with reduced amplitude; rod responses never reached normal amplitudes. Thus, only cone-driven activity attained normal levels, but declined rapidly thereafter. In conclusion, the synaptic markers associated with photoreceptors and processes of bipolar and horizontal cells show abnormalities prior to significant photoreceptor loss. These changes are paralleled with the deterioration of specific aspects of ERG responsiveness with age. Besides providing information on the effects of photoreceptor dysfunction and loss on connection patterns in the retina, the work addresses the more general issue of how disorder of input neurons affects downstream circuitry.
16176067: !synaptophysin Mechanism of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium-induced dopamine release from PC12 cells. The molecular mechanism of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), a Parkinsonism-inducing neurotoxin, has been studied in PC12 cells. The cells treated with MPP+ (100 microM) induced a rapid increase in phosphorylation of tyrosine residues of several proteins, including synaptophysin, a major 38 kDa synaptic vesicle protein implicated in exocytosis. An accelerated release of dopamine by MPP+ correlated with phosphorylation of synaptophysin. Exposing the cells to MPP+ triggered reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation within 60 min of treatment and the said effect was blocked by mazindol, a dopamine uptake blocker. In addition, pretreatment with 50-100 microM of selegiline, a selective MAO-B inhibitor, significantly suppressed MPP+-mediated ROS generation. These effects of MPP+ result in the generation of ROS, which may be involved in neuronal degeneration seen in Parkinson's disease.
16175078: !synaptophysin Uterine retiform sertoli-leydig cell tumor: report of a case providing additional evidence that uterine tumors resembling ovarian sex cord tumors have a histologic and immunohistochemical phenotype of genuine sex cord tumors. We report a case of a retiform Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor of intermediate differentiation presenting as a uterine intracavity polypoid mass in a 63-year-old woman. In contrast to sertoliform endometrioid carcinoma and to hitherto reported uterine tumors resembling ovarian sex cord tumors (UTROSCTs), which are primarily characterized by tubular glands and solid tubules, this tumor, which most likely represents a UTROSCT, showed a large spectrum of histologic features typical of a genuine retiform Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor. The diagnosis was confirmed by a battery of immunohistochemical stains, which also served as a tool for differential diagnosis with other neoplasms. The tumor cells were positive for broad spectrum keratin (CK) CK18, vimentin, calretinin, and progesterone receptor. Only a few isolated cells stained for inhibin. The tumor cells were negative for CK7, CK5/6, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), carbohydrate antigen 125 (CA125), thrombomodulin, 013 (CD99), melan A, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP), alpha-1-antitrypsin, estrogen receptor, S100, neurone specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin, synaptophysin, desmin, caldesmon, and CD10. Divergent differentiation of uterine cells seems to be the most likely pathogenetic mechanism. To the best of our knowledge, no UTROSCT showing such a variety of histologic features indicative of a true sex cord tumor has been reported before.
16174552: !synaptophysin Polychlorinated biphenyls alter expression of alpha-synuclein, synaptophysin and parkin in the rat brain. Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs)-induced changes in synaptic transmission are one of the effects of their neurotoxicity but the mechanism remains unknown. We assessed the in vivo effects of the PCBs mixture, Aroclor 1254 on the expression of neuronal proteins that are involved in the synaptic function and/or are associated with neurodegeneration. Wistar rats were treated orally with repeated doses of Aroclor 1254 and the levels of soluble alpha-synuclein, parkin, synaptophysin and amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the brain were determined by Western blotting. The results showed that Aroclor did not cause changes in the expression and processing of APP but at a dose 100 microg/g/day repeated for 6 days caused a decrease in the expression of alpha-synuclein in the cerebellum, cortex, hippocampus and hypothalamus of the animals sacrificed 2 days after treatment. The decrease in alpha-synuclein was accompanied by a transient increase in parkin and synaptophysin levels. Interestingly, in the hypothalamus the levels of alpha-synuclein remained decreased after 21 days post treatment perhaps due to regional differences in the PCBs elimination or perhaps a more specific interaction with the dopaminergic cells that are present in the hypothalamus that needs to be investigated further.
16170536: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine tumours metastatic to the uvea: diagnosis by fine needle aspiration biopsy. Uveal metastasis from a neuroendocrine tumour is rare and can simulate other primary or metastatic uveal tumours, both clinically and cytomorphologically. We describe four cases of uveal metastasis from a neuroendocrine tumour diagnosed by fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB).
16169186: !synaptophysin Distribution of synaptobrevin/VAMP 1 and 2 in rat brain. The synaptobrevin/vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) family of proteins, which are essential for neurotransmitter release, are the vesicle donor soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein (SNAP) receptor (SNARE) proteins first described in synaptic vesicles at nerve terminals. Two synaptobrevin/VAMP isoforms are involved in calcium-dependent synaptic vesicle exocytosis, synaptobrevin/VAMP 1 and synaptobrevin/VAMP 2. However, the functional significance of these two highly homologous isoforms remains to be elucidated. Here, we used immunohistochemical, immunofluorescence and confocal microscope techniques to localize the two synaptobrevin/VAMP isoforms in rat brain areas, particularly in nerve terminals. Our results show that the two isoforms are present in the rat central nervous system and that their expression overlaps in some areas. However, a distinct distribution pattern was detected. Synaptobrevin/VAMP 2 is the most abundant isoform in the rat brain and is widely distributed. Although synaptobrevin/VAMP 1 is less abundant, it is the main isoform in particular brain areas (e.g. zona incerta at the subthalamus or nerve terminals surrounding thalamic neurons). The colocalization of synaptophysin with synaptobrevin/VAMP 1 demonstrates the presence of this isoform in subsets of nerve terminals. These results indicate that each synaptic vesicle donor SNARE protein isoform could have a specialized role in the neurosecretory process.
16168969: !synaptophysin Orexin (hypocretin) innervation of the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus. The paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT) is a midline thalamic nucleus with projections to limbic forebrain areas such as the nucleus accumbens and amygdala. The orexin (hypocretin) peptides are synthesized in hypothalamic neurons that project throughout the CNS. The present experiments were done to describe the extent of orexin fiber innervation of the PVT in comparison to other midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei and to establish the location and proportion of orexin neurons innervating the PVT. All aspects of the anteroposterior PVT were found to be densely innervated by orexin fibers with numerous enlargements that also stained for synaptophysin, a marker for synaptic vesicle protein associated with pre-synaptic sites. Small discrete injections of cholera toxin B into the PVT of rats resulted in the retrograde labeling of a relatively small number of orexin neurons in the medial and lateral hypothalamus. The results also showed a lack of topographical organization among orexin neurons projecting to the PVT. Previous studies indicate that orexin neurons and neurons in the PVT appear to be most active during periods of arousal. Therefore, orexin neurons and their projections to the PVT may be part of a limbic forebrain arousal system.
16167546: !synaptophysin Challenging diagnosis: oligodendroglioma versus extraventricular neurocytoma. Diagnosis of oligodendroglioma from other clear cell neoplasms of central nervous system (CNS) is still challenging despite advances in neuroradiology and molecular diagnostic tools. Herein, we present a 44-year-old male patient who had a diagnosis of right parietal oligodendroglioma grade II in 1994 which recurred in 2002. He presented with intratumoral hemorrhage and he underwent radical resection of tumor in 2003. Histopathological examination of the recurrent tumor showed anaplastic progression with confusing immunohistochemical (IHC) results; the tumor was positive for NeuN and synaptophysin staining. The question arisen was whether the recurrent tumor was an oligodendroglioma with neuronal differentiation or an extraventricular neurocytoma initially misdiagnosed as oligodendroglioma. Repeated IHC staining showed negative results for NeuN and synaptophysin. Chromosomal analysis revealed 1p/19q deletion, which led to the diagnosis ofanaplastic oligodendroglioma grade III. Accurate diagnosis of oligodendroglioma is crucial due to recent advances and promises in its treatment. Current diagnostic methods of oligodendroglial tumors are discussed in context of differentiating oligodendrogliomas from other clear cell neoplasms of CNS, especially from extraventricular neurocytomas.
16164706: !synaptophysin Merkel cell carcinoma: a clinicopathological study of 11 cases. To report our 12-year experience with Merkel cell carcinomas (MCCs) from a clinical and pathological point of view.
16163845: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical evidence for species-specific coexistence of catecholamines, serotonin, acetylcholine and nitric oxide in glomus cells of rat and guinea pig aortic bodies. The aortic bodies are small paraganglia distributed along the vagus nerve and its branches in the vicinity of the aortic arch which, like the carotid bodies, act as arterial chemoreceptors. In the rat carotid body, corelease of ATP and acetylcholine (ACh) from glomus cells is considered to be the main mechanism mediating fast hypoxic chemotransmission while dopamine, serotonin, and nitric oxide (NO) exert modulating effects. The present study was aimed at determination of the endogenous sources of serotonin, ACh and NO within rat and guinea pig aortic bodies by immunohistochemical double- and triple-labeling approaches, utilizing antibodies to serotonin, the NO and ACh synthesizing enzymes neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), respectively, as well as to the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). Additional marker antibodies were directed against the rate-limiting enzyme of catecholamine synthesis, i.e. tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and the vesicular protein, synaptophysin (SYN). In both species, all aortic body glomus cells were immunoreactive to serotonin and cholinergic markers. In the rat, all glomus cells were additionally catecholaminergic, as indicated by TH-immunoreactivity, whereas this applied only to a subgroup of guinea pig glomus cells. On the other hand, all guinea pig glomus cells were nNOS-immunoreactive, whereas only nerve fibers but not glomus cells exhibited nNOS-immunoreactivity in the rat. These data support the concept that the chemoexcitatory transmitters ACh and serotonin are involved in hypoxic excitation of aortic chemoreceptor terminals in both species. The production of the inhibitory modulators, dopamine and NO, however, appears to be species-specifically regulated.
16160476: !synaptophysin Endocrine mucin-producing sweat gland carcinoma: twelve new cases suggest that it is a precursor of some invasive mucinous carcinomas. Endocrine mucin-producing sweat gland carcinoma (EMPSGC) is an underrecognized low-grade carcinoma with predilection to the eyelid. Only 4 cases of this entity have been described in the literature. Here, we describe 12 cases of EMPSGC. The lesions were twice as frequent in females than males with an average age of 70 years (range, 48-84 years). Clinically, they presented as a slowly growing cyst or swelling. The most common site of occurrence was the lower eyelid (8 cases). Two lesions occurred on the upper eyelid and 2 on the cheek. Histologically, they were well-circumscribed, typically multinodular tumors with solid or partially cystic nodules, frequently showing areas of papillary architecture. Focal cribriform arrangements were also present. The nodules were formed by uniform small- to medium-sized oval to polygonal epithelial cells with lightly eosinophilic to bluish cytoplasm. The nuclei were bland with diffusely stippled chromatin and inconspicuous nucleoli. Intracytoplasmic and extracellular mucin was usually present. Mitotic activity was present but never brisk. All tumors examined immunohistochemically expressed at least one neuroendocrine marker, synaptophysin or chromogranin. CD57 and neuron specific enolase, secondary markers of neuroendocrine differentiation, were expressed in most cases. All tumors tested expressed estrogen and progesterone receptors, cytokeratin 7, low molecular cytokeratin Cam5.2, and epithelial membrane antigen and were negative for cytokeratin 20 and S-100 protein. Calponin, smooth muscle actin, and p63 immunohistochemical stains did not disclose myoepithelial cells around larger tumor nests in most cases, supporting the notion that EMPSGC is an invasive carcinoma. In 10 cases, cystic areas lined by benign epithelium indistinguishable from eccrine ducts were present. In some foci, the benign ductal epithelium was undermined or replaced by carcinoma in situ with similar cytologic features to the solid or papillary areas of EMPSGC. Myoepithelial cells were preserved in the areas of in situ carcinoma. In 6 cases, EMPSGC was associated with invasive mucinous carcinoma. In situ carcinoma and mucinous carcinoma also expressed neuroendocrine markers. Clinical follow-up showed no recurrences or metastases, consistent with low-grade carcinoma. The series provides histologic evidence for a multistage progression of noninvasive sweat gland neuroendocrine carcinoma to EMPSGC and then to mucinous carcinoma of the eyelid. Although the data from this series support the notion that the prognosis of EMPSGC and mucinous carcinoma is good, longer follow-up is needed for better understanding of their pathogenesis and clinical behavior.
16159442: !synaptophysin [Expression of CD56, as a potential diagnostic marker, in small cell carcinoma]. Small cell carcinoma is a rare malignant disease with high mortality, which is pathologically diagnosed by using routine neuroendocrinal markers, such as neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin (SYN), chromogranin A (CgA). This study was to investigate the expression of CD56, a neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), in small cell carcinoma tissues, and to explore the possibility of CD56 as a diagnostic marker of small cell carcinoma.
16154638: !synaptophysin Prenatal hypoxia impairs memory function but does not result in overt structural alterations in the postnatal chick brain. We showed previously that hypoxia in ovo impairs memory consolidation in the chick tested 2 days after hatching. Our present aim was to investigate whether we could detect any morphological effects of the same prenatal hypoxia. Hypoxia was induced by half-wrapping the egg with an impermeable membrane from either days 10-18 (W10-18 chicks) or days 14-18 (W14-18 chicks) of incubation (hatching approximately 21 days). Measurement of blood gases showed that reducing the surface area of the egg for gas exchange resulted in reduced pO2 and increased pCO2 2 days after wrapping. Although this hypoxia was sufficient to impair cognitive processing in the postnatal chick, our data suggest that it did not produce overt structural alterations or changes in the number of neurons, glutamine synthetase-immunoreactive cells or immunoreactivity to synaptophysin in the presynaptic vesicles in the multimodal integration (cortical) area compared to controls. Hence, we found no differences in the astrocyte to neuron ratio, synaptic density and/or vesicle number. Analysis of the ontogeny of astrocytes during the prenatal period of hypoxia showed them to be present at embryonic day 12, but not at the earlier ages examined. Although we found cognitive deficits in chicks from embryos made hypoxic during incubation, our regimen of prenatal hypoxia did not alter any of the parameters measured in the brains. This does not preclude the possibility that changes have occurred at the cellular or molecular levels or in specific neurotransmitter systems.
16148232: !synaptophysin Monosynaptic pathway from rat vibrissa motor cortex to facial motor neurons revealed by lentivirus-based axonal tracing. The mammalian motor cortex typically innervates motor neurons indirectly via oligosynaptic pathways. However, evolution of skilled digit movements in humans, apes, and some monkey species is associated with the emergence of abundant monosynaptic cortical projections onto spinal motor neurons innervating distal limb muscles. Rats perform skilled movements with their whiskers, and we examined the possibility that the rat vibrissa motor cortex (VMC) projects monosynaptically onto facial motor neurons controlling the whisker movements. First, single injections of lentiviruses to VMC sites identified by intracortical microstimulations were used to label a distinct subpopulation of VMC axons or presynaptic terminals by expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP) or GFP-tagged synaptophysin, respectively. Four weeks after the injections, GFP and synaptophysin-GFP labeling of axons and putative presynaptic terminals was detected in the lateral portion of the facial nucleus (FN), in close proximity to motor neurons identified morphologically and by axonal back-labeling from the whisker follicles. The VMC projections were detected bilaterally, with threefold larger density of labeling in the contralateral FN. Next, multiple VMC injections were used to label a large portion of VMC axons, resulting in overall denser but still laterally restricted FN labeling. Ultrastructural analysis of the GFP-labeled VMC axons confirmed the existence of synaptic contacts onto dendrites and somata of FN motor neurons. These findings provide anatomical demonstration of monosynaptic VMC-to-FN pathway in the rat and show that lentivirus-based expression of GFP and GFP-tagged presynaptic proteins can be used as a high-resolution neuroanatomical tracing method.
16139428: !synaptophysin Nucleostemin, a coordinator of self-renewal, is expressed in rat marrow stromal cells and turns off after induction of neural differentiation. Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) are pluripotent stem cells with self-renewal property and potential to differentiate into a variety of cell types. Identification of the genes responsible for coordination of these processes and elucidation of the mechanisms underlying these events are of fundamental importance. Nucleostemin, a novel p53 binding protein localized in the nucleoli of ESCs, is not expressed in the differentiated cells of adult tissue, suggesting a role in maintaining stem cell self-renewal. In the present study, we have evaluated the expression profile of nucleostemin in rat BMSCs before and after the induction of neural differentiation by RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry. The profile of nucleostemin expression is then compared to the key regulators of proliferation/differentiation such as: Oct-4, Nanog, Neuro D, and Cyclin D1. Our data reveal that there is no detectable expression of Oct-4 and Nanog in either non-differentiated or neurally differentiated BMSCs. In contrast, the expression of nucleostemin is relatively high in non-differentiated BMSCs, then sharply diminishes upon induction of differentiation and finally completely vanishes by 6h after initiation of differentiation. The disappearance of nucleostemin expression coincides with the appearance of Neurofilament-M and -H, MAP2, synaptophysin- and neuron-specific enolase as revealed by RT-PCR and/or immunocytochemistry. Expression of Neuro D and Cyclin D1 also diminish as differentiation proceeds but at much slower rates as compared to nucleostemin. In conclusion, our results suggest that nucleostemin, but not Oct-4 or Nanog, is expressed in BMSCs and it possibly regulates self-renewal proliferation in BMSCs.
16138374: !synaptophysin Cytology applications of p63 and TTF-1 immunostaining in differential diagnosis of lung cancers. The pathologic distinction of small cell from non-small cell-lung carcinoma is of considerable therapeutic significance. In particular, the ability to distinguish poorly differentiated non-small-cell lung cancer from small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) is at times difficult based upon morphology alone; available immunohistochemical markers such as neuroendocrine markers are of limited utility. We have demonstrated the role of p63 and thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1) in the differential diagnosis of poorly differentiated squamous-cell carcinoma (PDSCC) versus SCLC, mostly in biopsy samples (Wu et al., American Journal of Clinical Pathology 2003;119:696-702). Here, we examine further the utility of this panel in cytologic cell-block samples of lung cancers including both primary and metastatic cancers of pulmonary origin, and cases of nonpulmonary cancers metastatic to lung in which differential diagnoses included a lung primary.Four-micron thick sections of 30 alcohol-fixed paraffin-embedded cell blocks from 14 lung FNAs, 6 liver FNAs, 3 bronchial washings, 1 subcarinal lymph node FNA, 1 iliac lymph node FNA, 1 pelvic mass FNA, 1 neck lymph node FNA, 1 adrenal FNA, and 1 pleural effusion were deparaffinized and stained with monoclonal antibodies reactive to p63 (1:800, Santa Cruz Biotechnology) and TTF-1 (1:50, Dako). Slides were stained for p63 using a streptavidin-biotin kit (BioGenex) and diaminobenzidine as chromagen, and counterstained with hematoxylin. Slides were stained for TTF-1 using a Dako Autostainer. Thirty cases were examined, including 8 primary SCLCs, 8 extra-pulmonary metastases of lung SCLCs, 4 PDSCCs and 4 primary pulmonary adenocarcinomas, and 6 nonpulmonary adenocarcinomas metastatic to lung or other sites. Fifteen out of 16 (94%) SCLC cases were p63-/TTF-1+, ranging in intensity from focal-weak to diffuse-strong; 1/16 SCLCs from a bronchial washing was p63-/TTF-1- but synaptophysin was positive. All 4 primary lung adenocarcinoma cases were p63-/TTF-1+; contrasting with nonpulmonary adenocarcinomas that were all p63-/TTF-1-. All 4 PDSCC cases were p63+/TTF-1-. The panel of p63 and TTF-1 appears to be useful in the diagnostic evaluation of cytologic cell-block samples of pulmonary malignancy.
16138370: !synaptophysin Fine-needle aspiration cytology of pancreatoblastoma in a young woman: report of a case and review of the literature. Pancreatoblastoma is a rare tumor and has been reported only four times in the cytologic literature, three times in fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy and once in an imprint of resected tumor. We are reporting the fourth case of FNA cytology with immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies. The patient is a 24-yr-old African American woman, who presented with a pancreatic mass, hepatic masses, and abdominal lymphadenopathy. The aspiration smears of the liver mass showed a biphasic tumor composed of bland-appearing primitive spindled stromal fragments with "spider-web"-like long fibrils interconnecting with sharply angulated islands of cohesive epithelium. At high power, the epithelium is composed of medium-sized cells with round-to-oval vesicular nuclei with fine chromatin and one-to-two small nucleoli. The neuroendocrine component was demonstrated immunohistochemically with synaptophysin and chromogranin expressions. The acinar component and squamoid component were demonstrated ultrastructurally by the presence of 400-600 nm zymogen granules and tonofilaments. The literature was reviewed and the cytological features of all the four cases of pancreatoblastoma are summarized.
16134595: !synaptophysin [Mossy fiber sprouting and synapse formation in the dentate gyrus of temporal lobe epilepsy rats induced by pilocarpine]. To investigate the relationship between mossy fiber axon sprouting (MFS), synaptic reorganization in the dentate gyrus, and the mechanism of chronic temporal lobe epilepsy induced by pilocarpine.
16132521: !synaptophysin Intraventricular glioneuronal hamartoma: histopathological correlation with magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Intraventricular hamartomas are extremely uncommon lesions outside of a setting of tuberous sclerosis. The second case of its kind in medical literature is presented and its possible aetiopathogenesis, imaging characteristics, pathognomonic magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and histopathology are discussed. An 11-year-old male presented with a seizure disorder for one year, with headache and vomiting for 15 days. Computerized tomography (CT) revealed a non-enhancing, heterogeneous, left-sided, trigonal lesion with areas of calcification trapping the left frontal horn. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) indicated that the lesion was iso to hypointense on T1 weighted images (T1WI) and iso to hyperintense on T2 weighted images (T2WI). A pathognomonic neurochemical signature was elicited on (1)H MRS showing low N-acetylaspartate resonance and normal creatine:choline ratios. Radical decompression of the tumor resulted in an excellent outcome. The diagnosis was established by positive immunohistochemical reactivity for synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and myelin basic protein. This is the first case report in existing medical literature in which a histopathological correlation is available for a hamartoma with an unequivocal MRS signal. The authors advocate the use of MRS in patients with tuberous sclerosis or neurofibromatosis with suspected hamartomas to distinguish these benign lesions from gliomas prior to a surgical exploration.
16130992: !synaptophysin Comparison of rabbit monoclonal and mouse monoclonal antibodies in immunohistochemistry in canine tissues. Rabbit monoclonal (RM) antibodies appear to have higher affinity for antigens than mouse monoclonal (MM) antibodies. However, RM antibodies have not been used in veterinary diagnostic immunohistochemistry. The authors compared reactivities of RM and MM antibodies on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded canine tissues, targeting 11 different antigens: CD3, CD79a, calcitonin, calretinin, chromogranin A, COX-2, estrogen receptor, Ki67, progesterone receptor, synaptophysin, and vimentin. Paraffin-embedded tissue sections were processed by 1 of 2 antigen-retrieval methods: 1) proteinase K digestion or 2) steam heat in citrate buffer. An additional set of slides did not receive antigen retrieval. Immunostaining was performed using an automated stainer, and scores were assigned to the different dilutions and antigen-retrieval methods on the basis of staining intensity and number of positive cells. Steam heat was usually the best antigen-retrieval method. The optimal dilution for each antibody was that which resulted in the highest specific staining and the lowest nonspecific (background) staining. The RM or MM antibodies yielded a specific reaction for all antigens examined except calretinin. The RM and MM antibodies yielded a specific reaction for 4 antigens only: COX-2, Ki67, synaptophysin, and vimentin. Three antigens (CD3, chromogranin A, and progesterone receptor) were detected only with RM antibodies, whereas the other 3 (CD79a, calcitonin, estrogen receptor) were detected only with MM antibodies. The results of this study differed from those reported for human tissues by the manufacturers of the antibodies. These results emphasize that, regardless of manufacturers' recommendations, each antibody must be individually standardized and validated before routine use in canine tissues.
16124609: !synaptophysin [Effects of the Panax notoginseng saponins on the level of synaptophysin protein in brain in rat model with lesion of Meynert]. To observe the protective effect of Panax notoginseng saponins (PNS) on the level of synaptophysin ptotein in brain in rat model with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
16122715: !synaptophysin Neural connections between embryonic stem cell-derived neurons and vestibular hair cells in vitro. This study aimed to examine the potential of embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived neural progenitors for restoration of the neural network in the peripheral vestibular system. Mouse ESC-derived neural progenitors were co-cultured with explants of vestibular sensory epithelia from neonatal mice. Histological analyses demonstrated that ESC-derived neurons substantially elongated their neurites towards vestibular hair cells, and attached to hair cells at the regions corresponding to the location of nerve endings in normal vestibular epithelia. Immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, a marker for synaptic vesicles, was present only in the cytoplasm of hair cells in sensory epithelia cultured alone, while the nerve endings of ESC-derived neurons attached to hair cells exhibited intense immunoreactivity for synaptophysin and some hair cells were moderately reactive in co-cultured specimens. The pattern of synaptophysin expression in co-cultured specimens was very similar to that observed in developing sensory epithelia, in which synaptic connections between hair cells and nerve endings are actively formed. These findings indicate that ESC-derived neurons have the potential to restore neural connections in the peripheral vestibular system.
16122387: !synaptophysin Evidence for proteolytic cleavage of brevican by the ADAMTSs in the dentate gyrus after excitotoxic lesion of the mouse entorhinal cortex. Brevican is a member of the lectican family of aggregating extracellular matrix (ECM) proteoglycans that bear chondroitin sulfate (CS) chains. It is highly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) and is thought to stabilize synapses and inhibit neural plasticity and as such, neuritic or synaptic remodeling would be less likely to occur in regions with intact and abundant, lectican-containing, ECM complexes. Neural plasticity may occur more readily when these ECM complexes are broken down by endogenous proteases, the ADAMTSs (adisintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs), that selectively cleave the lecticans. The purpose of these experiments was to determine whether the production of brevican or the ADAMTS-cleaved fragments of brevican were altered after deafferentation and reinnervation of the dentate gyrus via entorhinal cortex lesion (ECL).
16120773: !synaptophysin Trafficking of GABA(A) receptors, loss of inhibition, and a mechanism for pharmacoresistance in status epilepticus. During status epilepticus (SE), GABAergic mechanisms fail and seizures become self-sustaining and pharmacoresistant. During lithiumpilocarpine-induced SE, our studies of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors in dentate gyrus granule cells show a reduction in the amplitude of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs). Anatomical studies show a reduction in the colocalization of the beta2/beta3 and gamma2 subunits of GABA(A) receptors with the presynaptic marker synaptophysin and an increase in the proportion of those subunits in the interior of dentate granule cells and other hippocampal neurons with SE. Unlike synaptic mIPSCs, the amplitude of extrasynaptic GABA(A) tonic currents is augmented during SE. Mathematical modeling suggests that the change of mIPSCs with SE reflects a decrease in the number of functional postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors. It also suggests that increases in extracellular [GABA] during SE can account for the tonic current changes and can affect postsynaptic receptor kinetics with a loss of paired-pulse inhibition. GABA exposure mimics the effects of SE on mIPSC and tonic GABA(A) current amplitudes in granule cells, consistent with the model predictions. These results provide a potential mechanism for the inhibitory loss that characterizes initiation of SE and for the pharmacoresistance to benzodiazepines, as a reduction of available functional GABA(A) postsynaptic receptors. Novel therapies for SE might be directed toward prevention or reversal of these losses.
16116133: !synaptophysin A clinical, genetic, and neuropathologic study in a family with 16q-linked ADCA type III. Presented is the new kindred with autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia linked to chromosome 16q22.1 (16q-ADCA type III) associated with progressive hearing loss. By haplotype analysis, the critical interval was slightly narrowed to three megabase regions between GATA01 and D16S3095. Neuropathologic study of 16q-ADCA type III demonstrated characteristic shrinkage of Purkinje cell bodies surrounded by synaptophysin-immunoreactive amorphous material containing calbindin- and ubiquitin-positive granules.
16109647: !synaptophysin Choroidal ganglion cells in prenatal, young, and middle-aged human donor eyes. In the current study, the appearance and development of choroidal ganglion cells (CGCs) was investigated in eyes of 18 human donors between the 13th week of gestation (wog) and 42 years of age.
16107318: !synaptophysin Early changes in Abeta levels in the brain of APPswe transgenic mice--implication on synaptic density, alpha7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine- and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor levels. Tg 2576 (APPswe) mice develop age-related amyloid deposition as well as behavioural- and electrophysiological changes in the brain. In this study, APPswe mice were investigated from 7 to 90 days of age. We observed high Abeta levels in the cortex of APPswe mice at 7 days of age, suggesting that these mice produce Abeta from birth. A positive correlation between Abeta and synaptophysin levels, followed by changes in ERK MAPK activity, indicated that Abeta causes altered synaptic function and an increase in the number of synaptic terminals. In addition, alterations in [(125)I]alphabungarotoxin- and [(3)H]MK-801 binding sites were also observed in APPswe mice compared to controls. In conclusion, over-expression of Abeta early in life causes changes in synaptophysin levels and number of [(125)I]alphabungarotoxin- and [(3)H]MK-801 binding sites. The results may provide important information about the onset and consequences of Abeta pathology in this transgenic mouse model.
16106993: !synaptophysin Heterogeneity of axon terminals expressing VGLUT1 in the cerebral neocortex. Using immunocytochemical techniques and confocal microscopy we have studied the localization of the vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) 1 and 2 in the mammalian cerebral cortex. The cardinal observations gathered to date can be summarized as follows: 1) Many VGLUT1-positive puncta coexpressing synaptophysin-1 outline pyramidal cell somata and proximal dendrites; of these, a sizeable fraction coexpress VGAT, the vesicular transporter for GABA; 2) VGLUT2-positive puncta are also present in layers II-III and some of them coexpress VGLUTI. These findings suggest that in the cerebral cortex of adult rats axon terminals expressing VGLUT1 are heterogeneous.
16101743: !synaptophysin Dietary n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid depletion activates caspases and decreases NMDA receptors in the brain of a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Epidemiological data indicate that low n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PFA) intake is a readily manipulated dietary risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Studies in animals confirm the deleterious effect of n-3 PFA depletion on cognition and on dendritic scaffold proteins. Here, we show that in transgenic mice overexpressing the human AD gene APPswe (Tg2576), safflower oil-induced n-3 PFA deficiency caused a decrease in N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits, NR2A and NR2B, in the cortex and hippocampus with no loss of the presynaptic markers, synaptophysin and synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25). n-3 PFA depletion also decreased the NR1 subunit in the hippocampus and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMKII) in the cortex of Tg2576 mice. These effects of dietary n-3 PFA deficiency were greatly amplified in Tg2576 mice compared to nontransgenic mice. Loss of the NR2B receptor subunit was not explained by changes in mRNA expression, but correlated with p85alpha phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase levels. Most interestingly, n-3 PFA deficiency dramatically increased levels of protein fragments, corresponding to caspase/calpain-cleaved fodrin and gelsolin in Tg2576 mice. This effect was minimal in nontransgenic mice suggesting that n-3 PFA depletion potentiated caspase activation in the Tg2576 mouse model of AD. Dietary supplementation with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA; 22 : 6n-3) partly protected from NMDA receptor subunit loss and accumulation of fodrin and gelsolin fragments but fully prevented CaMKII decrease. The marked effect of dietary n-3 PFA on NMDA receptors and caspase/calpain activation in the cortex of an animal model of AD provide new insights into how dietary essential fatty acids may influence cognition and AD risk.
16100462: !synaptophysin The role of inducible nitric oxide synthase following spinal cord injury in rat. Acute spinal cord injury (SCI) is two-step process that first involves the primary mechanical injury and then the secondary injury is induced by various biochemical reactions. Apoptosis is one of secondary SCI mechanisms and it is thought to play an important role for the delayed neuronal injury. The enhanced formation of nitric oxide (NO) via inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of apoptosis in SCI. The level of .iNOS mRNA peaked at 6 hr after SCI and it declined until 72 hr after SCI in a rat model. Double-immunofluorescence staining revealed that iNOS positive cells were stained for ED-1, synaptophysin, GFAP, and oligodendrocyte marker. The terminal deoxynucleotidyl-transferase-mediated dUDP-biotin nick end-labeling (TUNEL) positive cell count was higher for the 72 hr post-SCI group than for the 24 hr post-SCI group. This cell count was also higher going in the caudal direction than in the rostral direction from the epicenter, and especially for the 72 hr group. Treatment with a selective iNOS inhibitor resulted in the reduction of TUNEL-positive cells at the lesion site. These findings suggest that nitric oxide generated by the iNOS of macrophages, neurons, oligodentrocytes, and astrocytes plays an important role for the acute secondary SCI that results from apoptotic cell death.
16099299: !synaptophysin Area-specific effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) genetic ablation on various neuronal subtypes of the mouse brain. The effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on the development of presynaptic terminals and of neuronal subtypes in various brain areas were studied in BDNF-knockout (BDNF-/-) mice at postnatal days 15-17. Western analysis revealed no changes in the overall amount of a variety of synaptic proteins in BDNF-/- mice as compared to wild type mice. In addition, the complex between the vesicular proteins, synaptophysin and synaptobrevin, as well as their respective homodimers were unaltered. Moreover, no changes in the density of neurons were found in, e.g., the CA3 region of the hippocampus and the nucleus nervi facialis of BDNF-/- mice. However, cholinergic cells were reduced by 20% in the medial septum of BDNF-/- mice associated with a decrease in the activity of choline acetyltransferase and protein levels of nerve growth factor in the hippocampus by 16% and 44%, respectively. In the striatum, however, the total number of cholinergic cells were comparable in both groups, although the activity of choline acetyltransferase was decreased by 46%. In GABAergic interneurons, the expression of neuropeptides in various brain areas was differentially affected by BDNF deletion as revealed by immunohistochemistry. In the hippocampus and cortex of BDNF-/- mice, the density of neuropeptide Y-, somatostatin-, and parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells was drastically reduced, whereas the density of calretinin-positive cells was increased. The extent of these changes in neuropeptide-containing cells varied among hippocampal subregions. In the striatum, only the density of parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells was decreased by approximately 45%. In conclusion, BDNF deficiency is accompanied by a differential dysregulation in the expression of neuropeptides and calcium-binding proteins in otherwise intact GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons in a region-specific manner.
16096409: !synaptophysin Pleomorphic pancreatic endocrine neoplasms: a variant commonly confused with adenocarcinoma. Most pancreatic endocrine neoplasms (PENs) have distinctive endocrine growth patterns and uniform nuclear morphology; they are regarded as relatively low-grade tumors. Significant nuclear pleomorphism is a feature that may raise concerns about aggressive behavior or even obscure the endocrine nature of the neoplasm. Eight PENs exhibiting marked nuclear pleomorphism (>20% of the tumor cells) were identified during a review of 136 PENs (5.9%) from the pathology files of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The histologic, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural (4 cases), and clinical features were reviewed. There were 6 males and 2 females ranging from 30 to 69 years (mean, 55 years). The tumors averaged 5.8 cm (range, 1.5-14 cm). Six tumors (75%) were initially misdiagnosed in 5 cases as adenocarcinoma and in one as solid-pseudopapillary tumor; in 2 cases, the misdiagnosis was based on fine needle aspiration cytology and in 4 on histologic examination. The architectural features of the tumors resembled those of other PENs, but the nuclei were markedly enlarged, irregularly shaped, and hyperchromatic, with frequent bizarre forms. Cells with pleomorphic nuclei also generally had abundant cytoplasm, sometimes with large perinuclear glassy inclusions. The mitotic rate was not elevated compared with other PENs, averaging 1.9 (range, 0-7) per 50 high power fields. Immunohistochemical findings were (number positive/number stained): chromogranin (8 of 8), synaptophysin (7 of 8), progesterone receptor (4 of 7), CD99 (2 of 5), S-100 protein (3 of 7), and p53 (0 of 6). Scattered cells expressed peptide hormones in a minority of cases. By electron microscopy, abundant dense core granules were identified, in some cases embedded within perinuclear arrays of intermediate filaments. Six patients underwent curative resection; at follow-up, 4 were free of disease at 11, 13, 30, 112 months (mean, 42 months), 1 developed liver metastases at 77 months and was alive with disease at 94 months, and 1 was lost to follow-up. Two patients had unresectable tumors and were alive with disease at 10 and 78 months. Striking nuclear pleomorphism may occur in otherwise typical PENs and commonly causes difficulties in the distinction from adenocarcinoma. There does not appear to be prognostic significance to these nuclear changes, and the morphologic features of pleomorphic PENs otherwise resemble those of their conventional counterparts.
16092763: !synaptophysin Neural precursors derived from human embryonic stem cells. Human embryonic stem (hES) cells provide a promising supply of specific cell types for transplantation therapy. We presented here the method to induce differentiation of purified neural precursors from hES cells. hES cells (Line PKU-1 and Line PKU-2) were cultured in suspension in bacteriological Petri dishes, which differentiated into cystic embryoid bodies (EBs). The EBs were then cultured in N2 medium containing bFGF in poly-L-lysine-coated tissue culture dishes for two weeks. The central, small cells with 2-3 short processes of the spreading outgrowth were isolated mechanically and replated. The resulting neurospheres were cultured in suspension for 10 days, then dissociated into single cell suspension with a Pasteur pipette and plated. Cells grew vigorously in an attached way and were passed every 4-5 days. Almost all the cells were proved nestin positive by immunostaining. Following withdrawal of bFGF, they differentiated into neurons expressing beta-tubulin isotype(III), GABA, serotonin and synaptophysin. Through induction of PDGF-AA, they differentiated into astrocytes expressing GFAP and oligodendrocytes expressing O4. The results showed that hES cells can differentiate into typical neural precursors expressing the specific marker nestin and capable of generating all three cell types of the central nervous system (CNS) in vitro.
16088203: !synaptophysin Primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of inguinal lymph node. Ninety-seven percent of neuroendocrine carcinomas are located in the gastrointestinal tract or in the bronchopulmonary tree. Inguinal lymph nodes as the primary tumor site for neuroendocrine carcinoma represent a very unusual location, and have only been described in 2 patient series in the literature. A 64-year-old, previously healthy, Caucasian female presented with a 2-month history of an enlarged inguinal lymph node on the right side. The removed lymph node showed histological and immunohistochemical characteristics of neuroendocrine differentiation (positive for synaptophysin, cytokeratin 20, neuron-specific enolase and chromogranin A). Although extensive investigations including repeated CT and NMR scans, classical endoscopy, wireless capsule endoscopy of the small intestine, octreotide- and MIBG scintigraphy were performed, no other primary tumor was found. Furthermore, there was no evidence of Merkel cell carcinoma on dermatological examinations. A possible explanation for the presence of neuroendocrine carcinomas within the lymph nodes is malignant transformation of preexisting intranodal epithelial nests, which have previously been described in lymph nodes located close to the salivary glands, thyroid gland, breast tissue and pancreas. Since the surgical removal of the affected lymph node, the patient has now been disease-free for 42 months. We therefore consider our case to represent a primary undifferentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma in an inguinal lymph node.
16087343: !synaptophysin Hippocampal synaptic plasticity is impaired in the Mecp2-null mouse model of Rett syndrome. Rett syndrome is an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding the transcriptional repressor methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Here we demonstrate that the Mecp2-null mouse model of Rett syndrome shows an age-dependent impairment in hippocampal CA1 long-term potentiation induced by tetanic or theta-burst stimulation. Long-term depression induced by repetitive low-frequency stimulation is also absent in behaviorally symptomatic Mecp2-null mice. Immunoblot analyses from behaviorally symptomatic Mecp2-null mice reveal altered expression of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunits NR2A and NR2B. Presynaptic function is also affected, as demonstrated by a significant reduction in paired-pulse facilitation. Interestingly, the properties of basal neurotransmission are normal in the Mecp2-null mice, consistent with our observations that the levels of expression of synaptic and cytoskeletal proteins, including glutamate receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2, PSD95, synaptophysin-1, synaptobrevin-2, synaptotagmin-1, MAP2, betaIII-tubulin and NF200, are not significantly altered. Together, these data provide the first evidence that the loss of Mecp2 expression is accompanied by age-dependent alterations in excitatory synaptic plasticity that are likely to contribute to the cognitive and functional deficits underlying Rett syndrome.
16084941: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in extrahepatic bile duct carcinomas and its prognostic significance. Neuroendocrine differentiation is known to be one of the prognostic factors in many carcinomas. However, the characteristics of neuroendocrine differentiation are not well elucidated in extrahepatic bile duct (EBD) carcinomas. One hundred ninety-four cases of EBD carcinomas were analyzed using immunohistochemistry with synaptophysin and chromogranin. The tumors were graded as degree 0, 1, and 2 when the positive tumor cells were 5% or less, 6% to 25%, and 26% or more, respectively. Immunohistochemical results were compared with clinicopathologic variables and survival rate. Synaptophysin and chromogranin were positive in 54 (27.8%) and 74 (38.1%) cases, respectively. Thirty-four cases (17.5%) were positive for both synaptophysin and chromogranin, 20 (10.3%) and 40 cases (20.6%) were positive only for synaptophysin and for chromogranin, respectively, and 100 cases (51.6%) were negative for both markers. There was a significant survival difference between overall synaptophysin-positive (median, 27 months) and synaptophysin-negative (38 months) groups (P < .05). However, there was no survival difference between chromogranin-positive and chromogranin-negative groups. There was a significant survival difference between the dual-positive expression to synaptophysin and chromogranin group (median, 21 months) and the dual-negative expression group (median, 35 months; P < .05). In summary, synaptophysin expression was an important prognostic factor because synaptophysin-positive cases showed a worse prognosis than synaptophysin-negative cases. The more tumor cells expressed chromogranin, the poorer the survival. Therefore, immunohistochemical studies for neuroendocrine differentiation may be helpful in routine pathological examinations for evaluating the survival and the prognosis of patients with EBD carcinomas.
16082702: !synaptophysin DNA pooling analysis of ADHD and genes regulating vesicle release of neurotransmitters. ADHD is one of the most prevalent, and heritable behavioural disorders in childhood. Genetic associations have been reported with polymorphic variants within or near to dopamine pathway genes. Recently snap-25 has also shown association with ADHD in several datasets. We therefore investigated other genes that produce proteins that interact with SNAP-25 in the mechanism of vesicular release of neurotransmitters at the synapse. A total of 106 SNPs were screened for minor allele frequency greater than 5% and 61 SNPs selected for analysis in DNA pools made up from an ADHD clinical sample of DSM-IV combined type probands (n = 180) and a control sample of 90 males and 90 females. Initial screening identified several SNPs that showed allele frequency differences of 5% or more. One SNP in the synaptophysin gene showed suggestive evidence of association following case-control and TDT analysis and warrants further investigation.
16082246: !synaptophysin Proximal-type epithelioid sarcoma: report of two cases in the perineum: differential diagnosis and review of soft tissue tumors with epithelioid and/or rhabdoid features. The authors report two cases of perineal proximal-type epithelioid sarcoma in middle-aged men, age 51 and 43 years old. Both tumors were located in the right side. In the first patient a 7.5-cm, well-encapsulated tumor was completely excised. The second patient was a referral case with incomplete excision, but the computed tomography scan and magnetic resonance imaging showed a 14-cm nonencapsulated tumor involving the soft tissues of the inner thigh and perineum, as well as metastasis in right inguinal and retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Both neoplasms had a predominant solid pattern alternating with occasional discohesive areas. Both were composed of large oval to polygonal cells with vesicular nuclei, conspicuous nucleoli, and amphophilic to eosinophilic cytoplasm. Rhabdoid phenotype was identified in the second case only. The first neoplasm displayed 15% necrosis, 7 mitoses per 10 high-power field, focal vascular invasion, and no extracapsular invasion. The other exhibited 60% necrosis, 12 mitoses per 10 high-power fields, extensive vascular invasion, no distinct capsule, and invasion of the surrounding fatty tissue. Both were positive for vimentin, cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, and CD34. Muscle-specific actin was negative in the first case and focally positive in the second. CD56 was positive in the second case and negative in the first case. Desmin, CD45, CD30, factor VIII, CD31, S100, HMB45, calretinin, and synaptophysin were negative in both. Since proximal-type epithelioid sarcoma can be confused with a number of other soft tissue tumors with epithelioid and/or rhabdoid features, the authors emphasize the immunohistochemical differential diagnosis.
16080924: !synaptophysin Intestinal atresia with segmental musculature and neural defect. The aim of this study was to investigate the possible etiologic factors of small bowel atresia and to detect the prognostic role of adequate resection and tapering in postoperative morbidity and mortality.
16079410: !synaptophysin Dendritic spine abnormalities in amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice demonstrated by gene transfer and intravital multiphoton microscopy. Accumulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) into senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a hallmark neuropathological feature of the disorder, which likely contributes to alterations in neuronal structure and function. Recent work has revealed changes in neurite architecture associated with plaques and functional changes in cortical signaling in amyloid precursor protein (APP) expressing mouse models of AD. Here we developed a method using gene transfer techniques to introduce green fluorescent protein (GFP) into neurons, allowing the investigation of neuronal processes in the vicinity of plaques. Multiphoton imaging of GFP-labeled neurons in living Tg2576 APP mice revealed disrupted neurite trajectories and reductions in dendritic spine density compared with age-matched control mice. A profound deficit in spine density (approximately 50%) extends approximately 20 mum from plaque edges. Importantly, a robust decrement (approximately 25%) also occurs on dendrites not associated with plaques, suggesting widespread loss of postsynaptic apparatus. Plaques and dendrites remained stable over the course of weeks of imaging. Postmortem analysis of axonal immunostaining and colocalization of synaptophysin and postsynaptic density 95 protein staining around plaques indicate a parallel loss of presynaptic and postsynaptic partners. These results show considerable changes in dendrites and dendritic spines in APP transgenic mice, demonstrating a dramatic synaptotoxic effect of dense-cored plaques. Decreased spine density will likely contribute to altered neural system function and behavioral impairments observed in Tg2576 mice.
16079394: !synaptophysin Homeostatic scaling of vesicular glutamate and GABA transporter expression in rat neocortical circuits. Homeostatic control of pyramidal neuron firing rate involves a functional balance of feedforward excitation and feedback inhibition in neocortical circuits. Here, we reveal a dynamic scaling in vesicular excitatory (vesicular glutamate transporters VGLUT1 and VGLUT2) and inhibitory (vesicular inhibitory amino acid transporter VIAAT) transporter mRNA and synaptic protein expression in rat neocortical neuronal cultures, using a well established in vitro protocol to induce homeostatic plasticity. During the second and third week of synaptic differentiation, the predominant vesicular transporters expressed in neocortical neurons, VGLUT1 and VIAAT, are both dramatically upregulated. In mature cultures, VGLUT1 and VIAAT exhibit bidirectional and opposite regulation by prolonged activity changes. Endogenous coregulation during development and homeostatic scaling of the expression of the transporters in functionally differentiated cultures may serve to control vesicular glutamate and GABA filling and adjust functional presynaptic excitatory/inhibitory balance. Unexpectedly, hyperexcitation in differentiated cultures triggers a striking increase in VGLUT2 mRNA and synaptic protein, whereas decreased excitation reduces levels. VGLUT2 mRNA and protein are expressed in subsets of VGLUT1-encoded neocortical neurons that we identify in primary cultures and in neocortex in situ and in vivo. After prolonged hyperexcitation, downregulation of VGLUT1/synaptophysin intensity ratios at most synapses is observed, whereas a subset of VGLUT1-containing boutons selectively increase the expression of VGLUT2. Bidirectional and opposite regulation of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 by activity may serve as positive or negative feedback regulators for cortical synaptic transmission. Intracortical VGLUT1/VGLUT2 coexpressing neurons have the capacity to independently modulate the level of expression of either transporter at discrete synapses and therefore may serve as a plastic interface between subcortical thalamic input (VGLUT2) and cortical output (VGLUT1) neurons.
16078101: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical study of central neurocytoma, subependymoma, and subependymal giant cell astrocytoma. For investigation of histogenesis of central neurocytomas (CNs), subependymoma (SEs), subependymal giant cell astrocytomas (SEGAs), we studied expression of various neuronal and glial biomarkers by immunohistochemical (IHC) study and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The materials for IHC were paraffin section of seven CNs, three SEs, and eight SEGAs and those for RT-PCR were frozen tissues of seven CNs, three SEs, and five SEGAs. Control group was five ependymomas (EPs) and four pilocytic astrocytomas (PAs). The neuronal biomarkers included nestin, chromogranin A (chrA), synaptophysin (SNP), neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), neuron specific enolase (NSE), neuronal nuclear antigen (NeuN), neurofilament (NF) and the glial marker was GFAP. CNs expressed all neuronal markers except NF (0%), SNP (100%), NCAM (100%), NSE (100%), NeuN (100%), nestin (29%) and chrA (43%), but GFAP expression was found only in one case (14%). SEGA coexpressed several neuronal markers and a glial marker; NeuN (100%), NSE (88%), NCAM (63%), nestin (100%), SNP (weakly and focally, 100%), and GFAP (100%), however, other neuronal markers including chrA, SNP and NF were all negative. SE expressed nonspecific neuronal markers (NCAM (100%) and NSE (100%)) which showed weak intensity and a GFAP (100%), but not nestin. Among control cases of EPs and PAs, no one case expressed neuronal markers except nonspecific neuronal marker of NCAM, but robustly expressed GFAP. RT-PCR product of nestin was expressed in 29% of CNs (2/7cases), 60% of SEGAs (3/5 cases), 100% of SEs (3/3 cases), 80% of EPs (4/5 cases), and 25% of PAs (1/4 cases). Conclusively, coexpression of neuronal and glial markers and expression of nestin in CNs, SEGAs and SEs suggested the origin of these tumor cells might be the stem cells being able to differentiate into both neuronal and glial phenotypes. But CNs might be originated from rather neuronally committed stem cells and SEs from rather glially committed stem cells.
16076505: !synaptophysin The selective PDE5 inhibitor, sildenafil, improves object memory in Swiss mice and increases cGMP levels in hippocampal slices. Previous studies have shown memory enhancing effects of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors in rats. However, differences in nitric oxide (NO)-mediated cyclic GMP (cGMP) signaling in the hippocampus have been described between rats and mice. In the present study we investigated the memory enhancing effects of the PDE5 inhibitor, sildenafil on memory performance in Swiss mice using the object recognition task. Sildenafil (0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg) was administered orally directly after the first trial. The memory for the objects was retested 24 h later when mice show no memory for the familiar object. Sildenafil improved the object discrimination performance of Swiss mice at a dose of 1 mg/kg. Hippocampal slices of Swiss mice incubated with sildenafil (10 microM) increased cGMP levels in varicosities in the CA3 region of the hippocampus and a number of short, thin fibers. Addition of DEA/NO, an NO donor (10 microM), in the presence of sildenafil (10 microM) strongly increased cGMP immunoreactivity of varicosities in the CA3 region. Double immunostaining of cGMP with the presynaptic marker synaptophysin did not reveal any co-localization of these markers under any circumstance. Taken together, inhibition of PDE5 improves object recognition memory in mice. Furthermore, a postsynaptic role of cGMP could be involved in this respect.
16045921: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinoma in the nasal cavity of ten dogs. Neuroendocrine (NE) carcinoma was diagnosed in 10 dogs. In six cases examined by cephalometric radiography and computerized tomography, a large mass was seen to fill the nasal cavity. Histopathologically, sheets, nests or ribbons of neoplastic cells were separated by delicate or thick fibrovascular stroma. The neoplastic cells were round, oval, or spindle-shaped; cytoplasmic granules and hyperchromatic nuclei with prominent nucleoli were present. Neoplastic cells were invariably immunohistochemically positive for cytokeratin (CK) AE1/AE3, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Eight dogs were positive for S100 protein, seven for synaptophysin, five for protein gene product 9.5, two for somatostatin, and one for Leu-7. Immunolabelling gave negative results for CK 8, CK 19, calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related polypeptide, neurofilaments, serotonin, gastrin and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Ultrastructurally, the neoplastic cells contained a large number of round, membrane-bounded, densely-cored granules corresponding to neurosecretory granules. These observations were consistent with the neuroendocrine nature of the carcinomas.
16041798: !synaptophysin Heterogeneous expression and regulation of hippocampal prostaglandin E2 receptors. Although prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) has been shown to be critical to hippocampal synaptic signaling and neuronal survival, it is still not clear which subtypes of PGE2 receptors (EPs) are expressed and how these EPs are regulated in the hippocampus. To address these questions, the expression of the EPs was profiled in the hippocampus. Messenger RNAs and proteins of the four receptors, EP 1-4, were detected both in the hippocampus and in the neocortex. EP 2 and EP 3 appeared in greater abundance, whereas EP 1 and EP 4 were barely detectable. EP 1, EP 2 and EP 4 were mainly colocalized with synaptophysin, suggesting the presence of EP 1, EP 2, and EP 4 in presynaptic terminals. It appeared that interleukin-1 beta increased the expression of EP 2 and EP 4 mRNAs. A blockade of synaptic transmission with either tetrodotoxin or MK-801 plus 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) for 6 hr increased EP 3 and EP 4 mRNA, whereas high K(+) (90 mM) or 4-aminopyridine enhanced EP 2 and EP 4. The EP 1 level did not change significantly under these conditions. The expressions of EP 2, EP 4, and EP 3 were further elevated or reduced in neurons treated with high K(+) for 24 hr. However, mRNA of EP 3 was down-regulated in neurons treated with tetrodotoxin or MK-801 plus DNQX for 24 hr. In addition, both EP 2 and EP 4 mRNAs were up-regulated within 4 hr after high-frequency stimulation associated with long-term potentiation induction in hippocampal slices. Our results indicate that the four EPs are heterogeneously expressed in the hippocampus, and their expression is differentially regulated by neuronal activities, suggesting that EPs may actively participate in hippocampal synaptic transmission and plasticity.
16040303: !synaptophysin Rabbit monoclonal antibodies: a comparative study between a novel category of immunoreagents and the corresponding mouse monoclonal antibodies. Rabbit monoclonal antibodies (RabMAbs) represent a novel category of immunoreagents that may combine the best properties of both mouse monoclonal antibodies (MMAs) and of rabbit antisera. In the attempt to verify the performance of this new class of antibodies on paraffin-embedded tissue, RabMAbs against estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, Ki-67, cyclin D1, CD3, CD5, CD23, and synaptophysin were tested on several tumor types as well as normal tissues. The results were compared with those obtained with classic MMAs against the same antigens. RabMAbs appear to offer increased sensitivity with no apparent loss of specificity. On routine use they permit higher working dilutions (5 to 10 times on average), allowing significant improvement in terms of laboratory efficiency. The robustness of RabMAbs is further proved by the fact that in some instances optimal staining can be obtained even without antigen retrieval. In consideration of the high performance observed, routine use of RabMAbs may contribute significantly to standardize diagnostic immunohistochemical procedures.
16037544: !synaptophysin Expression and function of 5-HT4 receptors in the mouse enteric nervous system. The aim of the current study was to identify enteric 5-HT(4) splice variants, locate enteric 5-HT(4) receptors, determine the relationship, if any, of the 5-HT(4) receptor to 5-HT(1P) activity, and to ascertain the function of 5-HT(4) receptors in enteric neurophysiology. 5-HT(4a), 5-HT(4b), 5-HT(4e), and 5-HT(4f) isoforms were found in mouse brain and gut. The ratio of 5-HT(4) expression to that of the neural marker, synaptophysin, was higher in gut than in brain but was similar in small and large intestines. Submucosal 5-HT(4) expression was higher than myenteric. Although transcripts encoding 5-HT(4a) and 5-HT(4b) isoforms were more abundant, those encoding 5-HT(4e) and 5-HT(4f) were myenteric plexus specific. In situ hybridization revealed the presence of transcripts encoding 5-HT(4) receptors in subsets of enteric neurons, interstitial cells of Cajal, and smooth muscle cells. IgY antibodies to mouse 5-HT(4) receptors were raised, affinity purified, and characterized. Nerve fibers in the circular muscle and the neuropil in ganglia of both plexuses were highly 5-HT(4) immunoreactive, although only a small subset of neurons contained 5-HT(4) immunoreactivity. No 5-HT(4)-immunoreactive nerves were detected in the mucosa. 5-HT and 5-HT(1P) agonists evoked a G protein-mediated long-lasting inward current that was neither mimicked by 5-HT(4) agonists nor blocked by 5-HT(4) antagonists. In contrast, the 5-HT(4) agonists renzapride and tegaserod increased the amplitudes of nicotinic evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents. Enteric neuronal 5-HT(4) receptors thus are presynaptic and probably exert their prokinetic effects by strengthening excitatory neurotransmission.
16033106: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the endometrium: light microscopic and immunohistochemical study of a case. Small cell carcinoma of the endometrium is extremely rare. The clinical behaviour of this tumour is usually very aggressive. The histopathological distinction of endometrial small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma from mesodermal mixed tumours has important prognostic and therapeutic implications. The case of a 62-year-old white female suffering from postmenopausal bleeding is presented. Macroscopic examination revealed a bulky intraluminal mass with infiltration of more than half of the myometrial wall. In H&E-stained sections atypical small tumour cells revealing neuroendocrine features were found. Immunohistochemical evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation was demonstrated using the markers neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. The patient died three months after diagnosis.
16023584: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin enhances the neuroprotection of VMAT2 in MPP+-induced toxicity in MN9D cells. The use of the potent neurotoxin MPTP in producing a model for Parkinson's disease (PD) has allowed us to dissect the cellular processes responsible for both selective neuronal vulnerability and neuroprotection in idiopathic PD. It has been suggested that vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs) play a critical neuroprotective role in MPP+ toxicity. However, little is known about how this detoxificative sequestration in dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons is regulated at the molecular and cellular levels. Using the DAergic cell line MN9D as an in vitro model, we found that overexpression of VMAT2 (a neuronal isoform of VMATs) protects the transformants from MPP+-induced toxicity, consistent with the previous work on fibroblastic CHO cells. We further found that the MN9D cells displayed lower expression levels of secretory vesicle proteins such as synaptophysin. Overexpression of synaptophysin in MN9D cells can significantly increase the resistance of the transformants to MPP+ toxicity. The co-expression of VMAT2 and synaptophysin has shown synergistic protection for the transformants, suggesting a role of synaptophysin in the biogenesis of secretory vesicles and in influencing the targeting of VMAT2 to these vesicles. Our work indicates that both the expression level of VMAT2 and capacity of vesicular packaging of DA are important in protecting DAergic cells from MPP+ toxicity.
16022868: !synaptophysin Transplants of fibroblasts expressing BDNF and NT-3 promote recovery of bladder and hindlimb function following spinal contusion injury in rats. We examined whether fibroblasts, genetically modified to express BDNF and NT-3 (Fb-BDNF/NT3) and transplanted into a thoracic spinal injury site, would enhance recovery of bladder function and whether this treatment would be associated with reorganization of lumbosacral spinal circuits implicated in bladder function. Rats received modified-moderate contusion injuries at T8/9, and 9 days later, Fb-BDNF/NT3 or unmodified fibroblasts (OP-controls) were delivered into the cord. Fb-BDNF/NT3 rats recovered from areflexic bladder earlier, showed decreased micturition pressure and fewer episodes of detrusor hyperreflexia, compared to OP-controls. There were also improvements in hindlimb function in the Fb-BDNF/NT3 group although locomotion on a more challenging substrate (grid) and tail withdrawal latency in response to a thermal stimulus showed persisting deficits, little recovery, and no differences between the groups. Immunocytochemistry at L6-S1 revealed changes in density of afferent and descending projections to L6-S1 cord. The density of small dorsal root axons increased in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn in OP-controls but not in Fb-BDNF/NT3, suggesting sprouting of primary afferents following injury that was inhibited by Fb-BDNF/NT-3. In contrast, the trophic factor secreting transplants stimulated sprouting and/or sparing of descending modulatory pathways projecting to the lumbosacral spinal cord. No differences in synaptophysin immunoreactivity were seen in the dorsal horn which suggested that synaptic density was similar but achieved by sprouting of different systems in the two operated groups. Fb-BDNF/NT3 transplanted into injured spinal cord thus improved both bladder and hindlimb function, and this was associated with reorganization of spinal circuitry.
16021514: !synaptophysin Primary clear cell sarcoma of the ileum: an uncommon and misleading site. A clear cell sarcoma, arising primarily in the ileum of a 35-year-old man, is reported. Histologically, the neoplasm infiltrated the full thickness of the intestinal wall. It consisted of strands and sheets of round to spindle-shaped cells with clear to eosinophilic cytoplasm, vesicular nuclei and prominent nucleoli. Vascular invasion was present at diagnosis. Tumour cells expressed S-100 protein, melan-A and tyrosinase. They were negative for HMB45, CD117, cytokeratins, epithelial membrane antigen, smooth muscle actin, desmin, CD31, CD34, chromogranin and synaptophysin. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis performed on paraffin-embedded tissue showed EWS-ATF1 fusion transcripts representative of the t(12;22) (q13;q12) clear cell sarcoma reciprocal translocation. The patient, who developed liver metastases 2 months after diagnosis, died of disease at 15 months. This case demonstrates that the gastrointestinal tract is a potential site for primary clear cell sarcoma of soft tissues, and, furthermore, that cytogenetics and/or molecular techniques play a central role in the diagnosis.
16020264: !synaptophysin Angioarchitecture and innervation of the primate anterior episclera. To investigate the primate episcleral vasculature and its innervation with respect to morphological specializations.
16012915: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma of the lumbar spinal canal -- case report. We present the case of a 46-year-old female with a lumbar spine paraganglioma. The patient complained of a right-sided lumboischialgia. Preoperative MRI revealed an intradural tumour at the vertebra L3 level, located in the midline, 7 mm in diameter. The tumour was totally removed by laminectomy. Histopathological examination showed nests of chief cells (zellballen), surrounded by reticulin fibres. Immunohistochemistry showed a positive reaction for chromogranin A, neuronal specific protein, synaptophysin and cytokeratin in the chief cells. The sustentacular cells displayed immunopositivity for S-100 protein, single cells were also positive for GFAP. We found no proliferative activity in the tumour cells (Ki-67 index = 0%). In the two years follow-up the patient remains without clinical or radiological signs of recurrence. Spinal paraganglioma is a rare, surgically curable tumour with low proliferative potential. This entity should be taken into consideration in the differential diagnosis of extramedullary spinal lesions.
16006795: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical studies of pediatric intestinal pseudo-obstruction: bcl2, a valuable biomarker to detect immature enteric ganglion cells. To identify the diagnostic pitfalls as well as the value of immunohistochemical studies in making a pathologic evaluation of a pediatric intestinal pseudo-obstruction (IPO), this study reassessed the pathology of 87 surgically resected intestines from 80 patients under the impression of IPO and 10 normal controls using immunohistochemical studies. The main diagnostic pitfall was the interpretation of the enteric nervous plexuses in the transitional zone and the detection of the indistinct or immature neurons indistinguishable from enteric glial cells or satellite cells. Immunohistochemical study was a very helpful diagnostic adjunct to delineating the immature neurons (bcl2), the size of the enteric ganglia and neuromuscular innervation (S-100 protein, synaptophysin, and CD56), and the interstitial cell of Cajal (c-Kit) and myopathy (SMA). With help of immunohistochemistry, our series of IPO could classify as neuropathy (92.5%), myopathy (2.5%), and the idiopathic forms (3.8%) more clearly. In terms of the types of neuropathy, Hirschsprung's disease (HD), pure hypoganglionosis, and intestinal neuronal dysplasia (IND-B) were diagnosed in 71.3%, 6.3%, and 48.8% of patients, respectively. IND-B was associated with other neuropathies, HD in 77.0% and hypoganglionosis in 7.7%, rather than being present in a pure form. Immature ganglion cells were found in 48.8%. Because a reduced number of interstitial cells of Cajal was commonly associated with HD in 84.2%, hypoganglionosis in 40%, and IND-B in 76.9% of cases, it might be a preceding or aggravating factor related to an IPO. In terms of detecting immature ganglion cells, we found bcl2 most helpful.
16001665: !synaptophysin Primary hepatic carcinoid tumor (a case report). A primary hepatic carcinoid tumor arising in a 77-year-old woman is reported. The patient was admitted with a huge tumor in the right lobe of the liver and treated by an extended right lobectomy of the liver. Light microscopic findings showed that the tumor cells had small oval-shaped nuclei and eosinophilic cytoplasm with small granules forming trabecular, glandular, and rosette patterns. Immunohistochemically, tumor cells were stained positive with neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin and were stained slightly positive with chromogranin and carcinoembryonic antigen. Careful examination before and after the operation revealed no other origin of the tumor. Based on the findings, the liver tumor was diagnosed as a primary carcinoid. The clinical features and diagnosis of this rare tumor are discussed in this report.
15998745: !synaptophysin Enhanced resistance to fatigue and altered calcium handling properties of sarcalumenin knockout mice. Sarcalumenin is a Ca2+-binding protein located in the sarcoplasmic reticulum of striated muscle cells, the physiological function of which has not been fully determined yet. Using sarcalumenin knockout (sar(-/-)) mice, we showed that sar ablation altered store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE) and enhanced muscle fatigue resistance. Sar(-/-) mice fatigued less with treadmill exercise, and intact isolated soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles from sar(-/-) mice were more resistant to intermittent fatiguing stimulation than those from wild-type mice. Enhanced SOCE was observed in the sar(-/-) muscles. Biochemical analysis revealed that sar(-/-) muscles contained significantly elevated expression of mitsugumin 29 (MG29), a synaptophysin-related membrane protein located in the triad junction of skeletal muscle. Because the ablation of mg29 has been shown to cause increased fatigability and dysfunction of SOCE, the enhanced SOCE activity seen in sar(-/-) muscle may be correlated with the increased expression of MG29. Our data suggest that systemic ablation of sarcalumenin caused enhanced resistance to muscle fatigue by compensatory changes in Ca2+ regulatory proteins that effect SOCE.
15998383: !synaptophysin Cytokeratin 20-positive large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the colon. Herein is presented a case of cytokeratin (CK) 20-positive large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the colon, in which the tumor was clinically at stage IV and located in the ascending colon. Pathological examination of the resected tumor revealed nested and solid proliferation of large undifferentiated cells with vesicular nucleus and prominent nucleoli. No areas showed differentiation toward adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma. Tumor cells were immunohistochemically positive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, CD 56 (focal), and bore electron-dense granules. With these features, the tumor was diagnosed as a large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the colon. Liver metastasis and local recurrence progressed, and the patient died of the primary disease 7 months after operation. The autopsy confirmed this diagnosis without detectable tumors in the lungs. Interestingly, more than half of the tumor cells were positive for CK 20, while CK 7 was not expressed. Most neuroendocrine carcinomas do not express CK 20, with the exception of Merkel cell carcinomas, and most colorectal adenocarcinomas express CK 20. To the best of the authors' knowledge, the present case is the first CK 20-positive, CK 7-negative colorectal neuroendocrine carcinoma to be described, suggesting a link between colorectal neuroendocrine carcinoma and conventional adenocarcinoma.
15991844: !synaptophysin Epithelioid malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor. Report of a case with inflammatory infiltration. The epithelioid malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (EMPNST) is a rare sarcoma originating from the supportive non-neuronal components of peripheral nerves. Our patient was a 75-year-old Japanese man who presented with complaints about pain and a mass in the left thigh. Characteristic histopathological features were large epithelioid-like cells closely resembling a malignant melanoma or another type of soft tissue tumor. Notable infiltration of neutrophils in the tumor was seen. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells proved positive for S-100, NSE, GFAP, MBP, chromogranin A and synaptophysin, and negative for CEA, keratin, HMB-45, G-CSF, and GM-CSF. Tumor-related inflammatory infiltration may be caused by an autonomous production of some cytokines. However, these tumor cells were negative for G-CSF and GM-CSF so that the mechanism triggering inflammatory infiltration is unclear. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of an extracellular basal lamina, intermediate cell junctions, and numerous dense-cored granules in the cytoplasm. These findings suggested a schwannian derivation, consistent with the diagnosis of EMPNST. There have been reports on S-100 positivity and HMB-45 negativity of this tumor type, but to the best of our knowledge, this is the first description of an EMPNST positive for MBP, chromogranin A, and synaptophisin. Where unequivocal features are lacking, these markers might be useful for differential diagnosis.
15987557: !synaptophysin Supratentorial cortical ependymoma: report of three cases. Extraventricular ependymomas account for 50% of supratentorial ependymomas. Some tumors may extend to the gray matter reaching the pial surface, but pure cortical ependymomas are uncommon. Here, we report three patients with supratentorial intracortical ependymoma.
15982526: !synaptophysin Dissociation of synaptic zinc level and zinc transporter 3 expression during postnatal development and after sensory deprivation in the barrel cortex of mice. In the neocortex, synaptic zinc level is regulated by sensory experience. Previously, we found that trimming of mystacial vibrissae resulted in an increase of synaptic zinc level in corresponding deprived barrels in the cortex of mice. The present study focused on the relationship between synaptic zinc and zinc transporter 3 (ZnT3) protein expression in the barrel cortex of mice during postnatal development and after sensory deprivation of selected vibrissae. Using immunocytochemistry and western blot analysis, we found that ZnT3 expression is delayed as compared with the onset of synaptic zinc and presynaptic markers, such as synapsin I and synaptophysin. Further, neither long-term deprivation in young mice nor short deprivation in adult mice, that resulted in an increase of synaptic zinc level, produced alterations in ZnT3, synapsin I or synaptophysin expression in deprived barrels. These results suggest that in the barrel cortex ZnT3, synapsin I or synaptophysin are not determinant for the activity-dependent regulation of the synaptic zinc level.
15979210: !synaptophysin Premorbid effects of APOE on synaptic proteins in human temporal neocortex. APOE affects the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and course of several other neurologic diseases. Experimental studies suggest that APOE influences synaptogenesis. We measured the concentration of two presynaptic proteins, synaptophysin and syntaxin 1, and also postsynaptic density-95 (PSD95), in superior temporal cortex from 42 AD and 160 normal brains, and determined the APOE genotypes. The concentration of both presynaptic proteins was approximately two-thirds lower in AD than normal brains and that of PSD95 one-third lower. No effect of APOE on synaptic proteins was found in advanced AD. However, in normal brain, epsilon4 was associated with lower concentrations of all three synaptic proteins and epsilon2 with significantly elevated PSD95 (p=0.03). A combined measure of synaptic proteins showed a significant linear decrease from epsilon2 through epsilon3 to varepsilon4 (p=0.01). APOE influences the concentration of synaptic proteins in normal superior temporal cortex and may thereby affect the response to injury, and the risk and outcome of a range of neurologic diseases.
15976529: !synaptophysin Differential adaptations in GABAergic and glutamatergic systems during ethanol withdrawal in male and female rats. There are significant and consistent sex differences in recovery from ethanol withdrawal in our animal model of ethanol dependence. We have also observed significant and varied sex differences in subunit protein levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) and the N-metheyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors occurring with ethanol dependence and withdrawal. Considering the major role of these two systems as targets of ethanol, we wanted to explore additional possible mechanisms underlying changes in GABAergic and glutamatergic responses after chronic ethanol exposure. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to examine GABAergic- and glutamatergic-associated proteins at three days of ethanol withdrawal, when female rats appear to have largely recovered but male rats still display robust signs of withdrawal.
15975081: !synaptophysin The identification and characterization of excitotoxic nerve-endings in Alzheimer disease. Regionally specific neuronal loss is a distinguishing feature of Alzheimer disease (AD). Excitotoxicity is a mechanism commonly invoked to explain this. We review the accumulating evidence for such a hypothesis, particularly the altered expression and pharmacology of glutamate receptors and transporters in pathologically susceptible regions of the AD brain. Loss of neurons would be expected to lead to the retrograde degeneration of their afferents, which should be reflected in a loss of presynaptic markers such as synaptophysin. We discuss the possibility that neurons may be destroyed locally, but that glutamatergic presynaptic terminals may remain, or even re-proliferate. The reduced glutamate uptake site density in AD brain may signify a loss of the transporters on otherwise intact terminals, rather than the loss of glutamatergic afferents. Neuronal death may follow if cells are exposed to excessive amounts of glutamate; the loss of transporters from functioning, but defective, glutamate terminals would mean they could continue to release glutamate to exacerbate excitotoxicity. We discuss experimental methods to quantitate synapses, which are crucial for deciding between the various possibilities.
15974816: !synaptophysin Expression patterns of markers for type II pneumocytes in pulmonary sclerosing hemangiomas and fetal lung tissues. Although the histogenesis of sclerosing hemangioma is currently not well understood, the tumor has been characterized by its 2 histologically different types of cells, namely, surface and polygonal cells.
15972962: !synaptophysin Age-related loss of synaptophysin immunoreactive presynaptic boutons within the hippocampus of APP751SL, PS1M146L, and APP751SL/PS1M146L transgenic mice. Neuron and synapse loss are important features of the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, we observed substantial age-related hippocampal neuron loss in APP751SL/PS1M146L transgenic mice but not in PS1M146L mice. Here, we investigated APP751SL mice, PS1M146L mice, and APP751SL/PS1M146L mice for age-related alterations in synaptic integrity within hippocampal stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus (SM), stratum lucidum of area CA3 (SL), and stratum radiatum of area CA1-2 (SR) by analyzing densities and numbers of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic boutons (SIPBs). Wild-type mice, APP751SL mice and PS1M146L mice showed similar amounts of age-related SIPB loss within SM, and no SIPB loss within SL. Both APP751SL mice and PS1M146L mice showed age-related SIPB loss within SR. Importantly, APP751SL/PS1M146L) mice displayed the severest age-related SIPB loss within SM, SL, and SR, even in regions free of extracellular Abeta deposits. Together, these mouse models offer a unique framework to study the impact of several molecular and cellular events caused by mutant APP and/or mutant PS1 on age-related alterations in synaptic integrity. The observation of age-related SIPB loss within SR of PS1M146L mice supports a role of mutant PS1 in neurodegeneration apart from its contribution to alterations in Abeta generation.
15971056: !synaptophysin Overexpression of heat shock proteins in pallido-nigral axonal spheroids of nonhuman aged primates. The occurrence of spheroids has been described in the globus pallidus (GP) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) of aged rhesus monkeys. Opinions vary as to the origin of spheroids. Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical analysis suggested that spheroids originate from degenerating axons or astroglia. In the present study, we have investigated the GP and SNr of aged monkeys (Macaca fascicularis and Macaca mulatta). Although immunoreactive for microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 1A, tau, amyloid precursor protein, synaptophysin and phosphorylated neurofilament, spheroids were not immunoreactive for MAP1B and MAP2. We confirmed the axonal nature of pallido-nigral spheroids in aged rhesus monkeys. Pallido-nigral spheroids have been reported to overexpress stress proteins, such as ubiquitin, alphaB-crystallin, and heat shock protein (Hsp) 27. We further evaluated the expression of Hsps in pallido-nigral spheroids. As well as being intensely immunoreactive for ubiquitin, alphaB-crystallin, Hsp27, and Hsp70, spheroids were immunoreactive for Hsp32 (heme oxygenase-1), Hsp40, Hsp60, and Hsp90. On the basis of these findings, we speculate that Hsp32-immunoreactive spheroids might be expressed as an oxidative stress response. Induction of other Hsps might play a role in protection of axons from the aggregation of neurofilament, MAPs and other proteins, and failure to protect degenerating axons might result in their proteolysis by the ubiquitin-proteasome system.
15968544: !synaptophysin Secondary glioblastoma with advanced neuronal immunophenotype. We describe an unusual progression of astrocytoma into secondary glioblastoma exhibiting advanced neuronal immunophenotype. A tumor of the left frontal lobe of a 35-year-old man was diagnosed as astrocytoma. The tumor was treated by partial removal with postoperative chemoradiotherapy, followed by extensive removal of the residual regrowing tumor 5 month later. A secondary tumor was discovered and partially resected 8 years later, but the patient died 11 months following the operation due to extensive tumor progression showing subarachnoidal and intraventricular dissemination. The secondary tumor was small cell-predominant, highly proliferative tumor with an extremely high MIB-1 labeling index (80%). Unexpectedly, most of the tumor cells were positive for neuronal markers (synaptophysin and NeuN), but not for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Retrospective examination of the original tumor revealed not only diffuse GFAP expression, but also neuronal marker expressions in small numbers of tumor cells that were hard to discriminate from the other cells on hematoxylin-eosin (HE) stain. This way of malignant progression of astrocytoma was quite unusual. Although the secondary tumor was classified as glioblastoma according to World Health Organization (WHO) classification (2000), it might be categorized into new variants of malignant glioneuronal tumors proposed recently.
15967023: !synaptophysin FNAB cytology of extra-cranial metastasis of glioblastoma multiforme may resemble a lung primary: a diagnostic pitfall. As extra-cranial metastasis of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is rare, it may create a diagnostic dilemma especially during interpretation of fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) cytology.
15966515: !synaptophysin Multiple pulmonary neoplasia positive for thyroglobulin. We present, for the first time, a case of carcinoid metastatic pulmonary tumor positive for thyroglobulin. A 73-yr-old woman diagnosed with metastases of probable thyroid carcinoma, manifested by a mediastinic mass and multiple pulmonary nodules positive for radioiodine (I131). Histological analysis showed typical findings of carcinoid tumor with positive immunohistochemistry for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and thyroglobulin, and negative for chromogranin and calcitonin. We underline the exceptional finding of positive reaction for thyroglobulin, and discuss difficulties in differential diagnosis between metastatic differentiated thyroid and carcinoid neoplasms.
15965700: !synaptophysin Pediatric embryonal tumor of the cerebellum with rhabdoid cells and novel intracytoplasmic inclusions: distinction from atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor. We report a case of embryonal tumor with novel inclusion bodies occurring in the cerebellum of a 12-year-old girl. The tumor was histopathologically composed of small undifferentiated cells intermingled with a small number of rhabdoid cells, which had an ultrastructural feature of intermediate filament whorls. Immunohistochemically, the neoplasm showed a polyphenotype, including glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S-100, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, cytokeratin, vimentin, smooth muscle actin, and desmin. However, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) immunoreactivity was absent. The MIB-1 labeling index was high (25.6%). Ultrastructurally, there was no evidence of neuronal or myogenic differentiation. The small neoplastic cells contained numerous small intracytoplasmic inclusions stained pink by eosin and red by Masson's trichrome stain. The inclusion body was a densely packed, granulovesicular structure at the electron microscopic level, and was immunoreactive for vimentin, GFAP, desmin, and actin. Reverse transcription-PCR and immunohistochemistry showed the expression of INI1 at the RNA and protein levels, respectively. In conclusion, this tumor was differentiated from atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor by the absence of EMA and the presence of INI1 mRNA and protein, and diagnosed as an unclassified, embryonal tumor. Eosinophilic, granulovesicular inclusions of the tumor cells are novel cytoplasmic inclusions in the brain tumor.
15964096: !synaptophysin Altered expression of MAP-2, GAP-43, and synaptophysin in the hippocampus of rats with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion correlates with cognitive impairment. Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion causes cognitive impairment, but the underlying molecular mechanism is not well understood. We used permanent occlusion of bilateral common carotid arteries (2-VO) to induce chronic cerebral hypoperfusion in male Wistar rats. Cognitive impairment and the expression patterns of MAP-2, GAP-43, and synaptophysin were examined. We found that both learning capacity and memory were gradually impaired in the rats with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion concomitant with increased duration of 2-VO treatment. Four weeks of 2-VO treatment resulted in down-regulation of synaptophysin expression at the protein levels, and a further decrease was observed at 10-20 weeks, although mRNA levels remained the same. Ten weeks of 2-VO treatment lead to down-regulation of MAP-2 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels with a further decrease at 20 weeks. Interestingly, GAP-43 mRNA was significantly up-regulated by 2-VO treatment, although the protein levels were not altered. Therefore, the cognitive impairment caused by chronic cerebral hypoperfusion may be partially explained by reduced expression of synaptophysin and MAP-2 at the protein level. The reduction in MAP-2 expression may be attributed to the inhibition of transcription, while the reduction in synaptophysin expression might be due to the inhibition of translation. Up-regulation of GAP-43 mRNA in the rat hippocampus with 2-VO treatment suggests that a compensatory mechanism may antagonize ischemic challenges.
15952719: !synaptophysin Organelle proteomics of rat synaptic proteins: correlation-profiling by isotope-coded affinity tagging in conjunction with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to reveal post-synaptic density specific proteins. Organelle proteomics is the method of choice for global analysis of cellular proteins. However, it is difficult to isolate organelles to homogeneity. Recently, correlation-profiling has been used to filter off the contaminants ad hoc and to disclose the genuine organelle-specific proteins. In the present study, we further extend the method to include subcellular compartments that contain proteins shared by multiple distinct subcellular domains. We performed correlation profiling of proteins contained in synaptic membrane and postsynaptic density (PSD) fractions isolated from rat brain. Proteins were labeled with isotope-coded affinity-tag reagents, digested with trypsin, and resulting peptides were resolved by cation exchange chromatography followed by reversed phase chromatography. Peptides were then subjected to mass spectrometry for quantification and identification. We confirm that the core PSD proteins were enriched in the PSD preparation. Other functional protein groups such as cytoskeleton-associated proteins, protein kinases and phosphatases, signaling components and regulators, as well as proteins involved in energy production partitioned to multiple organelles. When analyzed as groups, they were shown to accumulate to a lesser extent. Mitochondrial proteins and transporters were generally strongly depleted from the PSD fraction confirming that they were contaminants of the PSD preparation. Finally, immunoelectron microscopy was performed on selected proteins to validate the proteomics results, and confirm that synaptophysin that was highly depleted in the PSD preparation is localized in the presynaptic compartment, whereas LASP-1 that was slightly enriched in the PSD preparation is present in the PSD as well as other subdomains within the synapse.
15946825: !synaptophysin Characterization of olfactory bulb glomeruli in schizophrenia. Olfactory deficits, observed in schizophrenia, may be associated with a disruption of synaptic transmission in the olfactory system. Using immunohistochemistry and optical densitometry, we assessed the integrity of the synaptic connection between olfactory receptor neurons and olfactory bulb target neurons in schizophrenia by comparing the level of eight proteins, expressed in the olfactory bulb glomeruli, among schizophrenia and control subjects. In schizophrenia, no change was observed in the levels of OMP, GAP43 and NCAM, proteins expressed by olfactory receptor neurons, suggesting an intact innervation of the olfactory bulb by these neurons. This was supported by the absence of change in calbindin level, which has been shown to decrease after the destruction of the olfactory epithelium. The level of synaptophysin, a pre-synaptic protein, was also unchanged. These findings suggested that axons of olfactory receptor neurons establish synapses with their olfactory bulb targets in schizophrenia. The absence of change in the level of poorly phosphorylated neurofilament of moderate and high molecular weight (NFM/HP) suggested no lack of dendritic innervation despite a previously seen reduction of glomerular MAP2 level in schizophrenia subjects. This and above findings were consistent with the absence of change in the level of beta-tubulin III, a protein expressed by neurons of both olfactory epithelium and bulb. Finally, we noted no significant decrease in trkB level, a neurotrophin receptor involved in the olfactory epithelium maintenance. This study showed no evidence of major structural alteration of the synapse between the olfactory epithelium and bulb in schizophrenia.
15945392: !synaptophysin Disseminated liposarcoma in a dog. A 9-year-old, female Mongrel dog was presented for posterior hindlimb weakness, inability to stand, and pain in the lumbosacral and pelvic regions. Radiography revealed a lytic lesion extending from L5 to L6 to the ilium. At necropsy, an 8 x 2 to 3.2 x 3 cm, irregular, white, firm mass was identified extending from the left dorsolateral aspect of the L6 vertebrae to the sacrum, crossing the sacroiliac joint to the ilium, and reaching the acetabulum without affecting the joint cartilage. Tumor masses were also present bilaterally near the costochondral junction of several ribs. White, soft nodules were present in the heart, pericardium, lungs, spleen, and kidneys as well. Histologically, osteolysis with disruption of the cortical bone and reactive bone with the presence of multinucleated osteoclasts was noted. Neoplastic cells consisted of variable, small basophilic round cells (SBRC) with very scant cytoplasm, larger polygonal cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm, and vacuolated cells resembling adipocytes. Within the marrow cavity, vacuolated cells with necrosis predominated, whereas in periosteal areas, polygonal and vacuolated cells that were mixed with a lower percentage of SBRC were more common. In the lungs and heart, SBRC predominated, and in the spleen, polygonal cells were more numerous. Tumor cells stained positive for vimentin and S-100 and stained negative for CD99, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, cytokeratins, desmin, myoglobin, and actin. This tumor most likely arose from the marrow cavity of the L6 and later invaded through the vertebral body into adjacent vertebrae and various visceral sites.
15943790: !synaptophysin Establishment and characterization of new cell lines derived from melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy arising in the mandible. Three cell systems (MINT1/2/3) derived from a melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy (MNTI) arising in the mandible of a 1-month-old newborn boy have been established, and their cytological natures have been characterized. The cells had immunopositivities for pan-keratin, vimentin, neuron-specific enolase, S-100 protein and melanoma-associated antigen (HMB-45). These immunohistochemical phenotypes were basically the same as those observed in tissue sections, in which, synaptophysin, myelin basic protein, c-myc gene products, carcinoembryonic antigen, and epithelial membrane antigen were also immunolocalized in tumor cells. Karyotyping analyzes revealed that the chromosome numbers of the three cell systems ranged from 60 to 67 with 3n ploidies, and that there were many structural aberrations, such as del(11)(q13), del(22)(q13), add(2)(p11), add(7)(q22), extra copies for chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 20, and 22, der(9)t(9;13)(p13;q12)add(9)(q34), and der(13;21)(q10;q10), which were shared by the three cell systems, while der(19)t(11;19)(q13;p13) was found in MINT1 and MINT3. When stimulated by endothelin-3 and vitamin D(3), the cells had spinous cell shapes with immunopositivities for HMB-45, neurofilament protein and glial fibrillary acidic protein, which indicated more neural differentiation. The established cell systems will be useful for further investigation on the molecular and genetic basis of MNTI to understand its pathogenesis, which is largely unknown.
15939207: !synaptophysin Prenatal stress reduces interneuronal connectivity in the rat cerebellar granular layer. The development and functioning of the central nervous system have been shown to be affected by maternal stress. To investigate the effects of prenatal stress on the cerebellar interneuronal connectivity, rat embryos are exposed to stress on their embryonic day (E) 7 and 14, by keeping the dam in close-fitting wire mesh cylinders, for 6 h. After completion of the cerebellar development at postnatal day (P) 30, stereological procedures were used at the light and electron microscopic level to analyze growth parameters of the granule cells and synapse-to-neuron ratios. Neither the volume fraction (V(V)) of the granular layer to whole cortex, nor the numerical density of granule cells (N(Vg)) per unit volume of granular layer was affected by exposure to stress. However, the mean granule cell nuclear diameter was significantly decreased in stressed animals. Within the neuropil region, the number and mean diameter of synaptic disc profiles were used to estimate the numerical density of synapses (N(Vs)). Synapse-to-neuron ratio was obtained by dividing N(Vs) with N(Vg), and found significantly lower in the stressed group than the control group. In addition, synaptophysin immunoreactivity showed a significant decrease (41%) in the granular layer of the cerebellum. Collectively, these results demonstrate that intrauterine stress alters the morphology of granule cells and causes a profound and fairly long-lasting deficit in their interneuronal connectivity.
15927760: !synaptophysin Prenatal auditory enrichment with species-specific calls and sitar music modulates expression of Bcl-2 and Bax to alter programmed cell death in developing chick auditory nuclei. Postnatal auditory stimulation influences early perceptual learning. Previously we reported morphological effects of prenatal auditory stimulation by species-specific and sitar musical sounds on the chick brainstem auditory nuclei-nucleus magnocellularis and nucleus laminaris. At hatching, these two nuclei of auditory enriched embryos showed higher neuronal numbers, amongst other morphological changes. There were also increases in synaptophysin and syntaxin1 expressions in the sound enriched groups and modulation of the developmental expression of transcription factors c-Fos and c-Jun. We hypothesized that prenatal auditory enrichment may have reduced embryonic apoptosis in these nuclei with possible alteration of molecular mechanisms enhancing the postsynaptic neuron's ability to survive. In the present study, therefore, we examined apoptotic cell death by TUNEL technique and Bcl-2 expression using immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting. In the controls, a peak percentage in the TUNEL-positive cells was noted in the auditory nuclei at embryonic day 12, which was reduced at embryonic day 16. Bcl-2 immunoreactivity decreased from embryonic day 8 to embryonic day 12 overlapping the period of embryonic cell death in these nuclei. The stimulated groups, however, showed fewer apoptotic neurons and higher Bcl-2 level than that in the controls. On the other hand, Bax immunohistochemistry showed correlated reverse changes compared to Bcl-2 expression. Thus prenatal extra-acoustic stimulation appears to alter Bcl-2 and Bax expression to support cell survival and differentiation, thereby augmenting the development of auditory nuclei.
15926395: !synaptophysin Radiation-induced cerebellar glioblastoma at the site of a treated medulloblastoma: case report. Radiation-induced glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a rare complication of radiotherapy. The authors report such a case occurring 10 years after treatment of cerebellar medulloblastoma. The patient was a 15-year-old boy who had undergone a gross-total removal of a medulloblastoma and received radiation therapy at the age of 5 years. He had experienced no tumor recurrences for 10 years until a new enhancing mass was found at the original site of the medulloblastoma. Following its resection the new lesion was found to be a GBM and there was no evidence of a medulloblastoma. The second tumor developed at the same site as the previous one after a sufficient latent period and fulfilled the criteria for a radiation-induced neoplasm. The original tumor cells expressed synaptophysin without p53 overexpression, a characteristic feature of medulloblastomas. In contrast, cells from the later tumor expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein and p53 but not synaptophysin. A sequence analysis of the p53 gene showed deletion at codon 233 and a C to G transition at codon 278 in the GBM but no mutation in the medulloblastoma. A GBM specimen revealed no amplification of the epidermal growth factor receptor compared with a normal control specimen. In conclusion, the clinical features of a radiation-induced GBM are similar to that of the primary GBM, whereas its genetic alterations render it a secondary GBM. These findings indicate that radiation-induced GBM should be considered a distinct clinical entity.
15915327: !synaptophysin [Neuroendocrine carcinomas of the cervix]. Neuroendocrine carcinomas of the cervix are rare. They cover a wide age range occurring in young adult women and very old women. Two types are distinguished: small cell carcinoma (oat cell) and large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma. They either occur in pure form or in combination with adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma. By immunohistochemistry, the expression of at least one neuroendocrine marker (chromogranin, synaptophysin, NSE) is a constant finding. PRb protein can not be detected, whereas the expression of p53 varies. Typically, there is an association with a high risk HPV infection. HPV 18 is found more often than HPV 16. The prognosis is still poor with early metastases to regional lymph nodes and distant sites such as lung, liver, bone, and brain.
15913431: !synaptophysin Carcinosarcoma of the liver: a case report and review of the literature. No more than 11 cases of carcinosarcoma of the liver have been reported in the past 40 years that fulfill the definition of hepatocellular carcinoma combined with differentiated sarcomatous elements. Most cases consist of hepatocellular carcinoma with 1 to 2 heterologous elements. We report a case of a 51-year-old woman with liver carcinosarcoma consisting of 3 carcinomatous components and 4 sarcomatous components. Hepatocellular carcinoma, fibrolamellar type, was accompanied by neuroendocrine carcinoma (neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin positive) and adenocarcinoma (cytokeratin 7 and 20 positive). The sarcomatous elements consisted of poorly differentiated spindle cell neoplasm (vimentin positive), leiomyosarcoma (smooth muscle actin positive), rhabdomyosarcoma (desmin positive), and osteosarcoma. To our knowledge, this is the first case of liver carcinosarcoma with this many differentiated heterologous features. There are differing views on the pathogenesis of this tumor. Findings in this case support the view that metaplasia of carcinomatous cells gives rise to the sarcomatous elements.
15912891: !synaptophysin December 2004: one-year-old girl with aggressive skull tumor. December 2004. Twelve-month old girl presented with recurrent subcutaneous lesion in the left parietal region, one year after excision of a "benign" tumor. An MRI demonstrated left temporo-parietal skull tumor infiltrating the soft tissue, surrounding craniotomy flap, and extending to the brain parenchyma. Biopsy revealed biphasic neoplasm displaying nests of poorly differentiated neuroblastic cells positive for synaptophysin and pigmented cuboidal epithelioid cell positive for keratins, epithelial membrane antigen and MHB-45. In addition, some neoplastic cells were immunoreactive for synaptophysin as well as HMB-45 and epithelial markers, suggestive of their origin from a common progenitor. Interestingly, cell with the neuroblastic immunophenotype displayed 80% nuclear MIB-1 reactivity indicating that the aggressiveness of the neoplasm was confined mostly to this pattern of differentiation. The overall histological features are consistent with a rare malignant variant of a melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy.
15910593: !synaptophysin Clinicopathological and immunohistochemical analysis of 20 cases of Merkel cell carcinoma in search of prognostic markers. To evaluate the clinicopathological and immunohistochemical characteristics of Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) in an attempt to find new, potentially significant, prognostic markers.
15900706: !synaptophysin The C-terminal transmembrane region of synaptobrevin binds synaptophysin from adult synaptic vesicles. Synaptophysin and synaptobrevin are abundant membrane proteins of neuronal small synaptic vesicles. In mature, differentiated neurons they form the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin (Syp/Syb) complex. Synaptobrevin also interacts with the plasma membrane-associated proteins syntaxin and SNAP25, thereby forming the SNARE complex necessary for exocytotic membrane fusion. The two complexes are mutually exclusive. Synaptobrevin is a C-terminally membrane-anchored protein with one transmembrane domain. While its interaction with its SNARE partners is mediated exclusively by its N-terminal cytosolic region it has been unclear so far how binding to synaptophysin is accomplished. Here, we show that synaptobrevin can be cleaved in its synaptophysin-bound form by tetanus toxin and botulinum neurotoxin B, or by botulinum neurotoxin D, leaving shorter or longer C-terminal peptide chains bound to synaptophysin, respectively. A recombinant, C-terminally His-tagged synaptobrevin fragment bound to nickel beads specifically bound synaptophysin, syntaxin and SNAP25 from vesicular detergent extracts. After cleavage by tetanus toxin or botulinum toxin D light chain, the remaining C-terminal fragment no longer interacted with syntaxin or SNAP 25. In contrast, synaptophysin was still able to bind to the residual C-terminal synaptobrevin cleavage product. In addition, the His-tagged C-terminal synaptobrevin peptide 68-116 was also able to bind synaptophysin in detergent extracts from adult brain membranes. These data suggest that synaptophysin interacts with the C-terminal transmembrane part of synaptobrevin, thereby allowing the N-terminal cytosolic chain to interact freely with the plasma membrane-associated SNARE proteins. Thus, by binding synaptobrevin, synaptophysin may positively modulate neurotransmission.
15899778: !synaptophysin Ki-67 immunoreactivity in the differential diagnosis of pulmonary neuroendocrine neoplasms in specimens with extensive crush artifact. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the usefulness of immunohistochemical markers in the differential diagnosis of pulmonary neuroendocrine tumors with particular emphasis on the preservation of immunoreactivity in areas showing crush artifacts. Specimens from 9 carcinoid tumors (CTs) and 13 small cell carcinomas (SCCs) with crush artifact were stained with antibodies to Ki-67, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and cytokeratin. The immunoreactivity was well preserved in the crushed areas. Ki-67 was expressed in the crushed areas of all SCCs. Reactivity was diffuse or at least present in 25% of the crushed areas. In contrast, the immunoreactive areas in CTs never exceeded 10%. Immunoreactivity for Ki-67, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, and cytokeratin is well preserved in tissue with crush artifacts and can be interpreted reliably. The diagnosis of SCC should be questioned if fewer than 25% of cells show reactivity for Ki-67.
15899246: !synaptophysin Decreased levels of BDNF protein in Alzheimer temporal cortex are independent of BDNF polymorphisms. Levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are reduced in specific brain regions in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and BDNF gene polymorphisms have been suggested to influence AD risk, hippocampal function, and memory. We investigated whether the polymorphisms at the BDNF 196 and 270 loci were associated with AD in a clinical and neuropathological cohort of 116 AD cases and 77 control subjects. To determine how BDNF protein levels relate to BDNF polymorphisms and AD pathology, we also measured BDNF in temporal association cortex, frontal association cortex, and cerebellum in 57 of the AD and 21 control cases. BDNF protein levels in temporal neocortex of the AD brains were reduced by 33% compared to control brains, whereas levels were unchanged in frontal and cerebellar cortex. The BDNF genotypes were not significantly associated with a diagnosis of AD, although the BDNF 270 C allele was slightly overrepresented among carriers of the APOEepsilon4 allele. Moreover, BDNF protein levels did not differ between the various BDNF genotypes and alleles. Neuropathologically, the loss of BDNF in AD showed a weak correlation with accumulation of neuritic amyloid plaques and loss of the neuronal/synaptic marker synaptophysin. The results suggest that the investigated BDNF polymorphisms are neither robust genetic risk factors nor determinants of BDNF protein levels in AD.
15896709: !synaptophysin A gene expression fingerprint of mouse stomach ECL cells. Many of the endocrine cells in the stomach are poorly characterized with respect to physiological significance. In some cases, the anticipated hormone has not yet been identified. Global gene expression analysis of mouse stomach was performed in an attempt to identify the ECL-cell peptide/protein. Specific functional activation (omeprazole-induced hypergastrinaemia) was used as a tool to generate a gene expression fingerprint of the ECL cells. The proposed fingerprint includes 14 genes, among them six are known to be expressed by ECL cells (=positive controls), and some novel ones, which are likely to be ECL-cell-related. The known ECL-cell-related genes are those encoding histidine decarboxylase, chromogranin A and B, vesicular monoamine transporter 2, synaptophysin, and the cholecystokinin-B receptor. In addition, the fingerprint included five genes, which might be involved in the process of secretion and three ESTs with unknown function. Interestingly, parathyroid hormone-like hormone (Pthlh) was identified as a candidate ECL-cell peptide hormone.
15892294: !synaptophysin Decreased neprilysin immunoreactivity in Alzheimer disease, but not in pathological aging. Although evidence suggests that extensive cortical beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition is essential in Alzheimer disease (AD), it is also detected in nondemented elderly individuals with pathologic aging (PA). Given evidence that neutral endopeptidase (NEP) or neprilysin, a key enzyme for clearance of Abeta, is decreased in AD, the goal of the present study was to determine if NEP was also decreased in PA. We measured NEP immunoreactivity in frontal cortex of 12 AD and six PA cases and compared this with 10 normal (N) elderly individuals. None had any significant other pathology, and they were similar with respect to age, sex, and postmortem delay. In addition, Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42 were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), whereas tau, synaptophysin, and alpha-synuclein were measured on Western blots. The AD cases had more neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, higher Braak stage, and more tau immunoreactivity in frontal cortex than both PA and N. In contrast, both PA and AD had more senile plaques and Abeta1-42 than N. NEP immunoreactivity was decreased in AD but not in PA. The decrease was unlikely the result of neuronal or synaptic loss because NEP immunoreactivity in frontotemporal degeneration with comparable degrees of synaptic loss as the AD cases was not different from control subjects. Although NEP enzyme activity was decreased in approximately half the AD cases, on average, it was not decreased compared with N or PA. The results add further evidence that PA is distinct from AD and indicate that decreased Abeta degradation by NEP is unlikely to contribute significantly to amyloid deposition in PA or, in many cases, of AD.
15891570: !synaptophysin Innervation of stem cell-derived neurons into auditory epithelia of mice. This study examined the potential of embryonic stem cell-derived neurons as transplants for cell therapy for the primary loss of spiral ganglion neurons. To assess the ability of embryonic stem cell-derived neurons for innervation into auditory epithelia, they were cocultured with auditory epithelium explants of mice for 7 days. Histological analysis demonstrated massive elongation of neurites from embryonic stem cell-derived neurons toward auditory hair cells. Embryonic stem cell-derived neurites were adjacent to or surrounding hair cells, and exhibited expression of synaptophysin, a marker for synaptic vesicles. These findings demonstrate the ability of embryonic stem cell-derived neurons for reinnervation into auditory epithelia, indicating a high potential of embryonic stem cell-derived neurons as transplants for replacing spiral ganglion neurons.
15890250: !synaptophysin Chromosomal imbalances in sporadic neuroendocrine tumours of the thymus. Neuroendocrine (carcinoid) tumours of the thymus are rare neoplasms characterized by a highly malignant clinical behavior. Some of these tumors are associated with MEN1. In this study we evaluated 10 cases of sporadic thymic neuroendocrine tumours using immunohistochemistry and comparative genomic hybridization (CGH). All tumours showed a diffuse expression of neuron specific enolase (NSE) and synaptophysin. Chromosomal imbalances were detected in 8/10 cases, the most frequent gains were seen on chromosome Xp (3/10 cases), 7p, 7q, 11q, 12q, and 20q (2/10 each), losses were most frequently detected at 6q (5/10 each), 6p (3/10 each), 4q (3/10 each), 3p, 10q, 11q and 13 q (2/10 each). These CGH data show a degree of overlap with chromosomal imbalances commonly observed in advanced thymomas.
15888321: !synaptophysin Effects of age on immunohistochemical changes in the mouse hippocampus. We investigated the age-related changes in neuronal cell death and synaptophysin of the hippocampal CA1 sector in mice using immunohistochemistry. Microtubule-associated protein 2a, b (MAP2) and synaptophysin immunoreactivity was measured in 2-, 8-, 18-, 42- and 59-week-old mice. MAP2 immunoreactivity was unchanged in the hippocampal CA1 sector up to 42 weeks after birth. In 59-week-old mice, however, a significant decrease in MAP2 immunoreactivity was observed in the hippocampal CA1 sector. Total number of synaptophysin-positive boutons was also unchanged in the hippocampal CA1 sector up to 42 weeks of birth. In 59-week-old mice, however, a significant increase in synaptophysin-positive boutons was observed in the hippocampal CA1 sector. These results demonstrate that dendrites and axons in the hippocampal CA1 neurons are particularly susceptible to ageing processes. In contrast, a marked increase in synaptophysin-positive boutons was found in the hippocampal CA1 sector of aged mice. These findings suggest that increase in synaptophysin-positive boutons may play a role in the maintenance of the structural components in the hippocampal CA1 sector of aged mice although most postsynaptic CA1 pyramidal neurons are generated. Thus, our findings provide further valuable information on age-related neurodegeneration and deficits in hippocampus-dependent memory and synaptic plasticity.
15887161: !synaptophysin Current status of gastrointestinal carcinoids. Gastrointestinal (GI) carcinoids are ill-understood, enigmatic malignancies, which, although slow growing compared with adenocarcinomas, can behave aggressively. Carcinoids are classified based on organ site and cell of origin and occur most frequently in the GI (67%) where they are most common in small intestine (25%), appendix (12%), and rectum (14%). Local manifestations--mass, bleeding, obstruction, or perforation--reflect invasion or tumor-induced fibrosis and often result in incidental detection at emergency surgery. Symptoms are protean (flushing, sweating, diarrhea, bronchospasm), usually misdiagnosed, and reflect secretion of diverse amines and peptides. Biochemical diagnosis is established by elevation of plasma chromogranin A (CgA), serotonin, or urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), while topographic localization is by Octreoscan, computerized axial tomography (CAT) scan, or endoscopy/ultrasound. Histological identification is confirmed by CgA and synaptophysin immunohistochemistry. Primary therapy is surgical excision to avert local manifestations and decrease hormone secretion. Hepatic metastases may be amenable to cytoreduction, radiofrequency ablation, embolization alone, or with cytotoxics. Hepatic transplantation may rarely be beneficial. Chemotherapy and radiotherapy have minimal efficacy and substantially decrease quality of life. Intravenously administered receptor-targeted radiolabeled somatostatin analogs are of use in disseminated disease. Local endoscopic excision for gastric (type I and II) and rectal carcinoids may be adequate. Somatostatin analogues provide the most effective symptomatic therapy, although interferon has some utility. Overall 5-year survival for carcinoids of the appendix is 98%, gastric (types I/II) is 81%, rectum is 87%, small intestinal is 60%, colonic carcinoids is 62%, and gastric type III/IV is 33%.
15885360: !synaptophysin Generation of a monoclonal human single chain antibody fragment to hepatic stellate cells--a potential mechanism for targeting liver anti-fibrotic therapeutics. Hepatic stellate cells are pivotal to fibrogenesis in the liver and many potential anti-fibrotic therapeutics are required to act on targets within hepatic stellate cells. The aim of this study was to generate a human antibody fragment to hepatic stellate cells.
15882834: !synaptophysin Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the parotid gland: case report and literature review. A 74-year-old male presented with a large polinodular mass in the neck. Fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) showed an undifferentiated large cell carcinoma. Computed tomography (CT) showed a large parotid mass with multiple satelite nodules. The remaining radiological studies were normal. Radical parotidectomy was performed. The tumor was a large cell carcinoma with neuroendocrine features and positive immunostain for neuroendocrine markers. The patient received postoperative radiotherapy and was free of tumor eight months later. Only four cases of large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) of the salivary gland have been communicated. All of them have involved the parotid gland. This tumor presents in elderly patients as a large infiltrating parotid mass. Fine needle aspiration cytology serves to recognize the carcinoma, but it fails in recognizing the neuroendocrine features of the tumor. The histopathological features of this tumor are the same as in other organs. Chromogranin and synaptophysin are useful immunohistochemical markers. A primary location of the tumor in another organ, specially the lung, should be ruled out. Surgery is the main treatment modality and can be complemented with postoperative radiotherapy. The prognosis seems to be poor. More studies are needed to better define the therapeutical alternatives and prognostic factors of these rare tumors.
15879630: !synaptophysin Recurrence of primary hepatic carcinoid tumor in the remnant liver 13 yr after resection. We report here a case of primary hepatic carcinoid tumor (PHCT) recurring in the remnant liver 13 yr and 10 mo after first resection. A 70-yr-old man developed four hypervascular tumors in the liver in December 2003. He had undergone curative left-lobe hepatectomy for PHCT in February 1990. Histopathological examination of the tumor biopsy specimen showed that the tumor was composed of uniform round-to-oval cells with solid arrangement and the tumor cells stained positive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase. We diagnosed this case as an intrahepatic metastasis of PHCT with a long latency period, based on the fact that no primary site of carcinoid tumor could be found despite intensive examination and the immunohistochemical findings of the resected tumors were essentially same as those of PHCT in 1990. Although PHCT is reported to have a more favorable prognosis than other hepatic cancer or metastatic carcinoid tumor in the liver, long-term observation is recommended.
15875908: !synaptophysin Desmoplastic non-infantile ganglioglioma. Desmoplastic ganglioglioma is a rare, markedly desmoplastic variant of ganglioglioma that usually presents in the first year of life. It is a mixed glial and neuronal cerebral tumor. A few cases of desmoplastic ganglioglioma have been reported in non-infantile patients. We report a case of desmoplastic ganglioglioma in a 14-year-old boy. The patient presented with a large solid cystic mass with mild peritumoral edema in the right posterior parieto-occipital region with direct contact to the falx cerebri. Histopathological examination revealed a low-grade glial tumor with prominent desmoplasia including hypocellular collagenous areas. The tumor was well demarcated with respect to the surrounding brain. Ganglion cells with dysplastic features were present in the tumor and clustered in some areas. Focal lymphocytic infiltration was also observed. Mitotic activity was very low. Immunohistochemistry revealed glial fibrillary acidic protein positivity in the astrocytic cells hidden in the desmoplastic tissue. Synaptophysin and neuron specific enolase were positive in ganglion-like neuronal cells. The MIB-1 labeling index was less than 1%. This present case confirms that desmoplastic ganglioglioma can be present in young adult patients with its characteristic radiologic features.
15872385: !synaptophysin KIT-positive gastrointestinal stromal tumor in a 22-year-old male chimpanzee (Pan troglodites). Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), KIT-positive and KIT signaling driven or platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) signaling driven mesenchymal tumors, are poorly known in nonhuman primates. Availability of KIT- and PDGFRA-inhibitor drug imatinib mesylate has greatly raised the interest for these tumors. At necropsy of a 22-year-old male chimpanzee, a round, firm 2-cm intramural tumor was incidentally found in the midbody of the stomach and diagnosed as a GIST. Histologically, the mass was composed of spindle to polygonal epithelioid cells arranged in short to intermediate-length, interlacing streams, bundles, and nodular whorls often separated by hyalinized eosinophilic matrix. The mitotic rate was a maximum 1/50 high-power field. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were diffusely positive for KIT and CD34, focally positive for alpha-smooth muscle actin, and negative for muscle specific actin, desmin, S-100 protein, synaptophysin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Because the majority of human GISTs have gain-of-function KIT or PDGFRA mutations, genomic sequences of KIT exons 9, 11, 13, and 17 and PDGFRA exons 12 and 18 from this chimpanzee GIST were polymerase chain reaction amplified and sequenced. However, no mutation was identified in the analyzed "mutational hot spots." This study is the first extensive histomorphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular genetic analysis of a chimpanzee GIST. More cases of nonhuman primate GISTs should be analyzed to discover the clinicopathologic spectrum of GISTs in these species.
15872379: !synaptophysin Hepatobiliary neuroendocrine carcinoma in cats: a clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study of 17 cases. Hepatobiliary neuroendocrine carcinoma was diagnosed in 17 cats in a period of 10 years. Seven tumors were of intrahepatic origin, one of which was a composite containing components of epithelial and neuroendocrine carcinoma. Nine tumors were of extrahepatic origin, and one tumor was located in the gall-bladder. The cats were adult and geriatric, and the male : female ratio varied according to tumor group. Hepatomegaly, anorexia, weight loss, and vomiting were the most common clinical signs observed in the cats with hepatic neuroendocrine carcinoma. The cats with extrahepatic neuroendocrine carcinoma showed these signs plus icterus (5/9) and high concentrations of hepatic enzymes. Histologically, the hepatic neuroendocrine carcinomas had two patterns, one with acinar structures separated by vascular stroma lined by cuboidal or columnar cells and the other solid with groups of anaplastic cells separated by vascular stroma. The composite tumor consisted of both bile duct carcinoma and neuroendocrine carcinoma. The extrahepatic neuroendocrine carcinomas and the gallbladder neuroendocrine carcinoma were characterized by solid sheets or groups of round to oval cells with vascular or fibrovascular stroma. Immunohistochemical examination of 10 of the neuroendocrine carcinomas revealed that all 10 stained with neuron-specific enolase; one bile duct carcinoma and the gallbladder carcinoma stained with chromogranin; four of five bile duct carcinomas and the gall bladder carcinoma stained with synaptophysin; and one bile duct carcinoma stained with gastrin. One cat with hepatic carcinoma had duodenal ulcer; in this cat, ultrastructural studies showed neurosecretory granules leading to the diagnosis of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. In four cats in which necropsy was permitted, carcinomatosis (4/4), lymph nodes (4/4), lungs (2/4), and intestines (1/4) were the metastatic sites. Fourteen of the 17 cats were euthanatized during or immediately after surgery.
15872114: !synaptophysin Neural cell adhesion molecule-secreting transgenic mice display abnormalities in GABAergic interneurons and alterations in behavior. The extracellular region of the transmembrane neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM-EC) is shed as a soluble fragment at elevated levels in the schizophrenic brain. A novel transgenic mouse line was generated to identify consequences on cortical development and function of expressing soluble NCAM-EC from the neuron-specific enolase promoter in the developing and mature neocortex and hippocampus. NCAM-EC transgenic mice exhibited a striking reduction in synaptic puncta of GABAergic interneurons in the cingulate, frontal association cortex, and amygdala but not hippocampus, as shown by decreased immunolabeling of glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 (GAD65), GAD67, and GABA transporter 1. Interneuron cell density was unaltered in the transgenic mice. Affected subpopulations of interneurons included basket interneurons evident in NCAM-EC transgenic mice intercrossed with a reporter line expressing green fluorescent protein and by parvalbumin staining. In addition, there appeared to be a reduction in excitatory synapses, as revealed by synaptophysin staining and apical dendritic spine density of cortical pyramidal cells. Behavioral analyses demonstrated higher basal locomotor activity of NCAM-EC mice and enhanced responses to amphetamine and (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate compared with wild-type controls. Transgenic mice were deficient in prepulse inhibition, which was restored by clozapine but not by haloperidol. Additionally, NCAM-EC mice were impaired in contextual and cued fear conditioning. These results suggested that elevated shedding of NCAM perturbs synaptic connectivity of GABAergic interneurons and produces abnormal behaviors that may be relevant to schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric disorders.
15871727: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the posterior mediastinum arising from a foregut cyst. Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the posterior mediastinum is extremely rare. Described here is a patient with neuroendocrine carcinoma of the posterior mediastinum arising from a foregut cyst. A paravertebral mass detected in the posterior mediastinum of a 64-year-old man was spherical, solid and yellowish white. Some cystic or cleft-like spaces were present. Microscopically, the lesion was composed of proliferating round or polygonal tumor cells in a diffuse, solid or trabecular fashion with extensive necrosis and high mitotic activity. Components of glandular epithelia and smooth muscle layers were evident in the cystic wall. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for both epithelial and neuroendocrine markers, including pan-cytokeratin, chromogranin A and synaptophysin. Neuroendocrine marker-positive cells were also present in the glandular epithelium of the cystic walls. It was considered that posterior mediastinal neuroendocrine carcinoma arose from a foregut cyst. Malignant change within a foregut cyst is very uncommon. This is the first report of a neuroendocrine carcinoma of the posterior mediastinum arising from a foregut cyst.
15870121: !synaptophysin Regulation of neuroendocrine differentiation in gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor cells by notch signaling. Gastrointestinal (GI) carcinoid tumors elaborate serotonin and other vasoactive substances, causing the carcinoid syndrome. Based on developmental biology data, we hypothesized that basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, including achaete-scute complex homolog-like 1 (Ascl1)/hASH1, and the Notch signaling pathway might regulate the neuroendocrine phenotype in GI carcinoids.
15869503: !synaptophysin Preferential localization of the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channel subunit HCN1 in basket cell terminals of the rat cerebellum. Hyperpolarization-activated and cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels are involved in the control of neuronal excitability and plasticity. In this study, we used immunoblotting and immunohistochemical techniques to reveal the developmental expression and subcellular distribution of the HCN1 subunit in the cerebellar cortex. During postnatal development, the spatio-temporal expression of HCN1 correlated well with the morphological events occurring during the ontogenesis of cerebellar interneurons. Using immunoblotting techniques, HCN1 was weakly detected during the first postnatal week and continued to increase throughout postnatal development, peaking at postnatal day (P)15. At the light-microscopic level, HCN1 immunoreactivity was very weak until P7 whereas from P10-12 to adulthood it was strongly detected in the lower third of the molecular layer and in the Purkinje cell layer. HCN1 was present in axons running through the molecular layer and in the pericellular basket around Purkinje cells at P12, but in the periaxonal plexus (the pinceau) surrounding their initial segment only after P15. Using immunofluorescence, HCN1 colocalized with GAD65 and synaptophysin, demonstrating that the subunit was present in inhibitory axons and axon terminals. At the electron-microscopic level, in adulthood, HCN1 immunoparticles were detected at postsynaptic sites in basket and Purkinje cells but most immunoparticles were found at presynaptic sites in basket cell axons and in terminals. In the axon terminals, the distribution of HCN1 was relatively uniform along the extrasynaptic plasma membrane; this was confirmed using quantitative techniques. The present findings suggest that HCN1 channels may provide a significant route for modulating co-ordinated cerebellar synaptic transmission through basket cells.
15868919: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in primary Merkel cell carcinoma--possible prognostic significance. The aim of this study was to examine the level of neuroendocrine differentiation to determine its association with clinicopathological parameters.
15866050: !synaptophysin Synaptic localization of a functional NADPH oxidase in the mouse hippocampus. Superoxide has been shown to be critical for hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and hippocampus-dependent memory function. A possible source for the generation of superoxide during these processes is NADPH oxidase. The active oxidase consists of two membrane proteins, gp91phox and p22phox, and four cytosolic proteins, p40phox, p47phox, p67phox, and Rac. Upon stimulation, the cytosolic proteins translocate to the membrane to form a complex with the membrane components, which results in production of superoxide. Here, we determined the presence, localization, and functionality of a NADPH oxidase in mouse hippocampus by examining the NADPH oxidase proteins as well as the production of superoxide. All of the NADPH oxidase proteins were present in hippocampal homogenates and enriched in synaptoneurosome preparations. Immunocytochemical analysis of cultured hippocampal neurons indicated that all NADPH oxidase proteins were localized in neuronal cell bodies as well as dendrites. Furthermore, double labeling analysis using antibodies to p67phox and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin suggest a close association of the NADPH oxidase subunits with synaptic sites. Finally, stimulation of hippocampal slices with phorbol esters triggered translocation of the cytoplasmic NADPH oxidase proteins to the membrane and an increase in superoxide production that was blocked by inhibitors of NADPH oxidase. Taken together, our data suggest that NADPH oxidase is present in mouse hippocampus and might be the source of superoxide production required for LTP and memory function.
15864552: !synaptophysin Chemoprevention of acrylamide toxicity by antioxidative agents in rats--effective suppression of testicular toxicity by phenylethyl isothiocyanate. The efficacies of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), phenylethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC), and 1-O-hexyl-2,3,5-trimethylhydroquinone (HTHQ) at preventing the neurotoxicity and testicular toxicity of acrylamide (ACR) were investigated in rats. To this end, Sprague-Dawley males were given 0.02% ACR in drinking water, with or without 1% NAC, 0.5% PEITC or 0.1% HTHQ in the diet for four weeks. A group of untreated controls was also included in the study. All ACR-treated animals exhibited progressive neurotoxicity as judged by gait scores, and among the chemicals co-administered, only HTHQ caused any suppression by the end of the experiment, and this was slight. The severity of the neurotoxicity, as judged by axonal degeneration in the spinal gracile fasciculus and sciatic nerve (distal portion) and aberrant dot-like synaptophysin immunoreactivity, reflecting nerve terminal degeneration in the cerebellar molecular layer, was not clearly reduced by co-administration of HTHQ, NAC or PEITC either. ACR-induced sciatic nerve axon atrophy was marginally and non-significantly reduced by HTHQ. In contrast, in terms of ACR-induced testicular toxicity, exfoliation of spermatids into seminiferous lumen was clearly reduced by co-administered PEITC and was marginally reduced by co-administered HTHQ. These antioxidative agents may therefore reduce/prevent ACR-induced toxicity, at least in the testes.
15862533: !synaptophysin Effect of testosterone on functional recovery in a castrate male rat stroke model. Both increased and decreased testosterone levels have been reported to correlate with poor outcome after acute ischemic stroke. The present study focused on the role of testosterone during recovery from neurological deficits in a rat focal ischemia model. Castrate male rats were subjected to behavioral tests after 90 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). On day 7 post-MCAO, neurological deficit-matched rats were assigned to a treatment group implanted with subcutaneous testosterone pellets or a control group implanted with sham cholesterol pellets. After 4 weeks post-MCAO, the average infarct volume was not significantly different between the two groups. Rats in the testosterone group demonstrated significantly earlier improvement in neurological deficits and shortened latency of adhesive tape removal compared with the control group as analyzed by Wilcoxon signed ranks test. Walking on parallel bars improved in both groups with a trend towards early recovery observed in the testosterone group. Biased left body swings persisted during the test period in both groups post-MCAO. Serum testosterone was within physiological levels in the treatment group but was not detectable in the control group by radioimmunoassay. GAP-43 and synaptophysin expression did not differ between groups. Less GFAP expression and reactive astrocyte hypertrophy were found around the infarct area in testosterone-treated rats compared with control rats. In conclusion, testosterone replacement post-MCAO accelerated functional recovery in castrate rats, suggesting a potential therapeutic role for testosterone replacement in stroke recovery.
15858165: !synaptophysin Growth of neurites toward neurite- neurite contact sites increases synaptic clustering and secretion and is regulated by synaptic activity. The integrative properties of dendrites are determined by several factors, including their morphology and the spatio-temporal patterning of their synaptic inputs. One of the great challenges is to discover the interdependency of these two factors and the mechanisms which sculpt dendrites' fine morphological details. We found a novel form of neurite growth behavior in neuronal cultures of the hippocampus and cortex, when axons and dendrites grew directly toward neurite-neurite contact sites and crossed them, forming multi-neurite intersections (MNIs). MNIs were found at a frequency higher than obtained by computer simulations of randomly distributed dendrites, involved many of the dendrites and were stable for days. They were formed specifically by neurites originating from different neurons and were extremely rare among neurites of individual neurons or among astrocytic processes. Axonal terminals were clustered at MNIs and exhibited higher synaptophysin content and release capability than in those located elsewhere. MNI formation, as well as enhancement of axonal terminal clustering and secretion at MNIs, was disrupted by inhibitors of synaptic activity. Thus, convergence of axons and dendrites to form MNIs is a non-random activity-regulated wiring behavior which shapes dendritic trees and affects the location, clustering level and strength of their presynaptic inputs.
15852338: !synaptophysin Validation of commonly used immunostains on cell-transferred cytologic specimens. Immunocytochemical staining (ICC) is often limited by the lack of cell blocks that contain diagnostic cells or by the unavailability of smear materials. The cell-transfer technique, in which original smear material is divided into several pieces and then transferred to multiple slides, can facilitate multiple ICC on limited materials. However the reliability of the staining results has not been systematically evaluated.
15851848: !synaptophysin Differential loss of synaptic proteins in Alzheimer's disease: implications for synaptic dysfunction. The objective of our research was to determine synaptic protein levels in brain specimens from AD subjects and age-matched control subjects. Further, to determine whether presynaptic or postsynaptic compartments of neurons are preferentially affected in AD patients, we studied 3 presynaptic vesicle proteins (synaptotagmin, synaptophysin, and Rab 3A), 2 synaptic membrane proteins (Gap 43 and synaptobrevin), and 2 postsynaptic proteins (neurogranin and synaptopodin) in specimens from AD and age-matched control brains. Two brain regions--the frontal and parietal cortices--were assessed for protein levels by immunoblotting analysis. We found a loss of both presynaptic vesicle proteins and postsynaptic proteins in all brain specimens from AD patients compared to those from age-matched control subjects. Further, we found that the loss of synaptic proteins was more severe in the frontal cortex brain specimens than in the parietal cortex brain specimens from the AD subjects compared to those from the control subjects, suggesting that the frontal brain may be critical for synaptic function in AD. Using immunohistochemistry techniques, we also determined the distribution pattern of all synaptic proteins in both the frontal and parietal cortices brain specimens from control subjects. Of the 7 synaptic proteins studied, the presynaptic proteins synaptophysin and rab 3A and the postsynaptic protein synaptopodin were the most down-regulated. Our study suggests that postsynaptic proteins and presynaptic proteins are important for synaptic function and may be related to cognitive impairments in AD.
15846786: !synaptophysin The organization of projections from the amygdala to visual cortical areas TE and V1 in the macaque monkey. We examined the organization of amygdaloid projections to visual cortical areas TE and V1 by injecting anterograde tracers into the amygdaloid complex of Macaca fascicularis monkeys. The magnocellular and intermediate divisions of the basal nucleus of the amygdala gave rise to heavy projections to both superficial layers (border of I/II) and deep layers (V/VI) throughout the rostrocaudal extent of area TE. Although most of the injections led to heavier fiber and terminal labeling in the superficial layers of area TE, the most dorsal injections in the basal nucleus produced denser labeled fibers and terminals in the deep layers of area TE. Area V1 received projections primarily from the magnocellular division of the basal nucleus, and these terminated exclusively in the superficial layers. As in area TE, projections from the amygdala to area V1 were distributed throughout its rostrocaudal and transverse extents. Labeled axons demonstrated 11.67 varicosities/100 microm on average in the superficial layers of area TE and 8.74 varicosities/100 microm in the deep layers. In area V1 we observed 8.24 varicosities/100 microm. Using confocal microscopy, we determined that at least 55% of the tracer-labeled varicosities in areas TE and V1 colocalized synaptophysin, a marker of synaptic vesicles, indicating that they are probably synaptic boutons. Electron microscopic examination of a sample of these varicosities confirmed that labeled boutons formed synapses in areas TE and V1. These feedback-like projections from the amygdala have the potential of modulating key areas of the visual processing system.
15841902: !synaptophysin Subependymal zone: immunohistochemically distinct compartment in the adult mammalian forebrain. The subependymal zone (SEZ) lining lateral walls of the lateral cerebral ventricles represents the site of active neurogenesis in the brain of adult mammals. Peroxidase immunohistochemistry performed in paraffin-embedded sections reveals that structural organization of the SEZ differs from other regions in the brain. The SEZ is devoid of synapses that are abundant in the adjacent striatal neuropil. Therefore immunostaining of synaptophysin detects sharp borders of the SEZ. Using immunophenotypization, we identified cell types constituting the SEZ in the intact rat forebrain. The presence of neural progenitor/stem cells was confirmed by finding of nestin-immunopositive cells. Detection of the astroglial marker GFAP confirmed that astrocytes represented major supporting elements responsible for creating a unique microenvironment of the SEZ. One type of the astroglia participated in covering surfaces of the blood vessels and boundaries of the SEZ. The second astroglial cell type formed branched elongated tubes that enwrapped other SEZ cell types with their cytoplasmic extensions. The interior of astrocytic channels was occupied with small densely aggregated NCAM-immunoreactive neuroblasts. Bipolar morphology indicated that these cells probably underwent migration. Immunodetection of other neuronal markers like beta-III tubulin, MAP-2 and Pan neurofilaments identified positive cells in the neighbouring brain parenchyma but not in the SEZ. The rostral migratory stream (RMS) linked with the anterior SEZ had a similar structural arrangement. It contained a large amount of nestin+ and vimentin+ cells. The RMS consisted of GFAP+ astrocytic tubes ensheathing NCAM+ neuroblasts. On the contrary to the SEZ, the RMS neuroblasts expressed beta-III tubulin. However, markers of postmitotic neurons MAP-2, Pan neurofilaments and synaptophysin were not expressed in the RMS. Our study describes a complex histological structure of the rat SEZ, identifies its individual cell types and demonstrates a usefulness of immunohistochemical detection of cell-specific markers in a study of microenvironment forming neurogenic zones in the mammalian brain.
15839631: !synaptophysin Paranuclear blue inclusions of small cell carcinoma of the stomach: report of a case with cytologic presentation in peritoneal washings. Primary gastric small cell carcinoma is a rare but important entity. We describe a case that we diagnosed by peritoneal washing cytology.
15823816: !synaptophysin Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the cerebellopontine angle. Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors are highly malignant small cell neoplasms. A 27-year-old female presented with a 6-month history of right-sided facial pain and progressive weakness of the facial muscles. She had non-pulsative tinnitus, progressive right hearing loss and facial palsy. T2-weighted MRI showed a heterogeneous hyperintense lesion invading the right internal auditory canal. Surgical removal was performed. Pathological examination showed sheets of small cells with irregular nuclei. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated positive immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin, vimentin, S-100 protein and p30-32 MIC-2 gene product. The patient was treated with chemotherapy (etoposide, vincristine, adriamycin, ifosfamide and actinomycin D) and radiotherapy. After 65 months of follow-up, the patient presented with cervical metastasis. Radical cervical dissection was performed and the patient was treated with a second course of chemotherapy. At control MRI after 29 months of follow-up the patient showed no signs of local recurrence or distant metastasis.
15823558: !synaptophysin Balanced GABAergic and glutamatergic synapse development in hippocampal neurons. Coordinated development of excitatory and inhibitory synapses is crucial for normal function of neuronal circuits. Using homo- and heterochronic cultures of hippocampal neurons, we compared the formation of glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses at different stages and asked whether the age of dendrites affects their ability to accept new glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. Neurons were transfected with either CFP-actin as a dendritic marker or GFP-synaptophysin as a presynaptic marker. We found that GFP-synaptophysin clusters formed on CFP-actin-labeled dendrites at similar density regardless of pre- and postsynaptic cell type or the age of dendrites (0-2 weeks) upon co-culturing. Therefore, the age of mature dendrites does not affect their ability to accept new synapses. Because GABAergic transmission switches from depolarizing to hyperpolarizing during 1-2 weeks in these cultures, our observations also suggest that this developmental switch does not alter the formation of GABAergic synapses.
15823115: !synaptophysin Small-cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix: a clinicopathologic study of 11 cases. We report the clinical profiles and immunohistochemical features of small-cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix. Eleven cases that we have encountered at the Department of Gynecology, Kitasato University Hospital, between 1971 and 2003 are presented. Of 1370 invasive carcinomas of the uterine cervix, the incidence of small-cell carcinoma was 0.8%. Patient ages ranged between 32 and 65 years, with a mean age of 46.3 years. The clinical stages at diagnosis were Ib in four patients, IIb in three, IIIb in three, and IVb in one. All patients presented with abnormal vaginal bleeding. Two patients who are alive with no evidence of disease for 12 years and 3 years 6 months, while eight patients died of primary carcinoma between 4 and 25 months after treatment. Histopathologic findings showed solid nests with marked peripheral palisading pattern and rosette formation. Small tumor cells with scant cytoplasm demonstrated a very high nuclear/cytoplasm ratio and indistinct cell borders. The nuclei were round to oval and demonstrated increased but fine granular chromatin. Nucleoli were indistinct in all cases. Immunohistochemical findings were positive in 81.8% each for neuron-specific enolase and protein gene product 9.5, 72.7% for synaptophysin, 63.6% for chromogranin A, and 54.5% for neural cell adhesion molecule. All specimens were positive for at least one of the above. In conclusion, small-cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix revealed poor prognosis. Making an accurate diagnosis of small-cell carcinoma before performing treatment is of great significance but often difficult. Immunohistochemical analysis using several kinds of neuroendocrine markers is helpful in establishing the correct diagnosis in addition to focusing on characteristic histo- and cytopathologic features.
15821929: !synaptophysin Carcinosarcoma of the prostate: two cases with distinctive morphologic and immunohistochemical findings. Carcinosarcomas (CS) of the prostate are very uncommon neoplasms defined by the admixture of malignant epithelial and mesenchymal components. We describe here two new examples of CS in two patients aged 66 and 77 years, the first without previous history of prostate adenocarcinoma and the second with a 5-year history of acinar type prostate adenocarcinoma. The diagnosis of CS was made on the cystoprostatectomy specimen in the first case and transurethral resection in the second case. Both biphasic tumours exhibited papillary areas of ductal differentiation and conventional adenocarcinoma in the epithelial component, as well as malignant fibrous histiocytoma and angiosarcomatous areas in the first case and solid, poorly differentiated epithelial areas with neuroendocrine features in the second case. Immunohistochemistry revealed over-expression of c-erb B2 in the papillary epithelial component of both cases, whereas the solid undifferentiated epithelial areas in the second patient expressed c-kit, CD10 and synaptophysin, thus conforming a very undifferentiated cell population. The angiosarcomatous component of the first case expressed CD31 and CD10. The clinical course of the cases was divergent; the first patient is free of disease after radical surgery and adjuvant therapy and the other died 5 months after the diagnosis of CS, having already developed liver metastases.
15820856: !synaptophysin Different types of environmental enrichment have discrepant effects on spatial memory and synaptophysin levels in female mice. Environmental enrichment paradigms that incorporate cognitive stimulation, exercise, and motor learning benefit memory and synaptic plasticity across the rodent lifespan. However, the contribution each individual element of the enriched environment makes to enhancing memory and synaptic plasticity has yet to be delineated. Therefore, the current study tested the effects of three of these elements on memory and synaptic protein levels. Young female C57BL/6 mice were given 3h of daily exposure to either rodent toys (cognitive stimulation) or running wheels (exercise), or daily acrobatic training for 6 weeks prior to and throughout behavioral testing. Controls were group housed, but did not receive enrichment. Spatial working and reference memory were tested in a water-escape motivated radial arm maze. Levels of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin were then measured in frontoparietal cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellum. Exercise, but not cognitive stimulation or acrobat training, improved spatial working memory relative to controls, despite the fact that both exercise and cognitive stimulation increased synaptophysin levels in the neocortex and hippocampus. These data suggest that exercise alone is sufficient to improve working memory, and that enrichment-induced increases in synaptophysin levels may not be sufficient to improve working memory in young females. Spatial reference memory was unaffected by enrichment. Acrobat training had no effect on memory or synaptophysin levels, suggesting a minimal contribution of motor learning to the mnemonic and neuronal benefits of enrichment. These results provide the first evidence that different elements of the enriched environment have markedly distinct effects on spatial memory and synaptic alterations.
15816470: !synaptophysin Carcinoma, a fibrolamellar variant--immunohistochemical analysis of 4 cases. To analyze, by means of immunocytochemistry, the cases of fibrolamellar variant of hepatocellular carcinoma (FLC), diagnosed in our Department.
15816436: !synaptophysin A case of small cell carcinoma of the common bile duct. Small cell carcinoma occasionally occurs in the gastrointestinal tract, but rarely in the biliary tract. We report a case of small cell carcinoma which occurred in the common bile duct. A 66-year-old female complained of epigastralgia and weight loss. Computed tomography and ultrasonography showed a mass near the pancreas head and dilatation of the intrahepatic bile ducts. Endoscopic nasobiliary drainage was undertaken, and it revealed obstruction of the common bile duct. The patient was diagnosed preoperatively as having extrahepatic bile duct cancer. Upon laparotomy, a tumor was found to be located in the middle common bile duct. Pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed. The main trunk of the portal vein and the right hepatic artery were resected concomitantly because of tumor involvement. Postoperative pathological examination revealed well-differentiated papillary adenocarcinoma on the surface of the bile duct lumen, but a large part of the extraductal component was small cell carcinoma. Upon immunohistochemical examination, synaptophysin and chromogranin A were found to be focally positive in small cell carcinoma, but negative for L-26 and CEA. The patient then underwent two postoperative courses of systemic chemotherapy. Nevertheless, she died of cancer recurrence eight months after the operation, which showed that the tumor had a highly lethal nature, with rapid and widespread dissemination. Further therapeutic trials are needed to improve survival in such cases.
15811338: !synaptophysin Aftiphilin is a component of the clathrin machinery in neurons. Aftiphilin was identified through a database search for proteins containing binding motifs for the gamma-ear domain of clathrin adaptor protein 1 (AP-1). Here, we demonstrate that aftiphilin is expressed predominantly in brain where it is enriched on clathrin-coated vesicles. In addition to eight gamma-ear-binding motifs, aftiphilin contains two WXXF-acidic motifs that mediate binding to the alpha-ear of clathrin adaptor protein 2 (AP-2) and three FXXFXXF/L motifs that mediate binding to the alpha- and beta2-ear. We demonstrate that aftiphilin uses these motifs for interactions with AP-1 and AP-2 and that it immunoprecipitates these APs but not AP-3 or AP-4 from brain extracts. Aftiphilin demonstrates a brefeldin A sensitive localization to the trans-Golgi network in hippocampal neurons where it co-localizes with AP-1. Aftiphilin is also found at synapses where it co-localizes with synaptophysin and AP-2. Our data suggest a role for aftiphilin in clathrin-mediated trafficking in neurons.
15810952: !synaptophysin Supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumours of the brain: multidirectional differentiation does not influence prognosis. A clinicopathological report of 18 patients. To examine the clinical and pathological characteristics of supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumours (PNETs) in a retrospective series of 18 patients, according to the strict definition of the World Health Organization classification of tumours that excludes other types of malignant embryonal tumours of the brain.
15808729: !synaptophysin Mixed neuronal-glial tumor of the fourth ventricle and successful treatment of postoperative mutism with bromocriptine: case report. Tumors composed of both neurocytic and astrocytic cells are uncommon and poorly understood. We describe the clinicopathologic features of a very rare rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor of the fourth ventricle and propose bromocriptine as a useful therapeutic agent for cerebellar mutism after posterior fossa surgery.
15806520: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma with ganglioneuromatous component located in the posterior mediastinum. A 4-cm paravertebral mediastinal tumor was resected in a 70-year-old male patient treated for hypertension. The tumor displayed both paraganglioma and ganglioneuroma areas that were in equal proportion and often merged one into the other. Paraganglioma areas contained synaptophysin and chromogranin-positive chief cells and PS100-positive sustentacular cells. Ganglioneuroma areas contained neurofilament-positive mature ganglion cells and PS100-positive Schwann cells. Such pheochromocytoma-ganglioneuroma has not been previously reported in the mediastinum and appears as the adrenal and aorticosympathetic counterpart of gangliocytic paraganglioma described in other anatomic sites.
15806139: !synaptophysin Expression of HSP47, a collagen-specific chaperone, in normal and diseased human liver. HSP47 is a collagen-specific chaperone that is required for normal collagen synthesis. In animal models of liver injury, hepatic stellate cells (HSC) have been identified as a source of HSP47. Because expression of HSP47 has not been investigated in human liver, the aim of these studies was to characterize expression of HSP47 in human liver and to investigate its regulation in human HSC in vitro. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated staining for HSP47 along the sinusoids of normal and cirrhotic human livers and in fibrous septa. Dual fluorescence confocal microscopy showed colocalization of HSP47 with synaptophysin, a marker for HSC. Levels of immunoreactive HSP47 and its transcript tended to be higher in cirrhotic livers than in normal livers. The abundance of HSP47 protein was unchanged by treatment of cultured human HSC with TGF-beta1, angiotensin II, hypoxia and a number of other treatments intended to increase collagen synthesis. A modest reduction in HSP47 was achieved by transfection with antisense oligonucleotides and was associated with a significant decrease in procollagen synthesis. These observations suggest that HSP47 is constitutively expressed in human HSC and that HSP47 may be a target for antifibrotic therapy.
15805078: !synaptophysin An investigation of the effects of late-onset dietary restriction on prostate cancer development in the TRAMP mouse. In our previous work we showed that dietary restriction initiated at puberty reduced prostate cancer development in the TRAMP mouse model. The current study was conducted to ascertain whether a dietary restriction regime would similarly reduce lesion development if imposed once tumor development was well established. Male TRAMP mice were maintained on an ad libitum diet until 20 weeks of age when proliferative prostate lesions are clearly evident. Mice were then subjected to a 20% restriction in dietary calories compared to matched controls, which were continued on ad libitum feeding. Mice were sacrificed at 20, 24, 32, and 39 weeks of age and proliferative epithelial lesions of the prostate were assessed using an established grading scheme. In this study, although dietary restriction reduced mean sex pluck weight (prostate and seminal vesicles), and mean grade of epithelial proliferative lesions in the dorsal and lateral lobes of the prostate, the effect was not as pronounced as was the case with dietary restriction from puberty. There was no relationship between serum insulin like growth factor (IGF-1) and prostate lesion grade. Additionally, we also report the relationship between lobe specific lesion development and SV40 immunostaining and, the occurance of neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) in the ventral prostate and urethra of the TRAMP mouse. NETs stained with high specificity and sensitivity for the neuroendocrine markers, synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase (NSE), less for serotonin, but not for chromogranin A. NETs did not stain for cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) nor androgen receptor (AR). SV40 positive tubulo-acinar tumors seen occasionally in the kidney, did not stain for synaptophysin nor NSE.
15804426: !synaptophysin Effect of chronic intermittent restraint stress on hippocampal expression of marker proteins for synaptic plasticity and progenitor cell proliferation in rats. Chronic restraint stress may change hippocampal mRNA levels of markers for synaptic plasticity such as synaptophysin, growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In order to examine the relation between that stressor and those biochemical markers on protein level as well as the Ki-67 protein, a marker of progenitor cell proliferation, we subjected rats to chronic intermittent restraint stress for 6 h per day for 14 days excluding the weekends. This stress intensity caused a significant increase in adrenal gland weight and decrease in body weight gain. However, we did not find significant alteration of protein expression levels for synaptophysin, GAP-43, and BDNF by using Western blot analysis. Unlike these findings, the hippocampal protein expression of Ki-67 was significantly reduced by using both Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses. This reduction of Ki-67 expression in chronically stressed rats was correlated with increased adrenal gland weight and decreased body weight gain. All marker proteins used did not show any changes of hippocampal expression level after a single restraint stress session of 3 h. In conclusion, chronic intermittent restraint stress caused changes in the physiological stress response in rats, and a decrease of hippocampal progenitor cells using the Ki-67 protein as marker which indicates a suppression of adult neurogenesis. The results might contribute to understand the relationship between stress and cellular neurobiology of depression, since chronic antidepressant treatment have been shown to increase adult neurogenesis in the rat hippocampus.
15803630: !synaptophysin CNS development under altered gravity: cerebellar glial and neuronal protein expression in rat neonates exposed to hypergravity. The future of space exploration depends on a solid understanding of the developmental process under microgravity, specifically in relation to the central nervous system (CNS). We have previously employed a hypergravity paradigm to assess the impact of altered gravity on the developing rat cerebellum. The present study addresses the molecular mechanisms involved in the cerebellar response to hypergravity. Specifically, the study focuses on the expression of selected glial and neuronal cerebellar proteins in rat neonates exposed to hypergravity (1.5 G) from embryonic day (E)11 to postnatal day (P)6 or P9 (the time of maximal cerebellar changes) comparing them against their expression in rat neonates developing under normal gravity. Proteins were analyzed by quantitative Western blots of cerebellar homogenates; RNA analysis was performed in the same samples using quantitative PCR. Densitometric analysis of Western blots suggested a reduction in glial (glial acidic protein, GFAP) and neuronal (neuronal cell adhesion molecule, NCAM-L1, synaptophysin) proteins, but the changes in individual cerebellar proteins in hypergravity-exposed neonates appeared both age- and gender-specific. RNA analysis suggested a reduction in GFAP and synaptophysin mRNAs on P6. These data suggest that exposure to hypergravity may interfere with the expression of selected cerebellar proteins. These changes in protein expression may be involved in mediating the effect of hypergravity on the developing rat cerebellum.
15800376: !synaptophysin Activity-dependent neurotrophic factor-9 and NAP promote neurite outgrowth in rat hippocampal and cortical cultures. Activity-dependent neurotrophic factor (ADNF) is a novel, femtomolar-acting, glial-derived polypeptide (14 kDa) known to protect neurons from a variety of toxic insults. The active site for ADNF function is localized to a 9-amino-acid stretch (SALLRSIPA; ADNF-9). A few years later, a novel ADNF-9-like active peptide (NAPVSIPQ or NAP) was identified and shown to be expressed in the CNS and exhibit an activity profile similar to ADNF-9. Such studies suggest that ADNF-9 and NAP might function like other known neurotrophins and play a role in neural development and maintenance. The purpose of the present studies was to determine if ADNF-9 or NAP affects neurite outgrowth and synaptogenesis in rat hippocampal and cortical cultures. Using MAP2-FITC immunofluorescent labeling, we found that ADNF-9 and NAP promoted neurite outgrowth in a concentration-dependent manner, with maximal activity observed at femtomolar concentrations. Both peptides stimulated robust outgrowth in hippocampal cells (approximately 150% of control; p < 0.01) with a modest effect on cortical cells (approximately 20% of control; p < 0.05) similar to other known growth factors. However, the outgrowth-promoting effect was abolished in the absence of serum, suggesting that soluble factors might be necessary for the neurotrophic activity. Finally, we found that ADNF-9 and NAP increased synaptophysin expression in both rat hippocampal and cortical cultures. These results suggest that ADNF-9 and NAP might contribute to neuronal plasticity associated with development and repair after injury.
15798152: !synaptophysin Quantitative neuropathologic correlates of changes in ratio of N-acetylaspartate to creatine in macaque brain. To elucidate the neuropathologic basis of transient changes in the ratio of N-acetylaspartate (NAA) to creatine (Cr) in the primate brain by using a simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected macaque model of the neurologic manifestation of acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
15791482: !synaptophysin Heterogeneity in distribution of amyloid-positive islets in type-2 diabetic patients. Amyloid-containing (A+) islets are characteristic for type-2 diabetes (T2D), but their abundance seems variable among patients. It is unclear whether the distribution of A+ islets follows a certain pattern or occurs randomly throughout the pancreatic organ. We investigated the topography of A+ islets in eight pancreata of T2D patients and eight sex- and age-matched non-diabetic subjects. Transversal sections of head, body and tail segments were stained with synaptophysin combined with Congo red to map/quantify islet tissue and amyloid. In the eight T2D pancreata, the overall percentage of A+ islets varied from 4% to 85%. Further analysis in body and tail indicated that peripheral regions exhibited higher percentages of A+ islets than central regions (averages of, respectively, 30% and 17%, P<0.05). Non-diabetic control pancreata also exhibited A+ islets, albeit at a 25-fold lower frequency; a tendency towards higher percentage of A+ islets in peripheral versus central regions was also observed. The higher percentage A+ islets in peripheral regions was associated with a higher density and relative islet over exocrine surface area. These observations on heterogeneity in abundance and distribution of A+ islets need consideration when sampling tissue for studies on human islet amyloidosis. The present methodology allows us to further investigate the susceptibility to amyloidosis of islets in peripheral regions of the pancreas.
15789763: !synaptophysin [The investigation of Syn and NPY expression in brain tissues of diabetic model rat induced by streptozotocin]. The synaptophysin (Syn) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) expressions in brain tissue of diabetic model rats were investigated. 20 adult Sprague-Dawley male rats were randomly divided into two groups. 10 rats were injected with streptozotocin to induce diabetes, which was identified by blood & urinary sugar level; and the others were injected with sodium citrate buffer as the control. After 4 weeks' diabetes appearance, the learning and memory ability of each rat in both group were tested by Y-Maze. Afterward freeze sections from the frontal cortex and hippocampus were made and stained with Nissl and Syn, NPY Immunohistochemistry staining. It was observed that diabetic rats showed more errors in Y-Maze test than those control rats. Both the number of neurons and the light densities of Syn and NPY immunostaining reaction in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of brain tissue sections significantly decreased in the diabetic model rats. It is suggested that the decrease in neuron number and Syn, NPY expression in frontal cortex and hippocampus may be one of the factors leading to diabetic dementia.
15782066: !synaptophysin CD56 reactivity in small cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix. Small cell carcinoma (SCC) of the uterine cervix, like its pulmonary counterpart, is a rare but distinctive neoplasm that should be separated from nonendocrine carcinomas because of its highly aggressive clinical course and response to chemotherapy and irradiation. CD56 (neural cell adhesion molecule) has recently been shown to be the best marker for the diagnosis of pulmonary SCC. In this study, we assessed the sensitivity and specificity of CD56 in the diagnosis of SCC of the uterine cervix compared with those of chromogranin and synaptophysin. Twenty-two (88%) of 25 SCCs of the uterine cervix labeled with CD56 in a predominantly membranous and diffuse pattern, whereas 16 of 25 (64%) stained with synaptophysin in a predominantly diffuse pattern and 8 of 25 (32%) showed predominantly focal immunoreactivity for chromogranin. In contrast, 3 of 21 (14%) moderately to poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinomas and 1 of 16 (6%) moderately differentiated adenocarcinomas showed focal immunoreactivity for CD56. Although not specific, CD56 seems to be the most sensitive marker for the diagnosis of SCC of the uterine cervix. Moreover, its diffuse reactivity reduces the possibility of obtaining negative results in small biopsy samples.
15781228: !synaptophysin Preserved synaptic vesicle recycling in hippocampal neurons in a mouse Alzheimer's disease model. A recently described triple-transgenic mouse model (3xTg, PS1(M146V), APP(Swe), and tau(P301L)) develops a neuropathology similar to the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients including progressive deposits of plaques and tangles [Neuron 39 (2003) 409]. These mice also show age-related deficits in hippocampal synaptic plasticity that occurs before the development of plaques and tangles. Here we report unchanged synaptic vesicle recycling, as measured by FM1-43 release, in the hippocampal neurons of the 3xTg mice. Expression levels of presynaptic protein synaptophysin and of proteins involved in synaptic vesicle recycling including AP180, dynamin I, and synaptotagmin I also remain unaffected. These data suggest that the synaptic deficits observed in the 3xTg neurons may not arise from the preserved synaptic vesicle recycling.
15776911: !synaptophysin [Small cell prostatic carcinoma detected at the stage of metastases]. Small cell prostatic carcinoma is rare, with a poor prognosis. The authors report a case of small cell prostatic carcinoma in a 30-year-old patient diagnosed at the stage of metastases. Immunohistochemistry showed positive anti-neuron-specific enolase (NSE.) and anti-synaptophysin antibodies, while serum PSA was normal (1.2 ng/ml). The patient was treated by cisplatin-etoposide combination chemotherapy, but died 20 days after the first course.
15774214: !synaptophysin [Morphology and immunohistochemical characteristics of hepatic primary and metastatic malignant spindle cell tumors]. To investigate the morphology and immunohistochemical characteristics of hepatic primary and metastatic malignant spindle cell tumors, and to conclude the diagnostic and differential diagnostic criteria for these morphologically similar tumors.
15765516: !synaptophysin Increase of GAP-43 in the rat cerebellum following unilateral striatal 6-OHDA lesion. In order to further characterize synaptic alterations following a severe lesion of the nigrostriatal system, the expression of synaptic marker proteins, synaptophysin and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43), was examined in various brain regions of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-treated rats, an animal model of Parkinson's disease. Unilateral nigrostriatal lesioning induced an increase in synaptophysin protein levels by 68% and 106% in the sensorimotor cortex and striatum, respectively, while changes in the level of GAP-43 were not observed. In contrast, 6-OHDA induced a 73% increase in the level of GAP-43 protein in the cerebellum. This increase was also confirmed with immunohistochemistry. The level of synaptophysin in the cerebellum remained unchanged in response to the lesion. These results suggest that a neurotoxic lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway differentially affects the expression of the two synaptic proteins and that plasticity-related changes in this model are not solely restricted to the nigrostriatal system. In addition, these results provide further evidence of the involvement of the cerebellum in the late response to a 6-OHDA lesion.
15762280: !synaptophysin Sporadic medullary carcinoma of the colon: a clinicopathologic comparison with nonhereditary poorly differentiated enteric-type adenocarcinoma and neuroendocrine colorectal carcinoma. We studied 68 sporadic colorectal carcinomas (CRCs) with medullary features (MCRCs) and compared them with 35 poorly differentiated purely "enteric" CRCs (ECRCs) and 15 purely neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs) of grades II and III, all in patients lacking a family history of CRC. Potential clinicopathologic differences between the study groups were assessed. MCRCs were significantly more common in the ascending colon than were ECRCs, but there was no significant dissimilarity to NECs. ECRCs occurred more often in the rectosigmoid than MCRCs or NECs. MCRCs arose in older patients, and a marked sex difference also was noted. Despite an infiltrative growth pattern, MCRC was less likely than ECRC to manifest with stage III or IV disease, but there was no stage-related difference from NECs. Although the histologic images of MCRCs were evocative of neuroendocrine differentiation, chromogranin positivity and synaptophysin reactivity in that group did not differ meaningfully from that of ECRCs but was dissimilar to the 100% labeling of NECs. p53 immunolabeling was similar in the 3 tumor groups. Follow-up data in the study cases showed that 5-year mortality was 40% (27/68) for MCRC, 59% (19/32) for ECRC, and 93% (14/15) for NEC. Medullary CRC seems to be a distinct clinicopathologic variant of CRC, which does not have a neuroendocrine lineage. The biologic behavior of MCRC was better than that of ECRC or NEC.
15760646: !synaptophysin Brain area- and isoform-specific inhibition of synaptic plasticity by apoE4. The allele E4 of apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4), the most prevalent genetic risk factor of Alzheimer's disease (AD), inhibits the improvements in learning and memory which result from exposure of apoE transgenic mice to environmental stimulation (ES). In the present study, we investigated the extent to which these cognitive deficits are associated with distinct presynaptic, postsynaptic and axonal impairments and whether these effects are brain area-specific. Exposure to an enriched environment of young mice transgenic for human apoE3, which is the AD benign apoE allele, increased the levels of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin and of the dendritic marker MAP-2 in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, whereas the corresponding levels of these proteins in the apoE4 transgenic mice were unaffected by the enriched environment. In contrast, the levels of synaptophysin and MAP-2 in the motor cortex were elevated by environmental stimulation in both the apoE3 and the apoE4 transgenic mice. These findings show that apoE4 inhibits synaptic plasticity following environmental stimulation and that this effect is both isoform- and brain area-specific.
15753467: !synaptophysin Canine hepatic neuroendocrine carcinoma: an immunohistochemical and electron microscopic study. Ten dogs with neuroendocrine carcinoma of the liver were selected for inclusion in the study. Clinical signs were anorexia (7), vomiting (5), polydipsia/polyuria (3), icterus (2), lethargy (2), weight loss (2), paresis (1), ataxia (1), weakness (1), collapse (1), and urinary tract infection (1). Hematologic and biochemical abnormalities included anemia (2/8), leukocytosis (4/8), high liver enzyme activity (serum alkaline phosphatase, 7/9; alanine transaminase, 7/9; aspartate transaminase, 8/9), and high total bilirubin (6/9). Grossly, the tumors were diffuse, involving all liver lobes in six dogs, and two dogs had various-sized nodules in addition to diffuse involvement. Histologically, there were eight tumors with solid or trabecular pattern (group A), one tumor with cords or rows of neoplastic cells (group B), and one tumor with multiple rosette-like structures (group C). Immunohistochemical studies revealed that all 10 neoplasms were positive for at least one of the endocrine markers used: neuron-specific enolase (NSE; 8/10), synaptophysin (5/10), and chromogranin-A (3/10). A panel of NSE, chromagranin-A, and synaptophysin detected 100% of the tumors in our series. Electron microscopy confirmed the diagnosis by the presence of intracytoplasmic neurosecretory granules in the two examined cases. Our results show that neuroendocrine markers commonly used in humans can be used for the diagnosis of hepatic neuroendocrine carcinoma in dogs, preferably a panel of synaptophysin, chromagranin-A, and NSE because chromogranin-A alone is not as useful in dogs as in humans.
15749933: !synaptophysin Neurons derived from human mesenchymal stem cells show synaptic transmission and can be induced to produce the neurotransmitter substance P by interleukin-1 alpha. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) exhibit immune-suppressive properties, follow a pattern of multilineage differentiation, and exhibit transdifferentiation potential. Ease in expansion from adult bone marrow, as well as its separation from ethical issues, makes MSCs appealing for clinical application. MSCs treated with retinoic acid resulted in synaptic transmission, based on immunostaining of synaptophysin and electrophysiological studies. In situ hybridization indicated that the neurotransmitter gene preprotachykinin-I was expressed in these cells. However, translation of this gene only occurred after stimulation with interleukin (IL)-1 alpha. This effect was blunted by costimulation with IL-1 receptor antagonist. This study reports on the ability of MSCs to be transdifferentiated into neurons with functional synapses with the potential to become polarized towards producing specific neurotransmitters.
15744380: !synaptophysin Neural stem cells transplanted into intact brains as neurospheres form solid grafts composed of neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocyte precursors. Neural stem cells (NSCs) are tissue-specific stem cells with self-renewal potential that can give rise to neurons and glia in vivo and in vitro. The aim of this study was to transplant NSCs as whole neurospheres into intact brain and assess the fate and phenotype of their progeny generated in vivo. We isolated NSCs from E14 foetal rat forebrains and cultured them in basic fibroblast and epidermal growth factor-supplemented serum-free medium in the form of neurospheres in vitro. Neurospheres were transplanted into the intact brains of 2 Wistar rats and after a period of 3 weeks, grafted brains were examined immunohistochemically. Neurospheres formed solid grafts that were found in the lateral ventricle and in the velum interpositum under the hippocampus. The majority of cells in the transplanted tissue were identified as beta-III-tubulin(+), NeuN(+), PanNF(+) and synaptophysin(+) neurons and were accumulated throughout the graft centre. GFAP(+) astrocytes were scattered throughout the entire graft and astrocyte processes delimited the outer and perivascular surfaces. A great number of NG2(+) oligodendrocyte precursors was detected. Nestin(+) endothelial cells were found to line capillaries growing in the transplant. These data indicate that nestin(+) NSCs prevailing in neurospheres differentiate following transplantation into nestin(-) neuronal and glial cells which confirms the multipotency of NSCs. Three weeks posttransplantation neuronal and astrocyte cells reached terminal differentiation (formation of synaptic vesicles and superficial and perivascular limiting membranes) while elements of oligodendroglial cell lineage remained immature. Grafting stem cells as non-dissociated neurospheres provide cells with favourable conditions which facilitate cell survival, proliferation and differentiation. However, in the intact brain, grafted neurosphere cells were not found to integrate with the brain parenchyma and formed a compact structure demarcated from its surroundings.
15743041: !synaptophysin Primary small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast. We report and characterize immunohistochemically a case of primary small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast. The tumor, which arose in the left side, was 18 cm in maximum diameter and microscopically was composed of patternless sheets of undifferentiated small cells with a high nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio, hyperchromatic nuclei with indistinct cytoplasm, inconspicuous nucleoli, numerous mitotic figures and large areas of coagulative necrosis. Tumor cells were positive for bcl-2, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, CAM 5.2 and cytokeratin AE1/3, but negative for LCA, CD30, HMB-45, chromogranin A, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, Her-2/neu and CD99. The opposite breast harboured an intraductal carcinoma with a focus suggesting microinfiltration, a finding never reported before. In this paper we have also extensively reviewed the literature on the subject, emphasizing the variable immunohistochemical profile and the aggressiveness of mammary small cell carcinoma. The rapidly fatal clinical course of our case, which appears to have the largest dimensions described in literature, underlines the importance of an early diagnosis and treatment for long-term survival.
15740664: !synaptophysin Cultured human embryonic neocortical cells survive and grow in infarcted cavities of adult rat brains and interconnect with host brain. There are no reports on exnografting cultured human fetal neocortical cells in this infracted cavities of adult rat brains. This study was undertaken to observe whether cultured human cortical neurons and astrocytes can survive and grow in the infarcted cavities of adult rat brains and whether they interconnect with host brains.
15738866: !synaptophysin [Synaptophysin expression abnormalities in Hirschsprung's disease]. Hirschsprung's disease is defined by the congenital absence of ganglion cells in enteric plexuses. Immunostaining of synaptophysin after formalin fixation may be used to identify hyperplasia of nerve fibers and rarefaction of neuromuscular junctions in Hirschsprung's disease. The aim of the study was to evaluate semi-quantitatively the expression of synaptophysin in Hirschsprung's disease, in correlation with morphologic features. This retrospective study included 3 controls, 42 surgical rectal biopsies performed for suspicion of Hirschsprung's disease in children presenting with lower digestive occlusion or severe chronic constipation, including 18 Hirschsprung's disease, and 23 surgical specimens of Hirschsprung's disease. In the absence of Hirschsprung's disease, synaptophysin-positive fibers were numerous but thin in the muscularis mucosae, thin and scarce in the mucosa and submucosa. Neuromuscular junctions were thin and numerous in the muscularis propria. In Hirschsprung's disease, synaptophysin-positive fibers were coarse, and increased in number on each side of the muscularis mucosae. Plexuses were enlarged, weakly stained, and associated in the connective tissue of the muscularis propria with coarse and intensely stained fibers. In conclusion, staining for synaptophysin could be useful to demonstrate abnormalities of enteric innervation in rectal biopsies performed for suspected Hirschsprung's disease in the absence of acetylcholinesterase staining on frozen sections, in transmural biopsies performed for guiding surgery in Hirschsprung's disease, and in cases of extensive Hirschsprung's disease.
15737349: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: an immunohistochemical marker for animal dysautonomias. Equine and feline dysautonomias are characterized histopathologically by degenerating neurons with chromatolysis, pyknotic and sometimes eccentric nuclei, and loss of Nissl substance in the peripheral autonomic ganglia. Because it may be difficult to distinguish pathological from post-mortem changes in affected ganglia by histopathological examination, synaptophysin was evaluated as an immunohistochemical marker. Degenerating neurons showed strong intracytoplasmic labelling indicating abnormal accumulation of synaptophysin. It was concluded that synaptophysin immunohistochemistry is a helpful tool for detecting degenerating neurons in equine (grass sickness) and feline (Key-Gaskell syndrome) dysautonomias.
15737348: !synaptophysin Metastatic esthesioneuroblastoma in a horse. A 17-year-old horse developed severe proptosis of the left eye over a period of 1.5 years. At post-mortem examination a neoplasm was found involving the left ethmoid bone, left maxillary sinus, left orbit, left superior turbinate, and the left eye. Tumour cells were arranged in nests separated by a fine fibrovascular stroma. Immunohistochemically, the tumour cells were labelled by antibodies against neurofilament protein, synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein and S-100 protein antigen, but were negative for chromogranin A, cytokeratin and desmin. Electronmicroscopically, the cells showed neurosecretory granules with an electron-dense centre and a light halo, and microfilaments. On the basis of macroscopical, light microscopical and ultrastructural findings a diagnosis of a metastatic esthesioneuroblastoma was made.
15737039: !synaptophysin Intratesticular mucinous cystadenoma: immunohistochemical comparison with ovarian and colonic tissue. We report a case of a primary intratesticular mucinous cystadenoma in an asymptomatic 39-year-old man. The mass was found incidentally during a consultation for infertility. Pathologic examination of the orchiectomy specimen revealed a unilocular cyst lined with bland mucinous epithelium and mucinous extravasation, consistent with a diagnosis of mucinous cystadenoma. Foci of bone were also found in association with extensive chronic inflammation. Immunohistochemical stains performed showed immunoreactivity for cytokeratin 7, and nonreactivity for cytokeratin 20, CA125, chromogranin, and synaptophysin. The immunohistochemical staining patterns of the present case are compared with those of known mucinous cystadenomas of the ovary and nonneoplastic colonic mucosa. The histogenesis of this entity is discussed in light of the literature and the immunohistochemical findings in this rare case.
15736227: !synaptophysin Light and electron microscopic analysis of KChIP and Kv4 localization in rat cerebellar granule cells. Potassium channels are key determinants of neuronal excitability. We recently identified KChIPs as a family of calcium binding proteins that coassociate and colocalize with Kv4 family potassium channels in mammalian brain (An et al. [2000] Nature 403:553). Here, we used light microscopic immunohistochemistry and multilabel immunofluorescence labeling, together with transmission electron microscopic immunohistochemistry, to examine the subcellular distribution of KChIPs and Kv4 channels in adult rat cerebellum. Light microscopic immunohistochemistry was performed on 40-microm free-floating sections using a diaminobenzidine labeling procedure. Multilabel immunofluorescence staining was performed on free-floating sections and on 1-microm ultrathin cryosections. Electron microscopic immunohistochemistry was performed using an immunoperoxidase pre-embedding labeling procedure. By light microscopy, immunoperoxidase labeling showed that Kv4.2, Kv4.3, and KChIPs 1, 3, and 4 (but not KChIP2) were expressed at high levels in cerebellar granule cells (GCs). Kv4.2 and KChIP1 were highly expressed in GCs in rostral cerebellum, whereas Kv4.3 was more highly expressed in GCs in caudal cerebellum. Immunofluorescence labeling revealed that KChIP1 and Kv4.2 are concentrated in somata of cerebellar granule cells and in synaptic glomeruli that surround synaptophysin-positive mossy fiber axon terminals. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that KChIP1 and Kv4.2 immunoreactivity is concentrated along the plasma membrane of cerebellar granule cell somata and dendrites. In synaptic glomeruli, KChIP1 and Kv4.2 immunoreactivity is concentrated along the granule cell dendritic membrane, but is not concentrated at postsynaptic densities. Taken together, these data suggest that A-type potassium channels containing Kv4.2 and KChIP1, and perhaps also KChIP3 and 4, play a critical role in regulating postsynaptic excitability at the cerebellar mossy-fiber/granule cell synapse.
15735934: !synaptophysin Disruption of lateral olivocochlear neurons via a dopaminergic neurotoxin depresses sound-evoked auditory nerve activity. We applied the dopaminergic (DA) neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to the guinea pig cochlear perilymph. Immunolabeling of lateral olivocochlear (LOC) neurons using antibodies against synaptophysin was reduced after the MPTP treatment. In contrast, labeling of the medial olivocochlear innervation remained intact. As after brainstem lesions of the lateral superior olive (LSO), the site of origin of the LOC neurons, the main effect of disrupting LOC innervation of the cochlea via MPTP was a depression of the amplitude of the compound action potential (CAP). CAP amplitude depression was similar to that produced by LSO lesions. Latency of the N1 component of the CAP, and distortion product otoacoustic emission amplitude and adaptation were unchanged by the MPTP treatment. This technique for selectively lesioning descending LOC efferents provides a new opportunity for examining LOC modulation of afferent activity and behavioral measures of perception.
15732829: !synaptophysin [Neuroendocrine tumors of the larynx]. The classification, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of neuroendocrine tumors are presented. Rare case of typical carcinoid of the larynx is described. This was the second primary tumor after squamous lung cancer treatment. The diagnosis was based on routine histological investigation, and then confirmed by immunohistochemical tests with synaptophysin, chromogranin, S-100 protein and cytokeratin markers. The clinical presentation of the patient, age, gender, localization, macroscopic appearance and slow growth dynamic was in accordance with cases described in the literature.
15721282: !synaptophysin Synaptic proteins and SNARE complexes are localized in lipid rafts from rat brain synaptosomes. The biochemical characterization of the SNARE proteins present in lipid microdomains, also known as "lipid rafts," has been addressed in earlier studies, with conflicting data from different laboratories. In this study, we use rat brain synaptosomes as a model with which to examine the presence of proteins involved in exocytosis in detergent-resistant membranes (DRM), also known as 'lipid rafts.' By means of buoyancy analysis in sucrose gradients of Triton X-100-solubilized synaptosomes, we identified a pool of SNARE proteins (SNAP 25, syntaxin 1, and synaptobrevin2/VAMP2) significantly associated with DRM. Furthermore, Munc18, synaptophysin, and high amounts of the isoforms I and II of synaptotagmin were also found in DRM. In addition, SDS-resistant and temperature-dependent SNARE complexes were also detected in DRM. Treatment of synaptosomes with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin resulted in persistence of the proteins present in the DRM isolated using Triton X-100, whilst strongly impairing calcium-dependent glutamate release. The results from the present work show that lipid microdomains are sites where SNARE proteins and complexes are actually present, as well as important elements in the control of regulated exocytosis.
15716232: !synaptophysin Cystic tumor of the atrioventricular node of the heart appears to be the heart equivalent of the solid cell nests (ultimobranchial rests) of the thyroid. We studied a series of 10 solid cell nests (SCNs) of the thyroid and a case of cystic tumor of the atrioventricular node (CTAVN) of the heart and reviewed the literature. The CTAVN and SCNs appeared as cystic and/or solid (squamoid) structures mainly composed of polygonal or oval cells (main cells) admixed with occasional clear cells (neuroendocrine and C cells). Main cells were immunoreactive for simple and stratified epithelial-type cytokeratins, epithelial membrane antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen, carbohydrate antigen 19.9, p63, bcl-2, and galectin-3. Neuroendocrine (and C) cells were positive for simple-type cytokeratins, carcinoembryonic antigen, calcitonin, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and thyroid transcription factor-1. Our data support the hypothesis that the CTAVN of the heart and the SCNs of the thyroid are identical structures that represent the same lesional process. The assumption that CTAVN is a ultimobranchial heterotopia fits with the known role of cardiac neural crest cells in cardiovascular development.
15711595: !synaptophysin Neuritic regeneration and synaptic reconstruction induced by withanolide A. We investigated whether withanolide A (WL-A), isolated from the Indian herbal drug Ashwagandha (root of Withania somnifera), could regenerate neurites and reconstruct synapses in severely damaged neurons. We also investigated the effect of WL-A on memory-deficient mice showing neuronal atrophy and synaptic loss in the brain. Axons, dendrites, presynapses, and postsynapses were visualized by immunostaining for phosphorylated neurofilament-H (NF-H), microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), synaptophysin, and postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95), respectively. Treatment with A beta(25-35) (10 microM) induced axonal and dendritic atrophy, and pre- and postsynaptic loss in cultured rat cortical neurons. Subsequent treatment with WL-A (1 microM) induced significant regeneration of both axons and dendrites, in addition to the reconstruction of pre- and postsynapses in the neurons. WL-A (10 micromol kg(-1) day(-1), for 13 days, p.o.) recovered A beta(25-35)-induced memory deficit in mice. At that time, the decline of axons, dendrites, and synapses in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus was almost recovered. WL-A is therefore an important candidate for the therapeutic treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, as it is able to reconstruct neuronal networks.
15710236: !synaptophysin Intrathecal gene delivery of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor ameliorated paraplegia in rats after spinal ischemia. Paraplegia is a catastrophic complication of thoracic aortic surgery. At present, there is no effective mean to prevent the ischemia-induced spinal cord trauma. Gene delivery of neurotrophic factors may hold promises for prevention of spinal injury. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) gene delivery on prevention of the pathological changes due to spinal ischemia. Recombinant adenovirus vectors encoding GDNF (Ad-GDNF) and green fluorescent protein (Ad-GFP) were used for gene transfer studies. Treatment with cobalt chloride induced dose-dependent bcl-2 and synaptophysin downregulation in spinal neuronal cells, which could be effectively reversed by GDNF gene transfer. Intrathecal injection of Ad-GDNF led to maximal GDNF expression in spinal cord within 2-7 days. Thus, after intrathecal administration of adenovirus vectors for 3 days, Sprague-Dawley rats received transient aortic occlusion to induce spinal ischemia and were monitored for behavior deficits. The Ad-GDNF-treated rats showed significantly lower paraplegia rate (40%) than that of Ad-GFP- or saline-treated groups (75-85%; P<0.01). In addition, the Ad-GDNF-treated rats exhibited significantly improved locomotor function comparing with rats of control groups (P<0.001). Histological analysis revealed that GDNF gene delivery profoundly attenuated the infiltration of leukocytes in spinal cord after ischemic insults. Furthermore, GDNF gene delivery prominently attenuated the ischemia-induced neuronal loss in dorsal horn lamina VI-VIII and reduction in synaptophysin expression in spinal cords. In conclusion, GDNF gene transfer confers protection to the neuronal cells and synapses networks, thereby alleviated the paraplegia due to spinal ischemia.
15708437: !synaptophysin Altered p59Fyn kinase expression accompanies disease progression in Alzheimer's disease: implications for its functional role. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive decline in memory and other cognitive domains, accompanied by early loss of presynaptic terminals, amyloid-bearing neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles containing hyperphosphorylated tau. The mechanisms leading to neurodegeneration are not completely understood, however, recent evidence suggests that alterations in p59Fyn kinase, an Src family tyrosine kinase, might contribute to AD pathogenesis. In this context, the main objective of the present study was to investigate the relationship between Fyn protein levels and the neurological and neuropathological alterations in AD. We found, by quantitative immunoblotting, that in AD, Fyn levels were increased in the insoluble fraction and decreased in the soluble fraction. Soluble Fyn levels were directly correlated with the cognitive scores and levels of synaptophysin immunoreactivity, and inversely correlated with neurofibrillary tangle counts in the frontal cortex. Consistent with these findings, the immunocytochemical analysis showed that in AD cases, Fyn levels were decreased in the synapses and increased in the neuronal cell bodies where it was colocalized with neurofibrillary tangles. Taken together, these findings suggest that alterations in Fyn localization might be associated with neurofibrillary pathology and synapse loss in AD.
15708435: !synaptophysin Neocortical synaptic bouton number is maintained despite robust amyloid deposition in APP23 transgenic mice. Major pathological findings in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain include the deposition of amyloid-beta and synapse loss. Synaptic loss has been shown to correlate with the cognitive decline in AD patients, but the relationship between cerebral amyloidosis and synapse loss is complicated by the presence of neurofibrillary tangles and other lesions in AD brain. With the use of the APP23 transgenic mouse model that overexpresses human amyloid precursor protein (APP) with the Swedish double mutation, we investigated whether the development of cortical amyloid deposition was accompanied by synaptic bouton loss. With stereological methods, we show that despite robust age-related cortical amyloid deposition with associated synaptic degeneration, the total number of cortical synaptophysin-positive presynaptic terminals is not changed in 24-month-old animals compared with 3-, 8-, and 15-month-old APP23 mice. Wild-type mice also do not show an age-related loss of presynaptic boutons in the neocortex and are not significantly different from APP23 mice. Synaptophysin Western blotting revealed no significant difference between APP23 mice and wild-type controls at 3 and 25 months of age. Our results suggest that cerebral amyloidosis is not sufficient to account for the global synapse loss in AD. Alternatively, a putative trophic effect of APP may prevent, compensate, or delay a loss of synapses in this mouse model.
15706225: !synaptophysin Differential localization of rat Eag1 and Eag2 K+ channels in hippocampal neurons. Two isoforms of rat ether-a-go-go (Eag) K channels, rEag1 and rEag2, are widely expressed in many regions of the brain. The neurophysiological roles of these channels, however, are unclear. We addressed this issue by studying their subcellular localizations in hippocampal neurons. Immunofluorescence studies using markers for different compartments of neurons demonstrated a differential expression pattern of rEag1 and rEag2 K channels in the somatodendritic region. Furthermore, rEag1 K channels were in close proximity to synaptophysin and densin-180, but not GAD65. Our data suggest that both rEag1 and rEag2 K channels may play a pivotal role in the regulation of the excitability of dendrites and somas, and that rEag1 K channels may modulate the postsynaptic signaling of glutamatergic synapses.
15703886: !synaptophysin Noggin and basic FGF were implicated in forebrain fate and caudal fate, respectively, of the neural tube-like structures emerging in mouse ES cell culture. We developed neural tube-like structures accompanying neural crest-like cells by treating embryonic stem (ES) cells with retinoic acid. The structures contained pseudostratified Nestin+Vimentin+ neuroepithelial cells surrounded by Masson staining+ basement membrane. betaIIItubulin+Synaptophysin+ mature neurons and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)+ glial cells dispersed outside of the membrane. Addition of Noggin to the culture induced prominent proliferation of the neuroepithelial cells, leading to epithelial hyperstratification of the structures. mRNAs of transcription factors essential for forebrain development such as Emx1/2 and Pax6 were specifically expressed and Islet1+Lim1/2- motoneurons appeared by the addition of Noggin. In contrast, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) promoted enlargement of central lumen and elongation of the structures. mRNAs of caudal markers, Gbx2, Cdx2 and Hoxb4/9 were expressed and Lim1/2+ spinal motoneurons appeared by the addition of bFGF. Addition of BMP-4 similarly brought about mild enlargement of central lumen of the structures. Interestingly, the addition of BMP-4 induced Slug+ neural crest-like cells surrounding the tube-like structures. mRNAs of Snail and dHand, other markers for neural crest cells, were also expressed by the addition of BMP-4. These results suggest that Noggin lead the neural-tube like structures to forebrain fate, whereas bFGF was involved in the caudalization. BMP-4 was implicated in emergence of the neural crest-like cells. Differentiation of ES cells by the present methods may mimic neurulation and subsequent neural development of early embryos, and elucidates the opposite effects of Noggin and bFGF for the neural tube development.
15701827: !synaptophysin Aberrant expression of human achaete-scute homologue gene 1 in the gastrointestinal neuroendocrine carcinomas. Gastrointestinal neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC) is extremely aggressive, but its pathophysiologic features remain poorly understood. There have been no biologically specific markers for this disease. In this study, distinctive up-regulation of human achaete-scute homologue 1 (hASH1) in gastrointestinal NECs was clarified.
15700274: !synaptophysin Quantitative changes in calretinin immunostaining in the cochlear nuclei after unilateral cochlear removal in young ferrets. Neurons of the cochlear nuclei receive axosomatic endings from primary afferent fibers from the cochlea and have projections that diverge to form parallel ascending auditory pathways. These cells are characterized by neurochemical phenotypes such as levels of calretinin. To test whether or not early deafferentation results in changes in calretinin immunostaining in the cochlear nucleus, unilateral cochlear ablations were performed in ferrets soon after hearing onset (postnatal day [P]30-P40). Two months later, changes in calretinin immunostaining as well as cell size, volume, and synaptophysin immunostaining were assessed in the anteroventral (AVCN), posteroventral (PVCN), and dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). A decrease in calretinin immunostaining was evident ipsilaterally within the AVCN and PVCN but not in the DCN. Further analysis revealed a decrease both in the calretinin-immunostained neuropil and in the calretinin-immunostained area within AVCN and PVCN neurons. These declines were accompanied by significant ipsilateral decreases in volume as well as neuron area in the AVCN and PVCN compared with the contralateral cochlear nucleus and unoperated animals, but not compared with the DCN. In addition, there was a significant contralateral increase in calretinin-immunostained area within AVCN and PVCN neurons compared with control animals. Finally, a decrease in area of synaptophysin immunostaining in both the ipsilateral AVCN and PVCN without changes in the number of boutons was found. The present data demonstrate that unilateral cochlear ablation leads to 1) decreased immunostaining of the neuropil in the AVCN and PVCN ipsilaterally, 2) decreased calretinin immunostaining within AVCN and PVCN neurons ipsilaterally, 3) synaptogenesis in the AVCN and PVCN ipsilaterally, and 4) increased calretinin immunostaining within AVCN and PVCN neurons contralaterally.
15695624: !synaptophysin Taipoxin induces synaptic vesicle exocytosis and disrupts the interaction of synaptophysin I with VAMP2. The application of the snake neurotoxin taipoxin to hippocampal neurons in culture induced Ca(2+)-dependent synaptic vesicle (SV) exocytosis, with swelling of nerve terminals and redistribution of SV proteins to the axolemma. Using digital imaging videomicroscopy to measure fluorescence resonance energy transfer in live neurons, we also found that taipoxin modulates the machinery for neurosecretion by causing dissociation of the SV proteins synaptobrevin 2 and synaptophysin I at a stage preceding taipoxin-induced facilitation of SV fusion. These early effects of the toxin are followed by severe impairment of SV exo-endocytosis, which might underlie the prevention of neurotransmitter release reported after intoxication by taipoxin.
15694236: !synaptophysin Growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) and synaptophysin alterations in the dentate gyrus of patients with schizophrenia. Growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) expression is critical for the proper establishment of neural circuitry, a process thought to be disrupted in schizophrenia. Previous work from our laboratory demonstrated decreased GAP-43 levels in post-mortem tissue from the entire hippocampal formation of affected individuals. In the present study, we used immunocytochemical techniques to localize alterations in GAP-43 protein to specific synapses. GAP-43 distribution was compared to that of synaptophysin, another synaptic protein known to be altered in schizophrenia. The levels and distribution of GAP-43 and synaptophysin proteins were measured in the dentate gyrus of subjects with schizophrenia and sex-, age-, and postmortem interval-matched normal controls and subjects with bipolar disorder. Tissue from subjects was provided by the Harvard Brain Tissue Resource Center. In control subjects, GAP-43 immunostaining was prominent in synaptic terminals in the inner molecular layer and hilar region. Subjects with schizophrenia had significant decreases in GAP-43 immunoreactivity in the hilus (p<0.05, paired t-test) and inner molecular layer (p<0.05, paired t-test) but not in the outer molecular layer. In the same tissues, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was significantly reduced in both the inner and outer molecular layers of the dentate gyrus (both p<0.01 by paired t-test), but not in the hilus. In contrast to patients with schizophrenia, GAP-43 and synaptophysin levels in subjects with bipolar disorder did not differ from controls. Given the relationship of GAP-43 and synaptophysin with the development and plasticity of synaptic connections, the observed alterations in the hippocampus of patients with schizophrenia may be related to cognitive deficits associated with this illness.
15693892: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in non-small cell lung cancer and its relation to prognosis and therapy. Histopathologists report the presence of neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation in non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) in up to a third of cases and are often questioned about its clinical relevance. The conclusions of previous studies have been inconsistent. This paper aims to provide an answer by examining a large series together with a comprehensive critique of the literature.
15693634: !synaptophysin Ultrastructure of human embryonic stem cells and spontaneous and retinoic acid-induced differentiating cells. Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies of 4 groups of cells-(human embryonic stem cells (hES), embryoid bodies (EB), and spontaneously and retinoic acid (RA)-induced differentiating cells)-were carried out to investigate their detailed phenotype. Immunohistochemically, the EB cells showed strong immunoreactivity for CD34, CD117, and nestin. Differentiating cells expressed pancytokertin, vimentin, CD31, CD56, GFAP, nestin, and NeuN as well as CD34, and c-Kit. However, synaptophysin and neurofilaments were not present in these same differentiating cells. Transmission electron microscopy showed that hES and EB cells were very similar to germ cells or cells of the inner cell mass. Spontaneously and RA-induced differentiating cells exhibited epithelial, mesenchymal, endodermal, and neuronal phenotypes. The perikarya of the neuronal cells had rich RERs (Nissl substance) and long cytoplasmic processes filled with numerous neural tubules. However, neither synaptic junctions nor synaptic vesicles were developed. In our study, RA treatment with brain-derived growth factor and TGFalpha in neuron differentiation medium induced not only neuronal differentiation but also pluripotential differentiation. Full neuronal differentiation did not occur after 2 weeks in culture, as no synaptic junctions and synaptic vesicles developed.
15686970: !synaptophysin Up-regulation of peripherin is associated with alterations in synaptic plasticity in CA1 and CA3 regions of hippocampus. Peripherin is a type III intermediate filament protein normally undetectable in most brain neurons. Here, we report a similar pattern of peripherin expression in the brains of both mice treated with systemic injections of kainic acid (KA) and in peripherin transgenic mice (Per mice) over-expressing the normal peripherin gene under its own promoter. Double-immunofluorescence labeling revealed a partial co-localization of peripherin with the microtubule-associated protein MAP2, but not with neurofilament proteins. Electrophysiological studies revealed that synaptic plasticity was markedly altered in Per mice: in CA1, long-term potentiation (LTP) was decreased in Per slices (+29 +/- 2.0%, vs. +58 +/- 5.4%, in WT); while in CA3, LTP was increased in Per (+63 +/- 3.5% vs. +43 +/- 2.4.0%). In the hippocampus of Per mice, the levels of MAP2 were decreased, though synaptophysin and PSD95 remained unchanged. These intriguing findings suggest a role of peripherin in the alteration of hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
15686485: !synaptophysin A role for caveolin-1 in post-injury reactive neuronal plasticity. Remodeling and plasticity in the adult brain require cholesterol redistribution and synthesis for the formation of new membrane components. Caveolin-1 is a cholesterol-binding membrane protein involved in cellular cholesterol transport and homeostasis. Evidence presented here demonstrates an up-regulation of caveolin-1 in the hippocampus, which was temporally correlated with an increase in synaptophysin during the reinnervation phase in a mouse model of hippocampal deafferentation. Using an in vitro model of neuronal reactive plasticity, we examined the effect of virally mediated overexpression of caveolin-1 on injured differentiated PC12 cells undergoing terminal remodeling. Three days post lesion, caveolin-1-overexpressing cells revealed increases in synaptophysin and GAP-43, two markers of neurite sprouting and synaptogenesis. Morphologically, caveolin-1-overexpressing cells showed a decrease in primary neurite outgrowth and branching as well as an increase in neurite density. Caveolin-1-overexpressing cells also revealed the presence of terminal swelling and beading along processes, consistent with a possible alteration of microtubules stability. Moreover, a focal enrichment of caveolin-1 immunofluorescence was observed at the bases of axonal and dendritic terminals of mouse primary hippocampal neurons. Altogether, these results indicate that caveolin-1 plays an active role in the regulation of injury-induced synaptic and terminal remodeling in the adult CNS.
15681810: !synaptophysin Melatonin, metals, and gene expression: implications in aging and neurodegenerative disorders. Melatonin is a hormone secreted by the pineal gland, mostly in the dark period of the light/dark cycle, with corresponding fluctuations reflected in the plasma melatonin levels. This hormone plays a critical role in the regulation of various neural and endocrine processes that are synchronized with daily change in photoperiod. Abnormal melatonin levels are associated with metabolic disturbances and other disorders. Melatonin potentially plays an important role in aging, prolongation of life span, and health in the aged individual. It may exert a beneficial action on neurodegenerative conditions in those with debilitating diseases. It interacts with metals and, in some cases, neutralizes their toxic effects. Levels of melatonin decrease with aging in mice. Its dietary supplementation has recently been shown to result in a significant rise in levels of endogenous melatonin in serum as well as all other tissue samples tested. The effects of dietary melatonin have been studied in the brain of mice with regard to nitric oxide synthase, synaptic proteins, and amyloid beta peptides (Abeta), which are involved in amyloid deposition and plaque formation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Melatonin supplementation has no significant effect on cerebral cortical levels of nitric oxide synthase or synaptic proteins, such as synaptophysin and SNAP-25. Notably, however, elevated brain melatonin levels resulted in a significant reduction in levels of toxic cortical Abeta of both 40- and 42-amino-acid forms. Taken together, these results suggest that dietary melatonin supplementation may slow the neurodegenerative changes associated with brain aging and that the depletion of melatonin in the brain of aging mice may, in part, account for this adverse change.
15679036: !synaptophysin Problems in fast intraoperative diagnosis in Hirschsprung's disease. Histopathological evaluation of the proximal segment in colonic resections/biopsies for Hirschsprung's disease (HD) is very important because of the strong link between proximal segment histology and postoperative outcome. Therefore, we investigated whether a recently described rapid immunohistochemical staining technique using EnVision-antibody-complex is suitable for intraoperative diagnosis during surgery in HD. Various antibodies were applied on frozen sections from 20 colonic tissue samples including aganglionic segments, segments from the transitional zone, and normally innervated bowel segments to show ganglion cells (GCs) and cholinergic fibres. Several antibodies revealed positive staining of GCs (neurofilament, synaptophysin, peripherin, neural cell adhesion molecule/NCAM/CD56). However, none of these antibodies selectively identifies GCs. Microtubuli-associated protein 2/MAP2 stained few GCs only when incubation times were extensively prolonged. The antibodies applied to determine cholinergic innervation by immunohistochemistry (Acetylcholinesterase/AChE, cholinergic Acetyltransferase/chAT) failed. Rapid immunohistochemical technique using EnVision-antibody-complex on frozen sections of the large bowel is a) suitable for detection of many diverse antigens, including several neuronal antigens, b) not helpful to prove the presence or the absence of ganglion cells with any of the antibodies applied, c) not suitable to display the cholinergic innervation and iv) therefore is not helpful to shorten the consumption time during surgery in HD.
15678517: !synaptophysin Subcellular localization of neural-specific NPDC-1 protein. NPDC-1 is a gene specifically expressed in neural cells when they stop to divide and begin to differentiate. Immunocytochemical study analysis of differentiated PC12 cells transfected with NPDC-tag vectors showed that NPDC-1 is transported in vesicles from the Golgi apparatus to the cell membrane and is then likely internalized into endosomes. The protein colocalized, at least partially, with synaptic vesicle proteins: synaptophysin, synaptobrevin 2, and Rab3 GEP (Rab3 GTP/GDP exchange protein). Moreover, subcellular fractionation of rat brain showed that crude synaptic membrane and crude synaptic vesicle fractions were enriched in NPDC-1. Although NPDC-1 bound Rab3 GEP in vitro, it seems unlikely to be involved in Ca2+-dependent exocytosis and, thus, in synaptic vesicle trafficking.
15678129: !synaptophysin Atorvastatin induction of VEGF and BDNF promotes brain plasticity after stroke in mice. Molecular mechanisms underlying the role of statins in the induction of brain plasticity and subsequent improvement of neurologic outcome after treatment of stroke have not been adequately investigated. Here, we use both in vivo and in vitro studies to investigate the potential roles of two prominent factors, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), in mediating brain plasticity after treatment of stroke with atorvastatin. Treatment of stroke in adult mice with atorvastatin daily for 14 days, starting at 24 hours after MCAO, shows significant improvement in functional recovery compared with control animals. Atorvastatin increases VEGF, VEGFR2 and BDNF expression in the ischemic border. Numbers of migrating neurons, developmental neurons and synaptophysin-positive cells as well as indices of angiogenesis were significantly increased in the atorvastatin treatment group, compared with controls. In addition, atorvastatin significantly increased brain subventricular zone (SVZ) explant cell migration in vitro. Anti-BDNF antibody significantly inhibited atorvastatin-induced SVZ explant cell migration, indicating a prominent role for BDNF in progenitor cell migration. Mouse brain endothelial cell culture expression of BDNF and VEGFR2 was significantly increased in atorvastatin-treated cells compared with control cells. Inhibition of VEGFR2 significantly decreased expression of BDNF in brain endothelial cells. These data indicate that atorvastatin promotes angiogenesis, brain plasticity and enhances functional recovery after stroke. In addition, VEGF, VEGFR2 and BDNF likely contribute to these restorative processes.
15672399: !synaptophysin Most peptide-containing sensory neurons lack proteins for exocytotic release and vesicular transport of glutamate. We used multiple-labeling immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy to examine co-expression of immunoreactivity for vesicular glutamate transporters (VGluTs), synaptic vesicle proteins, and soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins in peptide-containing sensory neurons of guinea pigs, mice, and toads. Axon terminals in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord with immunoreactivity (IR) for both substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) lacked IR for synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), syntaxin, synaptotagmin, synaptophysin, and synapsin, although adjacent varicosities without neuropeptides had IR for these synaptic proteins. Similarly, peptide-containing axon terminals in the superficial dorsal horn lacked IR for VGluT1 and VGluT2, despite the presence of VGluT2-IR in nearby nonpeptide varicosities. VGluT3-IR was sparse in the dorsal horn of the mouse spinal cord and was not present in peptide-containing axons. Most peripheral terminals of sensory neurons with both SP-IR and CGRP-IR in the skin, viscera, and autonomic ganglia of guinea pigs and mice also lacked IR for synaptic vesicle proteins, SNARE proteins, VGluT1, and VGluT2. In dorsal root ganglia from guinea pigs and mice, most small neurons with IR for both SP and CGRP lacked IR for SNAP-25, VGluT1, and VGluT2. Thus, proteins considered essential for vesicular uptake and exocytotic release of glutamate are not expressed at detectable levels by most sensory neurons containing SP and CGRP in rodents and toads. These data raise the possibility that most peptide-containing sensory neurons may not normally release glutamate as a transmitter.
15668955: !synaptophysin Loss of synaptophysin-positive boutons on lumbar motor neurons innervating the medial gastrocnemius muscle of the SOD1G93A G1H transgenic mouse model of ALS. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a common form of motor neuron disease (MND) that involves both upper and lower nervous systems. In the SOD1G93A G1H transgenic mouse, a widely used animal model of human ALS, a significant pathology is linked to the degeneration of lower motor neurons in the lumbar spinal cord and brainstem. In the current study, the number of presynaptic boutons immunoreactive for synaptophysin was estimated on retrogradely labeled soma and proximal dendrites of alpha and gamma motor neurons innervating the medial gastrocnemius muscle. No changes were detected on both soma and proximal dendrites at postnatal day 60 (P60) of alpha and gamma motor neurons. By P90 and P120, however, alpha motor neuron soma had a reduction of 14 and 33% and a dendritic reduction of 19 and 36%, respectively. By P90 and P120, gamma motor neuron soma had a reduction of 17 and 41% and a dendritic reduction of 19 and 35%, respectively. This study shows that levels of afferent innervation significantly decreased on surviving alpha and gamma motor neurons that innervate the medial gastrocnemius muscle. This finding suggests that the loss of motor neurons and the decrease of synaptophysin in the remaining motor neurons could lead to functional motor deficits, which may contribute significantly to the progression of ALS/MND.
15662708: !synaptophysin Pineal gland lesions: a cytopathologic study of 20 specimens. Pineal gland lesions are rare, with only a few cytologic descriptions occurring in the literature, according to the authors' knowledge. The current article describes the cytopathologic characteristics of 20 such lesions with discussion of differential diagnoses.
15656887: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the bladder: a contemporary clinicopathological study of 51 cases. We present 51 cases of primary small cell carcinoma of the bladder in a clinicopathological study with emphasis on features that aid in the initial recognition and diagnosis of small cell carcinoma of the bladder.
15654839: !synaptophysin The actin-binding protein profilin I is localized at synaptic sites in an activity-regulated manner. Morphological changes at synaptic specializations have been implicated in regulating synaptic strength. Actin turnover at dendritic spines is regulated by neuronal activity and contributes to spine size, shape and motility. The reorganization of actin filaments requires profilins, which stimulate actin polymerization. Neurons express two independent gene products - profilin I and profilin II. A role for profilin II in activity-dependent mechanisms at spine synapses has recently been described. Although profilin I interacts with synaptic proteins, little is known about its cellular and subcellular localization in neurons. Here, we investigated the subcellular distribution of this protein in brain neurons as well as in hippocampal cultures. Our results indicate that the expression of profilin I varies in different brain regions. Thus, in cerebral cortex and hippocampus profilin I immunostaining was associated predominantly with dendrites and was present in a subset of dendritic spines. In contrast, profilin I in cerebellum was associated primarily with presynaptic structures. Profilin I immunoreactivity was partially colocalized with the synaptic molecules synaptophysin, PSD-95 and gephyrin in cultured hippocampal neurons, indicating that profilin I is present in only a subset of synapses. At dendritic spine structures, profilin I was found primarily in protrusions, which were in apposition to presynaptic terminal boutons. Remarkably, depolarization with KCl caused a moderate but significant increase in the number of synapses containing profilin I. These results show that profilin I can be present at both pre- and postsynaptic sites and suggest a role for this actin-binding protein in activity-dependent remodelling of synaptic structure.
15651290: !synaptophysin [Autosomal dominant spinocerebellar degeneration--new forms and pathomechanisms]. In our country, hereditary spinocerebellar degeneration accounted for approximately 30% of the total cases. Most of them are autosomal dominant and include more than 20 diseases. The outlines of some new members, namely autosomal dominant cortical cerebellar atrophy linked to chromosome 16 (16q-ADCCA), SCA14, an ataxia caused by FGF14 mutation and a form of neuroferritinopathy were described. The etiology of many autosomal dominant SCDs has been identified as the abnormal expansion of CAG repeat. The latter three diseases are caused by missense mutations of the causative genes, which clearly shows the presence of other new mechanisms of cerebellar degeneration than repeat expansion. 16q-ADCCA is the most frequent after Machado-Joseph disease and SCA6 according to our genetic diagnosis of 185 SCD patients. The disease is characterized by Purkinje cell degeneration and atrophy with somatic sprouts as well as the halo-like structure surrounding the soma. The halo is positive for synaptophysin. These features are so unique that 16q-ADCCA may be diagnosed by neuropathology alone.
15648553: !synaptophysin Ossifying gastric carcinoid tumor containing bone morphogenetic protein, osteopontin and osteonectin. We report a case of gastric carcinoid tumor with ossification. A 47-yr-old man complaining of abdominal discomfort underwent gastrointestinal endoscopic examination, which revealed a submucosal tumor in his stomach. The tumor was extirpated by endoscopic enucleation. Histologically, the tumor was widely occupied by mature bone tissues, where scattered carcinoid tumor cell nests surrounded bone tissues or located in stromal areas. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were strongly positive for cytokeratin, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, neurofilaments and neuron-specific enolase, underscoring the diagnosis of carcinoid tumor. They also stained positive with markers of bone formation and differentiation, such as bone morphogenetic protein, osteopontin and osteonectin. There are only four cases in the world literature, including a current case of ossifying gastric carcinoid tumor, in which the excessive production of peptides promoting ossification was considered to be implicated in the unusual appearance of the bone.
15647478: !synaptophysin Breakdown of axonal synaptic vesicle precursor transport by microglial nitric oxide. The mechanism of axonal injury in inflammatory brain diseases is still unclear. Increased microglial production of nitric oxide (NO) is a common early sign in neuroinflammatory diseases. We found by fluorescence correlation spectroscopy that synaptophysin tagged with enhanced green fluorescence protein (synaptophysin-EGFP) moves anterogradely in axons of cultured neurons. Activated microglia focally inhibited the axonal movement of synaptophysin-EGFP in a NO synthase-dependent manner. Direct application of a NO donor to neurons resulted in inhibition of axonal transport of synaptophysin-EGFP and synaptotagmin I tagged with EGFP, mediated via phosphorylation of c-jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK). Thus, overt production of reactive NO by activated microglia blocks the axonal transport of synaptic vesicle precursors via phosphorylation of JNK and could cause axonal and synaptic dysfunction.
15644774: !synaptophysin Typical and atypical pulmonary carcinoid tumor overdiagnosed as small-cell carcinoma on biopsy specimens: a major pitfall in the management of lung cancer patients. Seven patients with typical or atypical pulmonary carcinoid tumors overdiagnosed as small-cell carcinoma on bronchoscopic biopsies are described. Bronchial biopsies from 9 consecutive small-cell lung carcinoma patients were used as control group for histologic and immunohistochemical studies (cytokeratins, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, Ki-67 [MIB-1], and TTF-1). The carcinoid tumors presented as either central or peripheral lesions composed of tumor cells with granular, sometimes coarse chromatin pattern, high levels of chromogranin A/synaptophysin immunoreactivity, and low (<20%) Ki-67 (MIB-1) labeling index. The tumor stroma contained thin-walled blood vessels. Small-cell carcinomas always showed central tumor location, finely dispersed nuclear chromatin, lower levels of chromogranin A/synaptophysin, and high (>50%) Ki-67 (MIB-1) labeling index. The stroma contained thick-walled blood vessels with glomeruloid configuration. Judging from this study, overdiagnosis of carcinoid tumor as small-cell carcinoma in small crushed bronchial biopsies remains a significant potential problem in a worldwide sample of hospital settings. Careful evaluation of hematoxylin and eosin sections remains the most important tool for the differential diagnosis, with evaluation of tumor cell proliferation by Ki-67 (MIB-1) labeling index emerging from our review as the most useful ancillary technique for the distinction.
15638405: !synaptophysin Histological evaluation of the thyroid structure after co-exposure to cadmium and ethanol. The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of co-exposure to cadmium (Cd) and ethanol on the structure and function of the thyroid. Male Wistar rats were exposed to 50 mg of Cd/dm3 in drinking water and ethanol in a dose of 5 g/kg body wt/24 h (administered intragastrically in two equal doses for 5 days a week) for 12 weeks. The structure of the thyroid was assessed in a light microscope. Immunohistochemical methods were used to determine calcitonin (CT), the calcitonin-gene related peptide (CGRP), somatostatin (ST) and synaptophysin (SPh) in the thyroid parafollicular cells (C cells). Weakening of the reactions for CT, CGRP, ST, SPh was observed in C cells. The animals, exposed to a combined action of Cd and ethanol, showed signs of enhanced activity (elevated light follicular epithelium and rarefied colloid), as well as features of intensified remodelling (partial or total follicular atrophy and the appearance of new follicles) of the thyroid gland. In some fragments of the connective tissue stroma mononuclear cell infiltration was observed. The nature of the changes, observed in the rats, simultaneously exposed to Cd and ethanol, may suggest an enhancement in the function of C cells.
15638403: !synaptophysin Estimation of influence of high doses of cholecalciferol on thyroid parafollicular and respiratory tract neuroendocrine cells; preliminary investigations. The aim of this study was to compare what changes are caused by high doses of cholecalciferol (100,000 UI vD3) and CaCl2 on thyroid parafollicular (C) cells and airways neuroendocrine (NE) cells in rat. Overdosage of vD3 and CaCl2 causes hypocalcaemia and strong hypercalcitoninemia in blood; C cells showed mainly signs of hypertrophy; simultaneously, the number of strong calcitoninpositive cells decreased significantly (statistically significant changes). Immunohistochemical reactions, detecting CGRP, somatostatin, synaptophysin and neuronspecific enolase did not fall under statistic analysis. Airways NE cells re-acted to hypercalcemia differently than C cells--they probably respond to different regulatory mechanisms.
15638402: !synaptophysin Influence of cannabinoids on immunoreactivity of regulatory peptides, produced in rat thyroid C cells; preliminary investigations. Mammalian tissues contain two types of cannabinoid receptors CB1 and CB2. The aim of our study was an evaluation of the influence of a single i.p. injection of a stable analogue of an endogenous cannabinoid anandamide--R-(+)-methanandamide (2.5 mg/kg) and CP 55,940 (0.25 mg/kg), which is an exogenous agonist of CB1 receptors, on the immunoreactivity of regulatory peptides, produced in rat thyroid C cells: calcitonin, CGRP, somatostatin and synaptophysin. This study indicates that a single injection of cannabinoids: R-(+)-methanandamide and CP 55,940 alters the immunoreactivity of regulatory peptides in thyroid parafollicular cells.
15636436: !synaptophysin Primary paraganglioma of the thyroid gland. We describe the case of a 46-yr-old euthyroid woman, who was submitted to right lobectomy plus isthmusectomy because of a 30 mm large, rapidly growing thyroid nodule. Two cytological examinations of fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) specimens were not diagnostic. Histology showed a neoplasm composed of nests of chief cells, almost completely replacing thyroid parenchyma, infiltrating the capsule and surgical resection margins, and invading perithyroid tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the tumor stained positively to chromogranin, synaptophysin, NSE, S-100 protein and tyrosine hydroxylase, whereas no immunoreactivity was detected against cytokeratin, thyroglobulin, TTF-1, calcitonin and CEA. A diagnosis of thyroid paraganglioma (PG) was finally made. No complications developed following operation. Laboratory analysis and imaging study excluded multicentric disease, metastases to neck or extracervical organs, and multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN). We report this unusual case, underscore its clinical and immunohistochemical features and discuss differential diagnosis.
15633942: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in Pick's disease: comparison with Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. Frontotemporal lobe atrophy is a hallmark of Pick's disease (PiD), however, the underlying pathobiology of the neuronal losses is unknown. Synaptic losses have been described in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and correlate with the severity of dementia, however few studies of synaptic integrity have been done to determine whether synaptic loss also contributes to symptoms in non-AD dementias. To begin to assess synaptic integrity in other types of dementia, we examined the site of termination of the hippocampal perforant pathway, the major source of afferent tracts to the hippocampus. We determined immunoreactivity for the synaptic-terminal specific protein synaptophysin in the outer molecular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (OMDG) in eight PiD, nine AD, nine dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and seven control cases. Quantitative data were obtained using an Image-Pro automated image analysis system. In AD and PiD, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was visibly reduced in the OMDG Densitometric analysis confirmed that there were statistically significant differences among groups in synaptophysin immunoreactivity when comparing the OMDG to the adjacent inner molecular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (IMDG) (p = 0.002). These differences were present between PiD and both the control and DLB groups. The AD group also showed a reduction in synaptophysin immunoreactivity compared with DLB and control groups. In contrast, perforant pathway synaptic losses in DLB were minimal. Our data supports the hypothesis that focal synaptic losses occur in PiD and AD and may contribute to the cognitive deficits in both conditions.
15632020: !synaptophysin Subcellular localization of disease-associated prion protein in the human brain. Disease-associated prion protein (PrP(TSE)) deposits in distinct immunostaining patterns in the brain in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, including synaptic, extracellular, and cell-associated localizations. After having developed an appropriate pretreatment protocol to enhance immunostaining for PrP(TSE) without damaging epitopes of other antigens, we systematically evaluated co-localization patterns of distinct PrP(TSE) immunodeposits by confocal laser microscopy, including optical serial sectioning. As shown by quantification, the most prominent co-localization of PrP(TSE) is with synaptophysin, but PrP(TSE) may also co-deposit with connexin-32, a gap junction-related protein. Furthermore, neuronal cell bodies, dendrites, axons, astrocytes, and microglia harbor granular PrP(TSE) deposits. Highly aggregated deposits are focally ubiquitinated. We conclude that PrP(TSE) is not exclusively associated with chemical but also with electric synapses, axonal transport may be a relevant route of PrP(TSE) spread in the brain, and activated microglia and astrocytes may play a role in PrP(TSE) processing, degradation, or removal.
15629148: !synaptophysin In vitro neuronal differentiation of cultured human embryonic germ cells. Human embryonic germ (hEG) cells, which have been advanced as one of the most important sources of pluripotent stem cells [the other one being human embryonic stem cells], can be propagated in vitro indefinitely in the primitive undifferentiated state while being capable of developing into all three germ layer derivatives, hence have become anticipated developing novel strategies of tissue regeneration and transplantation in the treatment of degenerative diseases. In the experiments here, we derived hEG cells from cultured human primordial germ cells (PGCs) of 6- to 9-week-post-fertilization embryos. They satisfied the criteria previously used to define hEG cells, including the expression of markers characteristic of pluripotent cells-abundant alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity, stage specific embryonic antigen (SSEA)-1(+), SSEA-3(-), SSEA-4(+), TRA-1-60(+), TRA-1-81(+), Oct-4(+), and hTERT(+), the retention of normal karyotypes, and possessing pluripotency by forming embryoid bodies (EBs) in vitro. Furthermore, these derived cells tended to neurally differentiate in vitro, especially under high-density culture conditions. We successfully isolated neural progenitor cells from differentiating hEG cultures and about 10% cells induced by 2microM all-trans-retinoic acid (RA) or 0.1mM dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP)/1mM forskolin to mature neurons expressing microtubule-associated protein 2ab (MAP2ab), synaptophysin, beta-tubulin III, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), but no glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) and choline acetyl transferase (ChAT). The data suggested that hEG cells may provide a potential source of cells for use in transplantation therapy for neurological degenerative diseases.
15627205: !synaptophysin Fourth ventricle neurocytoma with lipomatous and ependymal differentiation. We report the case of a 4-year-old girl with a fourth ventricle tumor diagnosed as a cerebellar liponeurocytoma which recurred, showing ependymal differentiation, 14 months after surgery. Magnetic resonance imaging at initial presentation revealed a large mass in the fourth ventricle, and histology showed a neoplasm characterized by a combination of well-differentiated neurocytes and cells resembling adipocytes. The tumor recurrence was histologically identical to the original tumor in some regions, but with fewer adipose-like cells, while other areas presented an endocrine architecture with oligo-like or pleiomorphic cells, and rosette-like arrangements of tumoral cells were seen around the thin vessels, with features similar to cellular ependymoma. The cells in the liponeurocytoma areas expressed synaptophysin, chromogranin A, and epithelial membrane antigen. Glial fibrillary acidic protein was expressed in some dispersed tumoral cells, in lipidized tumoral cells, and in reactive astrocytes. Cytokeratin was focally expressed in the ependymal region of the recurrence. The immunophenotype of our case, with glial, ependymal, and neuronal or neuroendocrine markers, suggest a neurocytoma with lipomatous and ependymal differentiation. This tumor resembled those derived from circumventricular organs. Its localization in the area postrema region led us to hypothesize that it may be derived from this circumventricular organ.
15625785: !synaptophysin Influence of post-mortem delay and storage temperature on the immunohistochemical detection of antigens in the CNS of mice. The aim of this work was to compare the results of histochemical and immunohistochemical methods using mouse brains which were fixed with various post-mortem delays and storage temperatures (at a constant 4 degrees C or 22 degrees C, or at gradually decreasing post-mortem temperatures, mimicking conditions of human corpse). We studied the effects of post-mortem delay on glial fibrillary acidic protein, extracellular matrix components to which Wisteria floribunda agglutinin binds, non-phosphorylated neurofilament H, synaptophysin, calbindin and nitric oxide synthase isoenzymes. At the light microscopic level first signs of post-mortem changes were detectable after 6 h. Glial fibrillary acidic protein was most affected by post-mortem delay since its immunoreactivity increased dramatically with increasing post-mortem delay. N-acetylgalactosamines-beta1 labeled lectin binding sites, calbindin and intraneuronal non-phosphorylated neurofilament H seemed to be stable up to 12 h post-mortem. Storage temperature influenced the NADPH-d activity and the content of synaptophysin immunoreactivity to higher degree than all of the other parameters. We found only marginal differences of alterations comparing neocortex, hippocampus and corpus callosum. Our results indicate that different antigens are affected differently by the ongoing catabolic processes during post-mortem delay.
15623793: !synaptophysin Glial remodeling and neural plasticity in human retinal detachment with proliferative vitreoretinopathy. To investigate glial remodeling and neuronal plasticity in adult human retinal detachment complicated by proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) and to grade pathologic changes with a severity scoring system.
15623769: !synaptophysin Molecular characteristics suggest an effector function of palisade endings in extraocular muscles. To analyze palisade endings in cat extraocular muscles (EOMs) and to clarify whether these EOM-specific organs are sensory or motor.
15619643: !synaptophysin Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma--a clinicopathological study of 23 cases with special emphasis on histogenesis. Subependymal giant cell astrocytomas (SEGAs) are relatively rare tumors but occur commonly in the setting of the familial syndrome of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). In view of its varied morphology, i.e. resemblance to astrocytic and ganglion cells, its histogenesis remains controversial. We studied 23 cases of SEGA, 19 from our own institute and 4 from NIMHANS, Bangalore. These 19 cases of SEGAs were collected over a period of 23 years (1979 to 2001), and accounted for 0.16% of intracranial tumors and 0.51% of all gliomas reported at our center. The majority of patients presented with visual disturbances (19/23, 82.6%) in the form of decreased vision (60.8%) and blindness (21.7%), generalized tonic clonic seizures (43.4%) and focal motor seizures (4.37%). Age ranged from 4 to 37 years (mean 13.2 years) with male predominance (M:F 2.2:1), and the duration of symptoms varied from 1 month to 96 months (mean 17.2 months). Lateral ventricular involvement was the most common site (91.3%), followed by the third ventricle (8.6%). Nine patients (39.1%) had stigmata of tuberous sclerosis (6 at the time of diagnosis and 3 in the follow-up period). Two patients died due to surgical complications, while the rest were alive and well in the follow-up period ranging from 3 to 264 months (mean 37.1 months). Two patients experienced recurrences, one two years and another 22 years after surgery. Microscopic examination showed varied histology consisting of sweeping bundles of spindle cells, gemistocyte and ganglion-like cells with interspersed inflammatory cell component. The inflammatory cell component on special staining turned out to be an admixture of mast cells and T lymphocytes. Six cases showed areas of necrosis and/or mitosis, but were not indicative of aggressive nature of this tumor. Immunoreactivity for GFAP, NF, S-100, NSE and synaptophysin indicates that this is a hybrid tumor with glial and neuronal differentiation. None of the tumors was immunopositive for HMB-45. The significance of the presence of T lymphocytes and mast cells is not clear. It could be related to tumor immunology and may indicate a favorable prognosis.
15618993: !synaptophysin Cerebral neurocytoma without ganglion cell differentiation. Neurocytomas are rare neuronal tumours, and are defined as tumours comprising cells with neuronal differentiation; they commonly arise in the ventricles. We report a case of a cerebral neurocytoma in a young man who presented with hemiparesis. The tumour was a radiologically a well-circumscribed large cyst with solid mass; the histopathology showed a well-differentiated lesion comprising uniform, round cells with perinuclear halos in a neuropil background, and immunohistochemically positive for neuronal markers (synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase and neurofilaments). We suggest that cerebral neurocytomas should be considered among the uncommon causes of a large intra-axial cystic mass with a solid component in young adults.
15618403: !synaptophysin Bax deletion prevents neuronal loss but not neurological symptoms in a transgenic model of inherited prion disease. Transgenic Tg(PG14) mice express a mutant prion protein containing 14 octapeptide repeats, whose human homologue is associated with an inherited prion dementia. These mice develop a progressive neurological disorder characterized by ataxia and cerebellar atrophy, with massive apoptotic degeneration of granule neurons. Bax, a proapoptotic gene of the Bcl-2 family, plays a key role in regulating cell death in the nervous system. To analyze the role of Bax in the Tg(PG14) phenotype, we crossed Tg(PG14) mice with Bax(-/-) mice to obtain Tg(PG14)/Bax(-/-) offspring. Bax deletion effectively rescued cerebellar granule neurons from apoptosis, implying that these cells die via a Bax-dependent process. Surprisingly, however, the age at which symptoms began and the duration of the clinical phase of the illness were not altered in Tg(PG14)/Bax(-/-) mice. In addition, Bax deletion failed to prevent shrinkage of the molecular layer of the cerebellum and loss of synaptophysin-positive synaptic endings. Our analysis indicates that synaptic loss makes a critical contribution to the Tg(PG14) phenotype. These results provide insights into the pathogenesis of prion diseases and have important implications for the treatment of these disorders.
15613852: !synaptophysin Nested stromal epithelial tumor of the liver: six cases of a distinctive pediatric neoplasm with frequent calcifications and association with cushing syndrome. Rare cases of nonhepatocytic mixed stromal and epithelial tumors of the liver with associated calcification and ossification have been described previously. We report 6 similar cases in children, including 2 cases associated with ectopic ACTH production. The patients were between 2 and 14 years of age at diagnosis. All tumors presented as a solitary liver mass with no extrahepatic involvement. Two adolescent females with palpable abdominal tumors presented with Cushing syndrome that abated after excision of the tumors. The other children had tumors identified incidentally on imaging studies or at laparotomy. All tumors were well circumscribed, ranging in size from 4.0 to 30.0 cm in greatest diameter. Histologically, they shared an organoid arrangement of cellular nests that were comprised of an admixture of both spindled and epithelioid cells. These cellular nests were surrounded by a band of delicate myofibroblasts and set in a dense fibrous stroma that contained slit-like to dilated blood vessels. A variable proliferation of bile ducts extended from the fibrous stroma and focally surrounded the cellular nests. One case showed a sheet-like overgrowth of the nested cells with associated necrosis. The cellular nest cells were immunoreactive for EMA, CD56, neuron specific enolase, pan-cytokeratin (4 of 6 cases), vimentin (5 of 6 cases), and WT-1 amino terminus (4 of 6 cases). Cytokeratin and EMA stained mostly epithelioid nest cells, with vimentin and WT-1 staining predominantly the spindled nest cells. The 3 cases from adolescent females showed immunoreactivity for ACTH in the nested cell population but not in the surrounding stromal cells. Immunohistochemical stains for synaptophysin and chromogranin were negative in all cases. Psammomatous calcifications were present focally in 2 cases and were extensive in 3 cases. Ossification or osteoid formation was present in 4 cases. The 1 patient whose tumor had sheet-like overgrowth of the nested cell population had a local recurrence with multiple hepatic nodules 1 year following the original resection. A 2-year-old patient has been subsequently diagnosed with nephroblastomatosis and Wilms tumor of the kidney. Follow-up information was available in an additional 3 patients with no tumor recurrence or metastatic disease at 2, 3, and 14 years.
15604294: !synaptophysin Androgen-independent prostate cancer is a heterogeneous group of diseases: lessons from a rapid autopsy program. Understanding the biology of prostate cancer metastasis has been limited by the lack of tissue for study. We studied the clinical data, distribution of prostate cancer involvement, morphology, immunophenotypes, and gene expression from 30 rapid autopsies of men who died of hormone-refractory prostate cancer. A tissue microarray was constructed and quantitatively evaluated for expression of prostate-specific antigen, androgen receptor, chromogranin, synaptophysin, MIB-1, and alpha-methylacylCoA-racemase markers. Hierarchical clustering of 16 rapid autopsy tumor samples was performed to evaluate the cDNA expression pattern associated with the morphology. Comparisons were made between patients as well as within the same patient. Metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer has a heterogeneous morphology, immunophenotype, and genotype, demonstrating that "metastatic disease" is a group of diseases even within the same patient. An appreciation of this heterogeneity is critical to evaluating diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers as well as to designing therapeutic targets for advanced disease.
15602825: !synaptophysin Changes in synapses and axons demonstrated by synaptophysin immunohistochemistry following spinal cord compression trauma in the rat and mouse. To evaluate synaptic changes using synaptophysin immunohistochemstry in rat and mouse, which spinal cords were subjected to graded compression trauma at the level of Th8-9.
15599350: !synaptophysin Oral alveolar soft-part sarcoma: review of literature and case report with immunohistochemistry study for prognostic markers. To describe a case of alveolar soft-part sarcoma (ASPS) affecting the tongue of a child and to study prognostic imunohistochemical markers for the disease.
15598143: !synaptophysin Chronic oral estrogen affects memory and neurochemistry in middle-aged female mice. This study tested whether chronic oral estrogen could improve memory and alter neural plasticity in the hippocampus and neocortex of middle-aged female mice. Ovariectomized C57BL/6 mice were administered 1,000, 1,500, or 2,500 nM 17beta-estradiol in drinking water for 5 weeks prior to and during spatial and object memory testing. Synaptophysin, nerve growth factor (NGF), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels were then measured in hippocampus and neocortex. The medium dose impaired spatial reference memory in the radial-arm maze, whereas all doses improved object recognition. The high dose increased hippocampal synaptophysin and NGF levels, whereas the medium dose decreased these neocortical levels. The high dose decreased neocortical BDNF levels. These data suggest that chronic oral estrogen selectively affects memory and neural function in middle-aged female mice.
15590695: !synaptophysin Cellugyrin induces biogenesis of synaptic-like microvesicles in PC12 cells. The four-transmembrane domain proteins synaptophysin and synaptogyrin represent the major constituents of synaptic vesicles. Our previous studies in PC12 cells demonstrated that synaptogyrin or its nonneuronal paralog cellugyrin targets efficiently to synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs) and dramatically increases the synaptophysin content of SLMVs (Belfort, G. M., and Kandror, K. V. (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278, 47971-47978). Here, we explored the mechanism of these phenomena and found that ectopic expression of cellugyrin increases the number of SLMVs in PC12 cells. Mutagenesis studies revealed that cellugyrin's hydrophilic cytoplasmic domains are not involved in vesicle biogenesis, whereas small conserved hydrophobic hairpins in the first luminal loop and the carboxyl terminus of cellugyrin were found to be critical for the formation of SLMVs. In addition, the length but not the primary sequence of the second luminal loop was essential for SLMV biogenesis. We suggest that changing the length of this loop similar to disruption of the short hydrophobic hairpins alters the position of the vicinal transmembrane domains that may be crucial for protein function.
15590146: !synaptophysin The immunophilin ligand FK506, but not the P38 kinase inhibitor SB203580, improves function of adult rat muscle reinnervated from transplants of embryonic neurons. Injury to the adult CNS often involves death of motoneurons, resulting in the paralysis and progressive atrophy of muscle. There is no effective therapy to replace motoneurons in the CNS. Our strategy to replace neurons and to rescue denervated muscles is to transplant dissociated embryonic day 14-15 (E14-15) ventral spinal cord cells into the distal stump of a peripheral nerve near the denervated muscles. Here, we test whether long-term delivery of two pharmacological inhibitors to denervated muscle, FK506 or SB203580, enhances reinnervation of muscle from embryonic cells transplanted in the tibial nerve of adult Fischer rats. FK506, SB203580 (2.5 mg/kg) or saline was delivered under the fascia of the medial gastrocnemius muscle for 4 weeks, beginning when muscles were denervated by section of the sciatic nerve. After 1 week of nerve degeneration, one million E14-15 ventral spinal cord cells were transplanted into the distal tibial nerve stump of each rat in the three treatment groups. Ten weeks later, all cell transplants had neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN) positive neurons. Neuron survival and axon regeneration were similar across treatments. An average (+/-S.E.) of 210+/-66, 100+/-36 and 176+/-58 myelinated axons grew distally from the cell transplants of rats with muscles treated with FK506, SB203580 or saline, respectively. Regenerating axons in muscles of all three treatments groups were detected with antibodies against phosphorylated neurofilaments and synaptophysin, and motor end plates were labeled with alpha-bungarotoxin. Muscles of rats that received transplants of media only had no axon growth, indicating that the muscles were denervated. The mean muscle fiber areas of rats that received cell transplants and had long-term delivery of FK506, SB203580 or saline to muscles were significantly larger than those of denervated muscle fibers. Thus, cell transplantation reduced muscle atrophy. Transplantation of embryonic cells also resulted in functional muscle reinnervation. Electromyographic activity and force were evoked from >90% of the muscles of rats with cell transplants, but not from denervated muscles. FK506-treated muscles were significantly more fatigue resistant than naive control muscles. FK506-treated muscles also had significantly stronger motor units than those in SB203580 or saline-treated muscles. These data suggest that a pathway regulated by FK506 improves the function of muscles reinnervated by embryonic neurons placed in peripheral nerve.
15585606: !synaptophysin Genes controlling multiple functional pathways are transcriptionally regulated in connexin43 null mouse heart. We have used mouse 27k cDNA arrays to compare gene expression patterns in four sets of three hearts each of neonatal wild types and four sets of three hearts each of littermates lacking the major cardiac gap junction protein, connexin43 (Cx43). Each individual set of hearts was hybridized against aliquots of an RNA standard prepared from selected mouse tissues, allowing calculation of variability and coordination of gene expression among the samples from both genotypes. Overall variance of gene expression was found to be markedly higher in wild-type hearts than in those from Cx43 null littermates. Expression levels of 586 of 5,613 adequately quantifiable distinct genes with known protein products were statistically altered in the Cx43 null hearts, 38 upregulated and 548 downregulated compared with wild types. Downregulation was confirmed for seven tested genes by quantitative RT-PCR. Functions of proteins encoded by the altered genes encompassed all functional categories, with largest percent changes in genes involved in intracellular transport and transcription factors. Among the downregulated genes in the Cx43 null hearts were those related to neuronal and glial function, suggesting that cardiac innervation might be compromised as a consequence of Cx43 deletion. This was supported by immunodetection of sympathetic innervation, using antibodies to the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin and to the adrenergic nerve terminal marker tyrosine hydroxylase. These findings reinforce the proposal that the cardiac abnormality in Cx43 null animals may be contributed by altered innervation and indicate that Cx43 deletion has consequences in addition to reduced intercellular communication.
15585098: !synaptophysin Development of neuronal sensitivity to toxins in cerebrospinal fluid from HIV-type 1-infected individuals. HIV infection of the immature nervous system generally results in a rapid progression of neurological disease that cannot easily be explained by the severity of encephalitis, viral burden, systemic immune deficiency, or developmental changes in utero. Rather than the viral infection dictating disease progression, we explored the possibility that immature neurons might be particularly sensitive to toxins secreted in response to HIV. Primary cultures of rat cortical neurons were exposed to toxic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from HIV-infected individuals (CSF(tox)) and evaluated for changes in intracellular calcium and cell death. CSF(tox) had no detectable effect on early neurite outgrowth, calcium regulation, or cell death during the first few days in culture. Starting at Day 4, delayed increases in intracellular calcium appeared in response to CSF(tox). The magnitude of the delayed calcium rise and cell death increased with the age of the culture and correlated with the appearance of synaptophysin immunoreactive varicosities. A similar gradual development of sensitivity was seen during exposure of feline neurons to toxins generated by choroid plexus macrophages after exposure to feline immunodeficiency virus. The possibility that toxin sensitivity is dependent on the presence of synaptic activity is consistent with the rapid pathogenesis in the CNS seen during the first postnatal year. Emerging synaptic activity coupled with other factors such as high metabolic demand in the young nervous system may combine to increase the likelihood of calcium overload and neuronal dysfunction in response to HIV-associated toxins.
15584914: !synaptophysin The response of synaptophysin and microtubule-associated protein 1 to restraint stress in rat hippocampus and its modulation by venlafaxine. As part of our continuing study of neural plasticity in rat hippocampus, we examined two structural proteins involved in neuronal plasticity, synaptophysin (SYP) and microtubule-associated protein 1 (MAP1) for their response to repeated restraint stress and modulation of such response by the antidepressant drug venlafaxine. This drug has the pharmacological action of inhibiting the reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine in nerve terminals. We subjected the rats to restraint stress for 4 h per day for three days, and then injected the animals intraperitoneally (i.p.) with vehicle or 5 mg/kg/day of venlafaxine for various time periods. In all, eight groups of 10 rats each were used. The expression of these two proteins in hippocampal tissue of the rats was examined by means of western blot and immunohistochemical staining techniques. We found that restraint stress decreased the expression of SYP in the rat hippocampus by 50% (p < 0.01), and increased the expression of MAP1 by 60% (p < 0.01). SYP returned to the pre-stress levels in three weeks and MAP1 in two weeks. In animals treated with venlafaxine post-stress, SYP returned to pre-stress levels after 2 weeks and MAP1 after 1 week. These findings enhance our understanding of the compromise of the hippocampus by stressful assaults, and may be relevant to the action of venlafaxine in the treatment of patients with major depression, a mental disease thought to be related to the mal-adaptation of subjects to environmental stressors.
15574220: !synaptophysin New variants of malignant glioneuronal tumors: a clinicopathological study of 40 cases. To demonstrate that malignant glioneuronal tumors comprise a large spectrum of neoplasms, without mature ganglion-like cells, that may histologically resemble any malignant glioma (World Health Organization Grade III or IV) but have a distinct biological behavior.
15573404: !synaptophysin Downregulation of complexin I and complexin II in the medial thalamus is blocked by N-acetylcysteine in experimental Wernicke's encephalopathy. Metabolic dysfunction as a consequence of thiamine (vitamin B1) deficiency (TD), a model of Wernicke's encephalopathy, leads to elevation of extracellular glutamate concentration in vulnerable brain regions consistent with the development of excitotoxicity. Complexin I and complexin II are two genes labeling principally inhibitory and excitatory synapses, respectively. Because current evidence supports an important role for complexins in the modulation of neurotransmitter release, we examined the involvement of both proteins in the pathology of the medial thalamus and inferior colliculus in TD rats by immunoblotting. At the symptomatic stage, complexin I and complexin II levels in the medial thalamus were decreased by 63% and 45%, respectively, compared to control animals, but were unchanged in the inferior colliculus. These changes in thalamus were also observed using immunohistochemical methods, and seemed to be due to downregulation of both proteins because synaptophysin levels were unaffected in this brain region. In addition, cotreatment with the antioxidant N- acetylcysteine prevented both neuronal loss and downregulation of complexins. Our findings suggest dysregulation of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter release in the medial thalamus, which is not present in the inferior colliculus. Furthermore, loss of complexin I and II in the thalamus may be mediated by processes that involve oxidative stress. Such changes in complexin levels may contribute to the pathophysiology of thalamic damage in TD, and offer a potential basis for the well-known differences in pathology between this structure and the inferior colliculus in this disorder.
15572857: !synaptophysin Desmoplastic medulloblastoma in a 48-year-old male. Medulloblastoma is a malignant invasive embryonal tumor of the cerebellum with preferential manifestation in children. The peak of occurrence is seven years of age. Seventy percent of medulloblastomas occur in individuals younger than 16. In adulthood, 80% of medulloblastomas arise in the 21-40 years age group. A 48-year-old male patient was admitted to the hospital with complains of headache, ataxia, morning vomiting and difficulty in speech was operated with the diagnosis of presence of mass of 4 x 7 cm size retaining a diffuse homogenous contrast in the posterior fossa. The diagnosis of desmoplastic medulloblastoma was given after histopathological examination. Immunohistochemical examination revealed that neoplastic cells showed staining with neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin but not with glial fibrillary acidic protein. This lesion showed nodular, reticulin free-zones (pale islands) surrounded by densely packed, highly proliferative cells. The pale regions within the tumor did not contain reticulin fibers. Desmoplastic medulloblastoma is encountered especially in adulthood. This type of tumor rarely occurs beyond the fifth decade of life. We present a case of desmoplastic medulloblastoma in a 48-year-old male.
15554711: !synaptophysin Stimulus-dependent dynamic homo- and heteromultimerization of synaptobrevin/VAMP and synaptophysin. Synaptophysin and synaptobrevin/VAMP are abundant synaptic vesicle proteins that form homo- and heterooligomers. We now use chemical cross-linking in synaptosomes, pinched-off nerve terminals that are capable of stimulus-dependent neurotransmitter release, to investigate whether these complexes are regulated. We show that in synaptosomes treated with three stimuli that induce exocytosis (a depolarizing K(+) solution, the excitatory neurotoxin alpha-latrotoxin, or the Ca(2+)-ionophore ionomycin), the homo- and heteromultimerization of synaptophysin and synaptobrevin is increased up to 6-fold. Whereas at rest less than 10% of the total synaptobrevin and synaptophysin could be chemically cross-linked into homo- and heteromeric complexes, after stimulation up to 25% of synaptobrevin and synaptophysin are present in homo- and heteromultimers, suggesting that a large fraction of these synaptic vesicle proteins physiologically participate in such complexes. The increase in multimerization of synaptophysin and synaptobrevin was only observed in intact but not in lysed synaptosomes and could not be inhibited by general kinase or phosphatase inhibitors. The stimulus dependence of synaptophysin and synaptobrevin multimers indicates that the complexes are not composed of a fixed multisubunit structure, for example, as an ion channel, but represent distinct functional states of synaptobrevin and synaptophysin that are modulated in parallel with synaptic vesicle exo- and endocytosis.
15551743: !synaptophysin Mixed carcinoid and adenocarcinoma of the appendix: report of 4 cases with immunohistochemical studies and a review of the literature. Four cases of mixed carcinoid and adenocarcinoma of the appendix were reported. All cases presented with a dominant cecal-appendiceal tumor mass and local metastasis. Two patients had multiple peritoneal implants mimicking primary peritoneal serous adenocarcinoma or carcinomatosis. Histopathologic features of the tumors are similar, with infiltrating microglandular and cribriform patterns of tumor nests, and variable numbers of goblet cells. A literature review of "goblet cell carcinoid" that included nonlocalized cases revealed a significant percentage (>14%) of tumor-associated death, in contrast to the classic carcinoid tumor. Immunohistochemical stains were helpful to separate these tumors from carcinoid tumors and primary peritoneal serous adenocarcinoma. Mixed carcinoid and adenocarcinomas were cytokeratin (CK)-20 positive, and negative or weakly positive for chromogranin A and synaptophysin. Carcinoid tumors were CK20 negative and diffusely positive for chromogranin A and synaptophysin. Peritoneal serous adenocarcinomas were CK20 negative. These cases were clinically aggressive, and 1 patient had multiple recurrences and responded partially to chemotherapy.
15551729: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine cell markers for pancreatic islets and tumors. The authors review the application of a variety of neuroendocrine cell markers to identify pancreatic islet cells and tumors. In the past, several empiric histochemical techniques had been used to demonstrate neuroendocrine cells, particularly the Grimelius argyrophilic stain. The development of immunohistochemistry made it possible to demonstrate specific cell products such as regulatory peptides, thus allowing the classification of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors with a view to clinical symptoms. However, it is not always possible to visualize regulatory peptides in these tumors. It is therefore important to use broad-spectrum neuroendocrine cell markers to identify the neuroendocrine nature. These markers are proteins localized in the secretory granules (core- or membrane-related), in the cytosol, or in the cellular membrane. The markers most commonly used in routine histopathology are the secretory granule proteins chromogranin A and synaptophysin and the cytosolic enzyme neuronspecific enolase. Other new markers (e.g., synaptic vesicle protein 2) are of general diagnostic value. Region-specific antibodies to chromogranin A can be valuable in differentiating between benign and malignant neuroendocrine tumors. Some markers may be related to the functioning characteristics of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, such as prohormone convertases. In addition, markers giving further complementary information have been identified, such as five somatostatin receptor subtypes, the expression of which varies markedly in pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Antibodies against all somatostatin receptor subtypes are now commercially available, and immunohistochemical investigation of its expression should be routinely applied when considering treatment with somatostatin analogs.
15549433: !synaptophysin Extrapulmonary small-cell carcinoma of the liver. A 53-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for the evaluation of a mass (13 x 10 cm) in the left lobe of the liver seen by imaging studies. On subsequent biopsy of the mass, the lesion was histologically diagnosed as malignant small round-cell tumor, consistent with metastatic small-cell carcinoma. Segment IV segmentectomy was performed. On pathological examination, the mass showed a yellowish-gray granular appearance with multifocal hemorrhage and necrosis. The phenotypes shown by immunohistochemistry revealed characteristic patterns of small-cell carcinoma (neuron-specific enolase [NSE]+, synaptophysin+, c-Kit+, cluster designation [CD]56+, epithelial membrane antigen [EMA]+, cytokeratin [CK]7-). High resolution-computed tomography (HRCT) revealed inactive pulmonary tuberculosis with small calcified tuberculoma in the right upper lobe. Sputum cytology was negative for malignancy. The postoperative course was uneventful, and platinum-based chemotherapy (cisplatin, etoposide) was initiated.
15549332: !synaptophysin Ependymoma with neuropil-like islands: a case report with diagnostic and histogenetic implications. We describe a case of ependymoma with neuronal differentiation in form of neuropil-like islands. A 6-year-old boy presented at clinical examination for a short history of headaches and vomiting. Brain computed tomography showed a large, partially cystic, parieto-occipital lesion. The tumor was composed by glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive round cells with a perivascular arrangement and scattered neuropil-like islands, showing intense positivity for synaptophysin. Despite radiotherapy, the tumor recurred, showing frank features of anaplasia, but lacking the neuropil-like islands. The histological features of the tumor are discussed in the light of the concept that neuronal differentiation can occur occasionally in gliomas of different lineage without affecting the expected biological behavior.
15543629: !synaptophysin Correlation of non-uniform protein expression with variation in transmitter release probability. The strength of synaptic transmission is highly variable between different synapses. The present study examined some factors that may contribute to this variation in the strength of neurotransmission in sympathetic varicosities of the mouse vas deferens. Transmitter release was measured using a focal macropatch electrode placed over pairs of visualised varicosities. By regulating the calcium concentration of the solutions inside the recording electrode and in the bath independently of each other, transmitter release was restricted to one or two surface varicosities at each recording site. Using this technique, transmitter release probability was shown to be highly variable, even between adjacent varicosities on single axon branches. Very little variation was observed in the calcium influx following single impulse nerve stimulation between adjacent Oregon Green BAPTA-1 loaded varicosities. However, the staining intensities of three vesicular proteins, SV2, synaptophysin, and synaptotagmin 1, showed considerable variation between adjacent varicosities on single axon branches. This variation in staining intensity may be partly explained by variation in the density of synaptic vesicles. However, double staining experiments using two vesicular antigens showed some varicosities staining for one vesicular antigen, but not for the second, suggesting that the expression of these release machinery proteins is regulated locally within the varicosities. The results of the present study strengthen suggestions that synaptic strength is at least in part, regulated by variation in the expression of vesicular proteins.
15537876: !synaptophysin Interferon-gamma induced medulloblastoma in the developing cerebellum. We have generated a mouse model system with a high incidence of medulloblastoma, a malignant neoplasm believed to arise from immature precursors of cerebellar granule neurons. These animals ectopically express interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in astrocytes in the CNS in a controlled manner, exploiting the tetracycline-controllable system. More than 80% of these mice display severe ataxia and develop cerebellar tumors that express synaptophysin, the mouse atonal homolog MATH1, sonic hedgehog (SHH), and Gli1. IFN-gamma-induced tumorigenesis in these mice is associated with increased expression of SHH, and SHH induction and tumorigenesis are dependent on signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1). When IFN-gamma expression is shut down with doxycycline at postnatal day 12 (P12), the clinical symptoms dissipate and the mice do not develop tumors, whereas if transgene expression is shut down at P16, the clinical symptoms and tumors progress to lethality, indicating that IFN-gamma is required for tumor induction but not progression. The tumors that occur in the continued presence of IFN-gamma display extensive necrosis and apoptosis as well as macrophage and lymphocytic infiltration, whereas the tumors that develop in mice in which IFN-gamma expression is shut down at P16 do not. Thus, IFN-gamma expression in the perinatal period can induce SHH expression and medulloblastoma in the cerebellum by a STAT1-dependent mechanism, and its continued presence appears to promote a host response to the tumor.
15535035: !synaptophysin Morphometry of synaptophysin immunoreactive ganglion cells in Auerbach plexus in patients with colorectal cancer. Is this a new prognostic factor? The aim of our study was to estimate morphometric parameters of synaptophysin (Syn-38) immunoreactive ganglion cells in colorectal cancer (within and at various distances from neoplastic infiltration) in postoperative material from 60 patients. We analysed the intensity of Syn-38 expression in Auerbach ganglion neurones, mean number of these cells in the ganglion, and their longitudinal and transverse diameters. The results showed a statistically significant reduction in the number of neurones in intramural ganglia of the large intestine located in neoplastic infiltration and in its close proximity. The size of ganglion cells was directly proportional to the distance from cancer infiltration and inversely proportional to Syn-38 content, which may be explained by degenerative changes and dysfunction of these cells. This correlation was significant in the case of cells with the cytoplasmatic Syn-38 immunoreactivity pattern, but did not refer to the cells with perimembranous pattern, which seemed to be undamaged. Morphometric analysis of synaptophysin immunoreactive ganglion cells in Auerbach plexus in colorectal cancer may be a new useful marker for the description of changes in the intestinal nervous system as well as a prognostic factor for colorectal cancer.
15533230: !synaptophysin Hepatocellular carcinoma with an unusual neuroendocrine component. We report a rare case of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with an unusual neuroendocrine component. During a follow-up study for chronic hepatitis C in a 71-year-old man, a nodular lesion showed rapid growth from 1 cm to 4 cm in diameter within 3 months. Histologically, the tumor was consistent with moderately differentiated HCC, but was intermingled with nests of small round cells with scarce cytoplasm, which resembled those found in small cell carcinoma. This population formed small solid nests among the trabecular structures. Immunohistochemically the small round cell component of the tumor was strongly positive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin A and synaptophysin, but hepatocyte paraffin-1 (HP-1) and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) were negative. In contrast, HP-1 and AFP were positive, and NSE, chromogranin A and synaptophysin were negative in moderately differentiated HCC tissues. Electron microscopy revealed many intracytoplasmic neurosecretory granules in the small round cells. The labeling indexes of p53 and Ki-67 were significantly higher in the small round cell component than in the moderately differentiated HCC component. Overall, we conclude that this nodule was HCC with neuroendocrine differentiation.
15528199: !synaptophysin Altered interaction and expression of proteins involved in neurosecretion in scrapie-infected GT1-1 cells. Prions cause transmissible and fatal diseases that are associated with spongiform degeneration, astrogliosis, and loss of axon terminals in the brains. To determine the expression of proteins involved in neurosecretion and synaptic functions after prion infection, gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal cell line subclone (GT1-1) was infected with the RML scrapie strain and analyzed by Western blotting, real time PCR, and immunohistochemistry. As revealed by Western blotting of lysates exposed to different temperatures, the levels of complexed SNAP-25, syntaxin 1A, and synaptophysin were decreased in scrapie-infected GT1-1 cells (ScGT1-1), whereas the level of monomeric forms of these proteins was increased and correlated to the level of scrapie prion protein (PrPSc). However, when complex formation was prevented by prolonged heating of samples in SDS, the levels of monomeric SNAP-25, syntaxin 1A and synaptophysin in ScGT1-1 cells were decreased in comparison to GT1-1 cells. The reduced level of SNAP-25 was observed as early as 32 days postinfection. Increased mRNA levels of both splice variants SNAP-25a and -b in ScGT1-1 cells were seen. No difference in the morphology, neuritic outgrowth or distribution of SNAP-25, syntaxin 1A, or synaptophysin could be observed in ScGT1-1 cells. Treatment with quinacrine or pentosan polysulfate cleared the PrPSc from the ScGT1-1 cell cultures, and the increase in levels of monomeric SNAP-25 and synaptophysin was reversible. These results indicate that a scrapie infection can cause changes in the expression of proteins involved in neuronal secretion, which may be of pathogenetic relevance for the axon terminal changes seen in prion-infected brains.
15525281: !synaptophysin Spinal implantation of hNT neurons and neuronal precursors: graft survival and functional effects in rats with ischemic spastic paraplegia. Transient spinal ischemia, a complication associated with aortic cross-clamp may lead to spastic paraplegia. Once fully developed this deficit is permanent. Quantitative histopathological assessments and pharmacological studies show that the ischemic spasticity is secondary to the loss of lumbar GABA and glycinergic inhibitory interneurons. In the present study, we investigated whether human hNT neurons or committed Sprague-Dawley rat spinal neuronal precursors (SNPs) when grafted into previously ischemic spinal segments depleted of inhibitory neurons would restore local inhibitory tone and ameliorate spasticity. Rats with functionally and electrophysiologically defined spasticity that received spinal graft of hNT neurons or neuronal precursors and immunosuppressive treatment displayed a progressive recovery of motor function that correlated with the improvement of otherwise exacerbated peripheral motor response evoked by stimulation of motor cortex. In contrast, in control, medium-injected or oligodendrocyte-grafted animals no significant therapeutic effect was seen. Stereological quantification of grafted neurons revealed 1-2% survival at three months after transplantation. These surviving neurons displayed a robust axo-dendritic sprouting and expression of markers typical of mature neurons including NSE, NeuN and synaptophysin. In both treatment groups a subpopulation of grafted neurons developed GABA immunoreactivity. These data provide evidence that a region specific grafting of hNT neurons or other neuronally committed cells, which have a potential to develop inhibitory neurotransmitter phenotype, represent an effective treatment modality to modulate ischemia-induced spastic paraplegia.
15525276: !synaptophysin Estrogen receptor beta is expressed in human embryonic brain cells and is regulated by 17beta-estradiol. In order to study estrogen effects on developing human neurons, we have established primary cultures of neurons and glia from 8-13-week human embryo cortex and spinal cord. The neuronal identity of the cultures was verified using the neuronal synaptic vesicle and neuronal endosomal membrane markers synaptotagmin, synapsin and synaptophysin, and the glial contribution to the mixed glial-neuronal cultures was verified using the glial marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). We here report expression of estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) in these cells using RT-PCR and sequencing, RNAse protection assay, immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting. We found that both neuronal and mixed glial-neuronal cultures expressed ERbeta. Treatment with 17beta-estradiol gave an increased expression of ERbeta in both types of cultures. These results suggest that ERbeta is expressed in fetal brain and thus may mediate effects of estrogen in the developing nervous system. Furthermore, the results suggest that expression of ERbeta in fetal brain may be regulated by estrogen.
15517367: !synaptophysin Mixed acinar-endocrine carcinoma of the pancreas. A clinicopathological study and comparison with acinar-cell carcinoma. We compared the clinicopathological features of acinar-cell carcinomas (ACCs) with those of mixed acinar-endocrine carcinomas (MAECs). Specimens from 37 patients with ACC and 6 patients with MAEC were examined histologically and immunohistochemically. The mean age of ACC and MAEC patients was similar (61.3 years versus 58.4 years), but the sex ratio differed (ACC, 29 males and 8 females; MAEC, 2 males and 4 females). The size of the tumor was large in both cases (ACC, 13.8 cm in diameter; MAEC, 8.2 cm). Immunohistochemically, more than half of the tumor cells in all tumors, whether ACC or MAEC, stained for trypsin. In 20 of the 37 ACCs (54%), scattered endocrine cells (SECs) were found, which stained positively for synaptophysin (SYN) and/or chromogranin A (CGA). Interestingly, there was also a difference in the sex ratio between ACC patients without SECs (16 males and 1 female) and ACC patients with SECs (13 males and 7 females). In MAECs, the cells staining for SYN were more common than those staining for CGA and made up more than one-third of the neoplastic-cell population. In all but one case (in which the endocrine component was arranged in islet-like cell clusters), the endocrine cells were intimately mixed with trypsin-positive tumor cells. The endocrine cells only rarely expressed one of the known pancreatic or gastrointestinal hormones. Both ACCs and MAECs had a high proliferation rate and lacked p53 overexpression or progesterone and estrogen receptors. This study revealed that ACCS and MAECs share most clinicopathological features and, therefore, may form a single tumor entity, though they differ in the number of endocrine cells. The frequent identification of endocrine cells in these tumors suggests the existence of a pluripotent cell of origin that is capable of differentiating into acinar and endocrine cells.
15517228: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma: a clinicopathological and neuroradiological study. Central neurocytoma (CNC) is an uncommon benign tumor of the central nervous system (CNS) occurring in adults and is more likely to be located in the region of the foramina of Monra. Few studies have described the neuroradiological features of CNC, and most are single case reports. Our aim was to analyze the clinicopathological and neuroradiological characteristics of CNC. We retrospectively studied the preoperative CT (n=2) and MRI (n=5) of three men and two women (mean age 45 years, ranging from 30 to 63 years) with pathologically proven CNC. The tumors were primarily located in the region of the foramina of Monra. Two of them occupied the lateral ventricle, appearing to be attached to the septum pellucidum, and the other three tumors arose from the septum pellucidum and extended into the lateral ventricles. The tumors were of mixed density with cystic features and patchy or fine calcification on noncontrast CT scans, and they were of low or isointense signal on T1- and heterogeneously hyperintense signal on T2- and FLAIR weighted images. Contrast enhancement varied greatly from very slight to intense. Immunohistochemical staining showed a positive reaction for synaptophysin (Syn), neuro-specific enclase (NSE), neurofilament protein (NF) in the tumor cells and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) in the fibrillar zones. CNC should be taken into consideration first if a tumor arises from the region of the foramina of Monra with CNC neuroradiological characteristics and the patient is an adult.
15509552: !synaptophysin Prion replication alters the distribution of synaptophysin and caveolin 1 in neuronal lipid rafts. The main event in the pathogenesis of prion diseases is the conversion of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) into the abnormal, protease-resistant prion protein (PrP(res)). PrP(C) is a GPI-anchored protein located in lipid rafts or detergent-resistant membranes (DRMs). Here we describe the association of PrP with DRMs in neuronal cell bodies and axons during the course of murine scrapie and its relation with the distribution of the PrP-interacting proteins caveolin 1 and synaptophysin. Scrapie infection triggered the accumulation of PrP(res) in DRMs from retinas and optic nerves from early stages of the disease before evidence of neuronal cell loss. Most of the PrP(res) remained associated with lipid rafts throughout different stages in disease progression. In contrast to PrP(res), caveolin 1 and synaptophysin in retina and optic nerves shifted to non-DRM fractions during the course of scrapie infection. The accumulation of PrP(res) in DRMs was not associated with a general alteration in their composition, because no change in the total protein distribution across the sucrose gradient or in the flotation characteristics of the glycosphingolipid GM1 or Thy-1 were observed until advanced stages of the disease. However, an increase in total cholesterol levels was observed in optic nerve and retinas. Only during late stages of the disease was a decrease in the number of neuronal cell bodies observed, suggesting that synaptic abnormalities are the earliest sign of neuronal dysfunction that ultimately results in neuronal death. These results indicate that prion replication triggers an abnormal localization of caveolin 1 and synaptophysin, which in turn may alter neuronal function.
15508351: !synaptophysin Large supratentorial ectopic ependymoma with massive calcification and cyst formation--case report. A 6-year-old boy presented with a large supratentorial ependymoma with massive calcification and central cyst formation manifesting as generalized convulsion and right hemiparesis. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging showed a large, poorly enhanced, left frontal mass with massive calcification and a central cyst. Angiography revealed no extracranial blood supply to the tumor, which was supplied by branches of the left middle cerebral artery. The patient underwent total resection of the tumor, which was located in the parenchyma with no dural attachment. The tumor was clearly demarcated and dissected subpially from the surrounding brain parenchyma. The surgical findings suggested no relationship with the lateral ventricular system. Histological examination of the tumor demonstrated perivascular pseudorosette formation and mitosis with massive calcification, and immunocytochemical reactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein and epithelial membrane antigen, but not synaptophysin. These findings were compatible with ependymoma, World Health Organization grade 2. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging clearly showed that the tumor was located in the intradural, intraaxial space with no relationship to the ventricles.
15498888: !synaptophysin Dramatic decrease of innervation density in bone after ovariectomy. Recent studies have demonstrated that bone is highly innervated and contains neuromediators that have functional receptors on bone cells. However, no data exist concerning the quantitative changes of innervation during bone loss associated with estrogen withdrawal. To study the involvement of nerve fibers in the regulation of bone remodeling, we have evaluated the modifications of innervation in a classical in vivo model of osteopenia in rats, ovariectomy (OVX). Skeletal innervation was studied by immunocytochemistry using antibodies directed against specific neuronal markers, neurofilament 200 and synaptophysin, and the neuromediator glutamate. Sciatic neurectomy, another model of bone loss due to limb denervation and paralysis, was used to validate our quantitative image analysis technique of immunostaining for nerve markers. Female Wistar rats at 12 wk of age were sham-operated (SHAM) or ovariectomized (OVX). Bone mineral density measurement and bone histomorphometry analysis of tibiae 14 d after surgery demonstrated a significant bone loss in OVX compared with SHAM. We observed an important reduction of nerve profile density in tibiae of OVX animals compared with SHAM animals, whereas innervation density in skin and muscles was similar for OVX and control rats. Quantitative image analysis of immunostainings demonstrated a significant decrease of the percentage of immunolabeling per total bone volume of neurofilament 200, synaptophysin, and glutamate in both the primary and secondary spongiosa of OVX rats compared with SHAM. These data indicate for the first time that OVX-induced bone loss in rat tibiae is associated with a reduction in nerve profile density, suggesting a functional link between the nervous system and the bone loss after ovariectomy.
15496609: !synaptophysin Fetal intestinal obstruction induces alteration of enteric nervous system development in human intestinal atresia. Intestinal motility disorders are a major cause of morbidity after surgical repair of intestinal atresia of unknown mechanism. We hypothesized that interruption of antenatal peristalsis may disturb the normal development of the enteric nervous system. Using a series of neuronal (synaptophysin, neuronal nitric oxide synthase, neurofilaments) and nonneuronal markers (glial acidic fibrillary protein and c-Kit) and immunohistochemistry, we have defined developmental steps of the enteric nervous system in normal intestine (12 fetuses, 15 children, and 4 adults) and their alterations above and below the obstacle in 22 human intestinal atresia compared with age-matched controls. Antisynaptophysin antibody revealed the progressive conversion of the myenteric plexus from a continuous belt into regularly spaced ganglions during normal fetal gut development and, by contrast, the significantly delayed appearance of individual neuronal ganglions in the distal segments of atresia (p < 0.05). Staging using three other markers for neuronal (neurofilaments and neuronal nitric oxide synthase) and nonneuronal cells (glial acidic fibrillary protein) confirmed that maturation of the myenteric plexus was significantly delayed below atresia (p < 0.01). These results indicate that intestinal atresia impairs the development of the enteric nervous system and provide an anatomical substrate for the motility disorders observed after surgical repair. They point to the role of peristalsis in normal gut development and suggest that stimulation of peristalsis might be used to accelerate recovery.
15494936: !synaptophysin Pituicytoma. Pituicytoma is a rare, low-grade neoplasm that originates in the neurohypophysis of the pituitary gland. We report the clinicopathologic features of a pituicytoma arising in a 52-year-old man who presented with a mass and panhypopituitarism, clinically suggestive of a pituitary adenoma. The tumor was marked by a proliferation of elongated cells arranged in bundles and interlacing fascicles. The tumor demonstrated positive staining with S-100 protein and glial fibrillary acid protein antibodies. The tumor did not stain with antibodies to cytokeratin, synaptophysin, chromogranin, anterior pituitary hormones, or p53. An MIB-1 labeling index of 1.1% was observed. The tumor was subtotally resected and recurred 11 months after the initial surgery. The literature on this rare tumor will be reviewed and differential diagnosis discussed.
15494870: !synaptophysin Glomus tumor of the duodenum: a case report. We describe a rare case of glomus tumor of the duodenum. The tumor was detected in a 46-year-old man being investigated for episodes of gastrointestinal bleeding. The excised specimen showed a 2.3 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm gray-tan tumor involving the mucosa and the submucosa. The overlying mucosa was focally ulcerated. Histologically, the tumor had a solid pattern of sharply demarcated, round glomus cells with prominent pericytoma-like vessels of varying sizes. The neoplastic cells stained for vimentin, smooth muscle actin, and focally for synaptophysin. These histologic and immunohistochemical features are consistent with a diagnosis of glomus tumor of the duodenum.
15493417: !synaptophysin [Oncocytic adrenocortical neoplasms]. Oncocytic neoplasms of the adrenal gland are rare, as described in literature. Only 27 cases have been reported up to now in world literature. Here we describe our experience. In this report we discuss the clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical findings of three oncocytic tumors of the adrenal cortex. Two tumors were found during examination of the patients for other reasons. These tumors were hormonally inactive. One tumor manifested by the virilization of the patient. Immunohistochemical examination demonstrated in all tumors focal positivity with antibodies to neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin and mostly focally weak positivity for cytokeratins. Very low mitotic activity was found in two tumors. Criteria for evaluation of biological character of this type of tumors are not established.
15492999: !synaptophysin Multifocal presentation of gangliocytic paraganglioma in the mediastinum and esophagus. Gangliocytic paraganglioma (GP) is a rare, typically benign tumor that shows neuroectodermal (neurosustentacular or Schwannian and neuronal) and neuroendocrine differentiation. Once thought to arise exclusively in the periampullary region as a solitary lesion, recent reports have documented both origin of GP in a variety of extra-duodenal sites as well as synchronous multifocal presentation of the tumor. Herein, we describe the first reported case of simultaneous occurrence of GP in the superior mediastinum and esophagus. A mass in the mid-distal esophagus and a separate mass in the superior mediastinum at the thoracic inlet were found in a 58-year-old woman by computed tomography scan. Subsequent biopsy of the superior mediastinal mass showed nests of epithelioid tumor cells coexisting with ganglioneuromatous elements, whereas biopsy of the esophageal mass showed nests of epithelioid cells with interspersed ganglion cells. The epithelioid tumor cells showed diffuse immunohistochemical expression of keratin (CAM 5.2), chromogranin, and synaptophysin supporting true neuroendocrine differentiation; ganglion cells expressed S-100 protein and neurofilament protein; and the spindled elements expressed S-100 protein, neurofilament protein, and glial fibrillary acidic protein indicating Schwannian differentiation. The finding of another GP occurring outside the periampullary region bolsters the argument for a stem cell origin of this unusual tumor.
15492918: !synaptophysin Solid and cystic papillary neoplasms of the pancreas: report of four cases. In this report we present four cases with solid and cystic papillary neoplasms (SCPN) of the pancreas, and discuss the histopathological and immunohistochemical findings with a review of the literature.
15488227: !synaptophysin Measurement of pre- and post-synaptic proteins in cerebral cortex: effects of post-mortem delay. Assessments of synaptic density in human brain are often based on measurements of synaptic proteins. Little information is available on their post-mortem stability. We have investigated this by ELISAs of the pre-synaptic proteins syntaxin and synaptophysin, and the post-synaptic protein PSD-95, in rat and human cortex. The rat brains were cooled in situ from 37 to 20 or 4 degrees C over 3 h, and then kept at 20 or 4 degrees C for a further 24-72 h, to simulate post-mortem storage at room temperature or in a mortuary refrigerator. Synaptophysin and PSD-95 levels in rat cerebral cortex were not significantly decreased after 72 h of incubation at 20 degrees C. Syntaxin was stable for 24 h but decreased by 39-44% at 48-72 h. Storage at 4 degrees C resulted in a similar reduction of syntaxin levels over 72 h. In human brain tissue from 160 people aged 24-102 years, post-mortem delay had little effect on synaptic protein levels in superior temporal cortex, but was associated with a decline in PSD-95 and syntaxin in mid-frontal cortex after 24 h. The more robust stability of synaptophysin may be related to its multi-transmembrane structure.
15488027: !synaptophysin Bcl-2 expression inversely correlates with tumour cell differentiation in medulloblastoma. Medulloblastoma (MB) is a cerebellar primitive neuroectodermal tumour that occurs predominantly in childhood. It can be mainly divided into classical and desmoplastic tumours, but differential diagnosis is often difficult. Patients' prognosis is poor and neuropathological markers that reliably predict outcome are still missing. In a series of 104 MBs including 80 tumours of the classical and 24 tumours of the desmoplastic variant we studied the number of apoptotic figures and the expression of the proto-oncogene bcl-2, an anti-apoptotic protein known to affect tumour cell proliferation. We observed a strong correlation between the expression of bcl-2 with patients' age (P < 0.001) as well as with the desmoplastic subtype (P < 0.001). Here, protein expression was found to be restricted to internodular, less differentiated, highly proliferative areas. In classical MB, bcl-2 was detected only in 23% of cases and was highly inversely correlated with the expression of synaptophysin (P < 0.001) indicating that bcl-2 is predominantly expressed by undifferentiated classical MB. With regard to prognosis the expression of bcl-2 tended to correlate with poor outcome in classical MB but not in desmoplastic MB, although not to a statistically significant extension (P = 0.06). On the other hand, a high number of apoptotic figures in the tumour tissue was found to indicate poor prognosis independent of the histological subtype (P < 0.05).
15485489: !synaptophysin Septin 3 (G-septin) is a developmentally regulated phosphoprotein enriched in presynaptic nerve terminals. The septins are GTPase enzymes with multiple roles in cytokinesis, cell polarity or exocytosis. The proteins from the mammalian septin genes are called Sept1-10. Most are expressed in multiple tissues, but the mRNA for Sept5 (CDCrel-1) and Sept3 (G-septin) appear to be primarily expressed in brain. Sept3 is phosphorylated by cGMP-dependent protein kinase I (PKG-I) and the cGMP/PKG pathway is involved in presynaptic plasticity. Therefore to determine whether Sept3 specifically associates with neurones and nerve terminals we investigated its distribution in rat brain and neuronal cultures. Sept3 protein was detected only in brain by immunoblot, but not in 12 other tissues examined. Levels were high in all adult brain regions, and reduced in those enriched in white matter. Expression was developmentally regulated, being absent in the early embryo, low in late embryonic rat brain and increasing after birth. Like dynamin I, Sept3 was specifically enriched in synaptosomes compared with whole brain, and was only found in a peripheral membrane extract and not in the soluble or membrane extracts. Sept3 was particularly abundant in mossy fibre nerve terminals in the hippocampus. In primary cultured hippocampal neurones Sept3 immunoreactivity was punctate in neurites and predominantly localized to presynaptic terminals, strongly colocalizing with synaptophysin and dynamin I. The specific nerve terminal localization was confirmed by immunogold electron microscopy. Together this shows that Sept3 is a neurone-specific protein highly enriched in nerve terminals which supports a secretory role in synaptic vesicle recycling.
15483362: !synaptophysin Astroblastoma: a case report. Astroblastoma is one of the very unusual type of tumors, whose histogenesis has not been clarified. It occurs mainly among children or young adults. Astroblastoma is grossly well-demarcated, and shows histologically characteristic perivascular pseudorosettes with frequent vascular hyalinization. Perivascular pseudorosettes in astroblastoma have short and thick cytoplasmic processes and blunt-ended foot plates. A 15-yr-old girl presented with headache and diplopia for one and a half year. A well-demarcated mass, 9.7 cm in diameter, was found in the right frontal lobe in brain MRI, and it was a well-enhanced inhomogenous mass. Cystic changes of various sizes were observed inside the tumor mass as well as in the posterior part of the mass, but no peritumoral edema was found. Histologically, this mass belongs to a typical astroblastoma, and no sign of anaplastic astrocytoma, gemistocytic astrocytoma or glioblastoma was found in any part of the tumor. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells showed diffuse strong positivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein, S-100 protein, vimentin and neuron specific enolase, and focal positivity for epithelial membrane antigen and CAM 5.2, while showing negativity for synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, pan-cytokeratin and high molecular weight keratin.
15480266: !synaptophysin [Breast carcinoma with predominant neuroendocrine differentiation]. Neuroendocrine differentiation can be identified in a subset of human breast carcinomas, either as scattered cells or as a predominant neuroendocrine component. We report a case of an invasive breast carcinoma largely composed of neuroendocrine cells. Eight years after a left mammary lumpectomy for a pT2N1MO SBR III invasive ductal carcinoma, a 67-years-old woman presented with a metastastic neuroendocrine sternal mass. To establish a relationship between mammary carcinoma and bone metastasis, histological slides of both the breast tumor and axillary lymph nodes were reviewed, and an immunohistochemical study was performed. They showed that: a) the mammary carcinoma was composed of a majority of small and large neuroendocrine cells synaptophysin +, NCAM+, chromogranin - (80%), associated with 2 other differentiated non endocrine components, one of metaplastic squamous carcinoma (10%) and the other of ductal carcinoma (10%); b) 4 axillary lymph nodes were involved by the ductal component which contained few NCAM + but synaptophysin - cells; c) Estrogen and progesterone receptors and HER2 were negative in the breast tumor and the metastatic nodes. We discuss the histogenesis of composite mammary carcinomas with neuroendocrine differentiation, the outcome of each component and the prognostic relevance of such a diagnosis.
15476441: !synaptophysin A thyroid nodule revealing a paraganglioma in a patient with a new germline mutation in the succinate dehydrogenase B gene. A 32-year-old asymptomatic female was diagnosed with an isolated thyroid nodule of 2.5 cm diameter. Fine needle aspiration suggested a medullary thyroid carcinoma. Consequently, a total thyroidectomy was performed. The nodule stained positive for chromogranin A, neurone-specific enolase and synaptophysin, but not for calcitonin. Finally, pathological analysis showed a thyroid paraganglioma. Although the tumour appeared to be sporadic in a patient with no personal or familial history of paraganglioma and/or pheochromocytoma, we have identified a new mutation (392delC) of the succinate dehydrogenase-B (SDHB) gene in the genomic DNA extracted from the leukocytes of the patient. That mutation induced a shift in the reading frame of the gene creating a premature stop codon (P131fsX135) which was predicted to result in a truncated SDHB protein of 135 amino acids. This report highlights the difficulties of this unexpected diagnosis of hereditary thyroid paraganglioma. It also discusses the clinical involvements in terms of familial screening and the necessary follow-up of the patient.
15472436: !synaptophysin Desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma -- a case report. Desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma is a very rare supratentorial tumor occurring in the first two years of life. A five-month-old female infant presented with recurrent seizures, large head and loss of acquired milestones. Computerized Tomographic Scan of brain showed a large subarachnoid cyst with a solid intensely contrast enhancing tumor in the right temporoparietal region with severe degree of mass effect. Craniotomy and total excision of the tumor followed subsequently by subduro-peritoneal shunt for the extracerebral fluid collection was done. The child made good recovery. Histopathology revealed features of desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma, viz., marked desmoplastic component with glial and neuronal elements. Immunohistochemistry showed positive staining for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) with areas of synaptophysin and chromogranin positivity. Desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma is a rare tumor of infancy, which has excellent prognosis after total excision. No adjuvant therapy is required. This is the first Indian report of desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma out of less than fifty cases reported worldwide.
15469472: !synaptophysin Ductal carcinoma in situ with spindle cells: a potential diagnostic pitfall in the evaluation of breast lesions. To evaluate the morphological features of 11 cases of breast ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) with spindle cells and to propose an approach to distinguish it from benign mimics. The association with neuroendocrine differentiation was also investigated.
15466176: !synaptophysin Growth factor independence-1 is expressed in primary human neuroendocrine lung carcinomas and mediates the differentiation of murine pulmonary neuroendocrine cells. Human small cell lung cancers might be derived from pulmonary cells with a neuroendocrine phenotype. They are driven to proliferate by autocrine and paracrine neuropeptide growth factor stimulation. The molecular basis of the neuroendocrine phenotype of lung carcinomas is relatively unknown. The Achaete-Scute Homologue-1 (ASH1) transcription factor is critically required for the formation of pulmonary neuroendocrine cells and is a marker for human small cell lung cancers. The Drosophila orthologues of ASH1 (Achaete and Scute) and the growth factor independence-1 (GFI1) oncoprotein (Senseless) genetically interact to inhibit Notch signaling and specify fly sensory organ development. Here, we show that GFI1, as with ASH1, is expressed in neuroendocrine lung cancer cell lines and that GFI1 in lung cancer cell lines functions as a DNA-binding transcriptional repressor protein. Forced expression of GFI1 potentiates tumor formation of small-cell lung carcinoma cells. In primary human lung cancer specimens, GFI1 expression strongly correlates with expression of ASH1, the neuroendocrine growth factor gastrin-releasing peptide, and neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and chromogranin A (P < 0.0000001). GFI1 colocalizes with chromogranin A and calcitonin-gene-related peptide in embryonic and adult murine pulmonary neuroendocrine cells. In addition, mice with a mutation in GFI1 display abnormal development of pulmonary neuroendocrine cells, indicating that GFI1 is important for neuroendocrine differentiation.
15462500: !synaptophysin A comparative histopathological evaluation of sacs from boys and girls with inguinal hernia. The purpose of this study is to determine and to compare histopathologic alterations of hernia sacs obtained from patients with inguinal hernia with those of the peritoneal tissue from patients operated on for other abdominal disorders. Samples were obtained from 42 pediatric patients with uni- or bilateral hernias, and from 30 pediatric control patients without hernia. Sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin, Gomori's trichrome, and Gomori's reticulin. Furthermore, they were immunohistochemically stained with anti-synaptophysin for the quantification of neural structures. All the slides were examined for six parameters, including variations in tissue and collagen types, the presence of inflammation and proliferation of vessels, neural plexus, and mesothelial cells. The results were evaluated statistically using the independent T-test and the Mann-Whitney-U test. Parametric tests revealed a higher presence of large neural plexus (p = 0.003), increased proliferation of mesothelial cells (p = 0.009), and hypervascularization (p = 0.003) in sacs of the hernia group. There were also major changes that were dependent on the sex of the patients. Most part of hernia sacs tissue was found to be fibrous and adipose in most boy patients, but was fibro-muscular in girls with inguinal hernia (male/female p = 0.03), while the tissues were fibro-adipose in both sexes in the control group (inguinal hernia/control p = 0.016). Similarly, vascular proliferation was mainly encountered in hernia sacs of girls (p = 0.013). These features were not observed in the control groups. Therefore, on the basis of sex, we determined whether or not these findings could indicate the difference between the etiopathologic mechanisms of inguinal hernias. Furthermore, we went into the question of whether or not the comprehensive examination of hernia sacs sufficed to enlighten the etiology of hernias.
15452900: !synaptophysin A morphologic and statistical comparative study of small-cell carcinoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in fine-needle aspiration biopsy material from lymph nodes. Small-cell carcinoma (SmC) and high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) are aggressive neoplasms that require prompt diagnosis and treatment. An immediate diagnosis can be obtained using fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) material from lymph nodes (LNs), which are clinically or radiologically suspicious for tumor involvement. However, in aspirates from LNs, the cytologic distinction of SmC from NHL can be challenging. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of various cytologic features that can be used during a rapid on-site evaluation to differentiate these two entities. Twenty-seven metastatic SmC and 50 NHLs cases diagnosed by FNAB of LNs were reviewed. All NHL diagnoses (neck, 29; abdomen, 9; axilla, 6; groin, 5; and parotid, 1) were confirmed with tissue sections, flow cytometry, or immunohistochemistry. These cases were classified as follicular, 21 (42%); diffuse large B cell, 13 (26%); small lymphocytic, 7 (14%); mantle cell, 4 (8%); anaplastic large cell, 2 (4%); and 1 each (2%), Burkitt, lymphoplasmacytic, and peripheral T-cell lymphomas. Immunochemistry confirmed the cytologic diagnoses of all SmC cases (neck, 16; mediastinum, 9; abdomen, 1; and axilla, 1) with either positive chromogranin or synaptophysin. All specimens were reviewed independently by three cytopathologists who were unaware of the original diagnoses. The presence and proportion of single (noncohesive) tumor cells, lymphoglandular bodies, nuclear fragments, paranuclear blue inclusions, nuclear molding, evenly dispersed fine-granular chromatin, crush artifact, and composition of cell clusters (monomorphic vs. polymorphic) were statistically evaluated. The presence of evenly dispersed fine-granular chromatin, paranuclear blue inclusions, and nuclear fragments was each statistically significant in differentiating SmC when compared with NHL (P < 0.01). The remaining features were not significant in distinguishing SmC from NHL in LN aspirates. The identification of distinct cytologic findings such as evenly dispersed fine-granular chromatin, paranuclear blue inclusions, and nuclear fragments can be a valuable aid to accurately diagnose and differentiate metastatic SmC from NHL in FNAB preparations from LNs.
15452710: !synaptophysin Targeted in vivo expression of proteins in the calyx of Held. The calyx of Held serves as a model for synaptic transmission in the mammalian central nervous system. While offering unique access to the biophysics of presynaptic function, studies addressing the molecular mechanisms of neurotransmitter exocytosis in this model have been mainly limited to pharmacological interventions. To overcome this experimental limitation we used stereotaxic delivery of viral gene shuttles to rapidly and selectively manipulate protein composition in the calyx terminal in vivo. Sindbis or Semliki Forest viruses encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) were injected into the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) of rats (postnatal days 7-21) and yielded bright fluorescence in cells of the VCN, including globular bushy cells with their axon and calyx terminal. Fluorescence imaging and three dimensional reconstructions visualized developmental changes in calyx morphology. Small cytoplasmic and synaptic vesicle proteins were successfully overexpressed in the calyx. We extended two-photon microscopy to obtain simultaneous fluorescence and infrared scanning gradient contrast images, allowing for efficient patch-clamp recordings from EGFP-labelled calyces in acute brain slices (postnatal days 9-14). Recordings of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents and short-term depression in synapses overexpressing EGFP or synaptophysin-EGFP revealed normal synaptic function. Thus, Sindbis and Semliki Forest virus-directed overexpression of proteins in the calyx of Held provides a new avenue for molecular structure-function studies of mammalian central synapses.
15450578: !synaptophysin Surgical treatment of neuroendocrine tumors of the lung. This report reviews the pattern of neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation, lymph-node involvement, extension of surgery, and survival in 125 NE lung tumor patients.
15446592: !synaptophysin March 2004: a 24-year-old woman with bifrontal headaches. A 24-year-old woman with bifrontal headaches was found to have a well-circumscribed lesion in the frontal lobe subcortical white matter. Microscopic examination showed clusters of small round cells separated by hypocellular neuropil-like areas, and a distinct border between tumor and surrounding white matter. Synaptophysin was diffusely positive in neuropil-like areas, and many tumor cells expressed NeuN. Based on these findings, a diagnosis of "extraventricular neurocytoma" was made. A double-label immunofluorescence stain was performed with NeuN and Ki-67 antibodies to determine if NeuN+ cells remained in the mitotic cycle. No colocalization of these markers was found, thus supporting the hypothesis that neuronal differentiation (as marked by NeuN expression) is incompatible with continued proliferation of tumor cells, as well as normal neurons.
15390103: !synaptophysin Astrocytic exocytosis vesicles and glutamate: a high-resolution immunofluorescence study. Physiological evidence has demonstrated that cultured astrocytes can release glutamate via Ca2+-dependent mechanisms. Also, glutamate released from astrocytes in the hippocampal slice interferes with synaptic neurotransmission. Since these observations suggest vesicular glutamate release from astrocytes, the presence of glutamate-containing exocytosis vesicles was investigated. We applied immunofluorescence techniques combined with high-performance deconvolution microscopy, which yields a resolution of <200 nm and permits evaluation of double labeling in individual vesicles. Using a well-characterized anti-glutamate antiserum and parameters minimizing fixative-induced autofluorescence, glutamate-immunoreactive (ir) puncta were found all over the astrocyte but were conspicuously dense at the cell boundary and in filopodia. Images were very similar with antibodies against vesicular glutamate transporters (vGluT1 and vGluT2). Labeling for the exocytosis markers rab3, synaptophysin, or synaptobrevin was also punctate, particularly dense at the cell boundary, but disappearing toward the perinuclear region. Sections of the cell boundary were delineated by rab3 immunoreactivity. In double-labeled cells, vesicular colocalization of glutamate and any of the exocytosis markers was frequent in filopodia and at the cell boundary. Within the cell, single-labeled glutamate-ir vesicles prevailed; double-labeled vesicles were infrequently present. By resolving single vesicles, in cultured astrocytes we visualize glutamate-containing vesicles, vesicles displaying vGluT1 or vGluT2, and exocytosis vesicles displaying glutamate-ir. This may provide the morphological correlate of Ca2+-dependent glutamate release from astrocytes, possibly occurring at defined sections of the cell membrane and at filopodia. However, since vGluTs and exocytosis markers are classically restricted to nerve terminals in the CNS, glutamate release from astrocytes in the CNS remains to be studied.
15389867: !synaptophysin A dual reporter gene transgenic mouse demonstrates heterogeneity in hepatic fibrogenic cell populations. Activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and other resident mesenchymal cells into myofibroblasts expressing alpha smooth muscle actin (alphaSMA) and collagen I is a key event in liver fibrogenesis. However, the temporal expression profiles of alphaSMA and collagen I genes in these cells is unknown. To address this question, we studied alphaSMA and collagen alpha1(I) transcriptional patterns in primary cultures of HSCs, and additionally, in an in vivo model of secondary biliary fibrosis using transgenic mice that express the Discomsoma sp. red fluorescent protein (RFP) and the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) reporter genes under direction of the mouse alphaSMA and collagen alpha1(I) promoter/enhancers, respectively. The alphaSMA-RFP mice were crossed with collagen-EGFP mice to generate double transgenic mice. Reporter gene expression in cultured HSCs demonstrated that both transgenes were induced at day 3 with continued expression through day 14. Interestingly, alphaSMA and collagen alpha1(I) transgenes were not coexpressed in all cells. Flow cytometry analysis showed three different patterns of gene expression: alphaSMA-RFP positive cells, collagen-EGFP positive cells, and cells expressing both transgenes. AlphaSMA-only and alphaSMA/collagen expressing cells showed higher expression levels of synaptophysin, reelin, MMP13, TIMP1, and ICAM-1 compared to collagen-only expressing cells, as assessed by real-time PCR. Following bile duct ligation, alphaSMA and collagen alpha1(I) transgenes were differentially expressed by peribiliary, parenchymal and vascular fibrogenic cells. Peribiliary cells preferentially expressed collagen alpha1(I), while parenchymal myofibroblasts expressed both alphaSMA and collagen alpha1(I). In conclusion, these data demonstrate heterogeneity of gene expression in myofibroblastic cells during active fibrogenesis. These reporter mice provide a useful tool to further characterize fibrogenic cell types and to evaluate antifibrotic drugs.
15388784: !synaptophysin Effect of the {mu} opioid on excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs to periaqueductal gray-projecting neurons in the amygdala. Opioids are potent analgesics, but the sites of their action and cellular mechanisms are not fully understood. The central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is important for opioid analgesia through the projection to the periaquaductal gray (PAG). In this study, we examined the effects of mu opioid receptor stimulation on inhibitory and excitatory synaptic inputs to PAG-projecting CeA neurons retrogradely labeled with a fluorescent tracer injected into the ventrolateral PAG of rats. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were performed on labeled CeA neurons in brain slices. The specific mu opioid receptor agonist, [d-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO, 1 microM), significantly reduced the frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) without altering the amplitude and decay constant of mIPSCs in 47.6% (10 of 21) of cells tested. DAMGO also significantly decreased the peak amplitude of evoked IPSCs in 69% (9 of 13) of cells examined. However, DAMGO did not significantly alter the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and the amplitude of evoked EPSCs in 69% (9 of 13) and 83% (10 of 12) of labeled cells, respectively. The IPSCs were blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, whereas the EPSCs were largely abolished by the non-N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. The immunoreactivity of mu opioid receptors was colocalized with synaptophysin, a presynaptic marker, in close appositions to labeled CeA neurons. These results suggest that activation of mu opioid receptors on presynaptic terminals primarily attenuates GABAergic synaptic inputs to PAG-projecting neurons in the CeA.
15387689: !synaptophysin Pigmented "black" pheochromocytoma of the adrenal gland: a case report and review of the literature. A pigmented "black" mass was discovered incidentally in a 72-year-old woman. The tumor, which was detected near the upper pole of the left kidney, was cystic and intensely black throughout with the presence of abundant, coarse, dark brown to black pigment granules. Histologic examination showed a proliferation of monomorphous neoplastic cells arranged in a typical zellballen growth pattern. These features indicated a diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. Immunostains for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase were positive. The immunostain for HMB-45 was negative. Electron microscopy showed neurosecretory-type granules and larger pleomorphic granules, which were considered most consistent with neuromelanin, a waste product of catecholamine metabolism. The evidence of melanin or melanin-like pigment in the adrenal gland has been described in only 10 cases in the literature and is always a microscopic finding. The case reported here is unique for the characteristic black macroscopic appearance and the abundance of pigment.
15383629: !synaptophysin Mice expressing SV40 T antigen directed by the intestinal trefoil factor promoter develop tumors resembling human small cell carcinoma of the colon. The colonic epithelium contains three major types of mature cells, namely, absorptive, goblet, and enteroendocrine cells. These cells are maintained by a complex process of cell renewal involving progenitor and stem cells, and colon cancers develop when this process goes awry. Much is known about the genetic and epigenetic changes that occur in cancer; however, little is known as to the specific cell types involved in carcinogenesis. In this study, we expressed the SV40 Tag oncogene in the intestinal epithelium under the control of an intestinal trefoil factor (ITF) promoter. This caused tumor formation in the proximal colon with remarkable efficiency. ITFTag tumors were rapidly growing, multifocal, and invasive. ITFTag tumor cells express synaptophysin and contain dense core secretory granules, markers of neuroendocrine differentiation. The cell type involved in the early steps of ITFTag tumorigenesis was studied by examining partially transformed crypts that contained populations of both normal and dysplastic cells. The dysplastic cell population always expressed both Tag and synaptophysin. Cells expressing Tag alone were never observed; however, normal enteroendocrine cells expressing synaptophysin but not Tag were readily visualized. This suggests that ITFTag tumor cells originate from the enteroendocrine cell lineage following a transforming event that results in Tag expression. ITFTag tumors closely resemble human small cell carcinomas of the colon, suggesting the possibility that these tumors might be derived from the enteroendocrine cell lineage as well.
15382010: !synaptophysin Neuroregulation of the neuroendocrine compartment of the liver. Liver progenitor cells as well as hepatic stellate cells have neuroendocrine features. Progenitor cells express chromogranin-A and neural cell adhesion molecule, parathyroid hormone-related peptide, S-100 protein, neurotrophins, and neurotrophin receptors, while hepatic stellate cells express synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, neural cell adhesion molecule, nestin, neurotrophins, and their receptors. This phenotype suggests that these cell types form a neuroendocrine compartment of the liver, which could be under the control of the central nervous system. We recently showed that the parasympathetic nervous system promotes progenitor cell expansion after liver injury, since selective vagotomy reduces the number of progenitor cells after chemical injury in the rat. Similarly, after transplantation, which surgically denervates the liver, human livers that develop hepatitis have fewer progenitor cells than native, fully innervated livers with similar degrees of liver injury. There is also accumulating experimental evidence linking the autonomic system, in particular the sympathetic nervous system (SNS), with the pathogenesis of cirrhosis and its complications. Recently, it has been shown that hepatic stellate cells themselves respond to neurotransmitters. Moreover, inhibition of the SNS reduced fibrosis in carbon tetrachloride-induced liver injury. In view of the denervated state of transplanted livers, it is very important to unravel the neural control mechanisms of regeneration and fibrogenesis. Moreover, since there is a shortage of donor organs, a better understanding of the mechanisms of regeneration could have therapeutic possibilities, which could even obviate the need for orthotopic liver transplantation.
15381910: !synaptophysin Ovarian non-small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma with paraneoplastic parathyroid hormone-related hypercalcemia. Ovarian tumors associated with hypercalcemia due to ectopic secretion of parathyroid hormone (PTH) are extremely rare. A 33-year-old woman presented with a pelvic mass and profound hypercalcemia accompanied by an elevated serum level of PTH. Laparotomy demonstrated a left ovarian tumor that on histological examination was a neuroendocrine carcinoma of non-small cell type admixed with a component of endometrioid adenocarcinoma. After left salpingo-oophorectomy, the serum calcium and PTH levels normalized. The cells of the neuroendocrine carcinoma were positive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, and PTH. Hypercalcemia and elevated serum PTH levels recurred during tumor relapse, and the patient died of disease 6 months postoperatively. This is the eleventh case of neuroendocrine carcinoma of non-small cell type associated with surface epithelial neoplasm of the ovary, and the first such tumor to be associated with hypercalcemia.
15381906: !synaptophysin Small cell neuroendocrine carcinomas of the uterine cervix: a histological, immunohistochemical, and molecular genetic study. Small cell carcinomas of the uterine cervix are rare tumors with an aggressive behavior. Although these tumors can exhibit neuroendocrine differentiation, the criteria for neuroendocrine differentiation are subjective and not well defined. In this study, the authors tentatively defined small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (SCNEC) as a tumor composed of small cells with at least two of the following: argyrophilic cytoplasm, chromogranin A immunoreactivity, and synaptophysin immunoreactivity. We found 10 cases fulfilling these requirements. Five of the 10 tumors were composed mainly of small ("oat") cells and 5 of mainly larger "intermediate" cells. The majority of both subtypes showed an insular pattern. Three of the 10 SCNECs were pure, whereas the other seven were mixed with adenocarcinoma and/or squamous cell carcinoma or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. In addition to the definitional markers noted earlier, the tumors were immunoreactive for serotonin (6 cases), somatostatin, gastrin, glucagon, and pancreatic polypeptide. No tumors were immunoreactive for cytokeratin 20. Human papillomavirus (HPV)-18 was detected in all of the pure tumors and both the SCNEC and adenocarcinomatous components in four of the mixed tumors. No other types of HPV were detected. The tumors showed a relatively low frequency of loss of heterozygosity for representative tumor suppressor gene sites; p53 mutations were found in only one case.
15381902: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical analysis of ovarian small cell carcinoma of hypercalcemic type. Ovarian small cell carcinoma of hypercalcemic type (OSCCHT) is a rare neoplasm with an aggressive behavior, broad differential diagnosis, and unknown histogenesis. To add to knowledge concerning the possible aid of immunohistochemistry in resolving problems in differential diagnosis and to further explore whether that modality points to any specific histogenesis, we undertook an immunohistochemical study of this neoplasm. Fifteen OSCCHTs (including four of the ''large cell" variant) were stained with a range of antibodies, some of which have not been investigated previously in this neoplasm. Cases were stained with AE1/3, EMA, BerEP4, CK5/6, calretinin, WT1, chromogranin, CD56, synaptophysin, CD99, NB84, desmin, S100, CD10, alpha inhibin, TTFI, and p53. Staining was classified as 0 (negative), 1+ (<5% cells positive), 2+ (5% to 25% cells positive), 3+ (26% to 50% cells positive), or 4+ (>50% cells positive). All cases were positive with p53 (two 1+, five 3+, eight 4+), 14 of 15 cases were positive with WT1 (one 1+, thirteen 4+), 14 of 15 with CD10 (three 1+, four 2+, two 3+, five 4+), 13 of 15 with EMA (three 1+, three 2+, two 3+, five 4+), 11 of 15 with calretinin (nine 1+, one 3+, one 4+), 9 of 15 with AE1/3 (eight 1+, one 2+), 4 of 15 with CD56 (one 1+, two 2+, one 4+), 3 of 15 with BerEP4 (two 2+, one 4+), 2 of 15 with synaptophysin (two 1+), and 1 of 15 with S100 (4+). All cases were negative with CK5/6, chromogranin, CD99, NB84, desmin, alpha inhibin, and TTF1. The only noticeable difference in the immunophenotype between typical OSCCHT and the large cell variant was that there was 4 +EMA positivity in three of four cases of large cell variant compared with two of 11 cases of typical OSCCHT. OSCCHT is characteristically positive with AE1/3, EMA, CD10, calretinin, WT1, and p53. Combined EMA and WT1 positivity, the latter usually intense and diffuse, may be of diagnostic value, inasmuch as only a few of the neoplasms in the differential diagnosis are positive with both antibodies. Negative staining with CD99, desmin, NB84, alpha-inhibin, and TTF1 may aid in the cases in which primitive neuroectodermal tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, intraabdominal desmoplastic small round cell tumor, neuroblastoma, a sex cord-stromal tumor, and metastatic pulmonary small cell carcinoma are in the differential. Calretinin positivity precludes its use in the differential with granulosa cell tumors. The results of this investigation do not settle the issue of histogenesis, which remains enigmatic. The typical age distribution, follicle formation, and calretinin positivity are consistent with a sex cord origin. On the other hand, WT1 and EMA positivity and negative staining with alpha-inhibin would be unusual in a sex cord-stromal neoplasm and can be used as an argument for a surface epithelial origin. Germ cell and neuroendocrine origins seem highly unlikely.
15381276: !synaptophysin Environmental enrichment reduces the mnemonic and neural benefits of estrogen. The degree to which memory is enhanced by estrogen replacement in postmenopausal women may depend on environmental factors such as education. The present study utilized an animal model of environmental enrichment to determine whether environmental factors influence the mnemonic and neural response to estrogen. Female mice were raised in standard (SC) or enriched (EC) conditions from weaning until adulthood (7 months). All mice were ovariectomized at 10 weeks, and tested in object recognition and water-escape motivated radial arm maze (WRAM) tasks at 6 months. Each day at the completion of training, mice received injections of 0.1 mg/kg cyclodextrin-encapsulated 17-beta-estradiol (E2), 0.2 mg/kg E2, or cyclodextrin vehicle (VEH). At the completion of behavioral testing, hippocampal levels of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin and of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were measured. Enrichment effects were evident in VEH-treated mice; relative to SC-VEH females, EC-VEH females committed fewer working memory errors in the WRAM and exhibited increased hippocampal synaptophysin levels. Estrogen effects depended on environmental conditions. E2 (0.2 mg/kg) improved object memory only in SC females. The same dose improved working memory in SC females, but somewhat impaired working memory in EC females. Furthermore, both doses reduced hippocampal synaptophysin levels in EC, but not SC, females. In contrast, E2 reduced hippocampal BDNF levels in SC, but not EC, females. This study is the first to compare the effects of estrogen on memory and hippocampal function in enriched and non-enriched female mice. The results suggest that: (1) estrogen benefits object and working memory more in mice raised in non-enriched environments than in those raised in enriched environments, and (2) the changes induced by estrogen and/or enrichment may be associated with alterations in hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
15380479: !synaptophysin Transplantation of motoneurons derived from MASH1-transfected mouse ES cells reconstitutes neural networks and improves motor function in hemiplegic mice. Mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells were transfected with a MASH1 expression vector and G418-resistant cells were selected. The MASH1-transfected cells became neuron-like appearance and expressed betaIIItubulin and panNCAM. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and galactocerebroside (GalC)-expressing cells were rarely detected. Half of the neural cells differentiated into the Islet1+ motoneuron lineage. Thus, we obtained motoneuron lineage-enriched neuronal cells by transfection of ES cells with MASH1. A hemiplegic model of mice was developed by cryogenic injury of the motor cortex, and motoneuron lineage-enriched neuronal cells were transplanted underneath the injured motor cortex neighboring the periventricular region. The motor function of the recipients was assessed by a beam walking and rotarod tests, whereby the results gradually improved, but little improvement was observed in vehicle injected control mice. We found that the grafted cells not only remained close to the implantation site, but also exhibited substantial migration, penetrating into the damaged lesion in a directed manner up to the cortical region. Grafted neuronal cells that had migrated into the cortex were elongated axon-positive for neurofilament middle chain (NFM). Synaptophysin immunostaining showed a positive staining pattern around the graft, suggesting that the transplanted neurons interacted with the recipient neurons to form a neural network. Our study suggests that the motoneuron lineage can be induced from ES cells, and grafted cells adapt to the host environment and can reconstitute a neural network to improve motor function of a paralyzed limb.
15375749: !synaptophysin Coexistence of reactive plasticity and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer diseased brains. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a pathological process characterized by neuron degeneration and, as recently suggested, brain plasticity. In this work, we compared the reactive plasticity in AD brains associated to O-glycosydically linked glycans, recognized by lectins from Amaranthus leucocarpus (ALL) and Macrobrachium rosenbergii (MRL), and the tau neuritic degeneration. The neuritic degenerative process was evaluated by the quantification of aggregated neuritic structures. Lesions were determined using antibodies against hyperphosphorylated-tau (AD2), amyloid-beta, and synaptophysin. In these conditions, we classified and quantified three pathological structures associated to the neuritic degenerative process: 1) Amyloid-beta deposits (AbetaDs), 2) Classic neuritic plaques (NPs), and 3) Dystrophic neurites clusters (DNCs) lacking amyloid-beta deposits. Reactive plasticity structures were constituted by meganeuritic clusters (MCs) and peri-neuronal sprouting in neurons of the CA4 region of the hippocampus, immunoreactive to synaptophysin (exclusively in AD brains) and GAP-43. Besides, MCs were associated to sialylated O-glycosydically linked glycans as determined by positive labeling with ALL and MRL. Considering that these lectins are specific for the synaptic sprouting process in AD, our results suggest the co-occurrence of of several areas of reactive plasticity and neuron degeneration in AD.
15372325: !synaptophysin Effect of memantine on the alpha 7 neuronal nicotinic receptors, synaptophysin- and low molecular weight MAP-2 levels in the brain of transgenic mice over-expressing human acetylcholinesterase. Transgenic mice over-expressing human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE-Tg) display memory impairments, cholinergic deficits and reduced dendritic branching. In this study, we found a reduced number of N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) binding sites and reduced levels of low molecular weight (LMW) microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP-2), in addition to an increased number of alpha4 and alpha7 nicotinic receptor (nAChR) binding sites in the brain of hAChE-Tg mice. Treatment with memantine, 20 mg/kg/day during 14 days, significantly increased the number of [(125)I]alphabungarotoxin (alpha7 nAChR) binding sites in the frontal- and retrosplenial cortex of hAChE-Tg mice and synaptophysin- and LMW MAP-2 levels in the cortex of both hAChE-Tg and FVB/N controls. The findings reveal an alteration of the glutamatergic system in hAChE-Tg mice. Whether the effect of memantine on alpha7 nAChRs, synaptophysin- and LMW MAP-2 levels is a direct effect, or an indirect effect via the NMDA receptors, has to be further evaluated.
15371954: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine secretory protein-55 (NESP-55) expression discriminates pancreatic endocrine tumors and pheochromocytomas from gastrointestinal and pulmonary carcinoids. Neuroendocrine secretory protein-55 (NESP-55), the latest addition to the chromogranin family, is a product of a genomically imprinted gene transcribed exclusively from the maternal allele. Initial studies have shown it to have a less widespread distribution than that of chromogranin A in normal tissues. It has also been suggested that NESP-55 may be a marker of neuroendocrine tumors differentiating toward the adrenal chromaffin and pancreatic islet cells. Metastatic gastrointestinal and pulmonary carcinoids may occasionally be difficult to distinguish from pancreatic endocrine tumors (PETs) and pheochromocytomas on morphologic grounds alone. We studied neuroendocrine tumors from these sites to see if NESP-55 expression could reliably discriminate pulmonary and gastrointestinal carcinoids from neuroendocrine tumors arising in the pancreas or the adrenal medulla. Sixty-three neuroendocrine tumors positive for one or more immunohistochemical marker of neuroendocrine differentiation (chromogranin A, chromogranin B, synaptophysin, secretogranin II, neuron-specific enolase) were selected for the study and consisted of 34 typical carcinoids (15 pulmonary, 11 ileal, 4 gastric, and 4 rectal), 19 PETs, and 10 pheochromocytomas (4 sporadic, 3 MEN-2, 2 neurofibromatosis type 1, and 1 VHL). All cases were stained for NESP-55 after microwave antigen retrieval using a rabbit polyclonal antibody at a dilution of 1:1000. Sections of normal adrenal medulla were used as positive controls for NESP-55 staining. Negative controls consisted of omission of primary antibody and replacement with normal rabbit serum at an equivalent concentration. NESP-55 immunoreactivity was seen as brown finely granular cytoplasmic staining with prominent perinuclear accentuation. All gastric and ileal carcinoids studied were completely negative for NESP-55. One of four rectal and 1 of 15 pulmonary carcinoids showed focal positivity for it in less than 5% of tumor cells. In contrast, all 10 pheochromocytomas and 14 of 19 PETs showed strong immunohistochemical staining in a variable proportion of tumor cells. Diffuse positivity (>75% of tumor cells) was seen in 6 of 14 PETs and 8 of 10 pheochromocytomas. Our results indicate that, in contrast to the other granins, NESP-55 reactivity is restricted to endocrine tumors of the pancreas and the adrenal medulla. Immunohistochemical expression of NESP-55 may thus be useful in assigning a pancreatic or adrenal origin to metastatic endocrine tumors of unknown origin.
15366578: !synaptophysin [Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung; report of a case]. Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) is a rare type of lung cancer and it has the least favorable prognosis. We describe our experience with a patient in whom LCNEC was diagnosed. A 65-year-old man who was pointed out abnormal shadow on a chest X-ray film in the health screening was admitted to the hospital. Chest X-ray film and computed tomography (CT) scan showed a 4 x 3 cm mass in the left-S2. Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the left lung was suspected based on CT guided cytology. An upper lobectomy of the left lung and dessection of the mediastinal lymph nodes were performed. This tumor showed light microscopic and immunohistochemical evidences of neuroendocrine differentiation. Further it showed positive responses in neuronspecific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin, and chromogranin-A stainings. Pathological diagnosis was stage IB (pT2N0M0) LCNEC. There have been no findings of tumor recurrence 22 months after the operation.
15363041: !synaptophysin Sertoli cell tumor of the testis (not otherwise specified) with the expression of neuroendocrine markers and without the expression of inhibin-alpha. Sertoli cell tumor of the testis (not otherwise specified) in a 43-year-old man is reported. Macroscopically, the testicular mass measured 3.0 x 2.3 x 1.5 cm and was well circumscribed. The cut surface was white to tan-gray in color. Neoplastic cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm proliferated with solid and tubular structures. Neoplastic cells focally contained vacuoles of various sizes in the cytoplasm. Cystic formation and cord formation in the hyalinized stroma was also observed. Immunohistochemically, neoplastic cells were positive for cytokeratin 8, chromogranin A and synaptophysin, but neoplastic cells were negative for placental alkaline phosphatase, inhibin-alpha and pancytokeratin. The stroma in the tumor center and capsule contained a significant number of myofibroblasts that were positive for alpha-smooth muscle actin and negative for h-caldesmon, but no CD34-positive stromal cells were detected in the stroma of the tumor center. Ultrastructurally, neoplastic cells had cytoplasmic processes and abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and lipid droplets in the cytoplasm. However, dense core granules were absent. It is important to differentiate between Sertoli cell tumor and carcinoid tumor because of the positive reaction for neuroendocrine markers in both tumors. Myofibroblasts are a major stromal component of Sertoli cell tumor of the testis.
15352632: !synaptophysin [Supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumor: report of a surgical case]. We reported a rare case of supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors (sPNET) and reviewed the literature. A 15-year-old girl presented with a one-month history of headache and vomiting. CT scans showed a huge, solid and cystic tumor with calcification, occupying the left anterior cranial fossa. The solid portion of the tumor was hypointense on T1-weighted images, slightly hyperintense on T2-weighted images, hyperintense on diffusion- weighted images, isointense on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images, and strongly enhanced after administration of contrast medium. The expansile tumor had a broad attachment to the dura matter of the anterior cranial fossa. The patient underwent an uneventful extirpation of the tumor. Microscopically, the solid tumor contained small, round poorly-differentiated cells with pleomorphic nuclei and brisk mitotic activity. The tumor cells were immunoreactive for synaptophysin and GFAP, whereas lack of MIC2 gene product expression was confirmed using the monoclonal antibody 12E7. The MIB-1-positive rate was 43%. The histological diagnosis was sPNET. Postoperatively, a dose of 30.6Gy was administrated to the whole brain and a boost of 19.6Gy to the T2-hyperintensity lesion. The patient successively received a dose of 30.4Gy to the whole spine and Linac stereotactic radiotherapy with a marginal dose of 16.8Gy at the tumor bed. Three months after radiotherapy the patient received chemotherapy using carboplatin and etoposide. Follow-up MR images showed no evidence of recurrent tumor 5 months after the radiochemotherapy. On the basis of MR findings on both diffusion-weighted and FLAIR images, preoperative diagnosis of sPNET may be important for choosing appropriate therapeutic strategies for this tumor.
15351497: !synaptophysin Developmental changes of GABAergic synapses formed between primary cultured cortical neurons. The characteristics of functional changes of GABAergic synapses between cultured rat cortical neurons were observed by monitoring intracellular calcium level ([Ca2+]in) during development in vitro. After 5 days in vitro (DIV), cultured cortical neurons spontaneously exhibited synchronous oscillatory changes in [Ca2+]in, which were derived from synaptic activity. Exposure to bicuculline, antagonist of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors, caused a marked decrease in the frequency of [Ca2+]in oscillations at 7-20 DIV. Although the frequency of spontaneous oscillations increased during this culture period, the ratio of the decrease in the frequency following bicuculline treatment did not significantly change. Thereafter, to investigate the detailed morphological changes of GABAergic synapses during development in vitro, the cultured neurons were immunostained with antibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), synaptophysin and GABA(A) receptor and were observed under a confocal laser microscope. Most of the GAD-positive puncta colocalized with synaptophysin-positive puncta and were opposed to GABA(A) receptor-positive structures. The images of GAD-positive puncta were reconstructed from the confocal three-dimensional data to analyze their number, volume, and surface area. The number of these puncta increased with culture time at 7-20 DIV. Although the volume of individual GAD-positive puncta did not significantly change, the surface area decreased in a time-dependent manner over the culture period. This system that we developed enabled us to investigate in detail the morphological and functional changes of GABAergic synapses during neuronal development.
15351437: !synaptophysin Apolipoprotein E receptor 2 is involved in neuritic plaque formation in APP sw mice. Apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (apoER2) is a receptor for apolipoprotein E containing lipoprotein and also for Reelin. Apolipoprotein E-associated risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be related to its binding to and clearance by cell surface receptors, including members of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family. Otherwise there is circumstantial evidence that the Reelin signaling pathway may contribute to neurodegeneration in AD. To investigate the role of apoER2 on amyloid deposition and neurodegeneration in vivo, we examined the presence of apoER2 in the brains of APP sw transgenic mice (Tg2576) using three apoER2 monoclonal antibodies. Our immunohistochemical study revealed that apoER2 was localized in fine granular structure and reactive astrocytes surrounding amyloid plaques. The double labeling immunohistochemistry revealed that this granular structure overlaps synaptophysin-positive dystrophic neurites. These findings indicate that neuronal apoER2 may play a role for amyloid deposition and neuronal degeneration in AD.
15350635: !synaptophysin Targeting of GLUR4-containing AMPA receptors to synaptic sites during in vitro classical conditioning. The synaptic delivery of GluR4-containing AMPA receptors during in vitro classical conditioning of a neural correlate of an eyeblink response was examined by fluorescence imaging of punctate staining for glutamate receptor subunits and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin. There was a significant increase in GluR4-containing AMPA receptors to synaptic sites after conditioning as determined by colocalization of GluR4 subunit puncta with synaptophysin. Moreover, the trafficking of these receptor subunits requires NMDA receptor activation as it was blocked by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP-5). In contrast, colocalization of NR1 subunits with synaptophysin was stable regardless of whether the preparations had undergone conditioning or had been treated by AP-5. The enhanced colocalization of GluR4 and synaptophysin was accompanied by an increase in both the total number and size of puncta for both proteins, suggesting greater synthesis and aggregation during conditioning. Western blot analysis confirmed upregulation of synaptophysin and GluR4 following conditioning. These data support the hypothesis that GluR4-containing AMPA receptors are delivered to synaptic sites during conditioning. Further, they suggest coordinate presynaptic and postsynaptic modifications during in vitro classical conditioning.
15349992: !synaptophysin Salivary duct carcinoma with neuroendocrine features: report of a case with cytological and immunohistochemical study. We report a salivary duct carcinoma (SDC) of parotid gland in a 75-year-old male. Initially, it was studied by fine-needle aspiration, which disclosed features of malignancy consistent with a high-grade carcinoma. Histologically, the tumor showed typical features of SDC, predominantly with a solid and apocrine pattern. The aggressive behavior of this tumor was documented by facial palsy and the presence of 12 regional lymph node metastases. Immunohistochemical study showed positivity for cytokeratins (AE1/AE3), cytokeratin 7, GCDFP-15, C-erbB-2, Mib-1, topoisomerase II alpha, p53, and androgen receptors. Diffuse positivity with chromogranin-A, synaptophysin, and Grimelius stains was also observed, suggesting endocrine features. Phosphotungstic acid hematoxylin, antimitochondrial antigen, progesterone and estrogen receptors, cytokeratin 20, and S-100 stains were negative. To our knowledge, this is the first case reported of SDC exhibiting neuroendocrine differentiation.
15343519: !synaptophysin Atypical extraventricular neurocytoma with oligodendroglioma-like spread and an unusual pattern of chromosome 1p and 19q loss. An insular cortex tumor in a 54-year-old woman showed unequivocal neurocytic features, including open nuclei, distinct nucleoli, and strong synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Ultrastructurally, there were neuritic-type processes with microtubules and hillock-like attachments, and there were dense-core granules. Atypical features were mitotic activity, prominent vasculature, and small foci of necrosis. Peripherally, there was oligodendroglia-like histology with single-cell infiltration of white matter and perineuronal spread in cortex. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis with chromosome 1 and 19 probes showed 3 copies of 1q and 2 copies of 1p and showed 2 copies of 19q and 4 copies of 19p. This yielded a 1p-19q loss of heterozygosity pattern similar to that seen in oligodendrogliomas, although the actual chromosomal abnormality is distinct. This tumor, best classified as an atypical neurocytoma with oligodendroglia-like spread, supports suggestions of a close histogenic relationship between oligodendroglial and neurocytic tumors. This case also illustrates the limitations of relying exclusively on loss of heterozygosity analysis for tumor classification.
15341607: !synaptophysin Peripubertal environmental enrichment reverses the effects of maternal care on hippocampal development and glutamate receptor subunit expression. Maternal care in the rat influences the development of cognitive function in the offspring through neural systems known to mediate activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. The offspring of mothers that exhibit increased levels of pup licking/grooming (high-LG mothers) show increased hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subunit mRNA expression, enhanced synaptogenesis and improved hippocampal-dependent spatial learning in comparison with animals reared by low-LG mothers. The effects of reduced maternal care on cognitive function are reversed with peripubertal environmental enrichment; however, the neural mechanisms mediating this effect are not known. In these studies we exposed the offspring of high- and low-LG mothers to environmental enrichment from days 22 to 70 of life, and measured the expression of genes encoding for glutamate receptor subunits and synaptophysin expression as a measure of synaptic density. Environmental enrichment reversed the effects of maternal care on synaptic density and this effect was, in turn, associated with a reversal of the effect of maternal care on the NR2A and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor, as well as effects on (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunits. Finally, direct infusion of an NR2B-specific NMDA receptor antagonist into the hippocampus eliminated the effects of maternal care on spatial learning/memory in the Morris water maze. These findings suggest that: (1) the effects of maternal care are mediated by changes in NR2B gene expression; and (2) that environmental enrichment reverses the effects of reduced maternal care through the same genomic target, the NR2B gene, and possibly effects on other subunits of the NMDA and AMPA receptors.
15341601: !synaptophysin Brain-derived neurotrophic factor controls functional differentiation and microcircuit formation of selectively isolated fast-spiking GABAergic interneurons. GABAergic interneurons with high-frequency firing, fast-spiking (FS) cells, form synapses on perisomatic regions of principal cells in the neocortex and hippocampus to control the excitability of cortical networks. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is essential for the differentiation of multiple interneuron subtypes and the formation of their synaptic contacts. Here, we examined whether BDNF, alone or in conjunction with sustained KCl-induced depolarization, drives functional FS cell differentiation and the formation of inhibitory microcircuits. Homogeneous FS cell cultures were established by target-specific isolation using the voltage-gated potassium channel 3.1b subunit as the selection marker. Isolated FS cells expressed parvalbumin, were surrounded by perineuronal nets, formed immature inhibitory connections and generated slow action potentials at 12 days in vitro. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promoted FS cell differentiation by increasing the somatic diameter, dendritic branching and the frequency of action potential firing. In addition, BDNF treatment led to a significant up-regulation of synaptophysin and vesicular GABA transporter expression, components of the synaptic machinery critical for GABA release, which was paralleled by an increase in synaptic strength. Long-term membrane depolarization alone was detrimental to dendritic branching. However, we observed that BDNF and KCl exerted additive effects, as reflected by the significantly accelerated maturation of synaptic contacts and high discharge frequencies, and was required for the formation of reciprocal connections between FS cells. Our results show that BDNF, along with membrane depolarization, is critical for FS cells to establish inhibitory circuitries during corticogenesis.
15334702: !synaptophysin An unusual presentation of "silent" disseminated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. To present a patient diagnosed with pancreatic carcinoid that was extremely rare and produced an atypical carcinoid syndrome. We reported a 58-year old male patient who presented with long standing, prominent cervical lymphadenopathy and occasional watery diarrhea. Pathohistological and immunohistochemical examination of lymph node biopsy showed a metastatic neuroendocrine tumor, which was histological type A of carcinoid (EMA+, cytokeratin+, CEA-, NSE+, chromogranin A+, synaptophysin+, insulin-). Bone marrow biopsy showed identical findings. Primary site of the tumor was pancreas and diagnosis was made according to cytological and immunocytochemical analysis of the tumor cells obtained with aspiration biopsy of pancreatic mass (12 mm in diameter) under endoscopic ultrasound guidance. However, serotonin levels in blood and urine samples were normal. It is difficulty to establish the precise diagnosis of a "functionally inactive" pancreatic carcinoid and aspiration biopsy of pancreatic tumor under endoscopic ultrasound guidance can be used as a new potent diagnostic tool.
15334650: !synaptophysin Localization of myosin phosphatase target subunit 1 in rat brain and in primary cultures of neuronal cells. Myosin phosphatase (PP1M) is composed of the delta isoform of the PP1 catalytic subunit (PP1cdelta), the myosin phosphatase target subunit (MYPT), and a 20 kDa subunit. Western blots detected higher amounts of the MYPT1 isoform compared to MYPT2 in whole brain extracts. The localization of MYPT1 was studied in rat brain and in primary cell cultures of neurons using specific antibodies. Analysis of lysates of brain regions for MYPT1 and PP1M by Western blots using anti-MYPT1 antibodies and by phosphatase assays with myosin as substrate suggested a ubiquitous distribution. Immunohistochemistry of tissue sections revealed that MYPT1 was distributed in all areas of the brain, with staining observed in many different cell types. Depending on the method used for fixation, the MYPT1 appeared with varying intensity in nuclei, in nucleoli, and in the cytoplasm. In primary hippocampal cultures, MYPT1 was identified by confocal microscopy in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus, whereas a predominantly cytoplasmic localization was found in cochlear nucleus cells. In cultured cells, MYPT1 and PP1cdelta colocalized with synaptophysin. PP1M activity was high in synaptosomes isolated from the cerebral cortex, but was relatively low in the postsynaptic densities. The interaction of MYPT1 with synaptophysin and with known partners (Rho-kinase, PP1cdelta) in brain extracts was shown by immunoprecipitation with anti-MYPT1. Pull-down assays from synaptosomes, using GST-MYPT1, also confirmed these interactions. In conclusion, the widespread cellular and subcellular localization of MYPT1 implies that PP1M may play an important role in the dephosphorylation of key regulatory proteins in neuronal cells.
15330979: !synaptophysin Neuropathological findings in brains of Bavarian cattle clinically suspected of bovine spongiform encephalopathy. The brains of 26 Bavarian bovines clinically suspected of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) were the subject of a neuropathological evaluation containing histopathology and immunohistochemistry. Six animals tested positive for BSE. In these six brains severe histological lesions that correlated with previous reports from the United Kingdom were observed. Immunohistochemistry with prion protein (PrP(Sc)), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and synaptophysin were conducted on the mid-brain containing the red nucleus. All BSE-positive brains stained positively for PrP(Sc), and no plaques were observed. The BSE-affected brains showed a substantially more intense staining pattern for GFAP in comparison with the control groups, some of which were diagnosed with severe neuropathological disorders. Synaptophysin staining on BSE-positive brains was substantially reduced in the neuropil of the mid-brain, especially in the red nucleus. Twenty animals tested negative for BSE. The most common diagnoses were listeriosis, viral infections of unknown aetiology, brain oedema and hypomagnesaemia. These disorders may represent the most important clinical differential diagnoses for BSE in Bavaria.
15330300: !synaptophysin [Cerebellar hemangioblastomas--a study of the immunoprofile of neoplastic stromal component]. Central nervous system hemangioblastomas (HBs) are uncommon, highly vascularized tumors that are predominantly found in the cerebellum. They occur sporadically or in association with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease. HBs are of unknown histogenesis, and the origin of stromal cells is still a subject of debate. The aim of this study was to investigate the immunoprofile of neoplastic stromal component, and to determine whether the profile of the expression of immunomarkers used can contribute to the elucidation of the histogenesis of HBs.
15325669: !synaptophysin The prognostic influence of neuroendocrine differentiation in breast cancer: results of a long-term follow-up study. Reports about neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation in breast carcinomas and its possible relation with prognosis are scarce. Furthermore the results of some studies have not been subjected to multivariate survival analysis and the follow-up periods were relatively short. Therefore, in the present long-term follow-up study, the prognostic influence of immunohistochemically defined NE cells, present in the tumours of 40 out of 317 (12.6%) curatively operated breast cancer patients, was studied. The mean follow-up period was 104 months. NE differentiation (NED) was determined by the immunohistochemical detection of chromogranin A and/or synaptophysin. This is concordant with other studies focussing on NED in breast cancer. In contrast to the literature in our series only in 9 out of 40 cases (23%) we were able to detect coexpression of chromogranin A and synaptophysin. This might be due to the characteristics of the antibodies we used. Although most tumours in our series were of the usual type, some tumours with NED were of a special type. Neither univariately, nor taking account of various known prognostic factors, does focal NED appear to carry a special prognostic significance. This finding is in line with results of previous studies.
15318143: !synaptophysin [Melanotic neurofibroma]. Melanotic neurofibromas are rare tumours. The clinical and histological diagnosis is often difficult to make.
15318011: !synaptophysin Histological spectrum of ependymomas and correlation of p53 and Ki-67 expression with ependymoma grade and subtype. Clinical and histological criteria for ependymoma prognosis are well recognized. Recently few studies have been done based on Immunohistochemistry for prognostication of these tumours. In this study we have correlated the histological spectrum with immmunoexpression of p53 and Ki67 in these tumors.
15316569: !synaptophysin Delayed effects of early stress on hippocampal development. Early maternal separation has been shown in animal models to produce enduring morphological changes in the hippocampus and other brain structures, which may not become evident until adulthood. Postnatally, the trajectory of overproduction and pruning of axons, dendrites, synapses and receptors shapes the brain between puberty and adulthood. The objective of the study was to ascertain whether this normal trajectory was affected by repeated maternal separation. Rat pups were separated from their mother for 4 h a day between postnatal days 2 and 20 (ISO group), and compared to rat pups that remained with their mother in the animal facilities (AFR group) and were exposed to minimal handling. Immunoreactivity to synaptophysin was quantified in the hippocampus CA1 and CA3, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex using optical densitometry (OD) at 25, 40, 60, 80, and 100 days in male and female rats. Synaptophysin OD increased dramatically in CA1 and CA3 between 25 and 60 days in the AFR group and fell by the same degree between 60 and 100 days, showing the expected sequence of overproduction and pruning. No difference between groups in synaptophysin OD was observed at 25 and 40 days. However, at day 60 synaptophysin was 34-36% lower in CA1 and CA3 of the ISO group, and remained 24-26% lower at 100 days. Early isolation produced no enduring reduction in synaptophysin OD in the amygdala or prefrontal cortex. Overall, these results suggest that early maternal separation produced a regionally specific delayed effect on the structure of the hippocampus by attenuating rates of synaptic development.
15310407: !synaptophysin Primary small-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the duodenum - a case report and review of literature. Small-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma in the duodenum is an extremely rare neoplasm with poor prognosis.
15307143: !synaptophysin Evaluation of immunohistochemical markers in non-small cell lung cancer by unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis: a tissue microarray study of 284 cases and 18 markers. This study has investigated a panel of immunomarkers in non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). Unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis was used to investigate the possibility of identifying different subgroups in NSCLC based on their molecular expression profile rather than morphological features. A tissue microarray consisting of 284 cases of NSCLC was constructed. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the presence of 18 biomarkers including synaptophysin, chromogranin, bombesin, NSE, GFI1, ASH-1, p53, p63, p21, p27, E2F-1, cyclin D1, Bcl-2, TTF-1, CEA, HER2/neu, cytokeratin 5/6, and pancytokeratin. Univariate analysis of all 18 markers for prognostic significance was performed. Immunohistochemical scoring data for NSCLC were analysed by unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were plotted for the different cluster groups of lung tumours identified by this method. Analysis of the three different World Health Organization (WHO) subtypes (adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, large cell carcinoma) of NSCLC individually showed that different markers were significant in different subtypes. For example, p53 and p63 were significant for squamous cell carcinoma (p = 0.007 and p = 0.03, respectively), whereas cyclin D1 and HER2/neu were significant prognostic markers for adenocarcinoma (p = 0.025 and p = 0.015, respectively). These markers were not significant prognostic predictors for NSCLC as a group. Hierarchical clustering analysis of NSCLC produced four separate cluster groups, although the vast majority of cases were found in two cluster groups, one dominated by squamous cell carcinoma and the other by adenocarcinoma. The clinical outcomes of cases from the four cluster groups were not significantly different. Prognostic indicators vary between different morphological subtypes of NSCLC. Unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis, based on an extended immunoprofile, identifies two main cluster groups corresponding to adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma; cases of large cell carcinomas are assigned to one of these two groups based on their molecular phenotype.
15306940: !synaptophysin Spinal adrenal cortical adenoma with oncocytic features: report of the first intramedullary case and review of the literature. Ectopic adrenal cortical neoplasms are extremely rare, and only a few have involved the CNS. We report the first case of an intramedullary oncocytic adrenal cortical neoplasm of the spinal cord with immunohistochemical (IMHC) confirmation. A 27-year-old man presented with progressive lower extremity weakness, spastic paraparesis, decreased reflexes, and hypoesthesia below T10. A spinal myelogram showed cauda equina blockade and obliteration of sacral nerve roots. This prompted emergent surgical intervention. A well-circumscribed, approximately 3 x 2 cm, light brown to tan, intramedullary tumor was identified at the level of the conus medullaris. Histologically, the tumor showed sheets and nests of plump, cytologically bland polygonal cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm. A single mitosis, but no necrosis, was identified. By IMHC, the cells were positive for inhibin, melan-A, and synaptophysin, and negative for GFAP, EMA, cytokeratins, S-100, HMB-45, and chromogranin. Electron microscopy study performed from paraffin-embedded tissues demonstrated abundant mitochondria, and lipid vacuoles. This case confirms the occurrence of adrenal cortical neoplasms in the CNS and is the first report of an intradural, intramedullary adrenal cortical adenoma of the spinal cord, and the first to occur in a male. This tumor should be considered in the differential diagnosis of tumors of the CNS.
15306232: !synaptophysin Accumulation of beta- and gamma-synucleins in the ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1-deficient gad mouse. The synuclein family includes three isoforms, termed alpha, beta and gamma. alpha-Synuclein accumulates in various pathological lesions resulting from neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and multiple system atrophy. However, neither beta- nor gamma-synuclein has been detected in Lewy bodies, and thus it is unclear whether these isoforms contribute to neurological pathology. In the present study, we used immunohistochemistry to demonstrate accelerated accumulation of beta- and gamma-synucleins in axonal spheroids in gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) mice, which do not express ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1). gamma-Synuclein immunoreactivity in the spheroids appeared in the gracile nucleus at 3 weeks of age and was maintained until 32 weeks. beta-Synuclein immunoreactivity appeared in spheroids around 12 weeks of age. In contrast, alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity was barely detectable in spheroids. Immunoreactivity for synaptophysin and ubiquitin were either faint or undetectable in spheroids. Given that UCH-L1 deficiency results in axonal degeneration and spheroid formation, our findings suggest that beta- and gamma-synuclein participate in the pathogenesis of axonal swelling in gad mice.
15305337: !synaptophysin Retinoic acid slows progression and promotes apoptosis of spontaneous prostate cancer. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) promotes terminal differentiation in epithelial cells and anti-angiogenesis and thus, may have beneficial effects in an intervention therapy for prostate cancer.
15297607: !synaptophysin The expression level of the orphan nuclear receptor GCNF (germ cell nuclear factor) is critical for neuronal differentiation. The germ cell nuclear factor (GCNF) is essential for normal embryonic development and gametogenesis. To test the prediction that GCNF is additionally required for neuronal differentiation, we used the mouse embryonal carcinoma cell line PCC7-Mz1, which represents an advantageous model to study neuronal cells from the stage of fate choice until the acquirement of functional competence. We generated stable transfectants that express gcnf sense or antisense RNA under the control of a tetracycline-regulated promoter. After retinoic acid-induced withdrawal from the cell cycle, sense clones developed a neuron network with changed properties, and the time course of neuron maturation was shortened. Consistent with these data, differentiation of neuronal precursor cells was impaired in antisense cultures. This involved a delay in 1) the down-regulation of nestin, a marker for undifferentiated neuroepithelial cells and stem cells of the central nervous system, and 2) up-regulation of the somatodendritic protein microtubule-associated protein 2 and the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. Neuronal cells in the antisense cultures acquired functional competence, although with a significant delay. Our data propose that the level of GCNF is critical for differentiation and maturation of neuronal precursor cells.
15292299: !synaptophysin Malignant gastric ghrelinoma with hyperghrelinemia. A characteristic feature of neuroendocrine tumors is production and release of peptide hormone. Ghrelin is a 28-amino acid hormone that stimulates GH release. In this paper, we describe a patient with a metastasizing gastric neuroendocrine tumor displaying intense immunoreactivity for ghrelin and extremely high circulating levels of ghrelin. Tumor tissue biopsies from the primary tumor and one liver metastasis were examined by immunohistochemistry. Ghrelin and several other hormones and tumor markers were measured in blood. The clinical course of the patient was followed. Tumor tissue biopsies showed immunoreactivity for cytokeratin, chromogranin A, human synaptic vesicle protein 2, synaptophysin, and ghrelin. Grossly elevated circulating levels of total ghrelin, 2100 microg/liter (reference interval < 5 microg/liter) and active ghrelin, 28 microg/liter (reference interval < 0.1 microg/liter) were found at presentation. Chromogranin A, chromogranin B, and calcitonin levels were also increased. Both total and active ghrelin increased, despite treatment, during follow-up of the patient. We have identified and characterized a patient with a malignant gastric neuroendocrine tumor secreting ghrelin as the main hormone. This might be a new tumor entity of the stomach, and it is suggested that patients with malignant gastric neuroendocrine tumors should be investigated for ghrelin production.
15290677: !synaptophysin Primary paraganglioma of the lung. There are few reported cases of primary pulmonary paraganglioma in the pathology literature. Given the historical confusion surrounding bronchial tumors, widespread use of the term "chemodectoma" and classification of these lesions as paraganglioma in an outdated World Health Organization classification of lung tumors, the recognition of tumors arising from paraganglia within the lung has not been accepted by leading authorities. We present a well-documented case of a primary pulmonary paraganglioma with typical morphologic features and a supporting immunohistochemical profile. The 0.9 cm endobronchial tumor was submucosal and composed of nests of ovoid cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm, cytoplasmic vacuoles, round to oval nuclei with speckled chromatin, and occasional conspicuous nucleoli. The nests of cells were surrounded by thin-walled vascular channels and stellate spindle cells. The ovoid cells showed strong diffuse staining for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and faint staining for S-100; they were negative for cytokeratin AE1/AE3, Cam 5.2, and epithelial membrane antigen. The stellate spindle cells stained intensely positive for S-100 protein. A critical review of reported cases of pulmonary chemodectomas and paragangliomas in the English literature features few, if any, well-documented examples. While this exceedingly rare tumor should be discerned from carcinoid tumor, it remains unknown if primary pulmonary paragangliomas behave aggressively like intra-abdominal extra-adrenal paragangliomas, or in a more indolent manner observed with extra-adrenal paragangliomas in other locations.
15288434: !synaptophysin Age-related changes in the levels of voltage-dependent calcium channels and other synaptic proteins in rat brain cortices. Neurotransmitter release from synapses is one of the most important interneuronal signaling in the nervous system. We previously reported that aging decreases depolarization-induced acetylcholine release in rat brain synaptosomes. To investigate the mechanisms underlying the age-related decrements of neurotransmission, we determined the levels of the alpha1 subunit proteins of voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) and three synaptic proteins that relate to exocytotic processes using synaptosomes prepared from cerebral cortices of young (6-month-old) and aged (27-month-old) rats. Immunoblotting analyses revealed that the protein levels of alpha1A (P/Q-type) and alpha1B (N-type) subunits in aged rats were 38% and 43% lower than the levels of young rats, respectively, but the levels of the alpha1C (L-type) subunit were not different between young and aged. On the contrary, the levels of synaptotagmin-1, synaptophysin and syntaxin were not significantly different between the two age groups in the synaptosomal preparations. These results suggest that synaptic density does not change much in the cerebral cortex in normal aging, and that the reduction of P/Q-type and N-type VDCCs, both of which participate in neurotransmitter release, is one of the causes for the decrease of neurotransmission at aged synapses.
15285795: !synaptophysin Human CNS cultures exposed to HIV-1 gp120 reproduce dendritic injuries of HIV-1-associated dementia. HIV-1-associated dementia remains a common subacute to chronic central nervous system degeneration in adult and pediatric HIV-1 infected populations. A number of viral and host factors have been implicated including the HIV-1 120 kDa envelope glycoprotein (gp120). In human post-mortem studies using confocal scanning laser microscopy for microtubule-associated protein 2 and synaptophysin, neuronal dendritic pathology correlated with dementia. In the present study, primary human CNS cultures exposed to HIV-1 gp120 at 4 weeks in vitro suffered gliosis and dendritic damage analogous to that described in association with HIV-1-associated dementia.
15277039: !synaptophysin The terminal of the sympathetic nerve fibers in the facial nerve. The terminal of the sympathetic nerve fibers of the rat facial nerve in the temporal bone region was investigated.
15270619: !synaptophysin Primary small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the vagina: a clinicopathologic study. Primary small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the vagina is extremely rare, and its clinical behavior is aggressive. To our knowledge, 22 patients with this tumor have been reported in the English literature to date.
15269255: !synaptophysin Absence of C1q leads to less neuropathology in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease. C1q, the recognition component of the classical complement activation pathway, is a multifunctional protein known to be expressed in brain of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. To experimentally address the role of C1q in AD, a mouse model lacking C1q (APPQ-/-) was generated by crossing Tg2576 animals (APP) with C1q-deficient mice. The pathology of APPQ-/- was compared with that of APP mice and B6SJL controls at 3-16 months of age by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis. At younger ages (3-6 months), when no plaque pathology was present, no significant differences were seen in any of the neuronal or glial markers tested. At older ages (9-16 months), the APP and APPQ-/- mice developed comparable total amyloid and fibrillar beta-amyloid in frontal cortex and hippocampus; however, the level of activated glia surrounding the plaques was significantly lower in the APPQ-/- mice at 12 and 16 months. In addition, although Tg2576 mice showed a progressive decrease in synaptophysin and MAP2 in the CA3 area of hippocampus compared with control B6SJL at 9, 12, and 16 months, the APPQ-/- mice had significantly less of a decrease in these markers at 12 and 16 months. In a second murine model for AD containing transgenes for both APP and mutant presenilin 1 (APP/PS1), a similar reduction of pathology was seen in the APPPS1Q-/- mice. These data suggest that at ages when the fibrillar plaque pathology is present, C1q exerts a detrimental effect on neuronal integrity, most likely through the activation of the classical complement cascade and the enhancement of inflammation.
15265584: !synaptophysin Presence of translation elongation factor-1A (eEF1A) in the excitatory postsynaptic density of rat cerebral cortex. The postsynaptic density (PSD) is a proteinaceous cellular structure that is specialized for postsynaptic signal transduction. Here, we show that eukaryotic translation factor-1A (eEF1A; formerly known as eEF-1alpha) is associated with the excitatory PSD in rat forebrain. Immunoblot analysis showed that eEF1A in the PSD fraction is enriched over homogenate. Salt (1.0M NaCl), but not non-ionic detergents such as Triton X-100 (1.0%) and n-octyl glucoside (1.0%), could dissociate eEF1A from the PSD core. In cultured cortical neurons, eEF1A was colocalized with postsynaptic markers (PSD95 and SynGAPalpha), but not with a presynaptic marker (synaptophysin). These results indicate that eEF1A is present in the PSD of the excitatory synapses.
15260855: !synaptophysin Anal canal neuroendocrine carcinoma with Pagetoid extension. A case of anal canal neuroendocrine carcinoma with Pagetoid intraepithelial extension is presented. An 80-year-old man was admitted to hospital with a complaint of pain in the anorectal region. Clinical examination revealed a hard and fixed mass in the anal canal, and subsequent biopsy of the lesion showed it to be a carcinoma. The surgically resected specimen showed a solid tumor measuring 3.4 x 3.2 cm within the area from the surgical anal canal to the anatomical anal canal. Tumor cells proliferated predominantly with compact nests. Many tumor cells had a high nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio, dispersed chromatin, and conspicuous nucleoli. Additionally, neoplastic cells focally formed a glandular structure. Some polygonal neoplastic cells were small with round nuclei. A rosette-like arrangement was also focally observed. In addition, tumor cells exhibited Pagetoid extension into the overlying epithelium of the histological anal canal. Both the underlying original neoplastic cells and the Pagetoid spreading tumor cells showed cytoplasmic granules positive for Grimelius staining and immunopositivity for carcinoembryonic antigen, synaptophysin and cytokeratins 7 and 20. These findings are highly suggestive of neuroendocrine differentiation of adenocarcinoma cells. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of anal canal neuroendocrine carcinoma with Pagetoid extension into the overlying epithelium of the histological anal canal.
15260851: !synaptophysin Oncocytic adrenocortical carcinomas: a pathological and immunohistochemical study of four cases in comparison with conventional adrenocortical carcinomas. Clinicopathological features of four cases of oncocytic adrenocortical carcinomas were studied. All tumors were large, circumscribed tumors with average size and weight of 11.5 cm and 586 g, respectively. The cut surfaces were yellow or brown and tan with areas of hemorrhage, necrosis, fibrosis, myxoid and cystic change. The tumor cells were exclusively oncocytic with a diffuse or compact and solid arrangement. Nuclear atypia was identified but mitosis was rare. Capsular invasion was identified in all tumors and vascular invasion was identified in one tumor. All tumors were immunoreactive for vimentin and inhibins. Immunoreactivity for pancytokeratin, synaptophysin and S-100 protein was variable and focal. All tumors had low proliferative indices, of less than 1%, and were negative for p53 protein. Ultrastructurally, the cytoplasm of tumor cells showed numerous mitochondria in a compact arrangement. Oncocytic adrenocortical carcinomas showed a similar sex ratio, slightly older mean age, similar left predilection, slightly smaller size and lighter weight compared with the conventional carcinomas. We suggest that most oncocytic adrenocortical carcinomas might be low-grade malignancies with less aggressive histological features compared with conventional carcinomas. However, they should be excised completely because of the likelihood of recurrence and metastasis during the follow-up period.
15256328: !synaptophysin Ectopic Cushing's syndrome caused by an esthesioneuroblastoma. To report a case of florid Cushing's hormone (ACTH) secretion related to the presence of an esthesioneuroblastoma (ENB).
15256285: !synaptophysin A novel role for cholecystokinin: regulation of mesenteric vascular resistance. The aim of this work was to characterize the vasoactive effect of cholecystokinin on mesenteric vasculature. The mesenteric vascular bed of 3-month-old Sprague-Dawley rats was isolated and perfused at constant flow and changes in perfusion pressure monitored. CCK peptides lacked any direct contractile or relaxing effect on the mesenteric smooth muscle. Transmural nerve stimulation (TNS, 200 mA, 0.2 ms, 8 and 16 Hz) elicited an increase in perfusion pressure reflecting contraction of the bed and CCK inhibited neurogenic contractions elicited by 8 and 16 Hz TNS. The inhibition of neurogenic contractions was blocked by the CCK2 receptor (CCK2R) antagonist, L-365,260 (10 and 100 nM), but not by the CCK1R antagonist, SR-27897. The inhibition of neurogenic contractions was reversed by the non-specific NOS inhibitor, L-NAME as well as by the specific nNOS inhibitor, S-methyl-L-thiocitrulline. In whole-mount segments of mesenteric arteries, CCK2R was detected in the adventitia, in nerve terminals, where it co-localized with synaptophysin and nNOS. CCK-8 immunoreactive fibers were also detected. These results suggest that CCK mediates vasodilatation of the mesenteric vascular bed through the release of NO via its presynaptic CCK2R. Our findings provide, for the first time, a neural mechanism by which CCK may increase mesenteric blood flow.
15251263: !synaptophysin Chronic stress alters amphetamine effects on behavior and synaptophysin levels in female rats. Previous studies show that stress cross-sensitizes with or alters amphetamine (AMPH) effects in male rats; however, few studies include females. We investigated combining daily restraint stress (21 days for 6 h/day) with chronic AMPH (10 injections every other day) on locomotor activity, exploratory activity in an open field and object recognition, a memory task, in female rats. A synaptic protein, synaptophysin, was also quantified by radioimmunocytochemistry (RICC) in brain to determine possible mechanisms for behavioral changes. Beginning at 5 days after cessation of treatments, AMPH increased locomotion, modified exploration, impaired object recognition, and increased serum corticosterone (CORT) levels. Stress did not alter these parameters but blocked AMPH effects on exploration and object recognition, potentiated AMPH-dependent locomotor effects, and did not alter increased CORT levels. AMPH treatment decreased synatophysin expression in the hippocampus. In the caudate nucleus, the AMPH group showed increased synaptophysin expression which was reversed by stress. These results in females corroborate previously shown cross-sensitizations between stress and AMPH for locomotion in males and demonstrate that chronic stress counteracts AMPH-dependent impairments in recognition memory. Stress may counteract AMPH effects on the memory task by blocking both the induction of AMPH anxiety-like effects and neuroplastic changes in the caudate nucleus of female rats.
15249709: !synaptophysin Retroperitoneal malignant fibrous histiocytoma mimicking pheochromocytoma. We report the case of a 52-yr-old man with a mass in the area of the left adrenal. The clinical features, MIBG uptake, and elevated urinary dopamine levels suggested the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. He presented with unstable hypertension, tachycardia, weight loss, and the "inflammatory syndrome" (fever, leukocytosis, and high sedimentation rate). Clinical findings, preoperative radiographic (sonography, CT scan, [131I]MIBG scintigraphy), and endocrine evaluations (elevated 24-h urinary dopamine) were suggestive of a dopamine-secreting adrenal tumor. The mass was resected and on histologic examination showed the characteristic features of a malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH). The tumor cells were immunopositive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), vimentin, CD-68, S-100, desmin, and immunonegative for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, and low-molecular-weight keratin, indicating that this tumor was not able to synthesize catecholamines. The prolonged retention of the tracer (MIBG) was interpreted as a consequence of obstructive hydronephrosis, while elevated urinary dopamine levels were assumed to be due to compression of the renal vessels by the large retroperitoneal mass.
15248064: !synaptophysin Small-cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder. A clinico-pathological study of ten cases. Small-cell carcinoma (SCC) of the urinary bladder is an infrequent neoplasia accounting for 0.5% of all tumors located at this level. There is a predilection for males over females with a 4:1 proportion and a median age of 66 years. In most cases, the initial diagnosis is made at the metastatic or progressive stage of the disease. For this study, we collected ten cases of SCC of the urinary bladder, diagnosed over a period of 16 years, to describe the morphological and immunocytochemical characteristics of these infrequent neoplasia. In all cases, clinical data such as age at presentation, personal background, clinical symptoms, stage, treatment, clinical outcome and present status were available. Primary antibodies included chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, PGP 9.5, HNK-1, cytokeratin 34betaE12, cytokeratin 20, thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1), c-erbB2 (CB-11), p53 (DO7), and Ki67 (MIB-1). In addition to the expression of neural/neuroendocrine markers, immunostaining for p53 and c-erbB2 was found in 80% and 50% of cases, respectively. In this paper, we confirm the aggressive course of the neoplastic disease. The expression of c-erbB2 in 50% of cases opens up hypothetical new possibilities for the use of immunotherapy in such cases.
15246835: !synaptophysin Serotonin neurons derived from rhesus monkey embryonic stem cells: similarities to CNS serotonin neurons. We sought an in vitro primate model for serotonin neurons. Rhesus monkey embryonic stem (ES) cell colonies were isolated and differentiated into embryoid bodies (EBs), then transferred to serum-free medium with 1% insulin-transferrin-selenium for 7 days to induce neural precursor cell (NPC) formation. NPCs were cultured in medium with 1% N-2 neural supplement and human fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2, 10 ng/ml) for 7 days to stimulate cell proliferation. Lastly, NPCs were dispersed into single cells and cultured without FGF2 for another 7 days to obtain terminal differentiation. Terminal cells were characterized for neuronal and serotonergic markers. Over 95% of the NPCs were immunopositive for nestin and Musashi1. Terminally differentiated cells appeared in both small and large morphologies. Most (>95%) of the mature cells (both small and large) were immunopositive for neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN), synaptophysin, microtubule-associated protein (MAP2C), Tau-1, neurofilament 160 (NF-160), beta-tubulin (TujIII), tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), serotonin, the serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT), estrogen receptor-beta (ERbeta), and progestin receptor (PR), but not estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha). Less than 2-3% of cells were positive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) detected mRNA transcripts for TPH-1, TPH-2, SERT, 5-HT1A-autoreceptor, ERbeta, and PR in the differentiated population. A low level of expression of ERalpha mRNA was also detected. Quantitative RT-PCR indicated that the relative abundance of TPH-2 mRNA was greater than TPH-1 mRNA. Serotonin as measured by ELISA increased 3-fold in the mature stage compared to the selection and expansion stages. In summary, a remarkably high percentage of cells derived from monkey ES cells exhibited neuronal plus serotonergic markers as well as nuclear steroid receptors similar to primate CNS serotonin neurons, suggesting that these cells may serve as a useful primate model for serotonergic neurons.
15246695: !synaptophysin Expression of alpha 5 GABAA receptor subunit in developing rat hippocampus. The GABAergic system plays an important role in the hippocampal development. Here we have studied the developmental expression of the alpha 5 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor (from rat hippocampus) by RT-competitive PCR, immunoblot and immunocytochemistry. Our results demonstrated an early induction of the alpha 5 subunit expression (at mRNA and protein levels) during the first postnatal week, peaking at P5 and decreasing after this age. The peak of alpha 5 subunit expression precedes the peak of expression for the synaptophysin, GAD65 and GAD67. Thus, the increase in the alpha 5 GABA(A) receptor subunit expression may precede the GABAergic synaptogenesis. Importantly, between P0 and P7, the expression of the alpha 5 subunit was concentrated at the cell somata of the pyramidal and granular cells. After P10, its localization shifted from the cell bodies to the dendritic layers. This developmental pattern is similar to that reported for the Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) system and it might be correlated with the transition from excitatory to inhibitory GABAergic activity.
15245502: !synaptophysin Abnormalities of presynaptic protein CDCrel-1 in striatum of rats reared in social isolation: relevance to neural connectivity in schizophrenia. Post-weaning social isolation-rearing of rats leads to behavioural and neurochemical sequelae that model aspects of schizophrenia, and it may be useful to test hypotheses related to putative molecular mechanisms of the illness. In humans, the presynaptic protein CDCrel-1 represents an interesting candidate molecule for the mechanism and aetiology of schizophrenia. CDCrel-1 modulates dopamine neurotransmission, binds to the SNARE protein syntaxin and maps onto a region of chromosome 22q11 deleted in velo-cardio-facial and DiGeorge syndromes, which are associated with increased prevalence of schizophrenia. Using the isolation-rearing model, we measured immunoreactivity of the synaptic proteins CDCrel-1, synaptophysin and syntaxin. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats were raised in groups or in isolation for 12 weeks from weaning. Synaptic protein immunoreactivities were measured in striatal and hippocampal homogenates, using a sensitive enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay with monoclonal antibodies. Isolation-rearing produced region- and protein-specific effects. CDCrel-1 immunoreactivity was significantly lower in the striatum and marginally higher in the hippocampus of isolation-reared compared with socially reared animals. There were no statistically significant differences in synaptophysin immunoreactivity in either region. Confocal microscopy demonstrated a high degree of colocalization between the two presynaptic proteins. In striatum, a robust relationship between CDCrel-1 and syntaxin immunoreactivities was observed in socially reared rats, this was lost in the isolation-reared animals. Altered levels of the septin CDCrel-1 in isolation-reared rats may contribute to changes in neuronal connectivity and neurotransmission, and suggest a potential role for CDCrel-1 in schizophrenia related to chromosome 22q11 deletion syndrome.
15239015: !synaptophysin [Medulloblastoma presenting as an extra-axial tumor in the cerebellopontine angle]. Differences in the imaging characteristic of adult medulloblastomas have been reported, including involvement of lateral cerebellar hemispheres with an extra-axial appearance. We present a case report of this rare circumstance: a 40 year old man presented with a 3 weeks history of headache, morning vomiting and left hearing difficulties. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a left cerebellopontine angle (CPA) tumor, like a well circumscribed homogeneously enhancing mass. Through a left suboccipital craniectomy the tumor was totally removed. It presented as a cerebellopontine angle tumor, like a meningioma, and not as an intra-axial tumor. Histological analysis revealed that the tumor was composed of densely packed with highly proliferative cells that produce a dense intercellular reticulin fiber network. Inmunohistochemical analysis showed positive expression to synaptophysin, specific neuronal enolase and cromogranin. Histological diagnosis was crucial to define it as a desmoplastic medulloblastoma the present case and to perform postoperative adjuvant therapy. Neurosurgeons should be aware of the possibility that a CPA tumor is of intraaxial origin, because this increase the variability on pathological diagnosis.
15235911: !synaptophysin Myxoid adrenocortical adenoma with a pseudoglandular pattern. Myxoid changes rarely occur in adrenocortical adenomas and carcinomas. Only eight benign tumours with such features have been described thus far, five of which also had a prominent pseudoglandular component. We report an additional pseudoglandular myxoid adenoma of the adrenal gland detected in a 58-year-old male patient who developed mild hypertension. At surgery, a 4-cm mass was resected and found to contain cords and tubules of polygonal cells in a myxoid background. Limited areas of classical adrenocortical adenoma were detected in less than 20% of the tumour area. Lack of atypias and absence of mucin markers, together with an immunophenotype consistent with adrenal tumours (focal cytokeratin, vimentin, synaptophysin and alpha-inhibin immunoreactivities), led to a diagnosis of primary adrenocortical adenoma with an extensive pseudoglandular myxoid pattern. However, the differential diagnosis from metastatic well-differentiated adenocarcinomas, chordomas and retroperitoneal myxoid mesenchymal tumours (e.g. liposarcoma) may be difficult in the absence of a complete clinical history and a reliable immunoprofile. We strongly recommend staining of any myxoid or glandular tumour of the adrenal gland for alpha-inhibin and synaptophysin (probably the currently best characterised markers of adrenocortical origin) before considering alternative (probably more common) diagnoses of metastatic adenocarcinoma or retroperitoneal tumours localised to the adrenal gland.
15235358: !synaptophysin A study of moderately differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas of the larynx and an examination of non-neoplastic larynx tissue for neuroendocrine cells. To determine the most appropriate terminology for neuroendocrine carcinomas (NEC) of the larynx, successive clinicopathologic studies are encouraged. The typical location and immunophenotype of laryngeal NEC raise a question of whether any precursor cells exist.
15232784: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and electron-microscopical identification of neuroendocrine cells in the respiratory tract of rats with experimental uraemia. The aim of the present study was to characterise immunohistochemically and ultrastructurally the neuroendocrine cells in the pulmonary systems of uraemic rats. Pieces of lung and trachea were collected 1, 2 and 4 weeks after nephrectomy. Paraffin-embedded sections were stained with H+E and by silver impregnation. For the identification of neuroendocrine cells immunohistochemical reactions were performed with the use of specific antibodies against calcitonin (CT), somatostatin (SOM), synaptophysin (SYN), neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). For electron microscopy, ultrathin sections were used. The analysis showed an increased number of both the solitary neuroendocrine cells and of neuroepithelial bodies in uraemic rats when compared to control animals.
15232780: !synaptophysin Effect of acute exposure to cadmium on the expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), calcitonin (CT), somatostatin (SST) and synaptophysin (SYN) in the C cells of the rat thyroid--a preliminary study. The aim of the present study was to determine to what degree acute exposure to cadmium affects the expression of CGRP, CT, SST and SYN in the C cells of the rat thyroid. Animals from 7 experimental groups received CdCl2 iv. in doses of 3.5, 3, 2.5, 2, 1.5, 1 and 0.5 mg/kg b.w. respectively, while the control animals were given 0.9% NaCl iv. 24 hours after the iv. administration of CdCl2, a correlation was found between a single dose of cadmium and the intensity of the immunocytochemical reactions for CGRP, CT, SST and SYN in C cells of the rat thyroid when compared to the control. The weakest immunocytochemical reactions were noted in C cells of the thyroid of rats from Groups I and II, their intensity gradually increasing in Groups III, IV and V in comparison to the control. The reaction intensity in animals of Groups VI and VII resembled those of the control.
15232149: !synaptophysin A peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor with generalized bone metastases in a puppy. A peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pPNET), most consistent with a human Ewing's sarcoma, is described in a 5-month-old male Australian Shepherd puppy. The first tumor site detected was in the left frontal bone of the skull with apparent subsequent rapid metastases to multiple sites in the axial and appendicular skeleton and bone marrow, kidneys, and perihyphophyseal meninges. Radiographically, all bone lesions were lytic and there was also a humeral bone fracture. Histologically, the tumor was diagnosed as a small round blue cell tumor. At this stage, the differential diagnosis included a lymphoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and a PNET of the peripheral nervous system. However, the cells had positive expression of triple neurofilament antigens as detected immunocytochemically. The cells were negative for a broad panel of canine-specific leucocyte cell marker antigens for desmin, smooth muscle actin, synaptophysin, and CD99. Ultrastructurally, the cells contained occasional dense core neurosecretory granules and intermediate filaments with intercellular desmosomal-like junctions and abundant glycogen clusters. Based on the age of the dog, the clinical history, the distribution of gross lesions, histologic characteristics of a small round blue cell tumor, and immunocytochemical and ultrastructural evidence of neuroectodermal differentiation, a diagnosis of a pPNET similar to a human Ewing's sarcoma was made.
15232146: !synaptophysin Glioblastoma multiforme in three baboons (Papio spp). Glioblastoma multiforme is the most malignant astrocytic neoplasm and the most common brain neoplasm of humans. Spontaneous neoplasms of the brain are rare in nonhuman primates. This report describes three glioblastomas in adult captive-reared baboons. The animals exhibited a range of clinical signs, including depression, weight loss, weakness, and blindness. All three neoplasms were located in the cerebrum, with extension into the pons in one case. Histologically, the tumors were similar and were characterized by cellular pleomorphism, multinucleated cells, areas of necrosis, microvascular proliferation (glomeruloid bodies), and palisading of neoplastic cells around blood vessels and areas of necrosis. Two baboons exhibited gemistocytic differentiation, and in one baboon, the neoplastic cells were predominantly spindle shaped with a fascicular growth pattern. Immunohistochemical staining for glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin, and S-100 protein was positive, whereas immunostaining for synaptophysin and chromogranin A was negative. Positive staining for the cell proliferation marker Ki67 ranged from 8.2% to 13.9%. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dVTPnick end labeling (TUNEL) staining ranged from 1.8% to 5.7%. These baboon glioblastomas share many features with those of humans.
15229239: !synaptophysin Hippocampal synapses depend on hippocampal estrogen synthesis. Estrogens have been described to induce synaptogenesis in principal neurons of the hippocampus and have been shown to be synthesized and released by exactly these neurons. Here, we have focused on the significance of local estrogen synthesis on spine synapse formation and the synthesis of synaptic proteins. To this end, we reduced hippocampal estrogen synthesis in vitro with letrozole, a reversible nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor. In hippocampal slice cultures, letrozole treatment resulted in a dose-dependent decrease of 17beta-estradiol as quantified by RIA. This was accompanied by a significant decrease in the density of spine synapses and in the number of presynaptic boutons. Quantitative immunohistochemistry revealed a downregulation of spinophilin, a marker of dendritic spines, and synaptophysin, a protein of presynaptic vesicles, in response to letrozole. Surprisingly, no increase in the density of spines, boutons, and synapses and in spinophilin expression was seen after application of estradiol to the medium of cultures that had not been treated with letrozole. However, synaptophysin expression was upregulated under these conditions. Our results point to an essential role of endogenous hippocampal estrogen synthesis in the maintenance of hippocampal spine synapses.
15227962: !synaptophysin [The ectopic ACTH syndrome]. Endogenous Cushing's syndrome is a clinical state resulting from prolonged, inappropriate exposure to excessive endogenous secretion of cortisol and hence excess circulating free cortisol, characterized by loss of the normal feedback mechanisms of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis and the normal circadian rhythm of cortisol secretion [2]. The etiology of Cushing's syndrome may be excessive ACTH secretion from the pituitary gland, ectopic ACTH secretion by nonpituitary tumor, or excessive autonomous secretion of cortisol from a hyperfunctioning adrenal adenoma or carcinoma. Other than this broad ACTH-dependent and ACTH-independent categories, the syndrome may be caused by ectopic CRH secretion, PPNAD, MAH, ectopic action of GIP or catecholamines, and other adrenel-dependent processes associated with adrenocortical hyperfunction.
15227745: !synaptophysin Rhabdoid cholangiocarcinoma: a variant of cholangiocarcinoma with aggressive behavior. A rhabdoid cholangiocarcinoma is a very rare variant of sarcomatous cholangiocarcinomas. Here, we report a vimentin positive cholangiocarcinoma showing rhabdoid features in the entire tumor, with a very aggressive behavior. A 41-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital due to a huge hepatic mass. The resected liver revealed a 17 x 15 cm sized solid mass with extensive necrosis and an infiltrative border. On microscopic examination, the entire tumor was composed of loosely cohesive round to polygonal cells, with rhabdoid features having abundant eosinophilic glassy cytoplasm and eccentrically located vesicular nuclei. Some tumor cells contained intracytoplasmic mucin vacuoles, but definite areas of glandular differentiation or spindle cell were not found. Immunohistochemical staining showed a diffuse strong positive reaction to pan-cytokeratin and vimentin, and focal positivity for the carcinoembryonic antigen. Other immunohistochemical stainings for cytokeratin 7, cytokeratin 20, S-100 protein, HMB-45, desmin, alpha-smooth muscle actin, c-kit, CD34, alpha-fetoprotein, anti-hepatocyte antigen, chromogranin and synaptophysin were all negative. After two months, the patient developed a local recurrence along the resection margin, and multiple hematogenous metastases to the lung and liver were seen on the follow-up CT scan.
15226612: !synaptophysin Breast cancer with neuroendocrine differentiation detected by unique staining pattern of neoplastic cells in hercep test. Hercep Test (DAKO) is an immunohistological screening kit to select cases of advanced breast cancer with indication for treatment with a humanized mouse monoclonal antibody to human epidermal growth factor receptor-2, trasthzumab (Herceptin). We report a case of an 84-year-old female with invasive ductal carcinoma of the right breast, whose neoplastic cells showed a unique staining pattern in Hercep Test. The cells showed an intracytoplasmic fine granular staining pattern, instead of the membranous pattern of typical breast cancer cells. This unique staining pattern suggested some special features of the neoplastic cells. This case was finally diagnosed as invasive ductal carcinoma with focal neuroendocrine differentiation by subsequent imunohistochemical and electron microscopic examinations. The neoplastic cells showed positive reactivity for grimelius stain, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neuronspecific enolase, as well as electron-dense neurosecretory granules (up to 150 nm in diameter). This unique staining pattern of the neoplastic cells with Hercep Test is a useful clue to detect breast cancer with neuroendocrine differentiation, which is likely to be missed in routine examination. Clinical and pathologic findings including immunohistochemical and ultrastructural findings of this case are reported, together with a brief review of the literature.
15226375: !synaptophysin Snake presynaptic neurotoxins with phospholipase A2 activity induce punctate swellings of neurites and exocytosis of synaptic vesicles. The mechanisms of action of four snake presynaptic phospholipase A2 neurotoxins were investigated in cultured neurons isolated from various parts of the rat brain. Strikingly, physiological concentrations of notexin, beta-bungarotoxin, taipoxin or textilotoxin induced a dose-dependent formation of discrete bulges at various sites of neuronal projections. Neuronal bulging was paralleled by the redistribution of the two synaptic vesicle markers synaptophysin I (SypI) and vesicle-attached membrane protein 2 (VAMP2) to the bulges, and by the exposure of the luminal domain of synaptotagmin on the cell surface. These neurotoxins induced glutamate release from cultured neurons similarly to the known evoked release of acetylcholine from neuromuscular junctions. In addition, partial fragmentation of F-actin and neurofilaments was observed in neurons, but not in astrocytes. These findings indicate that these snake presynaptic neurotoxins act with by same mechanism and that the observed phenotype results from the fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane not balanced by an adequate membrane retrieval. These changes closely resemble those occurring at neuromuscular junctions of intoxicated animals and fully qualify these primary neuronal cultures as pertinent models for studying the molecular mode of action of these neurotoxins.
15223309: !synaptophysin Beta-bungarotoxin-induced depletion of synaptic vesicles at the mammalian neuromuscular junction. The neurotoxic phospholipase A(2), beta-bungarotoxin, caused the failure of the mechanical response of the indirectly stimulated rat diaphragm. Exposure to beta-bungarotoxin had no effect on the response of the muscle to direct stimulation. Resting membrane potentials of muscle fibres exposed to the toxin were similar to control values, and the binding of FITC-labelled alpha-bungarotoxin to nAChR at the neuromuscular junction was unchanged. Motor nerve terminal boutons at a third of cell junctions were destroyed by exposure to beta-bungarotoxin leaving only a synaptic gutter filled with Schwann cell processes and debris. At other junctions, some or all boutons survived exposure to the toxin. Synaptic vesicle density in surviving terminal boutons was reduced by 80% and synaptophysin immunoreactivity by >60% in preparations exposed to beta-bungarotoxin, but syntaxin and SNAP-25 immunoreactivity was largely unchanged. Terminal bouton area was also unchanged. The depletion of synaptic vesicles was completely prevented by prior exposure to botulinum toxin C and significantly reduced by prior exposure to conotoxin omega-MVIIC. The data suggest that synaptic vesicle depletion is caused primarily by a toxin-induced entry of Ca(2+) into motor nerve terminals via voltage gated Ca(2+) channels and an enhanced exocytosis via the formation of t- and v-SNARE complexes.
15223020: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and electron-microscopic identification of neuroendocrine cells in the stomach of uremic rats. Many disturbances in electrolyte and hormonal balance in the body induced by functional impairment of renal parenchyma may affect the activity of amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation (APUD) cells, which constitute a very important link in the regulation of homeostasis. The aim of the present study was the morphological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural estimation of enteroendocrine cells in the stomach of uremic rats. Fragments of gastric pylorus were collected 1, 2 and 4 weeks after nephrectomy. Paraffin embedded sections were stained with H + E and by silver impregnation. For identification of neuroendocrine cells, immunohistochemical reactions were performed using specific antibodies against somatostatin, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase and anti-calcitonin gene related peptide. The analysis showed an increased number of APUD cells in the stomach of uremic rats compared to control rats, which may be a morphological expression of their hyperfunction in the functional impairment of renal parenchyma. These results suggest that chronic renal failure can modulate the secretory processes of APUD cells.
15221340: !synaptophysin Papillary neuroepithelial tumor of the pineal region. A case report. We present here an unusual case of papillary neuroepithelial tumor of the pineal region. The patient was a 29-year-old female who presented with headaches. A computed tomography scan revealed a tumorous lesion at the pineal region and hydrocephalus. The resected tumor was composed of columnar and cuboidal cells showing characteristics of papillary growth. The tumor cells exhibited diffuse and intense immunoreactivity to cytokeratins and neural cell adhesion molecule. The tumor expressed abundant levels of transthyretin (prealbumin) and appeared ependymal in nature, with numerous microlumens delineated by punctate and ring-like patterns in epithelial membrane antigen staining. Reactivity to synaptophysin and glial fibrillary acidic protein was observed only in the infiltrated non-neoplastic pineal parenchyma. These histological characteristics matched the description of the recently reported papillary tumor of the pineal region thought to originate from the specialized ependyma of the subcommissural organ (SCO). Transthyretin expression of the present case further supports the likelihood of SCO origin, as transthyretin is one of the proteins presumed to be secreted by human SCO.
15220821: !synaptophysin Practical markers used in the diagnosis of endocrine tumors. Endocrine tumors constitute a large group of neoplasms that are widely dispersed throughout the body. They are made up mostly of neuroendocrine tumors (NE), which are characterized by the presence of secretory granules and production of peptide hormones, and non-NE tumors such as those derived from thyroid follicular cells and adrenal cortical cells. Immunohistochemical markers have been used to characterize these lesions and distinguish them from other histologically similar tumors. Chromogranin and synaptophysin are the most widely used broad-spectrum neuroendocrine tumor markers. The use of antibodies to transcription factors, keratins, and specific peptides is quite valuable in the diagnosis of endocrine tumors. This article reviews the common markers used to characterize endocrine tumors and to recognize tumors involved in the differential diagnosis of specific lesions.
15214821: !synaptophysin Dedifferentiated liposarcoma with a paraganglioma-like histologic pattern: a case report and review of the literature. A 53-year-old man presented with a 4-month history of increasing abdominal discomfort and distension. A large retroperitoneal mass was found on imaging. Image-guided needle core biopsy demonstrated a poorly differentiated malignant neoplasm. A 30 x 32 x 33-cm soft tissue mass was removed. Microscopically, the tumor consisted of predominantly epithelioid malignant cells arranged in a paraganglioma-like growth pattern. Immunohistochemically, these cells were strongly positive for neuron-specific enolase. Stains for synaptophysin and chromogranin, however, were negative. There was no ultrastructural evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation. Adjacent sarcomatous areas were composed of spindled cells arranged in storiform and fibrosarcoma-like growth patterns. A small area of well-differentiated liposarcoma was identified, and a diagnosis of dedifferentiated liposarcoma was established. To the best of our knowledge, this represents the first reported case of dedifferentiated liposarcoma with a paraganglioma-like histologic pattern. A brief review focusing on the morphologic variations of dedifferentiated liposarcoma is also presented.
15207421: !synaptophysin alpha-1-Antichymotrypsin polymorphism in the gene promoter region affects survival and synapsis loss in Alzheimer's disease. One-hundred-thirty-tree patients with neuropathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD) were genotyped for the polymorphic regions in the apolipoprotein Eepsilon (APOE)and a new polymorphism in the promoter region of the alpha-1-antichymotrypsin (ACT) gene. The ACT TT genotype was associated with a longer survival of AD patients, and among patients with the APOE epsilon4 allele, this genotype increased the duration of the disease. The ACT TT genotype was also associated with a late age at onset of the disease and a delayed age at death in patients without the APOE epsilon4 allele. This latter group of patients also showed increased levels of synaptophysin from the mid-frontal (MF) cortex area. ACT appears to play complex, multiple roles on AD and to affect synaptic plasticity in the AD brain of patients without the allele APOE epsilon4 allele.
15207358: !synaptophysin Remodelling of connections in pelvic ganglia after hypogastric nerve crush. Pelvic ganglia innervate the urogenital organs and contain both sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons. Previous studies have shown that within days of cutting either the lumbar or sacral preganglionic axons that innervate pelvic ganglia, many axon collaterals grow and appear to form specific connections with denervated pelvic neurons. Here we have examined the longer term consequences of partial deafferentation by studying pelvic ganglia up to 7 weeks after hypogastric nerve (HGN) crush, a lesion which also allows faster regeneration of spinal axons. Noradrenergic neurons were denervated by HGN crush, as demonstrated by loss of varicosities immunostained for the synaptic proteins, synaptophysin and synapsin. A week after HGN crush, axon collaterals grew from parasympathetic pelvic ganglion neurons, shown by the presence of numerous varicose fibers immunostained for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). These VIP fibers were poorly stained or unstained for synaptophysin, even after 7 weeks. At early post-operative times the VIP fibers grew irregularly; however, with longer post-operative times they appeared to target particular VIP-negative, noradrenergic neurons. Our results also indicate that some lumbar preganglionic axons regenerated during the post-operative period, although this only affected a minority of sympathetic neurons. These reinnervated sympathetic neurons were not associated with VIP fibers, suggesting that the new intrinsic connections may have precluded regeneration or targeting of preganglionic axons. Together these results demonstrate that there is considerable remodelling within pelvic ganglia after partial deafferentation. This occurs under conditions where spinal preganglionic axons can regenerate. New intra-ganglionic connectivity may be permanent and may impact on this regeneration.
15207278: !synaptophysin Low-density lipoprotein receptor-knockout mice display impaired spatial memory associated with a decreased synaptic density in the hippocampus. The low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) is the first described receptor for apolipoprotein E (apoE). We hypothesize that the absence of the LDLR, similar to the absence of apoE, results in impaired learning and memory processes. Six-month-old homozygous Ldlr-/- and wild-type littermates (Ldlr+/+), maintained on a standard lab chow diet, were used. Unlike humans, Ldlr-/- mice, under these conditions, do not develop atherosclerosis. The results of the Morris water escape task revealed an impaired spatial memory in the Ldlr-/- mice in comparison with Ldlr+/+ mice. Also in a T-maze task, the working memory performance of the Ldlr-/- mice was impaired. Furthermore, Ldlr-/- mice, in comparison with Ldlr+/+ mice, display a decreased number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic boutons in the hippocampus CA1. In conclusion, the results show in mice deficiency for the LDLR results in impaired hippocampal-dependent memory functions. A decrease in the number of presynaptic boutons may underlay these behavioral alterations. Therefore, the LDLR may be an important receptor for apoE in the central nervous system.
15206820: !synaptophysin Spatio-temporal changes in neurofilament proteins immunoreactivity following kainate-induced cerebellar lesion in rats. 1. Spatio-temporal changes in phosphorylated (pNFP) and nonphosphorylated (npNFP) neurofilament proteins were assessed immunocytochemicaly in adult rat cerebellum, 2-30 days following unilateral injection of kainic acid (KA) or physiological saline (s.c.). 2. Analysis of the staining intensity and pattern demonstrated that injection of both KA and physiological saline elicited significant and long-lasting increase of pNFP and npNFP immunoreactivity, at the ipsilateral, and to lesser extent at the contralateral side of lesion. 3. Kainate intoxication induced abundant expression of pNFP and npNFP in cerebellar white matter, as well as in all layers of perilesioned cortex. Higher pNFP expression was evidenced in the Purkinje cell layer, particularly at cell bodies, initial segments, and proximal dendrites, which normally do not contain pNFP. In addition, synaptophysin immunocytochemistry was used as a marker of synaptogenesis and plasticity. 4. Spatio-temporal pattern of NFP and synaptophysin expression suggests that perilesioned cortex undergoes dynamic changes following brain demage and possess a reparative capacity to abridge the consequences of brain trauma.
15204928: !synaptophysin Brain aging in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: increased ubiquitin-protein conjugate is correlated with decreased synaptic protein but not amyloid plaque accumulation. Two neuropathological changes that are linked with biological and pathological aging were examined in subjects with end-stage acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Autopsy brain specimens were examined from 25 people who died from complications of AIDS and 25 comparison subjects who were human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative, matched for age, gender, ethnicity, and postmortem time interval. These adults were stratified into three age groups: elderly (62 to 75 years), intermediate (55 to 60 years), and young (21 to 42 years). Ubiquitin-stained dotlike deposits (Ub-dots) and diffuse extracellular plaques containing the beta-amyloid (Abeta) fragment of the amyloid precursor protein (Abeta plaque) were both increased significantly in the hippocampal formation of older subjects. In subjects with AIDS, Ub-dots were increased whereas Abeta plaque counts were not significantly different. Western blotting confirmed that high-molecular-weight ubiquitin-protein conjugates (HMW-Ub-conj) were increased in AIDS. The band intensity of one HMW-Ub-conj species with an approximate molecular mass of 145 kDa was correlated significantly with increased acute phase inflammatory protein (a-1-antichymotrypsin) and decreased synaptophysin and growth-associated protein-43 band intensities. These results raise the possibility that HIV-related brain inflammation disturbs neuronal protein turnover through the ubiquitin-proteasome apparatus, and might increase the prevalence of age-associated neurodegenerative diseases by decreasing synaptic protein turnover through the proteasome.
15198661: !synaptophysin The synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex dissociates independently of neuroexocytosis. Synaptophysin is one of the most abundant membrane proteins of small synaptic vesicles. In mature nerve terminals it forms a complex with the vesicular membrane protein synaptobrevin, which appears to modulate synaptobrevin's interaction with the plasma membrane-associated proteins syntaxin and SNAP25 to form the SNARE complex as a prerequisite for membrane fusion. Here we show that synaptobrevin is preferentially cleaved by tetanus toxin while bound to synaptophysin or when existing as a homodimer. The synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex is, however, not affected when neuronal secretion is blocked by botulinum A toxin which cleaves SNAP25. Excessive stimulation with alpha-latrotoxin or Ca(2+)-ionophores dissociates the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex and increases the interaction of the other SNARE proteins. The stimulation-induced dissociation of the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex is not inhibited by pre-incubating neurones with botulinum A toxin, but depends on extracellular calcium. However, the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex cannot be directly dissociated by calcium alone or in combination with magnesium. The dissociation of synaptobrevin from synaptophysin appears to precede its interaction with the other SNARE proteins and does not depend on the final fusion event. This finding further supports the modulatory role the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex may play in mature neurones.
15198147: !synaptophysin Case report: intra-renal paraganglioma masquerading as a renal cyst. A case is reported in which a 46-year-old normotensive male patient presented with large right-sided painless abdominal mass. On sonography there was a large cyst in the lower pole of right kidney. Intravenous urography showed distortion of pelvicollecting system and medial shift of upper right ureter. Exploration revealed a cystic mass (18 x 15 cm) located in lower pole of right kidney. It contained brownish fluid and because of suspicion of malignancy radical nephrectomy was carried out. Histological examination showed the cystic mass to be adrenal tissue infiltrated by neoplastic cells. Characteristic organoid nests of malignant cells ("Zellaballen" were present. Cells stained positively for chromogranin, neurone specific enolase (NSE), neurofilament, and synaptophysin. Sustentacular cells showed positive reaction to S-100 protein. No further treatment was offered. Patient remains well at 30 months follow-up. On medline search there is record of three cases of intra-renal paraganglioma in English literature and the present case appears to be the fourth one.
15196693: !synaptophysin Recovery of glucocorticoid-related loss of synaptic density in the fetal sheep brain at 0.75 of gestation. Antenatal glucocorticoids routinely used to accelerate fetal lung maturation in human pregnancy at risk of preterm delivery decrease synaptic density and complex electrocortical activity in the fetal sheep brain at 0.87 gestation. We examined whether the effects of betamethasone on synaptic density depend on maturation of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and whether these effects are reversible. Betamethasone infusion to fetal sheep comparable to the dose used clinically (3.3 microg kg(-1) h(-1) over 48 h) at 0.75 gestation and, thus, before the prepartum increase of cortisol, reduced synaptophysin immunoreactivity (SY-IR) in the frontal neocortex, caudate putamen and hippocampus (P < 0.05). Loss of SY-IR exceeded that shown previously at 0.87 gestation (P < 0.05). It was not accompanied by neuronal damage and was reversible within 24h. In conclusion, fetal betamethasone exposure induces a gestational age-dependent decrease of synaptic density that is transient and more severe in younger fetuses.
15196682: !synaptophysin Neurofilament formation and synaptic activity are delayed in the myenteric neurons of the rat fetus with gastroschisis. Gastroschisis is a malformation characterized by prenatal evisceration of the midgut into the amniotic cavity. Because of the harmful effects of the amniotic fluid, the intestinal loops appear matted, thickened, and covered by a peel. At birth, the newborn presents altered intestinal motility. In a previous publication, we reported a delay in the myenteric ganglia organization and neuronal maturity in a rat model of gastroschisis. In the present study, the neurofilament formation and synaptic activity were immunohistochemically investigated in the myenteric neurons of this animal model. The expression of low, medium and high molecular weight neurofilament proteins and of a protein of the synaptic vesicles, the synaptophysin, were similar to those found at earlier embryonic ages. These findings demonstrate delayed cytoskeletal organization and reduced synaptic activity in the myenteric neurons in the rat model of gastroschisis.
15192942: !synaptophysin Fine needle aspiration cytology of endocrine neoplasms of the pancreas. Morphologic and immunocytochemical findings in 20 cases. To analyze the role of fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology in the preoperative diagnosis of pancreatic endocrine neoplasms.
15184234: !synaptophysin Human dysbindin (DTNBP1) gene expression in normal brain and in schizophrenic prefrontal cortex and midbrain. The schizophrenia-susceptibility gene dysbindin (DTNBP1 on 6p22.3) encodes a neuronal protein that binds to beta-dystrobrevin and may be part of the dystrophin protein complex. Little is known about dysbindin expression in normal or schizophrenic brain.
15175396: !synaptophysin Functional integration of embryonic stem cell-derived neurons in vivo. Pluripotency and the potential for continuous self-renewal make embryonic stem (ES) cells an attractive donor source for neuronal cell replacement. Despite recent encouraging results in this field, little is known about the functional integration of transplanted ES cell-derived neurons on the single-cell level. To address this issue, ES cell-derived neural precursors exhibiting neuron-specific enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) expression were introduced into the developing brain. Donor cells implanted into the cerebral ventricles of embryonic rats migrated as single cells into a variety of brain regions, where they acquired complex morphologies and adopted excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter phenotypes. Synaptic integration was suggested by the expression of PSD-95 (postsynaptic density-95) on donor cell dendrites, which in turn were approached by multiple synaptophysin-positive host axon terminals. Ultrastructural and electrophysiological data confirmed the formation of synapses between host and donor cells. Ten to 21 d after birth, all EGFP-positive donor cells examined displayed active membrane properties and received glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic input from host neurons. These data demonstrate that, at the single-cell level, grafted ES cell-derived neurons undergo morphological and functional integration into the host brain circuitry. Antibodies to the region-specific transcription factors Bf1, Dlx, En1, and Pax6 were used to explore whether functional donor cell integration depends on the acquisition of a regional phenotype. Our data show that incorporated neurons frequently exhibit a lacking or ectopic expression of these transcription factors. Thus, the lack of an appropriate regional "code" does not preclude morphological and synaptic integration of ES cell-derived neurons.
15173951: !synaptophysin Prolactin-producing pituitary adenoma with incomplete neuronal transformation: an intermediate adenoma-neuronal tumor. We present a unique case of a prolactin (PRL)-producing pituitary adenoma showing incomplete neuronal differentiation without ganglion cells. A 27-year-old man presented with nausea, headaches, and instability over the last 2 months. Clinical examination revealed obesity with no other endocrinological signs. His serum PRL levels were slightly elevated (38 ng/ml), whereas concentrations of the other adenohypophysial hormones were within normal range. Histology revealed an unusual pituitary adenoma containing many hypocellular areas with fibrillar appearance. The sizable tumor cells were polyhedral or elongated harboring an ovoid, vesicular nucleus with prominent nucleolus, lacking, however, the typical features of ganglion cells. By immunohistochemistry, many adenoma cells were positive for PRL. Immunostain for neurofilament protein revealed variable amounts of fibrils dispersed throughout the stroma, mostly in the hypocellular areas. In addition, neurofilament protein and chromogranin were strongly reactive in approximately 15% of the tumor cell population, whereas reactivity for synaptophysin was uniform throughout the tumor. These findings led to the conclusion that part of the tumor-cell population expressed a hybrid immunoprofile of adenoma-neuronal cell. Our case is the first PRL-producing pituitary adenoma showing incomplete neuronal differentiation lacking mature ganglion cells.
15170557: !synaptophysin Primary melanoma of the adrenal gland, a continuous dilemma: report of a case. The adrenal gland can frequently be the site of metastatic deposits, including malignant melanocytic tumors; however, primary melanoma of the adrenal gland is exceptional. We reviewed 18 cases reported in the English literature to date, and here add another case which occurred in a 78-year-old man. The patient underwent right suprarenalectomy and the pathology report showed a malignant melanoma of the adrenal gland. Immunohistochemical staining revealed a positive antibody-specific cytoplasmic reactivity to S-100 and HMB-45 proteins with a negative reaction for cytokeratin (AE1, AE3), synaptophysin, chromogranin and neuron-specific enolase. There are diagnostic criteria for accepting an adrenal melanoma as primary; however, an autopsy is the final step to confirm this infrequent pathology.
15166677: !synaptophysin Primary pulmonary paraganglioma: report of a functioning case with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. We describe a case of primary pulmonary paraganglioma, a tumor that has not been reported in sufficient detail in previous literature. The patient was a 55-year-old woman with hypertension accompanied by an elevated serum norepinephrine level (2651 pg/mL; normal 100-450 pg/mL). Computed tomography revealed a well-circumscribed solid mass, 3.5 cm in diameter, located in the lower lobe of the left lung. In the lobectomy specimen, the tumor had invaded the B8 bronchus and hilar lymph nodes with microscopic metastasis to the mediastinal nodes. The tumor showed histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features of paraganglioma: argyrophilic cells arranged in a nesting (Zellballen) or anastomosing trabecular pattern within an arcuate vascular network. Neoplastic chief cells positive for neuroendocrine markers (CD56, synaptophysin, chromogranin A) were surrounded by sustentacular cells positive for S-100 protein. Neurofilament protein was positively stained, but cytokeratins were totally negative. On electron microscopy, chief cells possessed abundant dense core granules with an eccentric halo ("norepinephrine-type" granules). The patient's blood pressure began to decline soon after the resection, and her serum norepinephrine promptly returned to almost normal. On the basis of our experience, our case is a bona fide primary pulmonary paraganglioma, a tumor heretofore subject to considerable skepticism.
15164425: !synaptophysin Characterization of long-term mouse brain aggregating cultures: evidence for maintenance of neural precursor cells. An extensive characterization of fetal mouse brain cell aggregates has been performed using immunohistochemical and stereological methods. Single cell suspensions from mechanically dissociated cortex and hippocampus were cultured in serum-free, B27-supplemented medium under constant gyratory agitation for up to 56 days. Three-dimensional aggregates started to form immediately after seeding and reached a final average size of 500 microm in diameter. Among the cell types identified, neurons were the most abundant cells in the aggregates, followed by astrocytes, microglia, and oligodendrocytes. Western blotting for synaptophysin and immunostaining for neurotransmitter-related molecules indicated the presence of well-defined phenotypic characteristics of the neurons in this culture system, suggesting functionality. Proliferating cells, many with neural precursor cell properties, were seen throughout the culture period and could be isolated from the aggregates even after 2 months in culture. Neural precursor cells were isolated from the aggregates after more than 1 month in culture; these cells were successfully differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. The aggregate culture system may provide a versatile tool for molecular dissection of processes identified in mouse models, including transgenic animals and manipulation of neural precursor cells.
15163228: !synaptophysin Malignant melanoma with a rhabdoid phenotype: histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study of a case and review of the literature. Malignant melanoma is known to display tremendous histologic diversity. One rare variant is the rhabdoid phenotype, so called because of the appearance of cells resembling rhabdomyoblasts seen in malignant rhabdoid tumors of the kidney. We present the histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features of a malignant melanoma composed entirely of rhabdoid cells. A 62-year-old man presented with a 6.5-cm lung mass. Although presumed to be a metastatic lesion, extensive workup failed to reveal a primary tumor site. Histologic sections showed a mass composed entirely of polygonal neoplastic cells with prominent nucleoli and large hyaline cytoplasmic inclusions. The tumor cells were strongly immunoreactive with S100 protein, vimentin, and CD56, and were focally reactive with Mart-1. Tumor cells were negative for Melan-A, tyrosinase, HMB-45, AE1/AE3, cytokeratin (CK) 7, CK8/ 18, CK20, CK903, CAM 5.2, epithelial membrane antigen, smooth muscle actin, desmin, leukocyte common antigen, Bcl-2, CD3, CD20, CD30, CD138, kappa and lambda light chains, CD68, CD34, factor VIII, synaptophysin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Electron microscopy showed cytoplasmic whorls of intermediate filaments containing entrapped rough endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, and lipid. Recognition of this rare variant of malignant melanoma is important in the evaluation of tumors with rhabdoid morphology.
15163226: !synaptophysin Clear cell ductal adenocarcinoma of pancreas: a case report and review of the literature. We present a unique carcinoma of the pancreas with predominantly clear cell morphology (>95% clear cells). Mucicarmine stain revealed abundant intraluminal and intracytoplasmic mucin. Immunohistochemically, the cells were positive for the epithelial markers cytokeratin 7 and CAM 5.2, and were focally positive for cytokeratin 20. These cells also expressed monoclonal carcinoembryonic antigen. Stains for the neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and chromogranin were negative, as were stains for vimentin, p53, HMB-45, and CD10. An additional outstanding feature was the presence of dense intraluminal and intracytoplasmic hyaline globules, which were immunohistochemically positive for alpha1-antitrypsin. Sequencing of the K-ras oncogene revealed a point mutation in codon 12, providing molecular evidence of ductal origin. In the proper morphologic context supported by immunohistochemistry, clear cell carcinoma can be regarded as a rare variant of ductal adenocarcinoma.
15162375: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine cell differentiation in the CWR22 human prostate cancer xenograft: association with tumor cell proliferation prior to recurrence. Neuroendocrine (NE) cell differentiation is proposed to facilitate prostate cancer (CaP) recurrence following androgen deprivation through secretion by NE cells of growth factors and neuropeptides that support survival and proliferation of CaP cells and vasculature.
15154671: !synaptophysin Localization of SNARE proteins and secretory organelle proteins in astrocytes in vitro and in situ. Astrocytes are capable of regulated release of messenger molecules. Astrocytes cultured from new born rodent brain express a variety of classical presynaptic proteins. We investigated the question whether the capability to express synaptic proteins in culture was a feature only of immature astrocytes, and whether these proteins were also expressed by astrocytes in situ. Experiments were performed with transgenic mice expressing the enhanced green fluorescent protein under the control of the human glial fibrillary acidic protein promoter. Using double fluorescence and astrocytes cultured from 1 to 16 day-old animals we show that the astrocytic expression of synaptic proteins in culture is invariant of the age of donor animals. Culturing can induce the astrocytic expression of specific synaptic proteins such as SV2, synaptophysin and SNAP-25. Astrocytes in brain sections of 1-16 day-old animals revealed a punctuate immunofluorescence for secretory carrier membrane protein (SCAMP), SNAP-23, synaptobrevin II, and cellubrevin, to a minor extent for SNAP-25 and synaptophysin, and none for SV2. Our results demonstrate that cultured astrocytes express synaptic proteins not present in situ. Nevertheless, astrocytic organelles in situ are equipped with molecules that could be involved in regulated exocytosis of messenger substances.
15153444: !synaptophysin Heterogeneous expression of neuroendocrine marker proteins in human undifferentiated carcinoma of the colon and rectum. The expression of neuroendocrine marker proteins in undifferentiated colorectal cancers has not yet been studied in great detail. Therefore, the survival of 20 patients with small cell undifferentiated colorectal cancers treated at our institution between 1982 and 1997 (0.8% of all operated colorectal carcinomas) was correlated with the extent of neuroendocrine differentiation. Chromogranin A, synaptophysin, syntaxin1, VAMP2, SNAP25, and alpha/beta-SNAP were used as neuroendocrine markers. Based on the degree of immunoreactivity for these marker proteins, tumors were divided into group 0 (<2% cells stained positive for neuroendocrine markers) and group 1 (>2% cells stained positive). Patients were followed up for at least 5 years or until death. Nine of twenty (45%) undifferentiated colorectal tumors expressed neuroendocrine markers (group 1). Only one patient of this group survived 2 years (11%), whereas the 2-year survival rate was 45.4% in group 0. Nine of eleven patients of group 0 were diagnosed in UICC stage I-III, whereas eight of nine tumors with expression of neuroendocrine markers were diagnosed in UICC stage IV (P = 0.002). Our results show that neuroendocrine differentiation is often seen in small cell undifferentiated colorectal cancer. It correlates with a more aggressive course of the disease.
15153415: !synaptophysin The "normal" endocrine cell of the gut: changing concepts and new evidences. The endocrine cells of the gut are a highly specialized mucosal cell subpopulation. Within the gastrointestinal tract at least 14 different cell types produce a wide range of hormones with a specific regional distribution. The gut endocrine cells belong to the diffuse endocrine system. These cells present two regulated pathways of secretion characterized by large dense core vesicles (LDCV) and synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMV). Gut endocrine cells are recognized by the expression of several "general" markers, including the LDCV marker chromogranin A and the SLMV marker synaptophysin, in addition to the cytosolic markers neuron-specific enolase and protein gene product 9.5. The expression of different hormones identifies specific cell types. The gut endocrine cells are reputed to be terminally differentiated and incapable of proliferation. However, some data suggest that the number of gut endocrine cells may adapt in response to tissue-specific physiological stimuli. Gut endocrine cell differentiation appears to follow a "constitutive" tissue-specific pathway, which may be disrupted and investigated by genetic manipulation in mice. It is suggested that endocrine cell homeostasis is maintained by the entry of new endocrine-committed cells along the differentiation pathway and that such intermediate cells may be sensitive to physiological stimuli as well as transforming agents.
15144279: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical detection of synaptophysin in enteric neurones during prenatal development in the rat stomach. Summary In this study, the localization and appearance of synaptophysin-immunoreactive (IR) nerve cells and their relationships with the developing gastric layers were studied by immunocytochemistry and light microscopy in the embryonic rat stomach. The stomachs of Wistar rat embryos aged 13-21 days were used. The first neuronal bodies and their processes containing synaptophysin-immunoreactivity were observed on embryonic day 13. In contrast, synaptophysin-IR nerve terminals were first observed between mesenchymal cells on embryonic day 14. These results indicate that synaptophysin is expressed in growing neurits and neuronal cell bodies before these neurones have established synaptic connections. The occurrences of mesenchymal cell condensation near synaptophysin-IR neuroblasts on embryonic day 15 reflect an active nerve element-specific mesenchymal cell induction resulting in the morphogenesis of muscle cells. Similarly, the appearance of glandular structures after synaptophysin-IR neuroblasts, on embryonic day 18, suggests that the epithelial differentiation may be closely related to the neuronal maturation as well as other factors. Finally, synaptophysin is functionally important in neuronal development and maturation, together with the establishment of neuroneuronal and neuromuscular contacts and in epithelial differentiation.
15140940: !synaptophysin Fyn kinase modulates synaptotoxicity, but not aberrant sprouting, in human amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common neurodegenerative disorder, results in progressive degeneration of synapses and aberrant sprouting of axon terminals. The mechanisms underlying these seemingly opposing cellular phenomena are unclear. We hypothesized that Fyn kinase may play a role in one or both of these processes because it is increased in AD brains and because it is involved in synaptic plasticity and axonal outgrowth. We investigated the effects of Fyn on AD-related synaptotoxicity and aberrant axonal sprouting by ablating or overexpressing Fyn in human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP) transgenic mice. On the fyn+/+ background, hAPP/amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) decreased hippocampal levels of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals (SIPTs), consistent with previous findings. On the fyn-/- background, hAPP/Abeta did not affect SIPTs. SIPT reductions correlated with hippocampal Abeta levels in hAPP/fyn+/+, but not hAPP/fyn-/-, mice suggesting that Fyn provides a critical link between hAPP/Abeta and SIPTs. Furthermore, overexpression of Fyn exacerbated SIPT reductions in hAPP mice. We also found that the susceptibility of mice to hAPP/Abeta-induced premature mortality was decreased by Fyn ablation and increased by Fyn overexpression. In contrast, axonal sprouting in the hippocampus of hAPP mice was unaffected. We conclude that Fyn-dependent pathways are critical in AD-related synaptotoxicity and that the pathogenesis of hAPP/Abeta-induced neuronal alterations may be mechanistically heterogenous.
15138705: !synaptophysin [A rare case of a neuroendocrine carcinoma of the esophagus. Intermediate between a well-differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma and a low-differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma]. We report a rare case of a neuroendocrine carcinoma located in the esophagus of a 62-year-old male patient. The initial diagnosis of a "small-cell tumor" was based on biopsy. Our diagnosis was based on the histomorphological examination of the resected material. Diagnostic criteria were the characteristic solid or clustered growth patterns, monomorphic cell nuclei, lack of necrosis, immunohistochemical detection of neuroendocrine markers like chromogranin, synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) as well as detection of cytoplasmic neuroendocrine granules by electron microscopy. In addition, we found an increased prolific activity by staining with Ki67 antigen. 30% of the cell nuclei displayed a positive reaction. Focal invasion of blood vessels was also detected. With 17 different chromosomal imbalances, comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) revealed a malignant tumor stage that was not visible at the microscopic level. According to the new WHO classification of neuroendocrine tumors the described tumor was identified as an intermediate between a well-differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma and a low-differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma.
15133180: !synaptophysin Cerebral ganglioneuroblastoma in a golden retriever dog. An 8-month-old Golden Retriever dog was euthanatized because of a large cerebral mass extending from the right frontal lobe to the thalamus that was composed of both mature and immature neuronal cells. The better differentiated cells had abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm with prominent Nissl substance and were generally positive for neurofilament and variably positive for synaptophysin. The generally smaller and less-differentiated cells were infrequently positive for proliferating cell nuclear antigen and were negative for any neuronal and glial markers. No apparent glial differentiation of the immature tumor cells was detected. Based on morphologic and immunohistochemical features, the diagnosis of cerebral ganglioneuroblastoma was made. This neoplasm is very rare in all species, especially in the central nervous system, and has never been reported previously in this site in a dog.
15132850: !synaptophysin [Pathologic diagnoses of core needle biopsies of the mediastinum]. To assess the diagnostic accuracy and to study the histologic typing of mediastinal lesions using core needle biopsies.
15128401: !synaptophysin Organization of GABA receptor alpha-subunit clustering in the developing rat neocortex and hippocampus. We compared the expression and co-expression of alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, and alpha5-subunit protein clusters of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor in the neocortex and hippocampus of rat at postnatal days (PND) 5-10 and 30-40 in order to understand how inhibitory receptors reorganize during brain maturation. The size, intensity, density and pattern of co-localization of fluorescently tagged subunit clusters were determined in deconvolved digital images using a novel 2D cross-correlational analysis. The cross-correlation analysis allowed an unbiased identification of GABA(A) receptor subunit clusters based on staining intensity. Cluster size increased through development; only the alpha2 clusters in dentate gyrus (DG) decreased in size. alpha5-subunit cluster density either increased or decreased with maturation depending on the brain region. For the other subunits, the cluster density remained rather constant, with noted exceptions (increase in alpha2 clusters in cortical layer 5 but a decrease of alpha3 clusters in hilus). The co-localization of alpha1-subunit with the others was unique and not correlated to overall changes in subunit abundance between developmental époques. So, although alpha2-subunit expression went up in the DG, the clusters became less co-localized with alpha1. In contrast, alpha5-subunit clusters became more co-localized with alpha1 as the alpha5-subunit expression declined in cortex and CA1. The co-localization of alpha3 with alpha1 also became greater in layer 6. In the adult brain not all clustering was associated with synapses, as many alpha-subunit clusters did not co-localize with synaptophysin. Overall, these data indicate that the regulation of GABA(A) receptor clustering is both synaptic and extrasynaptic, presumably reflecting complex cellular trafficking mechanisms.
15128112: !synaptophysin Neuronal differentiation and synapse formation of PC12 and embryonic stem cells on interdigitated microelectrode arrays: contact structures for neuron-to-electrode signal transmission (NEST). The development of neuron-microelectrode interfaces (neurochips) is highly desirable for the non-invasive recording of the cellular response to neuroactive drugs as well as the electrical stimulation of nervous tissue by implantable electrodes. A prerequisite for neuron-to-electrode signal transmission (NEST) is the formation of synapse-like contacts between the neuronal cell and the conductive surface of a microelectrode array. We attempted synapse formation by neuronal differentiation of rat pheochromocytoma cells (PC12) and blastocyst-derived murine embryonic stem cells (ES-J1) on interdigitated microelectrode arrays that were made of gold (Au), platinum (Pt), or indium tin oxide (ITO). PC12 or ES cells were in vitro differentiated by incubation with nerve growth factor (NGF) and forskolin, or by serum deprivation and treatment with basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2), respectively. On top of ITO electrodes, the neuronal cells extended extremely long processes that terminated in pili-like contact structures, which is typical for growth cone formation. ES cells differentiated into neurons as verified by immunofluorescence staining of MAP-2 and developed synapse-like junctions with the ITO electrode surface as indicated by synaptophysin staining. Differentiated PC12 and ES cells showed bona fide morphological characteristics of synaptic growth cones that were unprecedented in tissue culture. Cones formed by PC12 cells could be stimulated with KCI and carbachol as shown by uptake of FM1-43, a fluorescent marker for synaptic vesicle formation. In contrast to Electrical Cell Impedance Spectroscopy (ECIS) recordings, AC impedance spectrometry with differentiated PC12 cells settled on interdigitated microelectrode arrays revealed lower AC impedance than that with undifferentiated cells, indicating that the complex impedance is dependent on ion fluxes at the neuron-to-electrode contact surface.
15126032: !synaptophysin Comparison of neuroplastin and synaptic marker protein expression in acute and cultured organotypic hippocampal slices from rat. Organotypic hippocampal slice cultures can be used to study hippocampal biochemistry and physiology over a chronic period on the days to weeks timescale. In order to validate the organotypic hippocampal slice culture for our ongoing studies of synaptic function, we have compared, using Western blotting, the levels of a number of synaptic proteins from in vitro organotypic hippocampal slice cultures with those from in vivo hippocampal slices prepared from age-matched controls. We chose to follow the developmental expression of the neuroplastin (np) family of immunoglobulin related cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), np65, a brain specific isoform highly expressed in hippocampal neurones and np55 a more widely expressed isoform and two synaptic marker proteins, synaptophysin, a pre-synaptic marker and post-synaptic density protein-95, PSD95, a post-synaptic marker. All showed increasing expression over the developmental time period, both in vivo and in vitro. The level of both neuroplastins was also consistent between the in vivo and in vitro preparations, whereas the level of PSD95 was markedly increased in the organotypic hippocampal slice cultures while the level of synaptophysin was slightly decreased. Whilst these findings may indicate some differences in the composition and organisation of synapses, the developmental expression profiles of these synaptic proteins within organotypic hippocampal slice cultures suggests they are a valid model for the study of synapse function and development in vitro.
15116333: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural markers suggest different origins for cuboidal and polygonal cells in pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma. We report the morphological characteristics of 30 cases of sclerosing hemangioma (SH) of the lung and explore the histological origin of the major cells in these tumors. In addition to routine light and electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry was performed by using 12 monoclonal primary and 5 polyclonal primary antibodies. These included surfactant protein B (SP-B), thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1), mast cell trypsin, CD68, epithelial antigen markers (high molecular weight cytokeratin, low molecular weight cytokeratin [CK-L], epithelial membrane antigen [EMA], cancer embryonic antigen), mesothelial antigen, neuroendocrine markers (neuron-specific enolase [NSE], chromogranin A, synaptophysin, calcitonin, adrenocorticotropic hormone, human growth hormone [hHG]), vimentin, and CD34. Surface cuboidal cells have short microvilli and have lamellar bodies in their cytoplasm. They can sometimes merge into multinuclear giant cells. Immunohistochemical results showed that these cells are strongly positive for SP-B, TTF-1, CK-L, EMA, and cancer embryonic antigen, whereas polygonal cells, previously also described as round or pale cells, were strongly positive for vimentin and TTF-1, and positive or weakly positive for 2 to 3 kinds of neuroendocrine markers. Sparse neuroendocrine granules and abundant microfilaments were observed in their cytoplasm. Some cell clusters in the solid regions were positive for SP-B and EMA. Mast cells existed sparsely in almost every field. Both cuboidal and polygonal cells were negative to CD34 and mesothelial antigen staining. We conclude that cuboidal cells of SH originate from reactive proliferating type II pneumocytes, which can fuse into multinuclear giant cells. Polygonal cells, as true tumor cells, likely originate from multipotential primitive respiratory epithelium and possess the capability for multipotential differentiation. The antibodies of SP-B, TTF-1, vimentin, and CK-L are very helpful to diagnosis and differential diagnosis of SH.
15115794: !synaptophysin VR1 receptor activation induces glutamate release and postsynaptic firing in the paraventricular nucleus. Neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) are important in regulating autonomic function through projections to the brain stem and spinal cord. Although the vanilloid receptors (VR(1)) are present in the PVN, their physiological function is scarcely known. In this study, we determined the role of VR(1) receptors in the regulation of synaptic inputs and the excitability of spinally projecting PVN neurons. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were performed on the PVN neurons labeled by a retrograde fluorescence tracer injected into the thoracic spinal cord of rats. Capsaicin significantly increased the frequency of glutamatergic miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) without changing the amplitude and decay time constant of mEPSCs. On the other hand, capsaicin had no effect on GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). The effect of capsaicin on mEPSCs was abolished by a specific VR(1) antagonist, iodo-resiniferatoxin (iodo-RTX), or ruthenium red. Importantly, iodo-RTX per se significantly reduced the amplitude of evoked EPSCs and the frequency of mEPSCs. Removal of extracellular Ca(2+), but not Cd(2+) treatment, also eliminated the effect of capsaicin on mEPSCs. Furthermore, capsaicin caused a large increase in the firing rate of PVN neurons, and such an effect was abolished in the presence of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists. Additionally, the double-immunofluorescence labeling revealed that all of the VR(1) immunoreactivity was colocalized with a presynaptic marker, synaptophysin, in the PVN. Thus this study provides the first evidence that activation of VR(1) receptors excites preautonomic PVN neurons through selective potentiation of glutamatergic synaptic inputs. Presynaptic VR(1) receptors and endogenous capsaicin-like substances in the PVN may represent a previously unidentified mechanism in hypothalamic regulation of the autonomic nervous system.
15112448: !synaptophysin [A case of peripheral-type primitive neuroectodermal tumor arising in the dura mater at the frontal base]. A 7-year-old boy was admitted to our hospital because of headache and frequent vomiting. The patient was noted to have papilloedema and mild palsy of the right abducent nerve. Magnetic resonance image (MRI) revealed a large tumor in the frontal base with tumoral hemorrhage. Angiography showed the tumor was fed by anterior meningeal arteries. At surgery, the tumor was arising in the dura mater at the frontal base, and was removed totally. Histological examination showed the tumor to be composed of small cells with uniform round nuclei and minimal cytoplasm. Immunohistochemical studies were positive for MIC-2, NSE, C-KIT, vimentin, Class III-beta tublin and glycogen, but negative for NFP, synaptophysin, chromogranin A and GFAP. MIB-1 labeling index was 40-50%. The tumor was histologically confirmed to be peripheral-type primitive neuroectodermal tumor(pPNET). Following surgery, he underwent whole brain, whole spine and local radiation therapy(30 Gy in total respectively) and received two 5-day cycles of chemotherapy, consisting of intravenous administration of cisplatin 20 mg/m2/day, etoposide 60 mg/m2/day and IFOS 900 mg/m2/day. After these therapies, follow-up radiological examination showed there was no recurrence of the tumor for 24 months. Intracranial pPNET is rare. Ewing sarcoma and pPNET(ES/pPNET) is the designation given to a family of small round cell tumor arising in bone or soft tissues. Intracranial PNETs are devided into central nervous system PNET(cPNET) and pPNET. It is necessary that intracranial PNETs are divided into two types of PNETs because of different prognosis between these tumors. MIC-2 is a specific marker for pPNET/ES family and is useful in the differential diagnosis of these two types of tumors.
15109254: !synaptophysin Synaptobrevin transmembrane domain dimerization-revisited. Synaptobrevin is a membrane-spanning soluble N-ethyl maleimid-sensitive factor (NSF) attachment protein receptor (SNARE) protein of synaptic vesicles that is essential for neurotransmitter release. Various lines of evidence indicate that it exists alternatively as a monomer, as a homodimer, as a heterodimer with synaptophysin, or as a ternary complex with other SNAREs at the various stages of the synaptic vesicle cycle. Homodimerization of synaptobrevin was previously shown by different authors to depend on its single transmembrane segment, and the crucial residues forming the helix-helix interface have been mapped. Since another recent study challenged these results, we reinvestigated this issue. Here, we show that native synaptobrevin can be cross-linked in synaptic vesicle membranes to a homodimer by disulfide bond formation between cysteine residues of the transmembrane segment. Further, we demonstrate that determination of synaptobrevin transmembrane segment interactions in membranes or in detergent solution requires careful control of experimental conditions. Thus, our present results corroborate that homodimerization of synaptobrevin is mediated by its transmembrane segment.
15108012: !synaptophysin Value and limits of immunohistochemistry in differential diagnosis of clear cell primary brain tumors. Clear cell histology is the hallmark of oligodendroglioma (OG) but also characterizes clear cell ependymoma (CCE) and central neurocytoma (CN). Immunohistochemistry for glial and neuronal proteins may support differential diagnosis. We investigated systematically diagnostic value and limits of immunohistochemistry using representative tumor specimens (>1 cm in diameter) of well-defined OGs, CCEs, and CNs (n=10, respectively). Antibodies comprised anti-neuron specific nuclear protein (NEUN), anti-synaptophysin, anti-neuron-specific enolase, anti-microtubule-associated protein 2, anti-phosphorylated neurofilament protein, anti-non-phosphorylated neurofilament protein, anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), anti-S100 protein, anti-vimentin (VIM), and anti-epithelial membrane antigen (EMA). Among the panel of antibodies anti-NEUN, anti-VIM and anti-EMA proved most useful for differential diagnosis. Prominent (>90%) anti-NEUN immunolabeling of tumor cells clearly distinguished CNs from OGs and CCEs. Anti-VIM immunolabeling and a characteristic cytoplasmic dot-like anti-EMA immunoreactivity pattern of tumor cells were detectable only in OGs and CCEs. Furthermore, prominent anti-VIM immunoreactivity and anti-EMA cell membrane staining including ring-like staining pattern is characteristic for CCEs. Additionally, a widespread gliofibrillary and minigemistocytic cytoplasmic anti-GFAP immunostaining pattern is restricted to some OGs. Our data indicate that immunohistochemistry using anti-NEUN, anti-VIM, and anti-EMA on representative tumor specimens allows clear-cut distinction of CNs vs OGs and CCEs. Anti-VIM, anti-EMA, and anti-GFAP support differential diagnosis of OGs vs CCEs. Nevertheless, it is noted that due to focal expression of glial proteins in CNs and, conversely, of neuronal proteins in OGs and CCEs, immunohistochemistry is of limited value on small tumor specimens.
15104296: !synaptophysin Serous cystic neoplasms of the pancreas: an immunohistochemical analysis revealing alpha-inhibin, neuron-specific enolase, and MUC6 as new markers. Serous cystic neoplasms (SCNs) of the pancreas include serous microcystic adenoma (SMA), serous oligocystic ill-demarcated adenoma (SOIA), solid serous adenoma (SSA), von Hippel-Lindau-associated cystic neoplasm (VHL-CN), and serous cystadenocarcinoma (SCC). These neoplasms are histologically similar but differ in their localization, gross appearance, gender distribution, and biology. A centroacinar origin is assumed but has not been proven. To clarify whether the various subtypes of SCN may be distinguished from each other by marker profiles that might also provide evidence of their origin, the immunoprofiles of 38 SCNs (21 SMAs, 13 SOIAs, 2 VHL-CNs, 1 SSA, and 1 SCC) were defined by applying antibodies against cytoskeletal, neuroendocrine, hormone receptor, and mucin markers. In addition, we examined the expression of calretinin and alpha-inhibin. The various types of SCN showed a very similar immunoprofile, characterized by positivity for cytokeratins and neuron-specific enolase and negativity for vimentin and synaptophysin. Further markers that were commonly expressed in SCNs were alpha-inhibin (SMAs: 76%, SOIAs: 92%, VHL-CNs: 100%), MUC6 (SMAs: 60%, SOIAs: 85%, VHL-CNs: 100%), and MUC1 (SMAs: 24%, SOIAs: 38%, VHL-CNs: 50%). Western blot analysis in one SMA revealed a distinct band that stained with neuron-specific enolase antiserum. Alpha-inhibin was only expressed in 4 of 11 acinar cell carcinomas and not in five ductal adenocarcinomas, five neuroendocrine tumors, one mixed ductal-endocrine carcinoma, and one acinar cell cystadenoma of the pancreas. These results suggest that, despite their biologic differences, the various types of SCNs are composed of the same (or a very similar) cell type and may therefore have a common direction of differentiation. This notion is further supported by the finding that neuron-specific enolase, alpha-inhibin, and MUC6, which may be regarded as new markers for this pancreatic tumor type, were also expressed in most SCNs. Because a number of SCNs share MUC1 and MUC6 expression with the pancreatic centroacinar cells, the possibility of a histogenetic relationship has to be considered.
15103691: !synaptophysin Abnormal cholinergic and GABAergic vascular innervation in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus of obese tub/tub mice. Tubby and tubby-like proteins (TULPs) are encoded by members of a small gene family. An autosomal recessive mutation in the mouse tub gene leads to blindness, deafness, and maturity-onset obesity. The mechanisms by which the mutation causes the obesity syndrome has not been established. We compared obese tub/tub mice and their lean littermates in order to find abnormalities within the mediobasal hypothalamus, a region intimately associated with the regulation of body weight. Using an antiserum to the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), a marker for cholinergic neurons, many unusually large VAChT-immunoreactive (-ir) nerve terminals, identified by colocalization with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, were demonstrated in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus of obese tub/tub mice. Double-labeling showed that VAChT-ir nerve endings also contained glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), a marker for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons. The VAChT- and GAD-ir nerve terminals were in close contact with blood vessels, identified with antisera to platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM; also called CD31), laminin, smooth muscle actin (SMA), and glucose transporter-1 (GLUT1). Such large cholinergic and GABAergic nerve terminals surrounding blood vessels were not seen in the arcuate nucleus of lean tub/+ mice. The presence of abnormal cholinergic/GABAergic vascular innervation in the arcuate nucleus suggests that alterations in this region, which contains neurons that receive information from the periphery and which relays information about the energy status to other parts of the brain, may be central in the development of the obese phenotype in animals with an autosomal recessive mutation in the tub gene.
15100490: !synaptophysin [A case of primary small cell carcinoma in the common bile duct]. Extrapulmonary primary small cell carcinoma comprises approximately 4% of all small cell carcinoma. In the common bile duct, small cell carcinomas are extremely rare. We experienced a 60-year-old woman with small cell carcinoma arising in the common bile duct. Abdominal CT scan revealed an intraluminal mass in the proximal common bile duct and multiple lymphadenopathies. Microscopic examination of the tumor revealed proliferation of small monotonous anaplastic cells, which were characterized with hyperchromatic nuclei, high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio, and frequent mitosis. By immunohistochemical stain, the tumor cells were strongly positive for chromogranin, synaptophysin, and CD56. We report this case with a review of literatures.
21215011: !synaptophysin [Prognostic significance of neuroendocrine differentiation in non-small cell lung cancer patients' survival]. To observe the relationship between non-small cell lung cancer with neuroendocrine differentiation (NSCLC-NE) and patients' postoperative survival.
15090620: !synaptophysin LIMK1 regulates Golgi dynamics, traffic of Golgi-derived vesicles, and process extension in primary cultured neurons. In this study, we examined the subcellular distribution and functions of LIMK1 in developing neurons. Confocal microscopy, subcellular fractionation, and expression of several epitope-tagged LIMK1 constructs revealed that LIMK1 is enriched in the Golgi apparatus and growth cones, with the LIM domain required for Golgi localization and the PDZ domain for its presence at neuritic tips. Overexpression of wild-type LIMK1 suppresses the formation of trans-Golgi derived tubules, and prevents cytochalasin D-induced Golgi fragmentation, whereas that of a kinase-defective mutant has the opposite effect. Transfection of wild-type LIMK1 accelerates axon formation and enhances the accumulation of Par3/Par6, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)1 receptors, and neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) at growth cones, while inhibiting the Golgi export of synaptophysin-containing vesicles. These effects were dependent on the Golgi localization of LIMK1, paralleled by an increase in cofilin phosphorylation and phalloidin staining in the region of the Golgi apparatus, and prevented by coexpression of constitutive active cofilin. The long-term overexpression of LIMK1 produces growth cone collapse and axon retraction, an effect that is dependent on its growth cone localization. Together, our results suggest an important role for LIMK1 in axon formation that is related with its ability to regulate Golgi dynamics, membrane traffic, and actin cytoskeletal organization.
15090609: !synaptophysin Nerve injury reduces responses of hypoglossal motoneurones to baseline and chemoreceptor-modulated inspiratory drive in the adult rat. The effects of peripheral nerve lesions on the membrane and synaptic properties of motoneurones have been extensively studied. However, minimal information exists about how these alterations finally influence discharge activity and motor output under physiological afferent drive. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of hypoglossal (XIIth) nerve crushing on hypoglossal motoneurone (HMN) discharge in response to the basal inspiratory afferent drive and its chemosensory modulation by CO(2). The evolution of the lesion was assessed by recording the compound muscle action potential evoked by XIIth nerve stimulation, which was lost on crushing and then recovered gradually to control values from the second to fourth weeks post-lesion. Basal inspiratory activities recorded 7 days post-injury in the nerve proximal to the lesion site, and in the nucleus, were reduced by 51.6% and 35.8%, respectively. Single unit antidromic latencies were lengthened by lesion, and unusually high stimulation intensities were frequently required to elicit antidromic spikes. Likewise, inspiratory modulation of unitary discharge under conditions in which chemoreceptor drive was varied by altering end-tidal CO(2) was reduced by more than 60%. Although the general recruitment scheme was preserved after XIIth nerve lesion, we noticed an increased proportion of low-threshold units and a reduced recruitment gain across the physiological range. Immunohistochemical staining of synaptophysin in the hypoglossal nuclei revealed significant reductions of this synaptic marker after nerve injury. Morphological and functional alterations recovered with muscle re-innervation. Thus, we report here that nerve lesion induced changes in the basal activity and discharge modulation of HMNs, concurrent with the loss of afferent inputs. Nevertheless, we suggest that an increase in membrane excitability, reported by others, and in the proportion of low-threshold units, could serve to preserve minimal electrical activity, prevent degeneration and favour axonal regeneration.
15087708: !synaptophysin Synaptic P2X7 and oxygen/glucose deprivation in organotypic hippocampal cultures. The P2X7 receptor for extracellular ATP is the main candidate, among P2 receptors, inducing cell death in the immune system. Here, we demonstrate the direct participation of this receptor to cell damage induced by oxygen/glucose deprivation, in the ex vivo model of organotypic hippocampal cultures. By pharmacological and immunological approaches, we show that P2X7 is rapidly and transiently up regulated in hippocampal areas eliciting metabolism impairment. Moreover, the P2 antagonists 2',3',-dialdehyde ATP and reactive blue 2 prevent both up regulation of this receptor and hypoxic/hypoglycemic damage. By confocal laser microscopy, we show that P2X7 is present at the synaptic level of fibers extending from the CA1-2 pyramidal cell layer throughout the strata oriens and radiatum, but absent on oligodendrocytes, astrocytes or neuronal cell bodies. Colocalization of P2X7 is obtained with neurofilament-L protein and with synaptophysin, not with myelin basic protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein or a marker for neuronal nuclei. P2X7 up regulation and diffuse cellular damage are also induced by 3'-O-(4-benzoyl) benzoyl-ATP, an agonist selective but not exclusive for P2X7. In summary, our study demonstrates that P2X7 not only directly participates to the hypoxic/hypoglycemic process, but also owns specific phenotypic localization. We do not exclude that it might serve as a sensor of dysregulated neuronal activity and ATP release, both occurring during oxygen/glucose deprivation.
15086786: !synaptophysin A mutant impaired in SNARE complex dissociation identifies the plasma membrane as first target of synaptobrevin 2. Membrane fusion depends on the formation of a complex of four SNARE motifs, three that bear a central glutamine and are localized in the target membrane (t-SNARE) and one that bears an arginine and is localized in the donor vesicle (v-SNARE). We have characterized the arginine 56 to proline mutant (R56P) of synaptobrevin-2 (Sb). SbR56P was blocked at the plasma membrane in association with the endogenous plasma membrane t-SNARE due to an inhibition of SNARE complex dissociation, suggesting that the plasma membrane is its first target. Cell surface blockade of SbR56P could be rescued by coexpression of synaptophysin, a partner of Sb. Sb was blocked at the plasma membrane but SNARE complexes were unaffected in cells expressing defective dynamin, indicating that the phenotype of SbR56P was not due to an internalization defect. When expressed in neurons, SbR56P localized both to axonal and dendritic plasma membranes, showing that both domains are initial targets of Sb. The R56P mutation affects a highly conserved position in v-SNAREs, and might thus provide a general tool for identifying their first target membranes.
15086299: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the gallbladder. Ewing sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor (ES/ PNET) most commonly occurs in the soft tissues of the extremities and the paravertebral areas. To our knowledge, no case of PNET has been reported in the gallbladder to date. We report a case of PNET of the gallbladder occurring in a 53-year-old woman. Microscopically, the monotonous small round cells with a formation of Homer-Wright rosettes showed intense membranous positive immunoreactivity for MIC2/CD99, as well as for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. Other small round cell tumors, such as lymphoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, or melanoma, were excluded in light of negative immunoreactivity for leukocyte common antigen, desmin, and S100. The diagnosis of PNET was rendered based on the characteristic morphology and immunohistochemical findings, despite an absence of chromosomal translocations, such as t(11; 22)(q24;q12) and t(21;22)(q22;q12).
15086297: !synaptophysin Carcinoid tumor arising in a tailgut cyst of the anorectal junction with distant metastasis: a case report and review of the literature. Tailgut cyst is a rare congenital presacral lesion and is believed to arise from the persistent remnants of the postanal gut. Malignancy occurring in a tailgut cyst is extremely rare, and to our knowledge only 5 cases of carcinoid tumor arising in a tailgut cyst have been reported in the literature to date. We report a sixth case of carcinoid tumor arising in a tailgut cyst. The patient was a 41-year-old woman who presented with perianal pain. Sigmoidoscopy showed a 2-cm submucosal mass located 4 cm above the anal verge. The mass was a multilocular cyst with gray-tan solid portions. The cyst was lined by ciliated columnar, squamous, and transitional epithelia with small foci of carcinoid tumor in the cystic wall. The carcinoid tumor showed a trabecular growth pattern with uniform oval or round cells containing fine chromatin and positive immunoreactivity for chromogranin, synaptophysin, and cytokeratin. This case was unique because the tumor occurred at the anorectal junction, not in the retrorectal space, and unlike previously reported cases showed aggressive behavior and distant metastases.
15082021: !synaptophysin Environmental enrichment results in cortical and subcortical changes in levels of synaptophysin and PSD-95 proteins. Experience-dependent plasticity is thought to involve selective change in pre-existing brain circuits, involving synaptic plasticity. One model for looking at experience-dependent plasticity is environmental enrichment (EE), where animals are exposed to a complex novel environment. Previous studies using electron microscopy showed that EE resulted in synaptic plasticity in the visual cortex and hippocampus. However, the areas in the brain that have been examined following EE have been limited. The present study quantified potential synaptic plasticity throughout the brains of C57BL/6 mice using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for two synaptic proteins, synaptophysin and PSD-95. EE resulted in increased synaptophysin and PSD-95 levels through major brain regions, including anterior and posterior areas of the forebrain, hippocampus, thalamus, and hypothalamus. However, no changes in synaptophysin were detected in the cerebellum. These results demonstrate that EE results in an increase in levels of both pre- and post-synaptic proteins in multiple regions of the brain, and it is possible that such changes represent the underlying synaptic plasticity occurring in EE.
15081541: !synaptophysin The tumor microenvironment: CXCR4 is associated with distinct protein expression patterns in neuroblastoma cells. In previous studies, we demonstrated that human neuroblastoma cells are equipped with the machinery to direct their homing to bone marrow. These tumor cells express the CXCR4 receptor for the bone marrow stroma-derived chemokine CXCL12 (SDF-1) and secrete the CXCL12 ligand. The present study was undertaken to explore possible differences in gene-expression patterns between neuroblastoma variants that over-express CXCR4 (designated STH cells) and those which express very little of this receptor (STL cells). The results of the study clearly indicate that these variants show a differential gene-expression profile. They differ in expression of some integrins such as VLA2, VLA3 and VLA6, of neuroendocrine-markers such as CD56 and synaptophysin, in the expression of c-kit and in the secretion of certain cytokines and growth factors such as TNFalpha, SDF-1, VEGF, IL-8, GM-CSF and IP-10. We hypothesize that these differences are due to an autocrine SDF-1alpha-CXCR4 axis.
15078555: !synaptophysin Differential distribution of calpain small subunit 1 and 2 in rat brain. Calpains, the Ca(2+)-dependent thiol proteases, are abundant in the nervous tissue. The ubiquitous enzyme forms in mammals are heterodimers consisting of a specific, micro or m, large (catalytic) subunit and, apparently, a common small (regulatory) subunit (CSS1). Recently, however, we described a second form of small subunit (CSS2), which is of restricted occurrence [Schád, E., Farkas, A., Jékely, G., Tompa, P. & Friedrich, P. (2002) Biochem. J., 362, 383-388]. Here we analysed the distribution of immunoreactivity in various parts of rat brain against two anti-CSS1 and two anti-CSS2 antibodies by correlated light and electron microscopy. Remarkably, the antibodies showed differential distribution in various parts of rat cortex: anti-CSS1 reacted mainly with perikarya and dendrites, whereas anti-CSS2 was more prominent in axons. In serial sections CSS2 and synaptophysin gave very similar patterns, i.e. these epitopes seem to colocalize. Electron microscopy confirmed that CSS1 was mainly localized postsynaptically in dendrites and somata, whereas CSS2 was found presynaptically. The hypothesis is advanced that these distinct distributions of calpain subunits may be related to the transport of these enzymes in nerve cells.
15077908: !synaptophysin The phenotype of gut endocrine tumours. Endocrine tumours of gut and pancreas tract are rare entities originating from cells of the diffuse endocrine system. The endocrine phenotype is assessed by the expression of general and specific endocrine markers. General endocrine markers associate to organelles like large dense core vesicles (e.g. chromogranin A) and small synaptic-like vesicles (e.g. synaptophysin), or to the cytosol, like neuron specific enolase and protein gene product 9.5 (PGP9.5). The specific markers correspond to the hormones produced by tumour cells. Two major categories of endocrine tumours are identified as (i) well-differentiated and (ii) poorly differentiated neoplasms. Well-differentiated tumours/carcinomas (also known as carcinoids) express all general markers of endocrine differentiation and various hormones. Poorly differentiated endocrine carcinomas lack large dense core vesicles markers (chromogranin A), while widely express synaptophysin and cytosol endocrine markers. The clinical behaviour of endocrine tumours spans from benign to low-grade malignant for well-differentiated tumours/carcinomas to high grade malignant for poorly differentiated carcinomas. The Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 1 syndrome (MEN1) gene is involved in the genesis of a proportion of both well- and poorly differentiated sporadic tumours. p53 gene abnormality appears as restricted to poorly differentiated endocrine carcinomas.
15066619: !synaptophysin Histological changes in the symptomatic mediopatellar plica. One of the causes of anterior knee pain may be symptomatic mediopatellar plica. The pain is usually attributed to the mechanical damage caused by the plica inside the joint, or, more precisely, to the synovitis induced as a result. Recent observations seem to suggest, however, that the pain is, in addition, likely to be engendered by an increased number of nerve-elements present in the substance of the plica. The present study used up-to-date histochemical methods to reveal in the symptomatic mediopatellar plicae nerve-elements that may be made responsible for the pain. Semi-quantitative methods were used to establish the number of nerve-elements in the tissue samples obtained from 21 symptomatic mediopatellar plicae (Group 'A'), exposing them to view with the aid of synaptophysin and neurofilament serum, coupled with routine light microscope as well as polarising microscope examinations following H&E and van Gieson staining. Tissue samples taken from the asymptomatic mediopatellar plica of 11 patients served as control (Group 'B'). A significantly larger number of nerve-elements were found in the substance of the plicae of Group 'A' 6.9 (S.D.+/-2.9) than in Group 'B' 3 (S.D.+/-1.2). Within Group 'A', more nerve-elements were revealed in trauma-related case histories than in those with no recollections of trauma (an average of 9.6 vs. 5.2, respectively). Similarly, the reduction of pain achieved by surgery was greater in the trauma-related group than in the non-traumatic one (3.0 vs. 1.8, respectively). Relying on our observations, we claim that the painfulness of the knee joint plicae is in all probability also attributable to the fact that their tissue substance contains an increased number of nerve-elements. A major trauma in a particular case history contributes, in all likelihood, to an increase in the number of nerve-elements, but further examinations are required to clarify the pathomechanism involved.
15066046: !synaptophysin Dietary supplementation with melatonin reduces levels of amyloid beta-peptides in the murine cerebral cortex. Melatonin levels decrease with aging in mice. Dietary supplementation with melatonin has recently been shown to result in a significant rise in levels of endogenous melatonin in the serum and all other tissue samples tested. Herein, the effects of dietary melatonin on brain levels of nitric oxide synthase, synaptic proteins and amyloid beta-peptides (Abeta) were determined in mice. Melatonin supplementation did not significantly change cerebral cortical levels of nitric oxide synthase or synaptic proteins such as synaptophysin and SNAP-25. Increased brain melatonin concentrations however, led to a significant reduction in levels of toxic cortical Abeta of both short and long forms which are involved in amyloid depositions and plaque formation in Alzheimer's diseases. Thus, melatonin supplementation may retard neurodegenerative changes associated with brain aging. Depletion of melatonin in the brain of aging mice may in part account for this adverse change.
15062989: !synaptophysin Blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by phencyclidine causes the loss of corticostriatal neurons. Perinatal administration of the N-methyl-Dd-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) has been reported to produce regionally selective apoptotic cell death in the frontal cortex. The development of certain behavioral abnormalities following PCP treatment suggested that extracortical regions such as the striatum also could be affected. In this study, perinatal PCP treatment caused a marked reduction in striatal, but not hippocampal, staining for polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), an NMDA-regulated molecule important in synaptogenesis. In order to isolate striatal influences to the cortex, this investigation was continued in vitro using corticostriatal slices. For these experiments we cultured coronal corticostriatal slices from postnatal day 7 rats. After 4 days in vitro, PCP was added for 48 h and then washed out for 24 h before harvesting the tissue. Similar to what was observed in vivo, we found that PCP treatment results in a marked reduction in striatal staining for PSA-NCAM. No change was observed in the mature form of NCAM. In striatal synaptoneurosomes, immunoblot analysis confirmed that the levels of PSA-NCAM and synaptophysin, a molecule often used as a marker of synaptogenesis, were substantially down-regulated by PCP. These effects were prevented by M40403, a superoxide dismutase mimetic that also prevented the PCP-induced terminal dUTP nick-end labeling of DNA fragments that was observed selectively in the cortex. These data suggest that PCP causes cell death by apoptosis selectively in the cortex, but not in the striatum, following either in vivo treatment of perinatal rat pups or in vitro treatment of corticostriatal slices. Further, cortical apoptosis induced by PCP negatively impacts striatal synaptogenesis, a process important in normal neural development. This deficit is probably caused by a reduction in corticostriatal neurotransmission. It is possible that the dysregulation of striatal synaptogenesis contributes to the behavioral abnormalities observed following perinatal PCP administration in vivo.
15058173: !synaptophysin [Granulosa cell tumor of the ovary metastasizing to adrenal gland 13 years after initial diagnosis--diagnostic difficulties and immunohistochemical study]. We report a case of 49 year old woman with metastasizing granulosa cell tumor of the ovary, adult type, to the right adrenal gland 13 years after initial diagnosis. The tumor was asymptomatic and was detected incidentally by ultrasonography. We performed histopathological analysis of the tumor using immunohistochemical methods. The morphological features, without clinical data, demanded differential diagnosis with a huge group of small cell neoplasms. The immunohistochemical examination: CKAE1 + AE1, CK7, LCA, S-100, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, HMB45, estrogen, progesterone, EMA-negative, vimentine, CD99 and NSE positive, together with clinical data, allowed to make the final diagnosis.
15057942: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: leading actor or walk-on role in synaptic vesicle exocytosis? Synaptophysin (Syp) was the first synaptic vesicle (SV) protein to be cloned. Since its discovery in 1985, it has been used by us and by many laboratories around the world as an invaluable marker to study the distribution of synapses in the brain and to uncover the basic features of the life cycle of SVs. Although single gene ablation of Syp does not lead to an overt phenotype, a large body of experimental data both in vitro and in vivo indicate that Syp (alone or in association with homologous proteins) is involved in multiple, important aspects of SV exo-endocytosis, including regulation of SNARE assembly into the fusion core complex, formation of the fusion pore initiating neurotransmitter release, activation of SV endocytosis and SV biogenesis. In this article, we summarise the main results of the studies on Syp carried out by our and other laboratories, and explain why we believe that Syp plays a major role in SV trafficking.
15057524: !synaptophysin Elevated S-adenosylhomocysteine in Alzheimer brain: influence on methyltransferases and cognitive function. Hyperhomocysteinemia is common in Alzheimer's disease and is negatively correlated with cognitive function. Hyperhomocysteinemia can increase S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH), a potent methyltransferase inhibitor. This study investigates the role of brain SAH in the cognitive and neurological disruption in Alzheimer's disease. SAH was significantly (26%) higher in prefrontal cortex of Alzheimer patients than normals. Brain homogenates from Alzheimer patients inhibited an exogenous methyltransferase 15% more than normal homogenates (P <.001). Brain SAH levels correlated (r=.508) with methyltransferase inhibition by brain homogenates. Methyltransferase inhibition by Alzheimer brain homogenates correlated inversely with cognitive function as determined by MMSE (r=-0.36). Phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) and catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) activities were more than 30% lower (P<0.001) in Alzheimer than normal brains. Brain PNMT activity correlated significantly with cognitive function (r=0.243), age of Alzheimer's onset (r=0.272), and choline acetyltransferase activity (r=0.333), but negatively with neurofibrillary tangles (r=-0.332). COMT activity also correlated significantly with cognitive function (r=0.324), age of disease onset (r=0.209), choline acetyltransferase activity (r=0.326), levels of synaptophysin (r=0.506), and negatively with tangles (r=-0.216 P=0.039). Elevated SAH in Alzheimer brain inhibits methyltransferases and is related to markers of disease progression and cognitive impairment.
15054072: !synaptophysin Localization of the glutamine transporter SNAT1 in rat cerebral cortex and neighboring structures, with a note on its localization in human cortex. SNAT1 mediates glutamine (Gln) influx into neurons and is believed to replenish the transmitters pools of glutamate (Glu) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). We investigated its distribution and cellular localization in the cerebral cortex and neighboring regions of rats and humans using light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical methods with specific antibodies. In the first somatic sensory cortex of rats and in areas 9, 10, 21 and 46 of the human cortex, numerous SNAT1-positive (+) cells were present in the cortical parenchyma and in the white matter; >95% of SNAT1+ cells were neurons, but some were astrocytes. Most SNAT1+ cells were pyramidal neurons, but numerous non-pyramidal neurons were also observed: SNAT1/GABA double-labeling studies showed that SNAT1 is expressed in all GABA+ neurons. SNAT1/synaptophysin studies showed that <0.1% of all synaptophysin+ puncta coexpressed SNAT1. SNAT1 immunoreactivity (ir) was also in leptomeninges, ependymal cells and choroid plexus. Electron microscopic studies showed that neuronal SNAT1 ir was almost exclusively observed in perikarya and dendritic profiles. SNAT1 ir was also in distal astrocytic processes, including end feet profiles, and in leptomeninges. These findings suggest that the major function of SNAT1 is not to replenish the transmitter pools of Glu and GABA.
15050722: !synaptophysin Decreases in soluble alpha-synuclein in frontal cortex correlate with cognitive decline in the elderly. Alpha-synuclein (ASN) is a presynaptic protein and major component of Lewy bodies. It is considered important in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but its relevance to progressive cognitive decline in aging is largely unknown. To address this issue, ASN immunoreactivity was measured in frontal cortex of elderly individuals with no cognitive impairment (NCI), mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early AD using a Western blot technique and a polyclonal antibody to ASN. ASN immunoreactivity was significantly lower in AD than in MCI and NCI, but there was no difference between MCI and NCI. The ASN immunoreactivity correlated with CERAD diagnosis, as well as Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE) score, global neuropsychologic z-score and some, but not all, frontal neuropsychology measures. Clinical correlations were stronger for ASN than synaptophysin immunoreactivity assessed in a similar manner. The correlation with MMSE was robust when NCI cases were considered separately, suggesting that decreases in soluble ASN may be an early feature of cognitive decline in aging and AD.
15050438: !synaptophysin Increased prefrontal D2 protein in Tourette syndrome: a postmortem analysis of frontal cortex and striatum. The precise neuropathological mechanism underlying Tourette syndrome (TS) is unknown. In order to evaluate a variety of proposed dopaminergic abnormalities, postmortem tissue samples were obtained from three individuals with TS (two typical males with childhood onset, ages 29 and 77, and a 62-year-old female with adult-onset) and three age- and sex-matched controls. Samples from caudate, putamen, ventral striatum, and prefrontal cortex (Brodmann's area 9, BA9) were analyzed by semiquantitative immunoblotting for relative densities of dopamine receptors (D1, D2), transporter (DAT), monoamine terminals (vesicular monoamine transporter type 2), vesicular docking and release proteins (VAMP-2, synaptotagmin, SNAP-25, syntaxin, synaptophysin), and receptors inhibiting dopamine release (alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, alpha-2A). Concentrations of monoamine neurotransmitters and their metabolites were assessed by high performance liquid chromatography. Data from each TS sample was calculated as a percent value of its control. Results showed that prefrontal cortex, rather than striatum, had the greatest number of changes in the two typical TS cases, including increases for D2, DAT, VAMP-2, and alpha-2A. All three TS subjects had increased densities of prefrontal D2 receptor protein, greater than 140% of their matched control. These results suggest the presence of a prefrontal-dopaminergic abnormality in TS and emphasize the need for a more specific focus on the frontal lobe.
15049510: !synaptophysin Endogenous dopamine maintains synchronous oscillation of intracellular calcium in primary cultured-mouse midbrain neurons. We demonstrated synchronous oscillation of intracellular Ca2+ in cultured-mouse mid-brain neurons. This synchronous oscillation was thought to result from spontaneous and synchronous neural bursts in a synaptic neural network. We also examined the role of endogenous dopamine in neural networks showing synchronous oscillation. Immunocytochemical study revealed a few tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive dopaminergic neurons, and that cultured neurons expressed synaptophysin and synapsin I. Western blot analyses comfirmed synaptophysin, TH, and 2 types of dopamine receptor (DR), D1R and D2R expression. The synchronous oscillation in midbrain neurons was abolished by the application of R(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5) as an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist. This result suggests that the synchronous oscillation in midbrain neurons requires glutamatergic transmissions, as was the case in previously reported cortical neurons. SCH-12679, a D1R antagonist, inhibited synchronous oscillation in midbrain neurons, while raclopride, a D2R antagonist, induced a transient increase of intracellular Ca2+ and inhibited synchronous oscillation. We consider that endogenous dopamine maintains synchronous oscillation of intracellular Ca2+ through D1R and D2R, and that these DRs regulate intracellular Ca2+in distinctly different ways. Synchronous oscillation of midbrain neurons would be a useful tool for in vitro researches into various neural disorders directly or indirectly caused by dopaminergic neurons.
15047210: !synaptophysin Small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the cervix: outcome and patterns of recurrence. To analyze the sites of relapse and overall survival in women with neuroendocrine marker-positive small cell carcinoma of the cervix.
15043310: !synaptophysin Pulmonary meningothelial-like nodules: a genotypic comparison with meningiomas. Minute pulmonary meningothelial-like nodules (MPMNs) are incidental interstitial pulmonary nodules. They share histologic, ultrastructural, and immunohistochemical features with meningiomas (MGs).
15043285: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinomas of the colon and rectum. This study was designed to review experience with neuroendocrine carcinomas of the colon and rectum at a single institution, with emphasis on the pathology and clinical characteristics of this uncommon malignancy.
15039914: !synaptophysin A preliminary evaluation of thyroid and respiratory tract neuroendocrine cells in the rat after experimental hypercalcaemia. The goal of this study was to investigate the influence of experimentally induced hypercalcaemia (after 100000 UI Vigantol and CaCl2) on neuroendocrine cells (NECs) in the thyroid and airways in the rat. After 24 h, 7 days and 14 days the thyroid and lungs were collected. Paraffin sections were immunocytochemically stained with specific antibodies against CGRP, calcitonin (CT) and synaptophysin (SY) in the airway NECs and thyroid C cells. The largest hypercalcaemia were observed in experimental rats after 7 days. More significant changes in the number and size of neuroendocrine cells were observed in the thyroid gland as well as in the airways. In the airways only a slight increase in the number of neuroepithelial bodies (NEBs) was observed, some of which gave evidence of hypertrophy symptoms.
15039443: !synaptophysin Co-expression of MG29 and ryanodine receptor leads to apoptotic cell death: effect mediated by intracellular Ca2+ release. Perturbation of intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis has been shown to regulate the process of cell proliferation and apoptosis. Our previous studies show that mitsugumin 29 (MG29), a synaptophysin-related protein localized in the triad junction of skeletal muscle, serves an essential role in muscle Ca2+ signaling by regulating the process of store-operated Ca2+ entry. Here we report a functional interaction between MG29 and the ryanodine receptor (RyR)/Ca2+ release channel. The purified MG29 protein enhances activity of the RyR/Ca2+ release channel incorporated into the lipid bilayer membrane. Co-expression of MG29 and RyR in Chinese hamster ovary cells leads to apoptotic cell death resulting from depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores, despite neither protein expression alone exhibits any significant effect on cell viability. In transient expression studies, the presence of RyR in the endoplasmic reticulum leads to retention of MG29 from the plasma membrane into the intracellular organelles. This functional interaction between MG29 and RyR could have important implications in the Ca2+ signaling processes of muscle cells. Our data also show that perturbation of intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis can serve as a key signal in the initiation of apoptosis.
15037694: !synaptophysin Early Abeta accumulation and progressive synaptic loss, gliosis, and tangle formation in AD brain. Pathologic changes in the Alzheimer disease (AD) brain occur in a hierarchical neuroanatomical pattern affecting cortical, subcortical, and limbic regions.
15018448: !synaptophysin Amniotic sac infection syndrome features fetal lung neuroendocrine cell hyperfunction. Neuroendocrine cells (NEC) are abundant in fetal and neonatal lungs, but reduced in infants with hyaline membrane disease. Perinatal neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia (NCH) has been reported in the hypoplastic lung in diaphragmatic hernia, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and Wilson-Mikity syndrome. Since we are unaware of any reports on NCH in fetal inflammatory conditions, this report addresses the NEC in fetuses with congenital pneumonia. Twenty-one fetuses/neonates with congenital pneumonia, autopsied between 1995 and 2001, were compared to 21 fetuses without a congenital infection matched for gestational age. Lung sections were immunostained for chromogranin, bombesin, calcitonin, and synaptophysin. Proportions of immunopositive cells lining 20 consecutive bronchioles calculated from digital images were significantly higher in the study than the control group for chromogranin (1.8 vs. 0.8%, P = 2.4 E-06), calcitonin (1.2 vs. 0.7%, P = 0.005), and bombesin (1.1 vs. 0.7%, P = 0.005). There was no difference in synaptophysin (11.7% vs. 12.6%, P = 0.07). The absence of significant differences in the synaptophysin ratio excludes simple NCH in the study group. The synchronous increase in three neurohormones is indicative of NEC hyperfunction, due to either altered enzymatic inactivation by neutral endopeptidase, known to be reduced in adult lung inflammation, or by an increase in expression of the neurohormone genes. These data indicate that NEC hyperfunction may be responsible for the deranged fetal/neonatal lung function and circulatory adaptation, and contribute to the lethality of the amniotic sac infection syndrome.
15017037: !synaptophysin Pathologic and immunohistochemical findings in a feline aortic body tumor. The presence of a heart-base tumor was diagnosed by ultrasound imaging in a 10-year-old, female, domestic shorthaired cat presenting with dyspnea and pleural effusion because of the presence of a modified transudate. Hematology and clinical chemistry were unremarkable. The owner elected euthanasia. At necropsy, a locally extensive, firm, multilobulated nodule surrounded the pulmonary vein. The tumor was composed of lobules of large polygonal cells separated by a fine fibrovascular stroma. Tumor cells infiltrated the myocardium, and neoplastic emboli were present, but no metastases were macroscopically detectable. Tumor cells were immunohistochemically positive for chromogranin A, for synaptophysin and, faintly, for neuron-specific enolase and negative for vimentin, cytokeratin, alpha smooth muscle actin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, thyreoglobulin, and calcitonin. Based on histologic and immunohistochemical findings, the diagnosis of chemodectoma was made.
15015664: !synaptophysin Single brain metastases of carcinoid tumors. Carcinoid tumors are one among the most uncommon source of metastatic lesion to the brain. Four cases of single brain metastases from carcinoid tumors operated upon and verified by both histology and immunohistochemical staining are reported. The site of the primary carcinoid tumor was the lung in two cases, ileum in one and the left colon in another. The location of the brain metastasis was supratentorial in two cases and cerebellar in two. A high vascular tumor with large blood channels was found at surgery. Immunohistochemical studies showed in all four cases positive staining for synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranine and cytocheratine and negative staining for S-100 and HMB-45. The postoperative survival time ranged from 5 to 18 months. The epidemiological, surgical and pathological features of brain metastases from carcinoid tumors are also discussed from the analysis of 44 well-documented cases reported in the literature.
15010880: !synaptophysin Comparative study of primary mammary small cell carcinoma, carcinoma with endocrine features and invasive ductal carcinoma. Mammary small cell carcinoma (SmCC) is a very rare neoplasm with a poor prognosis compared with other invasive carcinomas. We studied the histological and immunohistochemical profiles of two cases of mammary SmCC, and compared them with those of five cases of carcinoma with endocrine features (CEF) and five cases of invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), to elucidate the correct diagnosis of mammary SmCC. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed with antibodies against cytokeratins (CKAE1/AE3, CK34betaE12, CKCAM5.2, CK7, CK8, CK19, CK20), epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), vimentin, CD10, neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM; CD56), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin A, S-100 protein, carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA), E-cadherin, N-cadherin, thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1), p53, estrogen (ER), progesterone (PR), HER2/neu, bcl-2, synaptophysin, calcitonin and Leu7. SmCCs were diffusely and strongly positive for NCAM in comparison with CEFs and IDCs. SmCCs were negative for vimentin, whereas CEFs and IDCs were positive. Neuro-endocrine carcinomas, including SmCCs and CEFs, were diffusely and strongly positive for NSE, compared with IDCs. Moreover, neuroendocrine carcinomas were negative for CK34betaE12, CK20 and CD10, whereas IDCs were positive. Our study suggests that NCAM and vimentin are useful markers for the diagnosis of mammary SmCC. CK34betaE12, NSE, CD10, CK20 and chromogranin A appear to be useful for differentiating neuroendocrine carcinoma from IDCs.
15010693: !synaptophysin Abeta(25-35)-induced memory impairment, axonal atrophy, and synaptic loss are ameliorated by M1, A metabolite of protopanaxadiol-type saponins. We previously screened neurite outgrowth activities of several Ginseng drugs in human neuroblastoma, and demonstrated that protopanaxadiol (ppd)-type saponins were active constituents. Since ppd-type saponins are known to be completely metabolized to 20-O-beta-D-glucopyranosyl-20(S)-protopanaxadiol (M1) by intestinal bacteria when taken orally, M1 and ginsenoside Rb1, as a representative of ppd-type saponins, were examined for cognitive disorder. In a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by Abeta(25-35) i.c.v. injection, impaired spatial memory was recovered by p.o. administration of ginsenoside Rb1 or M1. Although the expression levels of phosphorylated NF-H and synaptophysin were reduced in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus of Abeta(25-35)-injected mice, their levels in ginsenoside Rb1- and M1-treated mice were almost completely recovered up to control levels. Potencies of the effects were not different between ginsenoside Rb1 and M1 when given orally, suggesting that most of the ginsenoside Rb1 may be metabolized to M1, and M1 is an active principal of ppd-type saponins for the memory improvement. In cultured rat cortical neurons, M1 showed extension activity of axons, but not dendrites. The axon-specific outgrowth was seen even when neuritic atrophy had already progressed in response to administration of Abeta(25-35) as well as in the normal condition. These results suggest that M1 has axonal extension activity in degenerated neurons, and improve memory disorder and synaptic loss induced by Abeta(25-35). M1 was shown to be effective in vitro and in vivo, indicating that Ginseng drugs containing ppd-type saponins may reactivate neuronal function in AD by p.o. administration.
15009650: !synaptophysin Aggregate formation and synaptic abnormality induced by DSCR1. Aggregation of conformation-abnormal peptides probably plays a key role in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases. DSCR1 Down syndrome (DS) critical region 1, was identified from a chromosomal region (21q22.1-q22.2) for the clinical manifestations of DS when an extra-copy is present. We report that expression of DSCR1 in several cell types, including primary neurons, causes microtubule-dependent aggresome-like inclusion body formation. Disease-associated huntingtin (Q148) and ataxin-3 (Q84) co-localize with DSCR1 aggregates. Neurons bearing DSCR1 aggregates show reduced synaptophysin staining in processes. DSCR1 residues 31-90 constitute an aggregation-prone domain that is predicted to form a hydrophobic patch on the protein surface when residues 1-30 are removed. This study identifies a novel function of DSCR1 that may underlie DS neuropathology.
15001999: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in pure type mammary mucinous carcinoma is associated with favorable histologic and immunohistochemical parameters. Mucinous carcinoma of the breast is a specific good prognostic type malignancy occurring in elderly patients. Neuroendocrine differentiation has long been described in mucinous carcinoma, but the significance of such finding is uncertain. We evaluated the neuroendocrine differentiation profiles of 38 cases of pure mucinous carcinoma and compared the clinicopathological differences between those with and those without neuroendocrine differentiation. The parameters assessed included patients' age, tumor size, nuclear grade, axillary lymph node status at time of diagnosis, percentage area of intratumoral mucin, and the expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors, cerbB2 oncoprotein, and three neuroendocrine markers, namely neurone-specific enolase, chromogranin, and synaptophysin by immunohistochemistry. Patients' outcome and follow-up period were also documented. Of the 38 cases of pure mucinous carcinoma, 28, 11 and six cases showed positive staining for 1, 2 and 3 of the neuroendocrine markers. For all the groups with variable neuroendocrine differentiation and compared to those without such differentiation, they all showed older patients' age, higher proportion of tumors with lower nuclear grade, lower incidence of axillary lymph node metastasis, a higher progesterone receptor, and lower cerbB2 oncoprotein expression. No difference was detected between tumor size, intratumoral mucinous area, and estrogen receptor status. In all, 37 patients did not have distant metastases or local recurrences at the end of follow-up period, while one patient with coexisting high-grade ductal carcinoma in situ at time of diagnosis died of breast carcinoma. Our findings suggest that the identification of neuroendocrine differentiation in pure mucinous carcinoma is associated with more favorable histologic and immunohistochemical parameters.
14998630: !synaptophysin Long-term subthreshold electrical stimulation of the left stellate ganglion and a canine model of sudden cardiac death. We sought to develop a high-yield canine model of sudden cardiac death (SCD).
14991386: !synaptophysin Pigmented central neurocytoma. Central neurocytoma is a low-grade neuronal neoplasm that occurs most often within the lateral ventricles. We report the case of a 60-year-old woman who presented with gait problems, headache and memory loss. Preoperative evaluation demonstrated a heterogeneous, hypervascular and partially cystic mass in the left lateral ventricle. Histopathological examination revealed characteristic features of central neurocytoma, including immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, as well as the unusual feature of abundant pigment in the cytoplasm of tumor cells. Special stains revealed iron, consistent with hemosiderin, but found no evidence of melanin or melanosomes. Previous reports of pigmented central neurocytoma have described the presence of lipofuscin or neuromelanin. To our knowledge, the present case represents the first example of pigmented central neurocytoma secondary to hemosiderin deposition.
14990609: !synaptophysin Carcinosarcoma with a large cell neuroendocrine epithelial component: first report of an unusual biphasic tumour of the urinary bladder. This article describes the first reported case of carcinosarcoma of the urinary bladder with a large cell neuroendocrine epithelial component. A 61 year old man presented with gross haematuria and underwent resection of a biphasic bladder tumour. The malignant epithelial component showed large cell neuroendocrine differentiation with immunohistochemical reactivity for neurone specific enolase, synaptophysin, and chromogranin. The malignant mesenchymal component did not show specific differentiation by histological or immunohistochemical examination. The differential diagnosis of biphasic tumours in the urinary bladder is discussed, along with a review of the literature.
14990608: !synaptophysin Gastric neuroendocrine carcinoma arising from heterotopic pancreatic tissue. An 85 year old man presented with symptoms of dyspepsia and increase in stool frequency of two months duration. Upper endoscopy revealed an ulcer and the biopsy was interpreted as carcinoma with endocrine features. A formal distal gastrectomy was planned, but intraoperatively, because of the patient's condition, a wedge resection was performed. Histology revealed a neuroendocrine tumour (grade 1), located mainly in the submucosa, which had caused mucosal attenuation and ulceration. Associated with the tumour and at its periphery was heterotopic pancreatic tissue composed of acini, ducts, and endocrine cells. The tumour was strongly positive for chromogranin and focally for synaptophysin. There was no associated chronic atrophic gastritis or G cell hyperplasia. A discrete focus of high grade neuroendocrine carcinoma (grade 3) within the typical (grade 1) neuroendocrine tumour was also present. This case illustrates a grade 1 neuroendocrine carcinoma, with a small grade 3 focus, arising within or intimately associated with heterotopic pancreatic tissue in the stomach. Although the two entities may be separate, their close topographical association favours the possibility of neuroendocrine carcinoma arising from the heterotopic pancreas. Pathologists should be aware of the occurrence of pancreatic heterotopia in the stomach and the association of carcinoma with it.
14988579: !synaptophysin Effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment and forced arm use on functional motor recovery after small cortical ischemia. Both the administration of growth factors and physical therapy such as forced arm use (FAU) are promising approaches to enhance recovery after stroke. We explored the effects of these therapies on behavioral recovery and molecular markers of regeneration after experimental ischemia.
14977249: !synaptophysin Degenerative axonal changes in the hippocampus and amygdala in Parkinson's disease. The morphological background of cognitive and emotional impairments in Parkinson's disease (PD) has not yet been fully explained. We evaluated the expression of synaptic proteins: alpha- and beta-synuclein, synaptophysin and synaptobrevin and ultrastructural changes of perikaryons and axons in limbic structures at post-mortem from cases of PD to estimate degenerative axonal pathology in the hippocampus and amygdala [corrected]. Limbic structures (enthorinal cortex, hippocampus, and amygdala) are essential for the cognitive processes and emotional behaviour. We found that presynaptic axon pathology is mostly connected with hippocampal CA2-3 and dentate hilar regions as well as with the cortical and medio-central complexes of amygdala. Heterogeneous immunoreactivity of alpha-synuclein and diversified ultrastructure of Lewy bodies (LBs) and Lewy neurites (LNs) indicate their consecutive developmental stages. We observed an excessive perineuroneal expression of synaptophysin in the dentate hilar region in all PD cases, except one. This suggests that the dysfunction of synapses in this region may result from axonal pathology. Our study indicates a relation between cognitive and behavioural symptomatology in PD and alpha-synuclein dependent axonal pathology in the hippocampus and amygdala.
14977068: !synaptophysin Acute ethanol intoxication in a model of traumatic brain injury: the protective role of moderate doses demonstrated by immunoreactivity of synaptophysin in hippocampal neurons. Although ethanol intoxication is reported to be a complicating factor in traumatic brain injury, some recent studies are indicating its possible protective role especially at lower doses. Ethanol inhibition of NMDA-mediated excitotoxicity which predominates at lower doses is believed to be responsible for this protection. The aim of this study was to demonstrate this neuroprotective role of alcohol using immunoreactivity for synaptophysin as an indirect marker for severity of injury. Acute ethanol intoxication at moderate doses was performed 2 h prior to trauma. Severe traumatic brain injury was administrated using an impact acceleration model in Sprague-Dawley rats. At post-traumatic 48th hour, immunorectivity for synapthophysin in the rat hippocampi was evaluated under light microscopy. According to our results there were slight increases in immunoreactivity for synaptophysin in the stratum oriens and striatum radiatum of CA1 subfield of hippocampus when ethanol was administered prior to trauma comparing to moderate increase in the trauma-only group. On the other hand vacuolar degeneration and red neuron formation was more prominent in the pyramidal cell layer of CA1 and CA3 when ethanol was not administered. Ethanol may have a neuroprotective role when administered at moderate doses prior to traumatic brain injury. This effect of ethanol may primarily be due to inhibition of NMDA receptors.
14871995: !synaptophysin Phenylbutyrate and phenylacetate induce differentiation and inhibit proliferation of human medulloblastoma cells. Phenylbutyrate (PB) and phenylacetate (PA) have antiproliferative and differentiation-inducing effects in malignant tumors, and had been evaluated in Phase I/II clinical trials. This study was undertaken to evaluate their antitumor activities in medulloblastomas.
14766267: !synaptophysin Primary Ewing's sarcoma-primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the vagina. Only three cases of Ewing's sarcoma-primitive neuroectodermal tumor (ES-PNET) occurring in the vagina have been previously reported.
14764067: !synaptophysin Aberrant neurofilament protein and synaptophysin expression in malignant melanoma of the nasal cavity. 
14763575: !synaptophysin Small cell undifferentiated carcinoma of the submandibular gland with neuroendocrine features. This article reports the clinical, histopathologic, and immunohistochemical findings in a case of small cell undifferentiated carcinoma of the submandibular gland. The tumor was composed of anaplastic cells slightly larger than lymphocytes without ductal differentiation. On immunohistochemical analysis, the tumor contained cells that reacted positively with antibodies to cytokeratin, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and chromogranin. The present case supports the hypothesis that small cell undifferentiated carcinomas of the salivary glands arise from presumed multipotential ductal stem cells. When this tumor entity is located on the salivary glands, it appears to behave less aggressively than when it is a primary tumor of the bronchial tree.
14757523: !synaptophysin Synaptic lesions and synaptophysin distribution change in spinal motoneurons at early stages following sciatic nerve transection in neonatal rats. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the rate of synaptic stripping, changes in the synaptophysin distribution, and synapses ultrastructure of spinal motoneurons at early stages of sciatic nerve axotomy in newborn rats. Seven groups were used in the experiment, which were sacrificed after 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48 and 72 h. L4-L6 spinal segments from the animals of the above groups were prepared and processed for indirect immunoperoxidase. Accordingly, tissue samples were prepared from similar groups for routine electron microscopy. Synaptophysin-labeled motoneurons were classified into intact, partial, cytoplasmic and negative patterns. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in both the axotomized and non-axotomized sides showed no negative pattern at the first three time points, while this pattern significantly increased in the 12, 24, 48 and 72 h groups at the axotomized side, moreover, there was a progressive reduction in the percentage of the intact pattern at the axotomized side. The percentages of the cytoplasmic and partial patterns also increased during the time course. The rate of synaptic stripping was five time higher in the axotomized side than that of non-axotomized side. The results of the ultrastructural study showed synaptic membranes irregularity, synaptic vesicles displacement, synaptic membrane detachment and ensheathment of degenerated synapses. The conclusion of the study was that early synaptophysin immunoreactivity changes were seen in both the axotomized and non-axotomized sides, but the rate of change in the axotomized side was more rapid than that of the non-axotomized side.
14752677: !synaptophysin Local dexamethasone improves the intestinal lesions of gastroschisis in chick embryos. Eviscerated bowel in gastroschisis (Gx) undergoes changes that lead to dysfunctions and create management difficulties. This study tests the hypothesis that exposure of the eviscerated bowel of chick embryos with Gx to dexamethasone might have beneficial effects on the parietal lesions.
14751282: !synaptophysin Early increase of apoptosis-linked gene-2 interacting protein X in areas of kainate-induced neurodegeneration. Apoptosis-linked gene-2 interacting protein X (Alix) is thought to be involved in both cell death and vesicular trafficking. We examined Alix expression 2 h, 6 h and 24 h after triggering seizure-dependent neuronal death by i.p. kainic acid injection. In the hippocampus, intense, transient immunolabelling was observed in the strata lucidum, oriens and radiatum, areas of high synaptic activity. The similarity of this distribution to those of synaptophysin and endophilin suggests a presynaptic localisation. Alix labelling was increased in neuronal cell bodies in kainate-sensitive regions before or concomitant with the first signs of oedema and/or neuronal eosinophilia. The increase persisted 24 h after kainate-injection in CA3 and the piriform cortex which are areas with massive swelling and numerous pyknotic neurons. This suggests that Alix may play an early role in the mechanisms leading to cell death. Taken together, our results suggest that Alix may be a molecular link between synaptic functioning and neuronal death.
14746891: !synaptophysin Reticulon3 expression in rat optic and olfactory systems. Reticulon3 (RTN3), which belongs to a reticulon family, is first isolated from the retina, but little is known about its function. We investigated the distribution of RTN3 in rat retina and olfactory bulb by immunohistochemistry. In the retina, Müller cells highly expressed RTN3. The expression level of RTN3 in the optic nerve was high in the embryo, but low in the adult. In the olfactory system, RTN3 was highly expressed in the olfactory nerve both in developmental and adult stages. Further, RTN3 was co-localized with synaptophysin in tubulovesicular structures in the developing axon of cultured cortical neurons. These results suggest that RTN3 may play an important role in the developing axons and also in some glial cells such as Müller cells.
14745252: !synaptophysin [A case of gangliocytic paraganglioma in duodenum]. Duodenal gangliocytic paraganglioma derived from neural crest is a peculiar neuroendocrine tumor. It is incidentally found during radiographic studies or due to gastrointestinal hemorrhage caused by frequent ulceration of the overlying mucosa. Most lesions are pedunculated and submucosal with distinctive histology consisting of endocrine cells, ganglion cells and spindle-shaped Schwann cells. We experienced a duodenal gangliocytic paraganglioma in a 40-year-old woman presenting with episodes of melena. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed a submucosal ulcerated tumor in the second portion of duodenum and a biopsy confirmed gangliocytic paraganglioma. The tumor was enucleated through a duodenotomy. It's size was 5.5 X 3 X 1.5 cm sized and revealed positive cellular reaction for chromogranin, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, and neurofilament by immunohistochemistry. The majority of the reported duodenal gangliocytic paraganglioma were of benign nature. Therefore, radical surgery or a lymph node dissection could be avoided if that disease was confirmed. However, thorough investigation for lymph node metastasis and postoperative follow-up are needed. We report the first case of a duodenal gangliocytic paraganglioma in Korea with a review of literature.
14744873: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical classification and functional morphology of human choroidal ganglion cells. To characterize human choroidal ganglion cells (CGCs) further, regarding their immunohistochemical and ultrastructural appearance and their pre- and postsynaptic connections.
14743441: !synaptophysin Retinoic acid-mediated induction of neurons and glial cells from human umbilical cord-derived hematopoietic stem cells. Recent studies reporting trans-differentiation of mononucleated cells derived from human umbilical cord blood into neuronal cells aroused interest among investigators for their clinical implication and significance in regenerative medicine. In the present study, purified populations of hematopoietic stem cells were isolated via magnetic bead sorting and fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS) using a specific CD133 antibody, a cell type-specific marker for hematopoietic stem cells, and grown in culture in the presence of retinoic acid (RA). CD133+ hematopoietic stem cells expressed neuronal and glial phenotypes after RA treatment. RT-PCR analysis indicated that the RA treated CD133+ cells expressed mRNA transcripts for ATP-binding cassettes transporter ABCG2 (a universal stem cell marker), nestin (a specific cell type marker for neural stem cells), Musashi1 (a specific marker for neural stem cells) and RA receptors (RAR) including RAR-alpha, RAR-beta, and retinoid X receptor (RXR)-gamma. RA-treated CD133+ cells expressed mRNA transcripts for neuron-specific markers neurofilament proteins (NF-L, -M, -H) and synaptophysin as determined by RT-PCR, structural proteins characteristic of neurons including tubulin beta III and neuron specific enolase (NSE) by Western blot, and neuron-specific markers NeuN and microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP2) by immunocytochemistry. RA-treated CD133+ cells also expressed the astrocyte-specific marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), as demonstrated by RT-PCR, Western blot, and immunocytochemistry. In addition, RA-treated CD133+ cells expressed cell type-specific markers for oligodendrocytes including myelin basic protein (MBP) as shown by RT-PCR, proteolipid protein (PLP) by Western blot analysis, and cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (CNPase) by immunostaining. Upregulated expression of several basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors important for early neurogenesis, including Otx2, Pax6, Wnt1, Olig2, Hash1 and NeuroD1, was also demonstrated in CD133+ cells after RA treatment. These results indicate that human cord blood-derived CD133+ hematopoietic stem cells could trans-differentiate into neural cell types of neuron-like cells, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes by RA treatment.
14739487: !synaptophysin Practical markers used in the diagnosis of neuroendocrine tumors. Although there are many broad-spectrum neuroendocrine markers, chromogranin and synaptophysin are the principal ones used in diagnostic pathology. Other broad-spectrum neuroendocrine markers, transcription factors, and specific peptide markers used in the diagnosis of neuroendocrine tumors are reviewed. The use of different keratins in the differential diagnosis of endocrine tumors is also presented. The importance of using low-molecular-weight keratins such as CAM5.2 to avoid false-negative results in the workup of some neuroendocrine tumors is emphasized. Finally, the use of in situ hybridization in diagnostic pathology is briefly summarized.
14736845: !synaptophysin The transition from development to motor control function in the corticospinal system. During early postnatal development, corticospinal (CS) system stimulation, electrical or transcranial magnetic, is minimally effective in producing muscle contraction, despite having axon terminals that excite spinal neurons. Later, after stimulation becomes more effective, the cortical motor representation develops, and movements the system controls in maturity are expressed. We determined whether development of temporal facilitation (response enhancement produced by the second of a pair of pyramidal tract stimuli, or a higher stimulus multiple of a train of stimuli) correlated with these changes. Facilitation of the monosynaptic CS response was larger in older kittens and adults than younger kittens. When facilitation was strong, strong motor responses were evoked by pyramidal stimulation with small currents and few pulses. With strong facilitation in older kittens, corticospinal axon varicosities colocalize synaptophysin like adults, suggesting a presynaptic mechanism. With effective facilitation, control signals from the cortex can be sufficiently effective to provoke muscle contraction for guiding movements.
14732376: !synaptophysin Primary anaplastic glio-neuronal tumor of the pineal gland: a new type of pineal neoplasm? Tumors of the pineal gland are relatively rare. Most are solid, infiltrative lesions characterized by either germ cell, glial, or pineal parenchymal origin. To our knowledge, none have been described that contain an admixture of both anaplastic glial and neuronal elements.
14729128: !synaptophysin Hypothalamus of the human fetus. The organization of the human hypothalamus was studied in 31 brains aged from 9 weeks of gestation (w.g.) to newborn, using immunohistochemistry for parvalbumin, calbindin, calretinin, neuropeptideY, neurophysin, growth associated protein GAP43, synaptophysin and glycoconjugate, 3-fucosyl-N-acetyl-lactosamine. Morphogenetic periods 9-10 and 11-14 w.g. are characterized by differentiating structures of the lateral hypothalamic zone, which give rise to the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and posterior hypothalamus. The perifornical nucleus differentiates at 18 w.g., from LH neurons which remain anchored in the perifornical position while most of the LH cells are displaced laterally. A transient supramamillary nucleus was apparent at 14 w.g. but not after 16 w.g. As the ventromedial nucleus differentiated at 13-16 w.g., three principal parts; the ventrolateral, the dorsomedial and the shell were revealed by distribution of calbindin, calretinin and GAP43 immunoreactivity. Morphogenetic periods 15-17, 18-23 and 24-33 w.g. are characterized by differentiation of the hypothalamic core, in which calbindin positive neurons revealed the medial preoptic nucleus at 16 w.g. abutted laterally by the intermediate nucleus. The dorsomedial nucleus was clearly defined at 10 w.g. and consisted of compact and diffuse parts, an organization that was lost after 15 w.g. Differentiation of the medial mamillary body into lateral and medial was seen at 13-16 w.g. Morphogenetic period after 34 w.g. was marked by differentiation of midline zone structures including suprachiasmatic, arcuate and paraventricular nuclei. The findings of the present study provide for a better understanding of the structural organization of the adult human hypothalamus, produce new evidence for homologies with the better studied rat hypothalamus and underpin staging system for fetal human hypothalamic development.
14726964: !synaptophysin CD56-positive cells with or without synaptophysin expression are recognized in the pancreatic duct epithelium: a study with adult and fetal tissues and specimens from chronic pancreatitis. We observed the distribution of CD56+ epithelial cells in the pancreatic duct system using 25 fetal, one infantile, 3 normal adult, 4 diabetic, and 8 chronically inflamed pancreatic tissue samples. In the early stage of gestation (12 to 17 weeks), CD56+ cells were commonly seen in the immature tubular structures. They were often continuous to pancreatic islets, and their distribution was similar to that of synaptophysin (Syn)+ cells, suggesting that they are precursors of islet neogenesis. Their number decreased in proportion to gestational age. Instead, from 24 weeks of gestation, luminal cell clusters that were common in interlobular ducts revealed CD56+. These cell clusters were unrelated to islet neogenesis and Syn expression. Similar CD56+ luminal cell clusters were also observed in cases of chronic pancreatitis, whereas they were scarce in normal adult and diabetic tissues. CD56+ cells were also occasionally seen in intralobular ducts, intercalated ducts, and centroacinar cells in cases of chronic pancreatitis. We conclude that there are two types of CD56+ epithelial cells in the pancreatic duct system: CD56+ endocrine cells are numerous during the early stage of gestation, when islet neogenesis appears, while CD56+ luminal cells may represent developmental and regenerative changes of pancreatic ducts.
14724070: !synaptophysin Chromogranin peptides in Alzheimer's disease. Synaptic disturbances may play a key role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease. To characterize differential synaptic alterations in the brains of Alzheimer patients, chromogranin A, chromogranin B and secretoneurin were applied as soluble constituents for large dense core vesicles, synaptophysin as a vesicle membrane marker and calbindin as a cytosolic protein. In controls, chromogranin B and secretogranin are largely co-contained in interneurons, whereas chromogranin A is mostly found in pyramidal neurons. In Alzheimer's disease, about 30% of beta-amyloid plaques co-labelled with chromogranin A, 20% with secretoneurin and 15% with chromogranin B. Less than 5% of beta-amyloid plaques contained synaptophysin or calbindin, respectively. Semiquantitative immunohistochemistry revealed a significant loss for chromogranin B- and secretoneurin-like immunoreactivity in the dorsolateral, the entorhinal, and orbitofrontal cortex. Chromogranin A displayed more complex changes. It was the only chromogranin peptide to be expressed in glial fibrillary acidic protein containing cells. About 40% of chromogranin A immunopositive plaques and extracellular deposits were surrounded and pervaded by activated microglia. The present study demonstrates a loss of presynaptic proteins involved in distinct steps of exocytosis. An imbalanced availability of chromogranins may be responsible for impaired neurotransmission and a reduced functioning of dense core vesicles. Chromogranin A is likely to be a mediator between neuronal, glial and inflammatory mechanisms found in Alzheimer disease.
14720435: !synaptophysin [Biologic significance of thyroid transcription factor-1 and surfactant protein expression in pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma]. To investigate the biologic significance of thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1) and surfactant protein A (SP-A) and SP-B expression in pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma (PSH).
14720139: !synaptophysin Atypical carcinoid (neuroendocrine carcinoma) of the gingiva: counterpart of a laryngeal tumor. Intraoral localization of neuroendocrine carcinoma, usually called Merkel cell carcinoma, is extremely rare. A case of neuroendocrine carcinoma that was a counterpart of laryngeal neuroendocrine carcinoma but was not a Merkel cell carcinoma, occurring at the mandibular gingiva in a 69-year-old Japanese man, is described. The tumor formed a cauliflower-like mass, measuring 20 x 20 mm, with a small area of necrosis. A computed tomography image showed metastasis in the right submandibular lymph node. Histopathologically, the tumor was composed of immature, small round cells that formed anastomosing trabecular nests. Few mitotic and no necrotic features were observed in the nests. Immunohistochemical studies showed positive staining for chromogranin, synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase in the tumor nests. We diagnosed it as an atypical carcinoid (neuroendocrine carcinoma), a counterpart to the same type of tumor occurring in the larynx. The present case is an extremely rare case of neuroendocrine carcinoma without the feature of Merkel cell carcinoma arising from the gingiva.
14716776: !synaptophysin Large cell neuroblastoma: a distinct phenotype of neuroblastoma with aggressive clinical behavior. Among cases of undifferentiated and poorly differentiated tumors in the neuroblastoma (Schwannian stroma-poor) category, the authors histologically identified a group of rare tumors, known as large cell neuroblastomas (LCNs), that are composed of large cells with sharply outlined nuclear membranes and 1-4 prominent nucleoli.
14715936: !synaptophysin The secretory granule-associated protein CAPS2 regulates neurotrophin release and cell survival. Neurotrophins are key modulators of various neuronal functions, including differentiation, survival, and synaptic plasticity, but the molecules that regulate their secretion are poorly understood. We isolated a clone that is predominantly expressed in granule cells of postnatally developing mouse cerebellum, which turned out to be a paralog of CAPS (Ca2+-dependent activator protein for secretion), and named CAPS2. CAPS2 is enriched on vesicular structures of presynaptic parallel fiber terminals of granule cells connecting postsynaptic spines of Purkinje cell dendrites. Vesicle factions affinity-purified by the CAPS2 antibody from mouse cerebella contained significant amounts of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and chromogranin B but not marker proteins for synaptic vesicle synaptophysin and synaptotagmin. In cerebellar primary cultures, punctate CAPS2 immunoreactivities are primarily colocalized with those of NT-3 and BDNF and near those of a postsynaptic marker, postsynaptic density-95, around dendritic arborization of Purkinje cells. Exogenously expressed CAPS2 enhanced release of exogenous NT-3 and BDNF from PC12 cells and endogenous NT-3 from cultured granule cells in a depolarization-dependent manner. Moreover, the overexpression of CAPS2 in granule cells promotes the survival of Purkinje cells in cerebellar cultures. Thus, we suggest that CAPS2 mediates the depolarization-dependent release of NT-3 and BDNF from granule cells, leading to regulation in cell differentiation and survival during cerebellar development.
14708000: !synaptophysin Differential regulation of synaptic vesicle proteins by antidepressant drugs. Synaptic vesicle proteins (SVP) play a critical role in neurotransmitter release and neural plasticity, and have been implicated in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders such as depression. Antidepressant drugs not only alter the level of neurotransmitters, but also modulate de novo gene transcription and synthesis of proteins involved in neural plasticity. In order to investigate the effects of antidepressant compounds on SVP-mRNA levels, the expressions of synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, VAMP, and synapsin-I were analysed by in situ hybridization in rats which had been treated with desipramine, fluoxetine, tranylcypromine, or saline. The results demonstrate that chronic treatment with fluoxetine and tranylcypromine leads to an increased expression of synaptophysin, but decreased expression of synaptotagmin and VAMP in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Additionally, synapsin I-mRNA levels in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex are significantly reduced in tranylcypromine-treated animals. This identifies SVP genes as target genes of antidepressant treatment.
14707870: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma of the urinary bladder: a lesion that may be misdiagnosed as urothelial carcinoma in transurethral resection specimens. Paraganglioma of the urinary bladder is a rare tumor with characteristic histologic and immunohistochemical features. However, in our experience, it may be misdiagnosed as urothelial cancer because of 1) its frequent involvement of the muscularis propria; 2) morphology that may suggest urothelial cancer in transurethral resection specimens, particularly if there are artifactual changes induced by that procedure; 3) failure of pathologists to include it in their differential diagnosis when evaluating a bladder tumor; and 4) only a minority of the cases are associated with symptoms that might prompt consideration of the diagnosis. Distinction between paraganglioma and urothelial cancer is important because of likely different therapeutic options. In this report, we describe our experience with the histopathology of paragangliomas of the urinary bladder with emphasis on the histologic features that have led to their being misdiagnosed as conventional urothelial cancer and, most importantly, those that will help pathologists recognize this rare tumor of the bladder. Fifteen cases of paraganglioma of the urinary bladder were studied, 11 of them consult cases. They affected patients (8 male, 7 female) with a mean age of 49.5 years; only two had symptoms suggestive of the diagnosis, including hypertension during cystoscopy and episodic headache. Three consult cases were submitted with a diagnosis of "transitional cell carcinoma" and 4 with a diagnosis only of "bladder tumor." Histologically, "zellballen" and diffuse patterns were present in 12 (80%) and 3 (20%) of the cases. A delicate fibrovascular stroma was obvious in 14 (93%) cases. Other patterns included irregular nests and pseudorosette formation. Tumor necrosis, significant cautery artifact, and muscularis propria invasion were present in 1 (7%), 3 (20%) cases, and 10 (67%) cases, respectively. All 15 tumors were composed of large polygonal cells with abundant granular cytoplasm. Focal clear cells were present in 3 (20%). The nuclei were mostly uniform, although occasional pleomorphic nuclei were seen in 6 (40%) cases, and 2 (13%) had frequent pleomorphic nuclei. Mitoses were rare overall, and no abnormal mitotic figures were found. The major histologic features that led to misdiagnosis included a diffuse growth pattern, focal clear cells, necrosis, and muscularis propria invasion, with significant cautery artifact compounding the diagnostic problems. Immunohistochemically, 2 of 2 tumors were positive for neuron-specific enolase, 9 of 10 tumors for chromogranin, and 2 of 3 tumors for synaptophysin; 3 of 3 tumors were negative for cytokeratin and 1 of 1 tumor negative for HMB-45. Paraganglioma of the urinary bladder may be misdiagnosed as urothelial cancer, but a careful search for the characteristic histologic features and, if necessary, supportive immunohistochemical studies, should lead to a correct diagnosis.
14698749: !synaptophysin Neuronal calcium sensor-1 is expressed by dorsal root ganglion cells, is axonally transported to central and peripheral terminals, and is concentrated at nodes. Neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1) is a member of the EF-hand calcium-binding protein superfamily which has been implicated in the modulation of a number of neuronal functions. In this study we have examined the expression of NCS-1 in adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. NCS-1 immunoreactivity was present in most DRG neurons, including many calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) expressing ones. NCS-1 showed some colocalization with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin and underwent both anterograde and retrograde axonal transport. NCS-1 immunoreactivity was also present in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, and in peripheral cutaneous terminals innervating blood vessels, where it was coexpressed with CGRP. In addition, NCS-1 in peripheral nerves was concentrated at nodes and adjoining paranodes. These results suggest novel roles for NCS-1, particularly in relation to channel function at nodes and to the peripheral release of vasoactive peptides.
14697674: !synaptophysin Cell surface trafficking of the antidepressant-sensitive norepinephrine transporter revealed with an ectodomain antibody. The antidepressant-sensitive L-norepinephrine (NE) transporter (NET;SLC6A2) is a critical determinant of neurotransmitter inactivation following NE release at synapses. Although regulated trafficking of NET has been documented in transfected cells, a lack of reagents suitable for reporting native NET surface exposition has limited validation of this concept in neurons. In the current report, we document the utility of a novel antibody (43408) directed at conserved sequences in the NET second extracellular loop. Using human NET (hNET) stably transfected cells, we document loss of NET surface expression following acute (30 min) phorbol ester treatments. In superior cervical ganglion (SCG) cultures, NET surface expression is prominent on varicosities defined by FM1-43 labeling of living neurons or synaptophysin labeling of fixed preparations. Moreover, NET surface density can be rapidly augmented by brief depolarization (5 min, 40 mM K(+)). Similarly, in brainstem cultures, we demonstrate an increase in NET surface labeling following either depolarization or angiotensin II stimulation. These findings provide the first evidence for regulated trafficking of NET in neurons and support the suggestion that activity-dependent NET trafficking may provide additional modulatory capacity for noradrenergic signaling.
14696906: !synaptophysin Hemimegalencephaly: part 2. Neuropathology suggests a disorder of cellular lineage. Cerebral tissue from hemispherectomy in three children (two 4-month-old girls and one 4-year-old boy) with hemimegalencephaly was studied using histochemical and immunocytochemical markers of neuronal and glial maturation and identity. Histologic abnormalities of cellular growth and cytomorphology, including "balloon cells," were present in both gray and white matter, in addition to disorganized tissue architecture. Cells in the mitotic cycle were absent. Many hypertrophic, atypical cells with enlarged processes exhibited mixed or ambiguous lineage, with immunoreactivity for both glial (glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP]; S-100beta) and neuronal proteins (microtubule-associated protein 2 [MAP2], neuronal nuclear antigen, chromogranin A, and neurofilament protein [NFP]). Strong vimentin reactivity was present in neurons, as well as glial cells and cells of mixed lineage, suggesting incomplete maturation. Synaptophysin-reactive axons terminated on a minority of balloon cells and on most heterotopic single neurons in white matter, confirmed by electron microscopy, demonstrating that single heterotopic neurons are not synaptically "isolated," as they may appear; thus, they are capable of contributing to epilepsy. Oligodendrocytes are the least affected cells, at least in some cases. The findings are reminiscent of the hamartomas of tuberous sclerosis. We conclude that hemimegalencephaly is a primary disorder of neuroepithelial lineage and cellular growth. A migratory disturbance contributes to disorderly tissue architecture but is secondary. No pathologic difference is detected between isolated and syndromic forms of hemimegalencephaly.
14693835: !synaptophysin Hep Par 1 expression in carcinoma of the cervix: implications for diagnosis and prognosis. To determine the frequency and pattern of Hep Par 1 expression in cervical carcinomas of various histological types and to correlate expression with prognostic parameters.
14687679: !synaptophysin The use of real-time PCR analysis in a gene expression study of Alzheimer's disease post-mortem brains. The measurement of gene expressions in brains with neurodegenerative diseases is a major area of brain research. The objective of our research was to determine whether quantitative real-time PCR could measure messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in brains with post-mortem intervals beyond 12h. In the present paper, we examined the quality of RNA from brain specimens of both Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients (n = 13) and non-demented normal control subjects (n = 6). To determine a unregulated endogenous reference gene in AD, we measured mRNA expressions of the commonly used reference genes beta-actin, 18S rRNA, and GAPDH. In addition, we determined whether post-mortem interval, brain weight, or age at death influences mRNA expression. Our real-time PCR analysis results indicate that mRNA expression can be detected in all brain specimens for beta-actin, 18S rRNA, GAPDH, and also synaptophysin, a known marker for AD. Further, using real-time PCR analysis, we found that beta-actin and 18S rRNA are differentially expressed in the brain specimens of both AD and control subjects, while GAPDH is similarly expressed in AD and control brain specimens. These findings suggest that GAPDH can be used as a endogenous reference gene in the study of AD brains. A comparative gene expression analysis also suggests that synaptophysin is down-regulated in AD brain specimens compared to control brain specimens.
14687548: !synaptophysin Loss of TGF-beta 1 leads to increased neuronal cell death and microgliosis in mouse brain. TGF-beta1 is a key regulator of diverse biological processes in many tissues and cell types, but its exact function in the developing and adult mammalian CNS is still unknown. We report that lack of TGF-beta1 expression in neonatal Tgfb1(-/-) mice results in a widespread increase in degenerating neurons accompanied by reduced expression of synaptophysin and laminin and a prominent microgliosis. Lack of TGF-beta1 also strongly reduces survival of primary neurons cultured from Tgfb1(-/-) mice. TGF-beta1 deficiency in adult Tgfb1(-/+) mice results in increased neuronal susceptibility to excitotoxic injury, whereas astroglial overexpression of TGF-beta1 protects adult mice against neurodegeneration in acute, excitotoxic and chronic injury paradigms. This study reveals a nonredundant function for TGF-beta1 in maintaining neuronal integrity and survival of CNS neurons and in regulating microglial activation. Because individual TGF-beta1 expression levels in the brain vary considerably between humans, this finding could have important implications for susceptibility to neurodegeneration.
14686894: !synaptophysin Developmental up-regulation of KCC2 in the absence of GABAergic and glutamatergic transmission. Postsynaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A-mediated responses switch from depolarizing to hyperpolarizing during postnatal development of the rodent hippocampus. This is attributable to a decrease in the concentration of intracellular chloride set by the expression of the neuron-specific K+-Cl- co-transporter, KCC2. A recent in vitro study [Ganguly et al. (2001) Cell, 105, 521-532] showed that KCC2 expression may be under the trophic control of GABAA receptor-mediated transmission. Here we have studied the developmental expression of KCC2 protein in mouse hippocampal dissociated cultures as well as organotypic cultures. A low somatic expression level was found in neurons prior to the formation of the first synapses, as detected by synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Thereafter, KCC2 expression was strongly up-regulated during neuronal maturation. The developmental up-regulation of KCC2 expression was not altered by a chronic application (throughout the culturing period; 2-15 days in vitro) of the action-potential blocker TTX or the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA antagonists APV and NBQX. Blockade of GABAA-mediated transmission with picrotoxin did not affect the expression levels of KCC2 protein either. These data show that neither neuronal spiking nor ionotropic glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission are required for the developmental expression of KCC2 in mouse hippocampal neurons in vitro.
14686708: !synaptophysin Diagnosis and treatment of carcinoid tumors. Carcinoid tumors belong to the family of neuroendocrine tumors, which are usually slow growing with distinct biological and clinical characteristics. The incidence of these tumors is approximately 2.5 in 100,000 people per year. The former classification system of foregut, midgut and hindgut tumors is still used in clinical routine, although there is a new World Health Organization classification. Determination of the histopathology of carcinoid tumors is of utmost importance and involves specific immunohistochemical staining for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, serotonin and gastrin. Proliferation capacity measured by Ki67 is used to guide forthcoming medical treatment. Localization procedures include computerized tomography, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, somatostatin receptor scintigraphy and positron emission tomography. Surgery remains the cornerstone of treatment and provides the only chance of a cure. Other cytoreductive procedures include radiofrequency ablation, laser treatment and chemoembolization. Biological treatment includes cytotoxic agents, such as somatostatin analogs and interferon-alpha, which should be applied in slow-growing neoplasms. Combination regimens including cisplatin, etoposide, streptozotocin and 5-fluorouracil should be reserved for treatment of highly proliferating tumors. Future therapy of carcinoid tumors will be based on the specific tumor biology and treatment will be customized for each individual patient. New therapies, such as antiangiogenic agents and new, long-acting somatostatin analogs, together with further development of tumor-targeted treatments, will come into clinical use in the near future.
14666413: !synaptophysin cDNA gene expression profile of rat hippocampus after chronic treatment with antidepressant drugs. Chronic antidepressant treatment causes alterations in several hippocampal genes, which participate in neuronal plasticity. However the full picture of their mechanism of action is not known. The advent of genomics enables to identify a broader mechanism of action and identify novel targets for antidepressant development.
14665962: !synaptophysin Immunophilin ligands promote penile neurogenesis and erection recovery after cavernous nerve injury. We investigated the long-term effect of immunophilin ligands on erection physiology and cavernous tissue histology using rat models of unilateral and bilateral cavernous nerve (CN) injury.
14664425: !synaptophysin Mucinous cystadenoma of the ovary with functioning stroma and virilization in pregnancy: a case report and review of the literature. Virilization caused by ovarian tumors with functioning stroma during pregnancy is extremely rare and has been reported in many ovarian tumors. In mucinous cystadenomas with maternal virilization during pregnancy the stromal cells responsible for the hormone secretion resemble lutein or Leydig cells and have been referred to as luteinized stromal cells. We present a case of a 30-year-old, gravida 2, para 1, woman who presented at approximately the 38th week of pregnancy with features of virilization. At the same time, a cesarean section was performed because of fetal distress and a male weighing 3,030 g without any gross abnormalities was delivered. A large tumor of the right ovary was detected and a right salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. Histopathologically, the tumor proved to be a benign mucinous cystadenoma. Masses typically resembling lutein stromal cells or Leydig cells of the testes or ovarian hilus were found in the wall of the cyst below the mucinous epithelium. No crystalloids of Reinke were identified. The stromal component of the tumor was characterized as functioning stroma with luteinized stromal cells. The glandular mucinous epithelium showed focal positivity for human chorionic gonadotrophin. The cytoplasm of the luteinized stromal cells reacted strongly and diffusely with antiserum for vimentin. Also, the cytoplasm of the luteinized stromal cells showed focal intense positivity for synaptophysin, and focal mild positivity for human chorionic gonadotrophin. Staining results for oestrogen and progesterone receptors were negative. In conclusion, we present an unusual case of clinical virilization during pregnancy associated with an ovarian mucinous cystadenoma with functioning stroma. The virilizing manifestations disappeared after removal of the ovarian neoplasm, supporting the perception that the functioning ovarian stroma was responsible for the androgen production.
14663926: !synaptophysin [Serous microcystic adenoma of the pancreas: cytologic and histologic features]. Cytologic and histologic features in a case of serous microcystic adenoma of the pancreas in a 61-year-old female are presented. In fine-needle aspiration materials, epithelial cells arranged singly, in small clusters and in monolayer sheets were found. The neoplastic cells had round to oval nuclei with finely distributed chromatin and inconspicuous nucleoli. Nuclear atypia and mitoses were not seen. The cytoplasm was moderately abundant and finely granular. Histologically, the encapsulated tumor was composed of multiple small cysts lined by a single layer of flat to cuboidal cells. The tumor cells contained clear cytoplasm with glycogen and centrally located round to oval nuclei with inconspicuous nucleoli without any atypia. Mitoses were absent. The intervening stromal septa were hypocellular. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells revealed diffuse positivity of cytokeratins and epithelial membrane antigen. Proliferative antigen Ki-67 was positive only in sporadic cells. No immunoreactivity for vimentin, carcinoembryonal antigen and S-100 protein was found. Chromogranin A and synaptophysin were expressed only in Langerhans' islets in the tumor capsula. In differential diagnosis, it is important to distinguish serous microcystic adenoma mainly from lymphangioma, cavernous hemangioma, serous cystadenocarcinoma, mucinous cystadenoma or cystadenocarcinoma, solid and pseudopapillary epithelial tumour, acinar cell cystadenocarcinoma, renal cell carcinoma and mesothelioma.
14659309: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiated carcinomas of the breast: a distinct entity. Some primary carcinomas of the breast have been classified as neuroendocrine. In this paper we report on 12 cases of neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast displaying common and uncommon histological features.
14657756: !synaptophysin Patterns of selective neuronal damage in methamphetamine-user AIDS patients. The risk for HIV infection attributable to methamphetamine (METH) use continues to increase. The combined effect of HIV and METH in the pathogenesis of HIV encephalitis (HIVE) is unclear, however. To better understand the neuropathology associated with HIV and METH use, the patterns of neurodegeneration were assessed in HIV-positive METH users and in HIV-positive non-METH users. Patients in the study met criteria for inclusion and received neuromedical and postmortem neuropathologic examinations. Immunocytochemical and polymerase chain reaction analyses were performed to determine brain HIV levels and to exclude the presence of other viruses. METH-using patients with HIVE showed significantly lower gp41 scores and less severe forms of encephalitis but a higher frequency of ischemic events, a more pronounced loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity, and a more severe microglial reaction than HIVE non-METH users. Furthermore, in METH-using patients with HIVE, extensive loss of calbindin (CB)-immunoreactive interneurons displaying phylopodial neuritic processes suggestive of aberrant sprouting was observed. Taken together, these studies indicate that the combined effects of METH and HIV selectively damage CB immunoreactive nonpyramidal neurons. In combination, METH and HIV may increase neuronal cell injury and death, thereby enhancing brain metabolic disturbances observed in clinical populations of HIV-positive METH abusers.
14657250: !synaptophysin The zinc transporter ZnT3 interacts with AP-3 and it is preferentially targeted to a distinct synaptic vesicle subpopulation. Synaptic vesicles (SV) are generated by two different mechanisms, one AP-2 dependent and one AP-3 dependent. It has been uncertain, however, whether these mechanisms generate SV that differ in molecular composition. We explored this hypothesis by analyzing the targeting of ZnT3 and synaptophysin both to PC12 synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMV) as well as SV isolated from wild-type and AP-3-deficient mocha brains. ZnT3 cytosolic tail interacted selectively with AP-3 in cell-free assays. Accordingly, pharmacological disruption of either AP-2- or AP-3-dependent SLMV biogenesis preferentially reduced synaptophysin or ZnT3 targeting, respectively; suggesting that these antigens were concentrated in different vesicles. As predicted, immuno-isolated SLMV revealed that ZnT3 and synaptophysin were enriched in different vesicle populations. Likewise, morphological and biochemical analyses in hippocampal neurons indicated that these two antigens were also present in distinct but overlapping domains. ZnT3 SV content was reduced in AP-3-deficient neurons, but synaptophysin was not altered in the AP-3 null background. Our evidence indicates that neuroendocrine cells assemble molecularly heterogeneous SV and suggests that this diversity could contribute to the functional variety of synapses.
14655590: !synaptophysin [Papillary glioneuronal tumor with highly degenerative pseudopapillary structure accompanied by specific abortive glial cells: a case report]. Recently, unusual examples of tumors of the mixed glioneuronal type have been reported, including the papillary glioneuronal tumor (PGNT). A 23-year-old woman with a 2-3 months history of headache and insomnia presented with a tumor. Neuroimaging showed a right temporal lobe cystic tumor with a mural nodule enhanced by contrast medium. She underwent gross total resection of the tumor. The tumor was histologically marked by a mixture of glial and neural components. A pseudopapillary component was comprised of highly hyalinized vessels surrounded by a single layer of thin spindle cells stained for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Specific abortive glial cells stained for vimentin/S-100 protein accompanied pseudopapillary structure. Intervening neural areas were occupied by neural cells of varying size, including neurocyte-like cell and ganglionic cells. Ganglionic cells demonstrated abnormal cluster, lack of normal polarity and epiperikaryal immunoreactivity for synaptophysin staining suggesting neural neoplastic nature. No mitotic activity or necrosis was noted. A MIB-1 labeling index was 1.8%. Our patient remains free of disease 33 months after surgical treatment.
14655151: !synaptophysin The expression of selected neuroendocrine markers and of anti-neoplastic cytokines (IL-2 and IL-12) in lung cancers. We have continued our studies by detecting three markers of neuroendocrine tumours of the lungs, including chromogranin A, NSE and synaptophysin, to confirm the neuroendocrine origin of lung tumours and by examining the content of two anti-neoplastic cytokines, IL-2 and IL-12 in the tumours. The studies were performed on paraffin sections of lung carcinoids (n = 13) and small cell lung carcinomas (SCLC) (n = 15). Pronounced expression of all 3 markers of neuroendocrine tumours was detected in most of the pulmonary carcinoids and in 5/15 of SCLC. Co-expression of the two cytokines (IL-2 and IL-12) in tumour cells was detected in 12/13 patients with lung carcinoid and expression of at least one cytokine in 12/15 patients with SCLC. Significantly lower numbers of cells immunoreactive to both cytokines were detected in SCLC as compared to lung carcinoids. The studies have confirmed the literature data on the lowered secretion of IL-2 in SCLC and extend the data by supplying information on the expression of IL-12. The lowered expression of the two cytokines at the time of diagnosis may represent a prognostic factor for survival in SCLC.
14655129: !synaptophysin Preliminary comparative immunocytochemical study of respiratory tract endocrine cells in certain rodents. Studies were performed on 3 species belonging to two families: Microtidae (7 common voles and 7 pine voles), and Muridae - 10 Wistar rats. In rodents the airways endocrine cells (ECs) are localised in the epithelium lining the larynx, trachea, bronchi, bronchioles and lung. CGRP-, synaptophysin (SY)-, calcitonin (CT)-, neuron-specific enolase (NSE)- and chromogranin A (CA)- immunoreactivity were nearly totally co-localised in ECs. In the region of the tracheo-larynx junction, CGRP- and NSE-positive cells were observed in the epithelium of the glands. It is surmised that some of the CGRP-positive ECs do not generate CT and CA, for the most part in ECs. In Microtidae ECs were more abundant than in the rat and were found even in the epithelium lining of the inside larynx in the transition region before the trachea.
14654928: !synaptophysin Combined effect of aloe-emodin and chemotherapeutic agents on the proliferation of an adherent variant cell line of Merkel cell carcinoma. Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) has only limited sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents. The aim of the study was to determine if members of the anthraquinone family could be used as adjuncts to increase the growth inhibiting effect of anticancer agents in MCC. An adherent variant of MCC was derived from a previously established MCC cell line suspension. Cells were characterized by immunocytochemical methods using specific antibodies against epithelial (low molecular weight cytokeratins and cytokeratin 20) and neuroendocrine (neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament protein, chromogranin A and synaptophysin) antigens. Emodin and aloe-emodin, members of the anthraquinone family, inhibited proliferation of the adherent MCC cells, with a slight advantage of aloe-emodin over emodin. Aloin had no effect on cell proliferation. The chemotherapeutic agents, cis-platinol (abiplastin), doxorubicin (adriablastin), and 5-fluorouracil, and the tyrosine kinase inhibitor STI 571, all independently inhibited the proliferation of adherent MCC cells. The addition of aloe-emodin potentiated their inhibitory effect, especially when low concentrations of the anticancer compounds were used. The antiproliferative action of STI 571 may be associated with the presence of anti-c-kit antibodies. The combined use of anticancer agents, especially at low concentrations, and aloe-emodin may be considered a preferable means for treating MCC.
14651212: !synaptophysin Cytotoxic treatment of aggressive prostate tumors with or without neuroendocrine elements. The aim of this study was to investigate whether there is an association between the presence of neuroendocrine elements in relapsed prostate cancer and sensitivity to estramustine/etoposide and carboplatin or cisplatin. Thirty patients with progressive metastatic castrate prostate cancer were selected on the basis of clinical criteria for treatment with cytotoxic chemotherapy. The criteria included a tumor biopsy specimen taken during relapse showing neuroendocrine features based on morphology alone (carcinoid elements, small cell tumor) or by immunohistochemistry (detection of chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase or synaptophysin). Patients were treated with cis- or carboplatin, estramustine (orally) and etoposide (orally or intravenously). Remission of radiographically visualized lesions, decline of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) or death owing to any cause constituted (separately reported) the endpoints. Tumor remission was found in about half of the patients, determined either by changes in measurable lesions or by a 50% decline in serum PSA. Neuroendocrine elements--irrespective of how they were identified--were not predictive of tumor remission or survival. Regression of measurable lesions by > 50% was seen in 4/9 (44%) cases of small cell carcinoma, 6/13 (46%) of poorly differentiated carcinoma, 7/13 (54%) of tumors with one marker immunohistochemically detected and 3/7 (43%) of tumors without any staining. It is concluded that response to chemotherapy was not predicted solely on the basis of the presence or absence of neuroendocrine elements in a relapsed tumor specimen. The results support the use of cytotoxic drugs in the relapsed setting and definitive trials are ongoing to prove any benefit to survival.
14642499: !synaptophysin Resting-state brain glucose utilization as measured by PET is directly related to regional synaptophysin levels: a study in baboons. It is classically recognized that regional cerebral glucose consumption (CMRglc), as measured by positron emission tomography (PET) and [18F]-2-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG), is a precise index of the integrated local neuronal activity. However, despite extensive use of the FDG-PET method, the significance of the measured CMRglc has been little addressed so far. In the present study, we aimed for the first time to test whether resting-state CMRglc is directly related to synaptic density. To this end, we investigated in the baboon the relationships between CMR(glc) and the levels of synaptophysin (SY), a presynaptic protein classically used to assess synaptic density. CMR(glc), measured in vivo by FDG-PET at the resting-state, and SY levels, assessed postmortem by the Western blot technique, were quantified in seven brain areas of five baboons. By applying these two techniques to the same animals, we found significant positive correlations between CMR(glc) and SY levels, across all regions and all animals, as well as within individual baboons. These findings strongly support the hypothesis that resting-state CMR(glc) reflects integrated synaptic activity.
14641320: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the esophagus; clinicopathological and immunohistochemical analysis of six cases. Small cell carcinoma arising in the esophagus is a relatively rare disease. In the more common small cell carcinoma of the lung, the diagnostic significance of several new markers has been recently reported. This study used immunohistochemical techniques in addition to clinicopathological analysis, in order to clarify the utility of newer markers as biological parameters or as diagnostic tools. Six patients with small cell carcinoma of the esophagus were clinicopathologically analyzed. Immunohistochemical staining was performed using primary antibodies for bombesin, CD56 and CD57 in addition to conventional endocrine markers chromogranin A, neuron specific enolase and synaptophysin. All patients died within 2 years of surgery due to cancer recurrence, whether or not they had received adjuvant therapy. Pathological stages ranged from IIa to IVb and lymph node metastasis was observed in five cases. Of the six cases, four showed a positive reaction for bombesin and five were positive for CD57. In contrast, no cases revealed a positive reaction for CD56. The one case to survive 24 months after surgery was not shown to express bombesin, CD56 or CD57. Small cell carcinoma of the esophagus demonstrated an unfavorable prognosis. The study suggested that in this disease, bombesin and CD57 (but not CD56) were useful as biological markers, predicting clinical outcome rather than having diagnostic significance.
14637213: !synaptophysin The effect of voluntary exercise exposure on histological and neurobehavioral outcomes after ischemic brain injury in the rat. Physical activity can induce neuroplastic adaptations and improve outcomes after cerebral injury. To determine if these outcomes are dependent on the type and timing of physical rehabilitation and the particular outcome/endpoint being tested, we evaluated the effect of voluntary exercise exposure beginning 24 h after cerebral ischemic injury on behavioral, physiological, and histological outcomes. In an observer-blinded fashion, Sprague-Dawley (300 g) male rats were allocated to three groups [sham-exercise (SHAM), stroke-exercise (SE), stroke-no exercise (SNE)] before a 1-h right middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Running wheels were used for voluntary exercise. A significant difference was found at 1 week post-infarction between the SNE and SE, with SNE showing worst neurological scores and higher number of foot faults. In addition, nearly 20% more of the SE animals regained their pre-MCAo weight by 7 days. These differences were not as evident at 2 weeks. No differences were found between the three groups in the paw preference test, wheel activity, and body temperature, as well as between SNE and SE with regards to infarct or hemispheric volumes, body weight, synaptophysin staining, and electroencephalography (EEG) testing. Within-group comparisons showed no relationships between infarct volume and foot faults, neurological scores, or exercise level. We conclude that (1) unlike behavioral outcomes, physiological and histological outcomes may not be influenced by the introduction of voluntary exercise once lesion maturation has occurred at 24 h, and (2) repetitive outcomes testing can obscure findings in rat models of cerebral ischemic injury.
14637082: !synaptophysin Induction of neuronal markers in bone marrow cells: differential effects of growth factors and patterns of intracellular expression. Bone marrow cells (BMC) can be induced to express neuronal phenotypic features in vitro, but the extent to which they can transdifferentiate to mature, functional neurons is uncertain. We examined the effects of different growth factors and combinations thereof on the expression of neuronal marker proteins in cultures of BMC enriched in marrow stromal cells. Patterns of neuronal marker expression varied depending on the growth factor or factors to which BMC cultures were exposed. Cultures treated for up to 5 weeks with epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor-2, retinoic acid, and nerve growth factor displayed neuron-like cellular processes and expressed neuronal markers, including the neuronal nuclear antigen NeuN, microtubule-associated protein 2, tau, synaptophysin, alpha(1A) and alpha(1B) calcium channel subunits, NR2A glutamate receptor subunits, and gamma-aminobutyric acid. However, the intracellular distribution of these markers was distinct from their usual distribution in mature neurons. We conclude that a variety of growth factors can drive BMC toward a neuronal phenotype or phenotypes, but that morphological neuronal features and the ectopic expression of neuronal proteins and neurotransmitters may not equate with the ability to execute normal neuronal functions.
14635218: !synaptophysin Mild carbon monoxide exposure diminishes selectively the integrity of the cochlea of the developing rat. Rat pups were chronically exposed to carbon monoxide (CO) concentrations (12 or 25 ppm) in air starting at day 8, through 22 days of age, to examine the changes in the peripheral auditory system. Gastrostomy-reared rat pups, with or without CO exposure, were used and compared with mother-reared pups. The organ of Corti and the neurons of the spiral ganglion were analyzed for their morphology by using immunochemical and histological techniques. The inner and outer hair cells in the organ of Corti of animals exposed to 12 and 25 ppm CO were not different from the controls. However, at 25 ppm CO exposure, the nerve terminals innervating the inner hair cells were swollen. The somata of neurons in the spiral ganglion showed mild changes in the cytoplasm, and signs of mild vacuolization were observed in myelin covering their central processes. Synaptophysin, a marker for synaptic vesicles, and choline acetyltransferase, a marker for cholinergic terminals, showed no difference in immunoreactivity in CO exposed animals at 12 and at 25 ppm when compared with their age-matched controls. Also, Na(+)K(+) ATPase immunoreactivity patterns were normal compared with controls. Three enzymes were significantly reduced at the 25 ppm CO exposure: Cytochrome oxidase, NADH-TR, and calcium ATPase were decreased in both the organ of Corti and the neurons of the spiral ganglion, and decreased immunostaining for the neurofilament and myelin basic proteins was found. We conclude that components of the cochlea are selectively affected by mild chronic CO exposure during development.
14629756: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile duct: case report and immunohistochemical analysis. A small cell carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile duct in a 75-year-old Japanese man is reported. The patient suffered from obstructive jaundice, and percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography-drainage (PTCD) revealed a massive lesion in the lower common bile duct. Because it was diagnosed as a malignant tumor, pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed. A nodular infiltrating tumor measuring 4.5 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm was located in the intrapancreatic portion of the extrahepatic bile duct. Histologically, the tumor was composed of a dense proliferation of small atypical cells with a little region of high-grade dysplasia in the adjacent epithelium of the common bile duct. Tumor cells were immunoreactive to neuroendocrine markers such as chromogranin A, synaptophysin, CD56, and Leu7. Although carcinoma cells invaded into pancreas and duodenum, there were no histological findings that indicated the carcinoma arose from the mucosa of either the pancreatic duct or duodenum. These results indicated that the tumor was a small cell carcinoma derived from the epithelium of the extrahepatic bile duct; a rare neoplasm with only a few cases reported. A few neuroendocrine cells were recognized in the adjacent epithelium of the extrahepatic bile duct, suggesting that the tumor cells might be derived from them. Using immunohistochemical examination, no p53 abnormality was found. Tumor cells showed positive nuclear staining for p16, while negative for cyclin D1, suggesting that functional retinoblastoma protein (pRB) might be lost in the p16/pRB pathway, as in small cell lung cancer.
14629752: !synaptophysin Epithelial differentiation in medulloblastoma: comparison with other embryonal tumors of neuroectodermal origin. Three cases of medulloblastoma characterized by epithelial differentiation are described in patients 6-months-, 1-month- and 8-years-old. Histologically, tumors from the two infant patients showed a perivascular arrangement without apparent radiated cytoplasmic processes from the vessels. Tumor cells displayed round and/or pleomorphic vesicular nuclei and a more abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm than that found in classic medulloblastoma. Neither Homer-Wright rosettes nor ependymal or ependymoblastic rosettes were noted in these tumors. The tumor in the 8-year-old patient exhibited a classic medulloblastoma component intermingled with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm forming a tubular structure. Immunohistochemically, tumor cells in all cases were positive for cytokeratin, synaptophysin, and vimentin. In the third case involving the 8-year-old patient, epithelial tumor cells were positive for cytokeratin, whereas classic medulloblastoma components were negative for cytokeratin. Positive staining for melanoma-specific antigen was seen only in the third case, where strong reactivity of tumor cells formed a tubulus. However, the classic medulloblastoma component was negative for melanoma-specific antigen. Ultrastructurally, basal laminae were observed around tumor cells in the 6-month-old patient. These morphological and immunohistochemical features suggest that medulloblastoma with epithelial differentiation is a rare but distinct variant of medulloblastoma, and that some of these tumors should show differentiation in ocular pigment epithelium.
14627640: !synaptophysin Selective reactions of cutaneous and muscle afferent neurons to peripheral nerve transection in rats. To determine whether peripheral nerve injury has similar effects on all functional types of afferent neuron, we retrogradely labeled populations of neurons projecting to skin and to muscle with FluoroGold and lesioned various peripheral nerves in the rat. Labeled neurons were counted after different periods and related to immunohistochemically identified ectopic terminals and satellite cells in lumbar dorsal root ganglia. After 10 weeks, 30% of cutaneous afferent somata labeled from transected sural nerves had disappeared but, if all other branches of the sciatic nerve had also been cut, 60% of cutaneous neurons were lost. Small-diameter sural neurons preferentially disappeared. In contrast, the number of muscle afferent somata was not affected by transection of various nerves. p75 was downregulated in axotomized cutaneous neurons but in not axotomized muscle neurons. Conversely, p75 was upregulated in satellite cells around cutaneous but not muscle neurons. Consistent with this, perineuronal rings containing tyrosine hydroxylase, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, or synaptophysin were formed preferentially around cutaneous neurons. Selective lesions of predominantly cutaneous nerves triggered the formation of rings, but none were detected after selective lesions of muscle nerves. We conclude that cutaneous neurons are both more vulnerable and more associated with ectopic nerve terminals than muscle neurons in dorsal root ganglia after transection and ligation of peripheral nerves.
14624161: !synaptophysin Hyperplastic gastric polyposis, hypergastrinaemia and colorectal neoplasia: a description of four cases. Previous reports have suggested a possible association between hyperplastic polyposis and colorectal neoplasms. Increased gastrin may be the link between these two conditions insofar as gastrin has been reported to be a growth-promoting tumoural agent. This report describes gastric polyposis, hypergastrinaemia and colorectal neoplasms in four elderly patients.
14622219: !synaptophysin Postsynaptic contributions to hippocampal network hyperexcitability induced by chronic activity blockade in vivo. Neuronal activity is thought to play an important role in refining patterns of synaptic connectivity during development and in the molecular maturation of synapses. In experiments reported here, a 2-week infusion of tetrodotoxin (TTX) into rat hippocampus beginning on postnatal day 12 produced abnormal synchronized network discharges in in vitro slices. Discharges recorded upon TTX washout were called 'minibursts', owing to their small amplitude. They were routinely recorded in area CA3 and abolished by CNQX, an AMPA receptor antagonist. Because recurrent excitatory axon collaterals remodel and glutamate receptor subunit composition changes after postnatal day 12, experiments examined possible TTX-induced alterations in recurrent excitation that could be responsible for network hyperexcitability. In biocytin-labelled pyramidal cells, recurrent axon arbors were neither longer nor more highly branched in the TTX infusion site compared with saline-infused controls. However, varicosity size and density were increased. Whereas most varicosities contained synaptophysin and synaptic vesicles, many were not adjacent to postsynaptic specializations, and thus failed to form anatomically identifiable synapses. An increased pattern of excitatory connectivity does not appear to explain network hyperexcitability. Quantitative immunoblots also indicated that presynaptic markers were unaltered in the TTX infusion site. However, the postsynaptic AMPA and NMDA receptor subunits, GluR1, NR1 and NR2B, were increased. In electrophysiological studies EPSPs recorded in slices from TTX-infused hippocampus had an enhanced sensitivity to the NR2B containing NMDA receptor antagonist, ifenprodil. Thus, increases in subunit protein result in alterations in the composition of synaptic NMDA receptors. Postsynaptic changes are likely to be the major contributors to the hippocampal network hyperexcitability and should enhance both excitatory synaptic efficacy and plasticity.
14622195: !synaptophysin Temporal aspects of spatial task performance during intermittent hypoxia in the rat: evidence for neurogenesis. Intermittent hypoxia (IH) during sleep, such as occurs in obstructive sleep apnea, leads to degenerative changes in the hippocampus, and is associated with spatial learning deficits in the adult rat. We report that in Sprague-Dawley rats the initial IH-induced impairments in spatial learning are followed by a partial functional recovery over time, despite continuing IH exposure. These functional changes coincide with initial decreases in basal neurogenesis as shown by the number of positively colabelled cells for BrdU and neurofilament in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, and are followed by increased expression of neuronal progenitors and mature neurons (nestin and BrdU-neurofilament positively labelled cells, respectively). In contrast, no changes occurred during the course of IH exposures in the expression of the synaptic proteins synaptophysin, SNAP25, and drebrin. Collectively, these findings indicate that the occurrence of IH during the lights on period results in a biphasic pattern of neurogenesis in the hippocampus of adult rats, and may account for the observed partial recovery of spatial function.
14608533: !synaptophysin Tissue microarray analysis of neuroendocrine differentiation and its prognostic significance in breast cancer. The aim of this study was to detect neuroendocrine differentiation (NE), to determine its association with major clinicopathological parameters of breast cancer, and to study the prognostic significance of NE differentiation in a group of breast carcinomas by using tissue microarray (TMA) methodology. NE differentiation was studied by using 3 markers, synaptophysin (Syn), chromogranin A (ChA), and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in a group of 334 patients with breast carcinoma. TMA blocks were made by using duplicate 0.6-mm-diameter tissue cores from each paraffin block. Results of immunostaining were scored on a 4-point scale, that is, as negative, weak, intermediate, and strong immunoreactivity. Positive staining of breast cancers for any of the 3 NE markers was detected in 19.5% of cases. Expression of a single marker was present in 16.2% of cases, and expression of 2 or 3 markers in combination was detected in 3.3% of cases. There was no statistically significant correlation of NE phenotype with tumor morphology, except mucinous carcinoma (3 of 6 cases positive), estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, or nodal status. A weak correlation was noted between synaptophysin staining and higher tumor grade (P = 0.029). Analysis of disease-specific and overall survival based on up to 20 years of follow-up data showed a correlation between NSE expression and improved disease-specific (P = 0.043) and overall survival (P = 0.03) in univariate but not in multivariate analysis. The expression of Syn and ChA, as well as coexpression of multiple NE markers, had no prognostic significance.
14604230: !synaptophysin Pineal parenchymal tumor with marked retinoblastic differentiation: case report. A 53-year-old woman was found to have a tumor in the pineal region. Histologically, Homer-Wright rosettes were sporadically distributed in a diffuse proliferation of round tumor cells that were immunoreactive for synaptophysin and chromogranin. A few perivascular pseudorosettes were also present, and the perivascular tumor cells were immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin. By electron microscopy, well-developed junctions and pronounced interdigitation of abutting plasma membranes were noted in many tumor cells, as well as abundant intracytoplasmic microtubules. These findings indicated that the tumor was a pineal parenchymal tumor accompanied by an extraordinary epithelial-like differentiation, suggesting retinoblastic photoreceptor cell differentiation.
14603058: !synaptophysin Three-dimensional reconstruction of immunolabeled neuromuscular junctions in the human thyroarytenoid muscle. The objective was to reveal the location of the neuromuscular junctions in a three-dimensional reconstruction of the human thyroarytenoid muscle within the true vocal fold.
14599690: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunohistochemistry in the human cochlea. Light microscopy and immunohistochemical analyses of a freshly prepared human cochlea, removed at meningioma skull base surgery, were performed with particular emphasis on synaptophysin (SY) reactivity. Synaptophysin, a 38-kDa glycoprotein, is one of the most abundant integral membrane proteins of small presynaptic vesicles and is a useful marker for sites of synaptic transmission of the efferent olivocochlear system in the cochlea. Following fixation and decalcification, cryosections of 30 microm were prepared. To introduce immunostaining, free-floating sections were exposed to monoclonal SY antibody. Positive SY immunostaining was solely restricted to the neural and sensory structures and did not include supporting cells of the organ of Corti. Dense reaction products were noted around the hair cells, especially at the basal portion of the inner and outer hair cells and their neural poles, as well as around the inner spiral bundle, tunnel spiral bundle, outer spiral bundle and upper tunnel crossing fibers. The majority of spiral ganglion cells stained positively. An intermingling network of thin unmyelinated nerve fibers stained densely, especially at the basal portions of the cochlea. The spiral limbus, inner and outer sulcus cells, basilar membrane, myelinated nerve fibers, spiral ligament and the stria vascularis were unstained. Human cochlea obtained during surgery offers excellent conditions for immunohistochemical analysis. In the basal cochlea in the organ of Corti, outer hair cell area, there may be alterations due to noise trauma from the drilling procedure.
14596859: !synaptophysin Post-training administration of a synthetic peptide ligand of the neural cell adhesion molecule, C3d, attenuates long-term expression of contextual fear conditioning. The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) plays a key role in synaptic plasticity and memory formation. We have recently developed a synthetic peptide, termed C3d, which, through the binding to the first, N-terminal immunoglobulin-like (Ig) module in the extracellular portion of NCAM, has been shown to promote neurite outgrowth and synapse formation in vitro, and to interfere with passive avoidance memory in rats in vivo. In this study, we investigated whether the i.c.v. administration of C3d, either 5.5 h after or 2 days before training, could be effective to modulate the strength at which emotional memory for aversive situations is established into a long-term memory. The effects of the peptide were evaluated in adult male Wistar rats trained in the contextual fear conditioning task. The results indicated that C3d significantly reduced the subsequent long-term retention of the conditioned fear response when administered 5.5 h post-training, as indicated by retention tests performed 2-3 and 7 days post-training. However, this treatment failed to influence conditioning for this task when injected 2 days pre-training. Additional experiments showed that C3d did not influence the emotional or locomotor behaviour of the animals, when tested in the open field task. Furthermore, hippocampal levels of microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), Synaptophysin and NCAM were found unchanged when evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in crude synaptosomal preparations 2 days after peptide i.c.v. injection. Therefore, post-training injection of this synthetic peptide was efficient to attenuate the strength at which memory for contextual fear conditioning was enduringly stored, whilst it did not affect the acquisition of new memories. In addition to further support the view that NCAM is critically involved in memory consolidation, the current findings suggest that the NCAM IgI module is a potential target for the development of therapeutic drugs capable to reduce the cognitive impact induced by exposure to intensive stress experiences.
14596849: !synaptophysin Tetanus neurotoxin-insensitive vesicle-associated membrane protein localizes to a presynaptic membrane compartment in selected terminal subsets of the rat brain. Tetanus neurotoxin-insensitive vesicle-associated membrane protein (TI-VAMP) is a vesicular soluble N-ethyl maleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor (SNARE) that has been implicated in neurite outgrowth. It has previously been reported that TI-VAMP is localised in the somatodendritic compartment of neurons indicating a role in membrane fusion events within dendrites. Using a newly produced monoclonal antibody to TI-VAMP that improves signal/noise immunodetection, we report that TI-VAMP is also present in subsets of axon terminals of the adult rat brain. Four distinctive populations of labelled axon terminals were identified: 1) the hippocampal mossy fibres of the dentate gyrus and of CA3, 2) the striatal peridendritic terminal plexuses in the globus pallidus (GP), substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), 3) peridendritic plexuses in the central nucleus of the amygdala, and 4) the primary sensory afferents in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. The presynaptic localisation of TI-VAMP in these locations was demonstrated by co-localisation with synaptophysin. Ultrastructural studies showed TI-VAMP labelling over synaptic vesicles in the mossy fibres, whereas it was localised in tubulo-vesicular structures and multivesicular bodies in the pyramidal cell dendrites. The presynaptic localisation of TI-VAMP occurred by P15, so relatively late during development. In contrast, dendritic labelling was most prominent during the early post-natal period. Co-localisation with markers of neurotransmitters showed that TI-VAMP-positive terminals are GABAergic in the GP and SNr and glutamatergic in the mossy fibre system and in the dorsal root afferents. Most of these terminals are known to co-localise with neuropeptides. We found met-enkephalin-immunoreactivity in a sizeable fraction of the TI-VAMP positive terminals in the GP, amygdala, and dorsal horn, as well as in a few mossy fibre terminals. The function of TI-VAMP in subsets of mature axon terminals remains to be elucidated; it could participate in the exocytotic molecular machinery and/or be implicated in particular growth properties of the mature axon terminals. Thus, the presence of TI-VAMP in the mossy fibres may correspond to the high degree of plasticity that characterises this pathway throughout adult life.
14595653: !synaptophysin CCR1 is an early and specific marker of Alzheimer's disease. Chemokines are a diverse group of small proteins that effect cell signaling by binding to G-protein-coupled, seven-trans-membrane receptors. Our group had found previously that the chemokine receptor CCR1 was present in neurons and dystrophic processes in a small sample of Alzheimer's disease cases. This expanded immunohistochemical study shows that the number of CCR1-positive plaque-like structures in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex is highly correlated to dementia state as measured by the clinical dementia rating score. CCR1 immunoreactivity is found in dystrophic, neurofilament-positive, synaptophysin-negative neurites that are associated with senile plaques containing amyloid beta peptides of the 1-42 species (Abeta42). CCR1 was not, however, associated with diffuse deposits of Abeta42. There was limited expression of CCR1 in neurofibrillary tangle-bearing neuritic processes. Astrocytes and microglia were typically negative for CCR1. Human brains from age-matched, nondemented individuals rarely displayed either CCR1 or Abeta42 immunoreactivity. Seven other types of dementing neurodegenerative diseases were examined, and all failed to demonstrate CCR1 immunopositivity unless Abeta42-positive plaques were also present. Thus, neuronal CCR1 is not a generalized marker of neurodegeneration. Rather, it appears to be part of the neuroimmune response to Abeta42-positive neuritic plaques.
14592382: !synaptophysin Arousal deficiency theory in sudden infant death syndrome with reference to neuronal plasticity. Among 27,000 infants studied prospectively to characterize their sleep-wake behavior, 38 infants died under 6 months of age (including 26 infant victims of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), five with congenital cardiac abnormalities, two from infected pulmonary dysplasia, two from septic shock with multi-organ failure, one with a prolonged seizure, one from prolonged neonatal hypoxemia and one from meningitis and brain infarction).
14586070: !synaptophysin Calcitonin immunoreactivity in neoplastic and hyperplastic parathyroid glands: an immunohistochemical study. Previous studies have established that calcitonin (CT) and the calcitonin generelated peptide (CGRP) are synthesized and stored in subsets of hyperplastic parathyroid cells that also contain chromogranin B (Schmid, KW, et al. Lab Invest 73:90, 1995). The purpose of the current study was to determine whether other generic but variably expressed neuroendocrine markers, i.e., synaptophysin (SYN) and CD57 (Leu7), are also present in normal, hyperplastic, and neoplastic parathyroid tissue and to assess their relationships to the presence of CT.
14585997: !synaptophysin Vesicular localization and activity-dependent trafficking of presynaptic choline transporters. Presynaptic synthesis of acetylcholine (ACh) requires a steady supply of choline, acquired by a plasma membrane, hemicholinium-3-sensitive (HC-3) choline transporter (CHT). A significant fraction of synaptic choline is recovered from ACh hydrolyzed by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) after vesicular release. Although antecedent neuronal activity is known to dictate presynaptic CHT activity, the mechanisms supporting this regulation are unknown. We observe an exclusive localization of CHT to cholinergic neurons and demonstrate that the majority of CHTs reside on small vesicles within cholinergic presynaptic terminals in the rat and mouse brain. Furthermore, immunoisolation of presynaptic vesicles with multiple antibodies reveals that CHT-positive vesicles carry the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) and synaptic vesicle markers such as synaptophysin and Rab3A and also contain acetylcholine. Depolarization of synaptosomes evokes a Ca2+-dependent botulinum neurotoxin C-sensitive increase in the Vmax for HC-3-sensitive choline uptake that is accompanied by an increase in the density of CHTs in the synaptic plasma membrane. Our study leads to the novel hypothesis that CHTs reside on a subpopulation of synaptic vesicles in cholinergic terminals that can transit to the plasma membrane in response to neuronal activity to couple levels of choline re-uptake to the rate of ACh release.
14584081: !synaptophysin The analysis of immunophenotype of gastrin-producing tumors of the pancreas and gastrointestinal tract. Gastrinomas are located more frequently in the pancreas, which normally has no cells that can produce gastrin. They have a more aggressive course than other pancreatic endocrine tumors and extrapancreatic gastrinomas associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia Type 1 syndrome. The current study analyzed immunophenotypes of gastrinomas and compared them with other pancreatic endocrine tumors.
14583405: !synaptophysin Rapid and efficient electroporation-based gene transfer into primary dissociated neurons. Non-viral gene transfer into neurons has proved to be a formidable task. Here, we describe an electroporation-based method that allows efficient and reliable DNA transfer into dissociated neural cells before they are plated and cultured. In hippocampal neural cells derived from either neonatal mouse or embryonic chicken brains, a high transfection rate was already observed 5 h after transfection, and reached 40-80% in 24 h, as monitored by expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP). The level of eGFP expression per cell depended on the amount of DNA used in a gene transfer experiment. The survival and neuritic length of transfected cells resembled that of non-electroporated cells. The transfected neurons showed normal immunostaining for endogenous synaptic protein synaptophysin and the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). Furthermore, efficient gene transfer of the NCAM isoform NCAM140 and eGFP-tagged NCAM140 could be achieved, allowing visualization of NCAM140 expression. Also, a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored eGFP could be efficiently expressed, highlighting lipid rafts without altering electrophysiological properties of transfected neurons. When neurons transfected with green and red fluorescent proteins were cocultured, fine details of their interactions could be revealed in time-lapse experiments. Thus, the method provides a useful tool for elucidation of genes involved in different neuronal functions, including neurite outgrowth, synaptogenesis and synaptic transmission.
14577207: !synaptophysin [Mixed neoplasia of the stomach: description of a case of tubular adenoma combined with carcinoid]. We report about a gastric polyp that was a combination of tubular adenoma and carcinoid. The patient, a 76 year-old male, presented with 1 cm sessile polyp, located in the gastric body, that was a combination of a tubular adenoma with moderate dysplasia and a small carcinoid. Immunohistochemically, the latter component was positive for chromogranin and synaptophysin. The patient is alive and well 10 months after endoscopical polypectomy.
14574679: !synaptophysin Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor distribution in relation to spinal neurotransmission pathways. Neuronal nicotinic receptors (nAChR) are pentameric assemblies of subunits of a gene family where specified combinations of alpha and beta subunits form functional receptors. To extend our understanding of the role of spinal nAChR in the processing of sensory stimuli and regulation of autonomic and motor responses, we initiated investigations to localize nAChR subunit expression within discrete spinal regions and cell types. High-affinity epibatidine binding was present in the superficial dorsal and ventral horns, the mediolateral and central canal regions. RT-PCR identified transcripts for alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, beta2, and beta4 in both spinal cord parenchyma and dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Our affinity-purified antibodies against alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, beta2, and beta4 subunits identified specific protein bands of appropriate molecular mass (preadsorbed with the respective antigens) in specific tissues and cells that express nicotinic receptors, including the spinal cord and DRG neurons. Having established the absence of crossreactivity with related subunits, specific fluorescence labeling of nerve terminals and cell bodies was achieved and correlated with the distribution of defined marker proteins and nicotinic receptor binding sites determined autoradiographically. Our findings indicate that alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, beta2, and beta4 subunits are all expressed on primary afferents (IB4-positive terminals) in the spinal cord. The predominant presynaptic (synaptophysin colocalization) labeling is in the superficial layer of the dorsal horn. These receptor subunits, except for beta4, are also present in postsynaptic autonomic (anti-bNOS-positive) and somatic motor neurons (anti-VAChT-positive). The alpha3, alpha5, and beta2 subunits showed additional staining in glial (anti-GFAP-positive) cells. These studies reveal a dense and distinguishable distribution of nAChR subunits in the spinal cord and point toward future therapeutic targeting for specific spinal actions.
14568338: !synaptophysin Repair of amyloid beta(25-35)-induced memory impairment and synaptic loss by a Kampo formula, Zokumei-to. Although Zokumei-to (ZMT), a Kampo formula, has been used for postapopletic sequelae such as paralysis and logopathy, only few studies of this drug have been carried out. We hypothesized that ZMT may affect neuronal plasticity and investigated whether or not this drug is capable of improving learning impairment and synaptic loss observed in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid beta(25-35) [Abeta(25-35)] (4.7 nmol) was intracerebroventricularly injected into ddY mice (male, 6 weeks old). Fourteen days after the injection, mice were given ZMT extract (500 mg/kg/day) per os for 15 days. In a memory acquisition test, the Abeta(25-35)-injected mice required more time to master this task than did mice in the saline- or reverse peptide Abeta(35-25)-treated groups. ZMT-treated mice shortened escape latencies during trial days 3-5, but not significantly. Three days after the last drug treatment, a retention test was performed. Following ZMT, the number of crossings over a platform was significantly decreased in Abeta(25-35)-injected mice compared with those in the control groups. However, ZMT-treated mice showed complete recovery of this number. Although Abeta(25-35) injection decreased synaptophysin expression in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus, ZMT treatment significantly increased the level of expression of synaptophysin up to the control level. Donepezil hydrochloride (DNP, 0.5 mg/kg/day, p.o.) clinically used for AD had no effect on memory retention and synaptophysin levels. Abeta(25-35)-induced neuronal loss was not observed in any region of the brain. The present results suggest that memory impairment and synaptic loss in AD patients may be improved by treatment with ZMT, even after such impairment has already progressed.
14563208: !synaptophysin A common mechanism for the regulation of vesicular SNAREs on phospholipid membranes. The SNARE (soluble N -ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor) family of proteins is essential for membrane fusion in intracellular traffic in eukaryotic organisms. v-SNAREs (vesicular SNAREs) must engage target SNAREs in the opposing membrane to form the fusogenic SNARE complex. Temporal and spatial control of membrane fusion is important for many aspects of cell physiology and may involve the regulation of the SNAREs resident on intracellular membranes. Here we show that the v-SNARE synaptobrevin 2, also known as VAMP (vesicle-associated membrane protein) 2, is restricted from forming the SNARE complex in chromaffin granules from adrenal medullae to the same degree as in brain-purified synaptic vesicles. Our analysis indicates that the previously reported synaptophysin-synaptobrevin interaction is not likely to be involved in regulation of the v-SNARE. Indeed, the restriction can be reproduced for two distinct v-SNARE homologues, synaptobrevin 2 and cellubrevin/VAMP3, by reconstituting them in pure liposomal membranes. Overall, our data uncover a common mechanism for the control of SNARE engagement where intact phospholipid membranes rather than proteins down-regulate vesicular SNAREs in different cellular organelles.
14560160: !synaptophysin Gastric hepatoid adenocarcinoma and familial investigation: does it always produce alpha-fetoprotein? We present the case of a 68-year-old Caucasian man with gastric hepatoid adenocarcinoma without increased levels of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in the serum. The patient had a strong history of gastric cancer in his family, affecting seven members, including a brother and a sister. The patient underwent subtotal gastrectomy, but 4 months later presented hepatic metastases, and 6 months after the initial diagnosis he succumbed to the disease. Immunohistochemical tests showed that the tumour was positive for AFP, hepatocyte paraffin 1, and neuron-specific enolase, but negative for synaptophysin and chromogranin. Previously reported cases of hepatoid gastric tumours showed that they produce large amounts of AFP and that they have a poor prognosis.
14559354: !synaptophysin Dystrophin antisense oligonucleotides decrease expression of nNOS in human neurons. Nitric oxide (NO) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disease. It has been shown that neuronal NO synthase (nNOS), the enzyme that constitutively produces NO in brain, is a component of the dystrophin-associated protein complex. The absence of dystrophin causes Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Thus, we attempted to study whether or not a decrease of dystrophin expression would induce a modification in nNOS expression in cultured human neurons. Human fetal neuronal cultures were treated with antisense oligonucleotides against different isoforms of dystrophin and the expression of nNOS tested by RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry. Results showed that nNOS mRNA was significantly decreased by about 35% in neurons treated with brain-specific dystrophin (brain Dp427) antisense, whereas iNOS expression was not affected. Accordingly, a decrease in immunostaining for nNOS was observed in antisense treated neurons compared to controls. Expression of neuronal markers, such as bFGF or synaptophysin, was not affected by the same antisense treatment. Astrocytes were not affected by treatment, as shown by utrophin expression, a dystrophin-like protein that was not modified in pure astrocytic cultures. Thus, we conclude that a decrease of dystrophin in human neurons is associated with a decrease of nNOS expression.
14550734: !synaptophysin Abnormal synaptic protein expression in two Arabian horses with equine degenerative myeloencephalopathy. Numerous swollen neurons and multiple dystrophic axons were observed in the gracillis and cuneatus nuclei of two male Arabian horses, aged six and 12 months of age, with equine degenerative myeloencephalopathy. Swollen neurons and dystrophic axons showed synaptophysin, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa, syntaxin-1 and alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity. Moreover, dystrophic axons were strongly immunopositive against the ubiquitin protein and against the anti-phosphorylated 200 kDa neurofilament protein. Abnormal expression of integral synaptic vesicle, synaptic vesicle-associated presynaptic plasma membrane and cytosolic proteins, which participate in the trafficking, docking and fusion of the synaptic vesicle to the plasma membrane, suggest that severe disruption of axonal transport plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of dystrophic axons in equine degenerative myeloencephalopathy (EDM).
14534286: !synaptophysin Factors underlying bursting behavior in a network of cultured hippocampal neurons exposed to zero magnesium. Factors contributing to reduced magnesium-induced neuronal action potential bursting were investigated in primary hippocampal cell culture at high and low culture density. In nominally zero external magnesium medium, pyramidal neurons from high-density cultures produced recurrent spontaneous action potential bursts superimposed on prolonged depolarizations. These bursts were partially attenuated by the NMDA receptor antagonist d-APV. Pharmacological analysis of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) revealed 2 components: one sensitive to d-APV and another to the AMPA receptor antagonist DNQX. The components were kinetically distinct. Participation of NMDA receptors in reduced magnesium-induced synaptic events was supported by the localization of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor with the presynaptic vesicular protein synaptophysin. Presynaptically, zero magnesium induced a significant increase in EPSC frequency likely attributable to increased neuronal hyperexcitability induced by reduced membrane surface charge screening. Mean quantal content was significantly increased in zero magnesium. Cells from low-density cultures did not exhibit action potential bursting in zero magnesium but did show increased EPSC frequency. Low-density neurons had less synaptophysin immunofluorescence and fewer active synapses as determined by FM1-43 analysis. These results demonstrate that multiple factors are involved in network bursting. Increased probability of transmitter release presynaptically, enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated excitability postsynaptically, and extent of neuronal interconnectivity contribute to initiation and maintenance of elevated network excitability.
14533941: !synaptophysin Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the urinary bladder with lymphoepithelioma-like features. The group of undifferentiated carcinomas of the urinary bladder encompasses small cell undifferentiated carcinoma, giant cell carcinoma, lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma (LELC), and large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC). These tumors are either pure or can be associated with other components, such as transitional cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma. We report a case of LCNEC of the urinary bladder in a 54-year-old woman. Histologically, the tumor showed features of LELC; immunohistochemically, the tumor cells reacted to chromogranin A, NSE, and synaptophysin. In addition to these neuroendocrine markers, tumor cells were positive for cytokeratin CAM 5.2 and AE1/AE3, and there was focal positivity for vimentin. In situ hybridization for the detection of Epstein-Barr virus was negative. Despite radical cystourethrectomy and six courses of chemotherapy, the patient developed metastases invading the left inguinal lymph nodes 11 months postoperatively. Currently, 16 months postoperatively, the patient has developed metastases spreading into the lymph nodes of the right ischiorectal fossa; therefore, she is receiving a new cyclus of chemotherapy. There are only three previously reported cases of LCNEC of the urinary bladder, and the significance of neuroendocrine differentiation in non-small cell carcinomas at this location remains to be established. However, LELC appears to be a separate clinicopathological entity with sensitivity to chemotherapy and a relatively favorable prognosis. The differentiation between LELC and LCNEC with prominent inflammatory reaction could be of therapeutic relevance. However, in our case, this was possible using immunohistochemistry only.
14533935: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine tissue-specific transcription factor, BETA2/NeuroD, in gastric carcinomas: a comparison with chromogranin A and synaptophysin expressions. BETA2/NeuroD (NeuroD) is a basic helix-loop-helix type of transcription factor mainly involved in neuroendocrine differentiation. In this study, we evaluated the prevalence of neuroendocrine differentiation in gastric carcinomas by analyzing the NeuroD expression in comparison with those of chromogranin A and synaptophysin. Of the 70 cases of gastric adenocarcinoma, the expressions of NeuroD, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin were detected in 17 (24.3%), four (5.7%), and 24 cases (34.3%), respectively, with preferential expressions in a non-solid type of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. The expression pattern of NeuroD was mostly concordant with that of synaptophysin and partly with chromogranin A, indicating that NeuroD serves as a good neuroendocrine marker in gastric adenocarcinomas. On the other hand, no immunoreactivity against NeuroD was detectable in nine cases of gastric neuroendocrine carcinomas, including small cell carcinomas, despite the presence of synaptophysin and chromogranin A expressions. These findings led us to conclude that neuroendocrine differentiation is estimated to be present in 20-30% of gastric adenocarcinomas with preference to a non-solid type of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. In addition, the negative expression of NeuroD in neuroendocrine carcinomas suggests that other regulatory mechanisms are possibly involved in the development of neuroendocrine carcinoma.
14531546: !synaptophysin Novel crystalloid structures in suprasellar paraganglioma. A-52-year-old woman was admitted to a hospital because of 2-year history of abnormal behavior and impaired visual acuity. Magnetic resonance imaging delineated a sizable mass at the suprasellar region. The partially removed tumor was arranged in irregular lobules composed of an admixture of clusters of cobblestone-like small cells and process-bearing cells with ovoid nuclei, surrounded by a fine, neuropil-like matrix. The Zellballen structure was inconspicuous, and mitosis was absent. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, class III beta-tubulin and neurofilament, while negative for glial fibrillary acidic protein, cytokeratin and all 6 pituitary hormones. S100 protein expression was limited to cells adjacent to stroma. The MIB-1 labeling index was 0.5%. Histopathological diagnosis was paraganglioma of abortive architecture. Ultrastructurally, numerous dense-cored vesicles were found within the processes and cytoplasm. Synapse formation was not demonstrated. Interestingly, crystalloids up to 3 microm in size were frequently found. They had hexagonal or quadrilateral architecture without limiting membranes. The interval between periodically arranged fibrils was variable, ranging from approximately 20 - 50 nm. Retrospective examination by light microscopy failed to reveal corresponding structures. Crystalloids are rare manifestation of paragangliomas, yet undescribed in those of intracranial origin. Furthermore, the ultrastructure of the present case differs from those of previous cases.
14531545: !synaptophysin Alpha-internexin expression in medulloblastomas and atypical teratoid-rhabdoid tumors. To determine whether medulloblastomas and atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumors express alpha-internexin, an intermediate filament protein that is expressed in normal neurons undergoing maturation and differentiation.
14528015: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin I controls the targeting of VAMP2/synaptobrevin II to synaptic vesicles. Synaptic vesicle (SV) proteins are synthesized at the level of the cell body and transported down the axon in membrane precursors of SVs. To investigate the mechanisms underlying sorting of proteins to SVs, fluorescent chimeras of vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) 2, its highly homologous isoform VAMP1 and synaptotagmin I (SytI) were expressed in hippocampal neurons in culture. Interestingly, the proteins displayed a diffuse component of distribution along the axon. In addition, VAMP2 was found to travel in vesicles that constitutively fuse with the plasma membrane. Coexpression of VAMP2 with synaptophysin I (SypI), a major resident of SVs, restored the correct sorting of VAMP2 to SVs. The effect of SypI on VAMP2 sorting was dose dependent, being reversed by increasing VAMP2 expression levels, and highly specific, because the sorting of the SV proteins VAMP1 and SytI was not affected by SypI. The cytoplasmic domain of VAMP2 was found to be necessary for both the formation of VAMP2-SypI hetero-dimers and for VAMP2 sorting to SVs. These data support a role for SypI in directing the correct sorting of VAMP2 in neurons and demonstrate that a direct interaction between the two proteins is required for SypI in order to exert its effect.
14527440: !synaptophysin Presynaptic activation of silent synapses and growth of new synapses contribute to intermediate and long-term facilitation in Aplysia. The time course and functional significance of the structural changes associated with long-term facilitation of Aplysia sensory to motor neuron synaptic connections in culture were examined by time-lapse confocal imaging of individual sensory neuron varicosities labeled with three different fluorescent markers: the whole-cell marker Alexa-594 and two presynaptic marker proteins-synaptophysin-eGFP to monitor changes in synaptic vesicle distribution and synapto-PHluorin to monitor active transmitter release sites. Repeated pulses of serotonin induce two temporally, morphologically, and molecularly distinct presynaptic changes: (1) a rapid activation of silent presynaptic terminals by filling of preexisting empty varicosities with synaptic vesicles, which parallels intermediate-term facilitation, is completed within 3-6 hr and requires translation but not transcription and (2) a slower generation of new functional varicosities which occurs between 12-18 hr and requires transcription and translation. Enrichment of empty varicosities with synaptophysin accounts for 32% of the newly activated synapses at 24 hr, whereas newly formed varicosities account for 68%.
14526683: !synaptophysin alpha-Fetoprotein-producing liver carcinomas of primary extrahepatic origin. alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP)-producing carcinomas, hepatoid or otherwise, are increasingly being recognized at extrahepatic sites. Some of them not only mimic hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) in having a proclivity for vascular permeation and distant metastases but also exhibit identical morphology and immunoreactivity for alpha-1-antitrypsin and HepPar1. beta-Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is also detected. This would create diagnostic problems in hepatic fine needle aspiration biopsies (FNABs) from patients with elevated serum AFP. Apart from HCC, its variants and germ cell tumors, one must consider metastatic AFP-producing carcinomas.
14522000: !synaptophysin The impact of Abeta-plaques on cortical cholinergic and non-cholinergic presynaptic boutons in alzheimer's disease-like transgenic mice. A previous study in our laboratory, involving early stage, amyloid pathology in 8-month-old transgenic mice, demonstrated a selective loss of cholinergic terminals in the cerebral and hippocampal cortices of doubly transgenic (APP(K670N,M671L)+PSl(M146L)) mice, an up-regulation in the single mutant APP(K670N,M671L) mice and no detectable change in the PSl(M146L) transgenics [J Neurosci 19 (1999) 2706]. The present study investigates the impact of amyloid plaques on synaptophysin and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) immunoreactive bouton numbers in the frontal cortex of the three transgenic mouse models previously described. When compared as a whole, the frontal cortices of transgenic and control mice show no observable differences in the densities of synaptophysin-immunoreactive boutons. An individual comparison of layer V of the frontal cortex, however, shows a significant increase in density in transgenic models. Analysis of the cholinergic system alone shows significant alterations in the VAChT-immunoreactive bouton densities as evidenced by an increased density in the single (APP(K670N,M671L)) transgenics and a decreased density in the doubly transgenics (APP(K670N,M671L)+PSl(M146L)). In investigating the impact of plaque proximity on bouton density at early stages of the amyloid pathology in our doubly (APP(K670N,M671L)+PSl(M146L)) transgenic mouse line, we observed that plaque proximity reduced cholinergic pre-synaptic bouton density by 40%, and yet increased synaptophysin-immunoreactive pre-synaptic bouton density by 9.5%. Distance from plaques (up to 60 microm) seemed to have no effect on bouton density; however a significant inverse relationship was visible between plaque size and cholinergic pre-synaptic bouton density. Finally, the number of cholinergic dystrophic neurites surrounding the truly amyloid, Thioflavin-S(+) plaque core, was disproportionately large with respect to the incidence of cholinergic boutons within the total pre-synaptic bouton population. Confocal and electron microscopic observations confirmed the preferential infiltration of dystrophic cholinergic boutons into fibrillar amyloid aggregates. We therefore hypothesize that extracellular Abeta aggregation preferentially affects cholinergic terminations prior to progression onto other neurotransmitter systems. This is supported by the observable presence of non-cholinergic sprouting, which may be representative of impending neuritic degeneration.
14521451: !synaptophysin Colonic carcinoid metastatic to the breast. Metastatic tumors of the breast are uncommon. Breast metastases from nonmammary malignant neoplasms are rare, accounting for approximately 2% of all breast tumors. We report the case of an ileal carcinoid tumor metastatic to the breast 10 years after the initial diagnosis. A 53-year-old woman presented to our clinic with a palpable breast lump. The mammogram was nonspecific. A lumpectomy was performed that, on frozen section, showed a neoplastic lesion. Permanent sections showed that the tumor was composed of sheets of small uniform cells divided into lobules by delicate vascular septa. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that the lesional cells were strongly positive to the neuroendocrine marker panel of antibodies: chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, serotonin, and low-molecular-weight keratin. The lesional cells were negative to cytokeratins 7 and 20, estrogen and progesterone receptors, carcinoembryonic antigen, and c-Erb-B2 antibodies. The presence of pleomorphic neurosecretory-type granules within the cytoplasm of the tumor cells by ultrastructural analysis strongly suggested a metastatic lesion from a midgut carcinoid. A detailed review of the patient's medical records confirmed a right hemicolectomy for an ileal carcinoid with lymph node and omental metastases that had been performed elsewhere 10 years earlier. A detailed pathologic analysis of this lesion by light microscopy, along with histochemical, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural analyses, aided in confirming the metastatic nature of the current breast lesion.
14521267: !synaptophysin Pseudoglandular myxoid adenoma of the adrenal gland. Myxoid tumors of the adrenal cortex are rare. To the best of our knowledge, only 17 cases have been reported to date, including 10 carcinomas and 7 adenomas. The myxoid areas of these tumors are often evident grossly, and their extent is variable. We report on a case of a myxoid adenoma of the right adrenal gland in a 45-year-old male with a prominent pseudoglandular arrangement in more than 90% of the tumor mass, and with a minor component represented by anastomosing cords of tumor cells floating in pools of myxoid material. In addition, after extensive examination, we found foci of typical adrenocortical adenoma. Grossly, the tumor was yellowish without discernable gelatinous changes. Most of the tumor cells had a moderate amount of clear vacuolated cytoplasm and contained numerous oil-red-O-positive lipid droplets. Extracellularly, in the lumens of pseudoglands and on the background, we noticed myxoid material that stained positively with Alcian blue (pH 2.5) and weakly positively with mucicarmine and the PAS method. Immunohistochemical examination showed positivity of the tumor cells for vimentin and cytokeratin CAM5.2. Synaptophysin was weakly positive only focally. Cytokeratin AE1/AE3, EMA, and CEA were negative.
14521262: !synaptophysin Neuronal nuclear antigen (NeuN): a new tool in the diagnosis of central neurocytoma. The use of neuronal nuclear antigen (NeuN) as a reliable neuronal marker in the differential diagnosis of clear cell neoplasms of the central nervous system was determined in a biopsy series of 23 cases. Immunohistochemical analyses were carried out by antisera against neuronal nuclear antigen, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, microtubule-associated protein 2, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. All eight central neurocytomas were characteristically immunolabeled by NeuN. NeuN immunoreactivity was uniformly strong and basically located in the nuclei of neurocytes. Despite this uniform staining pattern of central neurocytomas, 12 cases of oligodendrogliomas and three cases of ependymoma were negative for NeuN. As the diagnostic criteria for central neurocytoma include immunohistochemical and/or ultrastructural evidence for neuronal differentiation, NeuN as a sensitive and specific neuronal marker in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues may greatly facilitate the differential diagnosis of central neurocytomas.
14519497: !synaptophysin Development of the outer retina in the mouse. Mice represent a valuable species for studies of development and disease. With the availability of transgenic models for retinal degeneration in this species, information regarding development and structure of mouse retina has become increasingly important. Of special interest is the differentiation and synaptogenesis of photoreceptors since these cells are predominantly involved in hereditary retinal degenerations. Thus, some of the keys to future clinical management of these retinal diseases may lie in understanding the molecular mechanisms of outer retinal development. In this study, we describe the expression of markers for photoreceptors (recoverin), horizontal cells (calbindin), bipolar cells (protein kinase C; PKC) and cytoskeletal elements pivotal to axonogenesis (beta-tubulin and actin) during perinatal development of mouse retina. Immunocytochemical localization of recoverin, calbindin, PKC and beta-tubulin was monitored in developing mouse retina (embryonic day (E) 18.5 to postnatal day (PN) 14), whereas f-actin was localized by Phalloidin binding. Recoverin immunoreactive cells, presumably the photoreceptors, were observed embryonically (E 18.5) and their number increased until PN 14. Neurite projections from the immunoreactive cells towards the outer plexiform layer (OPL) were noted at PN 0 and these processes reached the OPL at PN 7 coincident with histological evidence for the differentiation of the OPL. Outer segments, all the cell bodies in the ONL, as well as the OPL were immunoreactive to recoverin at PN 14. Calbindin immunoreactive horizontal cells were also present in E 18.5 retinas. These cells became progressively displaced proximally as the ONL developed. A calbindin immunoreactive plexus was seen in the OPL at PN 7. PKC immunoreactive bipolar cells developed postnatally, becoming distinguished at PN 7. Both beta-tubulin and actin immunoreactive cells were present in the IPL as early as E 18.5; however, appearance of processes labeled with these markers in the OPL was delayed until PN 7, concurrent with the first appearance of photoreceptor neurites, development of the horizontal cell plexus, and development of synaptophysin immunoreactivity at this location. These results provide a developmental timeframe for the expression of recoverin, calbindin, synaptophysin, beta-tubulin and actin. Our findings suggest that the time between PN 3 and PN 7 represents a critical period during which elements of the OPL are assembled.
14512686: !synaptophysin The immunohistochemical profile of the myelomeningocele placode: is the placode normal? One key to predicting optimal outcome of novel treatments, such as fetal surgery, for myelomeningocele is understanding the structure of the placode. We hypothesize that if the placode retains normal patterning and is simply unneurulated, then repair may be effective in preventing secondary injury. Serial sections of human myelomeningocele placodes were characterized using novel immunohistochemical caudal spinal cord markers (H4C4, AC4, NOT, VIN-IS-53, and FP3) and established structural markers (e.g. neurofilament, glial fibrillary acidic protein, or synaptophysin). The myelomeningocele placodes studied exhibited abnormal patterning along the dorsoventral and rostrocaudal axes indicative of a change in pattern determination and a paucity of maturing neurons. In addition, there was significant inflammatory infiltrate, gliosis and fibrosis consistent with secondary injury. Additionally, injury to the placode was also demonstrated. The combination of effects may be contributory to abnormal spinal cord function in myelomeningocele patients.
14511349: !synaptophysin Long-term behavioural, molecular and morphological effects of neonatal NMDA receptor antagonism. Brief N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blockade in neonatal rats has been reported to increase neuronal apoptosis. We replicated this finding using MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg) administered twice on postnatal day 7, and then studied the long-term consequences. In adulthood, treated rats showed reduced volume and neuronal number within the hippocampus, and altered hippocampal NMDA receptor (NR1 subunit) expression. Synaptophysin mRNA was decreased in the thalamus (laterodorsal nucleus). Adult MK-801-treated females had prepulse inhibition deficits and increased locomotor activity. The data show that a transient and limited glutamatergic intervention during development can have chronic behavioural, structural and molecular effects. The effects are reminiscent of alterations reported in schizophrenia and, as such, are consistent with hypotheses advocating a role for NMDA receptor hypofunction, and aberrant apoptosis, in the neurodevelopmental pathogenesis of the disorder.
14506675: !synaptophysin Immunostaining of cytology smears: a comparative study to identify the most suitable method of smear preparation and fixation with reference to commonly used immunomarkers. As an extension of our previous study (Shidham et al., Acta Cytol 2000;44:1015-1022), we evaluated the interference by methods of cytology smear preparation on the immunoreactivity of cytokeratin-7, cytokeratin-20, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and vimentin. Scrape cytology smears of 34 fresh specimens submitted for intraoperative consultation were studied. They were processed by three different methods--A: wet-fixed in 95% ethanol; B: air-dried saline rehydrated smears fixed in alcoholic formalin; and C: air-dried saline rehydrated smears fixed in 95% ethanol with 5% acetic acid. The intensity scores of immunostaining were estimated semiquantitatively and compared with corresponding formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections (FPTS). Except vimentin, all immunomarkers showed higher intensity scores with method A or B than with method C. Vimentin showed the best results with method A. Our results indicate that the immunoreactivity pattern with each immunomarker is affected by the method of cytology smear processing. Most importantly, method C, which is the desired choice for cytomorphological staining, was not suitable for immunostaining.
12974474: !synaptophysin Cloning and sequence analysis of the human cDNA encoding the synaptoporin (delta), a highly conservative synaptic vesicle protein. Synaptoporin is a membrane protein of synaptic vesicles, which belongs to the synaptophysin family. It was first isolated from rat brain. Here we report the cloning and characterization of the human cDNA that encodes the human homologue of synaptoporin. It has two splicing variants, which is in accordance with its ortholog in chicken. Its deduced amino acid sequence displays 97% and 81% identity with the synaptoporin of rat and chicken, respectively. This gene was mapped to the chromosome 3p14.3 by matching against the Human Genome Sequence Database. 16-tissue RT-PCR analysis shows that human synaptoporin is specifically expressed in the brain.
12973680: !synaptophysin Localization of the calcium channel subunits Cav1.2 (alpha1C) and Cav2.3 (alpha1E) in the mouse organ of Corti. Voltage-activated Ca2+ channels play an important role in synaptic transmission, signal processing and development. The immunohistochemical localization of Cav1.2 (alpha1C) and Cav2.3 (alpha1E) Ca2+ channels was studied in the developing and adult mouse organ of Corti using subunit-specific antibodies and fluorescent secondary antibodies with cochlear cryosections. Cav1.2 immunoreactivity has been detected from postnatal day 14 (P14) onwards at the synapses between cholinergic medial efferents and outer hair cells as revealed by co-staining with anti-synaptophysin and anti-choline acetyltransferase. Most likely the Cav1.2 immunoreactivity was located presynaptically at the site of contact of the efferent bouton with the outer hair cell which suggests a role for class C L-type Ca2+ channels in synaptic transmission of the medial efferent system. The localization of the second Ca2+ channel tested, Cav2.3, showed a pronounced change during cochlear development. From P2 until P10, Cav2.3 immunoreactivity was found in the outer spiral bundle followed by the inner spiral bundle, efferent endings and by medial efferent fibers. Around P14, Cav2.3 immunoreactivity disappeared from these structures and from P19 onwards it was observed in the basal poles of the outer hair cell membranes.
12969269: !synaptophysin Glutamate transport, glutamine synthetase and phosphate-activated glutaminase in rat CNS white matter. A quantitative study. Glutamatergic signal transduction occurs in CNS white matter, but quantitative data on glutamate uptake and metabolism are lacking. We report that the level of the astrocytic glutamate transporter GLT in rat fimbria and corpus callosum was approximately 35% of that in parietal cortex; uptake of [3H]glutamate was 24 and 43%, respectively, of the cortical value. In fimbria and corpus callosum levels of synaptic proteins, synapsin I and synaptophysin were 15-20% of those in cortex; the activities of glutamine synthetase and phosphate-activated glutaminase, enzymes involved in metabolism of transmitter glutamate, were 11-25% of cortical values, and activities of aspartate and alanine aminotransferases were 50-70% of cortical values. The glutamate level in fimbria and corpus callosum was 5-6 nmol/mg tissue, half the cortical value. These data suggest a certain capacity for glutamatergic neurotransmission. In optic and trigeminal nerves, [3H]glutamate uptake was < 10% of the cortical uptake. Formation of [14C]glutamate from [U-14C]glucose in fimbria and corpus callosum of awake rats was 30% of cortical values, in optic nerve it was 13%, illustrating extensive glutamate metabolism in white matter in vivo. Glutamate transporters in brain white matter may be important both physiologically and during energy failure when reversal of glutamate uptake may contribute to excitotoxicity.
12969263: !synaptophysin Presence of functional ATP and dinucleotide receptors in glutamatergic synaptic terminals from rat midbrain. Glutamatergic terminals from rat midbrain were characterized by immunolocalization of synaptophysin and the vesicular glutamate transporters, either VGLUT1 or VGLUT2. Terminals containing these markers represent about 31% (VGLUT1) and 16% (VGLUT2) of the total synaptosomal population. VGLUT1-positive glutamatergic terminals responded to ATP or P1,P 5-di(adenosine-5') pentaphosphate (Ap5A) with an increase in the intrasynaptosomal calcium concentration as measured by a microfluorimetric technique in single synaptosomes. Roughly 20% of the VGLUT1-positive terminals responded to ATP, 13% to Ap5A and 11% to both agonists. Finally 56% of the terminals labeled with the anti-VGLUT1 antibody did not show any calcium increase in response to ATP or Ap5A. A similar response distribution was also observed in the VGLUT2-positive terminals. The Ca2+ responses induced by ATP and Ap5A in the glutamatergic terminals could be selectively inhibited by pyridoxal phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS, 80 micro m) and P1,P 5-di(inosine-5') pentaphosphate (Ip5I, 100 nm), respectively. Both ATP and Ap5A, once assayed in the presence of extrasynaptosomal calcium, were able to induce a concentration-dependent glutamate release from synaptosomal populations, EC50 values being 21 micro m and 38 micro m for ATP and Ap5A, respectively. Specific inhibition of glutamate release was obtained with PPADS on the ATP effect and with Ip5I on the dinucleotide response, indicating that separate receptors mediate the secretory effects of both compounds.
12966466: !synaptophysin Cerebrospinal fluid from a dog with neurologic collapse. A 3-year-old Staffordshire Terrier was presented to the Texas Veterinary Medical Center with a short progressive history of anorexia, weight loss, and weakness that had progressed to ataxia and collapse with empirical treatment. The dog was tetraparetic and obtunded. Results of a complete neurologic evaluation were consistent with severe, multifocal to diffuse disease involving the forebrain, spinal cord, and brainstem. Cerebrospinal fluid, obtained via cerebellomedullary cisternal puncture, was highly cellular and contained large atypical round cells with small numbers of nondegenerate neutrophils and large mononuclear cells. Rare eosinophils and small lymphocytes were noted. The atypical round cells were approximately 15-25 micro m in diameter with a single nucleus set in a small amount of cytoplasm. The nuclei were typically round to slightly ovoid; however, occasional notched, lobulated, and reniform nuclei were observed. These cells were interpreted as malignant lymphocytes. Owing to a grave prognosis, the animal was euthanized and a necropsy was performed. No gross lesions were found in the central nervous system. Multiple sections of cerebellum, medulla, and spinal cord contained a diffuse neoplastic infiltrate that was predominantly meningeal with rare superficial neuropil invasion. The neoplastic cells were arranged in sheets, cords, and rosettes. Immunohistochemical staining for vimentin, pancytokeratin, CD3, CD79a, synaptophysin, S-100, and neuron-specific enolase was negative; glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) staining was equivocal. Based on histologic findings, a diagnosis of medulloblastoma was made. This case documents the rare occurrence of a canine medulloblastoma and illustrates the difficulty in distinguishing between some embryonal brain tumors and lymphoma.
12965244: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunogold labelling of synapses decreases in dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of aged rats. Synaptophysin expression was assessed in dentate gyrus prepared from aged (22 months) and young (4 months) rats by immunoblotting and post-embedding immunolabelling at electron microscope level. Immunoblotting showed qualitatively that there was a marked reduction in synaptophysin expression in synaptosomes of aged compared with young rats. Immunogold labelling studies in the medial molecular layer of the dentate gyrus demonstrated that gold particles were restricted to pre-synaptic boutons, and were present mainly on the membranes of the synaptic vesicles or occasionally inside vesicles. In aged rats, immunolabelling patterns and the density of immunogold particles per pre-synaptic bouton were almost 50% lower than in younger rats. However, because boutons were larger in older rats the actual labelling density per unit area of bouton (3.77) was even lower than in the young rats (7.74). The role of synaptophysin in neural plasticity and ageing should be further examined.
12963753: !synaptophysin Axonal swellings predict the degeneration of epidermal nerve fibers in painful neuropathies. To correlate the density of swellings in intraepidermal nerve fibers (IENF) with the longitudinal measurement of the epidermal innervation density in patients with painful neuropathy and to assess the predictive value of IENF swelling to progression of neuropathy.
12960039: !synaptophysin Estradiol increases pre- and post-synaptic proteins in the CA1 region of the hippocampus in female rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). The role of estrogen (E) in promoting learning and memory in females has been well studied in both rodent and primate models. In female rats, E increases dendritic spine number, synaptogenesis, and synaptic proteins in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, an area of the brain that mediates learning and memory. In the present study, we used radioimmunocytochemistry to examine whether E and progesterone were capable of modulating the levels of pre- and postsynaptic proteins in the CA1 region of the female nonhuman primate hippocampus. It was found that E increased syntaxin, synaptophysin (presynaptic), and spinophilin (postsynaptic) levels in the stratum oriens and radiatum of the CA1 region, whereas combined E and progesterone treatment decreased these synaptic proteins to the levels found in untreated, spayed controls. Furthermore, progesterone treatment alone significantly increased synaptophysin levels in the stratum oriens and radiatum of the CA1 region. The levels of these synaptic proteins were unaltered by hormone treatment in the dentate gyrus, suggesting that this steroid-induced plasticity is hippocampal region specific. As these synaptic proteins are important components of the synaptic apparatus and reliable markers of synaptogenesis, it appears that E-induced increases in cognitive function of higher order mammals may be mediated in part by the effect of E on hippocampal synaptogenesis and synaptic plasticity.
12957144: !synaptophysin Muscle spindles and Golgi tendon organs in bovine calf extraocular muscle studied by means of double-fluorescent labeling, electron microscopy, and three-dimensional reconstruction. In the present study muscle spindles (MSps) and Golgi tendon organs (GTOs) in bovine extraocular muscles (EOMs) were analyzed in detail. The innervation pattern of these proprioceptors was investigated with transmission electron microscope and confocal laser scanning microscope after double-fluorescent labeling. Three-dimensional (3D) reconstructions were performed of GTOs. Muscle spindles. MSps are numerous, each containing two nuclear bag fibers and up to eight nuclear chain fibers. In the equatorial region and paraequatorial region thin axons enwrapping the intrafusal muscle fibers form numerous nerve contacts on the muscle fiber surface. Double staining of such nerve terminals with synaptophysin and alpha-bungarotoxin and their fine structural features confirm their sensory nature. In the encapsulated part of the polar region neuromuscular contacts have structural features of motor nerve terminals and stain positively with alpha-bungarotoxin. Golgi tendon organs. GTOs are numerous in bovine EOMs. Each GTO contains collagen bundles but frequently also intracapsular muscle fibers. Intracapsular muscle fibers either terminate inside the GTO in collagen bundles or pass through the proprioceptor. GTOs are richly supplied with sensory nerve terminals which intermingle with the collagen bundles. Nerve terminals on intracapsular muscle fibers exhibit fine structural characteristics of motor nerve terminals and are alpha-bungarotoxin positive. The 3D images of GTOs show the detailed spatial arrangement of the GTO tissue components. These new insights in the complex and specific morphology of MSps and GTOs in bovine EOMs indicate that we deal with highly developed proprioceptors. These are supposed to provide important information for EOM innervation.
12955095: !synaptophysin Convergent effects of lithium and valproate on the expression of proteins associated with large dense core vesicles in NGF-differentiated PC12 cells. Lithium and valproate are chemically unrelated compounds that are used to treat manic-depressive illness. Previously, we reported that lithium ions upregulate genes encoding proteins primarily associated with large dense core vesicles (LDCV) in nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells, but not in undifferentiated PC12 cells. Moreover, lithium did not alter the expression of proteins associated with small-clear, synaptic-like vesicles (SSV) in these cells. Based on these observations, we investigated whether valproate had actions similar to those of lithium in PC12 cells. Thus, undifferentiated or NGF-differentiated PC12 cells were exposed to lithium (1 mM) or valproate (1 mM) for 48 h. Extracts from these cells were submitted to semiquantitative Northern and Western analyses. In NGF-differentiated cells, both agents increased the expression of proteins associated with LDCV, the vesicular monoamine transporter 1 (VMAT1), and cysteine string protein (CSP). These same treatments did not alter the expression of proteins primarily associated with SSV, the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), and synaptophysin (SY). Furthermore, neither drug affected the expression of these proteins in undifferentiated cells. Interestingly, secretion of (3)H-dopamine was increased in cells exhibiting the increase of VMAT1 and csp. Taken together, the convergent effects of these chemically diverse compounds suggest that altered dynamics of LDCV may play a vital role in the biochemical pathway, leading to the relief of the symptoms of manic depression.
12953782: !synaptophysin Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumour of the left maxillary sinus. Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumours (pPNETs) are highly malignant, small-cell neoplasms found mainly in children and young adults. Recent advances in immunohistochemistry and genetic typing have led to reports of a close relationship between pPNET and the previously difficult-to-classify Ewing's sarcoma. We report a case of pPNET involving the left maxillary sinus in a 23-year-old female who presented with a 2-month history of unilateral left-sided nasal obstruction, rhinorrhoea and recurrent bloody nasal discharge. A CT scan of the paranasal sinuses showed a large mass (10 x 7 x 3 cm3) arising from the left maxillary sinus, with signs of bone destruction and invasion of the left orbital floor and pterygomaxillary fossa. MRI revealed a heterogeneous hyperintense signal on a T2-weighted image in the left maxillary sinus. The tumour was surgically removed by means of external lateral rhinotomy. Pathological examination showed a sheet of small cells with irregular nuclei. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated positive immunoreactivity for neurone-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin, vimentin, S-100 protein and p30-32 MIC-2 gene product. The patient was treated with chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, vincristine, adriamycin and actinomycin D, together with radiotherapy to a total tumour dose of 60 Gy. After 59 months of follow-up, the patient remained free of disease and a repeat MRI scan was normalized, with no sign of residual tumour.
12953765: !synaptophysin Epithelial tumors of the middle ear--are middle ear carcinoids really distinct from middle ear adenomas? Primary tumors of the middle ear are much less commonly encountered in clinical practice than non-neoplastic lesions such as inflammatory polyps (aural polyps) or cholesteatomas. The rarity of such tumors can complicate attempts, by both clinicians and pathologists, to correctly classify them. It has been customary for many authors to segregate middle ear adenomas (MEAs) from middle ear carcinoids as two discrete benign neoplastic entities. It has become apparent, however, that MEAs and carcinoids of the middle ear share a sufficient number of overlapping pathologic features and similarities of clinical behavior to warrant their collapse into a single diagnostic category. It is proposed that these tumors should be designated as MEAs, which are defined as benign, indolent epithelial tumors of the middle ear that do not invade or erode bone and do not metastasize. The individual tumor cells are cytologically bland and polygonal, columnar or plasmacytoid-shaped; they may be arranged in islands, glandular formations or trabeculae, but not in papillary structures. They are typically keratin- and vimentin-positive immunohistochemically, and are often positive as well with antibodies for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, Leu-7, serotonin, pancreatic polypeptide and S-100 protein. Dense core neurosecretory granules may be identifiable by electron microscopy. Conservative surgical excision is the treatment of choice, and local recurrence following complete excision is quite uncommon.
12948560: !synaptophysin Cryopreserved rat cortical cells develop functional neuronal networks on microelectrode arrays. Neurons growing on microelectrode arrays (MEAs) are promising tools to investigate principal neuronal network mechanisms and network responses to pharmaceutical substances. However, broad application of these tools, e.g. in pharmaceutical substance screening, requires neuronal cells that provide stable activity on MEAs. Cryopreserved cortical neurons (CCx) from embryonic rats were cultured on MEAs and their immunocytochemical and electrophysiological properties were compared with acutely dissociated neurons (Cx). Both cell types formed neuritic networks and expressed the neuron-specific markers microtubule associated protein 2, synaptophysin, neurofilament and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Spontaneous spike activity (SSA) was recorded after 9 up to 74 days in vitro (DIV) in CCx and from 5 to 30 DIV in Cx, respectively. Cx and CCx exhibited synchronized burst activity with similar spiking characteristics. Tetrodotoxin (TTX) abolished the SSA of both cell types reversibly. In CCx SSA-inhibition occurred with an IC50 of 1.1 nM for TTX, 161 microM for magnesium, 18 microM for D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) and 1 microM for GABA. CCx cells were easy to handle and developed long living, stable and active neuronal networks on MEAs with similar characteristics as Cx. Thus, these neurochips seem to be suitable for studying neuronal network properties and screening in pharmaceutical research.
12946703: !synaptophysin The cholesterol-lowering drug probucol increases apolipoprotein E production in the hippocampus of aged rats: implications for Alzheimer's disease. Several recent epidemiological studies have proposed that cholesterol-lowering drug Statin may provide protection against Alzheimer's disease (AD). Probucol is a non-Statin cholesterol-lowering drug and a potent inducer of apolipoprotein E (apoE) production in peripheral circulation. A recent clinical study using Probucol in elderly AD subjects revealed a concomitant stabilisation of cognitive symptoms and significant increases in apoE levels in the cerebral spinal fluid in these patients. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying these effects, we treated a cohort of aged male rats (26-month-old) with oral dose of Probucol for 30 days. Specifically, we examined the effects of Probucol on apoE production and its receptors (low density lipoprotein receptor [LDLr] and low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein [LRP]), astroglial marker of cell damage (glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP]), markers of neuronal synaptic plasticity and integrity (synaptosomal associated protein of 25 kDa [SNAP-25] and synaptophysin) as well as cholesterol biosynthesis (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase [HMGCoAr]) in the hippocampus. We report that Probucol induces the production of apoE and one of its main receptors, LRP, increases HMGCoAr (rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol synthesis), substantially attenuates age-related increases in glial activation, and induces production of synaptic marker SNAP-25, a molecule commonly associated with synaptogenesis and dendritic remodeling. These findings suggest that Probucol could promote neural and synaptic plasticity to counteract the synaptic deterioration associated with brain aging through an apoE/LRP-mediated system. Consistent with the beneficial effects of other cholesterol-lowering drugs such as the Statin, Probucol could also offers additional benefits based on apoE neurobiology.
12946225: !synaptophysin Giant cell glioblastoma and pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma show different immunohistochemical profiles for neuronal antigens and p53 but share reactivity for class III beta-tubulin. Giant cell glioblastoma multiforme (GCGBM) and pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) are clinically, radiographically, and histologically distinct tumors of the central nervous system. However, they share features of gross circumscription, reticulin deposition, lymphocytic infiltrates, and prominent populations of tumor giant cells. Neuronal antigens have been detected in the neoplastic cells of PXAs, but to our knowledge have not been studied previously in GCGBMs. While TP53 is mutated in most GCGBMs, a feature usually paralleled by strong immunostaining of the protein, the expression pattern of PXAs has not been extensively studied.
12931547: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinomas (carcinoid tumor) of the testis. A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of ten cases. We studied 10 cases of primary pure testicular neuroendocrine carcinoma. Patients were between 16 and 48 years old and had testicular swelling with pain or a painless testicular mass and no history of neuroendocrine carcinoma or other malignant neoplasm. All underwent orchiectomy. The tumors were low (n = 9) and intermediate (n = 1) grades with a variegated histologic appearance characterized by a nesting pattern, cords of neoplastic cells with rosettes, or sheets of neoplastic cells. Mitotic activity was lacking in 9 cases. In 1 case, mitotic figures ranged from 7 to 8 per 10 high-power fields, and cellular atypia and comedo-like necrosis were present. Immunohistochemical studies using a keratin cocktail, chromogranin, synaptophysin, epidermal growth factor, p53, placental-like alkaline phosphatase, and CD117 (c-kit) were performed in all cases. Keratin, chromogranin, and synaptophysin were positive in all tumors. Clinical follow-up information was obtained for 6 patients (range, 12-60 months): 5 with low-grade tumors were alive 24 to 60 months after diagnosis; 1 with an intermediate-grade tumor died of tumor 12 months after initial diagnosis. The behavior of these tumors, while in the testicular region, correlates well with the histologic grade. We propose replacing the term testicular carcinoid with neuroendocrine carcinoma, which better reflects the nature of these neoplasms.
12931207: !synaptophysin Presynaptic proteins in the prefrontal cortex of patients with schizophrenia and rats with abnormal prefrontal development. Dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia may be associated with abnormalities in synaptic structure and/or function and reflected in altered concentrations of proteins in presynaptic terminals and involved in synaptic plasticity (synaptobrevin/ vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP), synaptosomal-associated protein-25 (SNAP-25), syntaxin, synaptophysin and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43)). We examined the immunoreactivity of these synapse-associated proteins via quantitative immunoblotting in the prefrontal cortex of patients with schizophrenia (n=18) and in normal controls (n=23). We also tested the stability of these proteins across successive post-mortem intervals in rat brains (at 0, 3, 12, 24, 48, and 70 h). To investigate whether experimental manipulation of prefrontal cortical development in the rat alters prefrontal synaptic protein levels, we lesioned the ventral hippocampus of rats on postnatal day 7 and measured immunoreactivity of presynaptic proteins in the prefrontal cortex on postnatal day 70. VAMP immunoreactivity was lower in the schizophrenic patients by 22% (P<0.03). There were no differences in the immunoreactivity of any other proteins measured in schizophrenic patients as compared to the matched controls. Proteins were fairly stable up to 24 h and thereafter the abundance of most proteins examined was significantly reduced (falling to as low as 20% of baseline levels at 48-70 h). VAMP immunoreactivity was higher in the lesioned rats as compared to sham controls by 22% (P&<0.03). There were no significant differences between the lesioned rats and sham animals in any other presynaptic protein. These data suggest that apparently profound prefrontal cortical dysfunction in schizophrenia, as well as in an animal model of schizophrenia, may exist without gross changes in the abundance of many synaptic proteins but discrete changes in selected presynaptic molecules may be present.
12928441: !synaptophysin Cellugyrin and synaptogyrin facilitate targeting of synaptophysin to a ubiquitous synaptic vesicle-sized compartment in PC12 cells. Cellugyrin represents a ubiquitously expressed four-transmembrane domain protein that is closely related to synaptic vesicle protein synaptogyrin and, more remotely, to synaptophysin. We report here that, in PC12 cells, cellugyrin is localized in synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs), along with synaptogyrin and synaptophysin. Upon overexpression of synaptophysin in PC12 cells, it is localized in rapidly sedimenting membranes and practically is not delivered to the SLMVs. On the contrary, the efficiency of the SLMV targeting of exogenously expressed cellugyrin and synaptogyrin is high. Moreover, expression of cellugyrin (or synaptogyrin) in PC12 cells dramatically and specifically increases SLMV targeting of endogenous synaptophysin. Finally, we utilized the SLMV purification scheme on a series of non-neuroendocrine cell types including the mouse fibroblast cell line 3T3-L1, the Chinese hamster ovary cell line CHO-K1, and the monkey kidney epithelial cell line COS7 and found that a cellugyrin-positive microvesicular compartment was present in all cell types tested. We suggest that synaptic vesicles have evolved from cellugyrin-positive ubiquitous microvesicles and that neuroendocrine SLMVs represent a step along that pathway of evolution.
12928056: !synaptophysin Is DNA repair compromised in Alzheimer's disease? Mammalian cells utilize multiple mechanisms to repair DNA damage that occurs during normal cellular respiration and in response to genotoxic stress. This study sought to determine if chronic oxidative stress proposed to occur during Alzheimer's disease alters the expression or activity of DNA double-strand break repair or base excision repair proteins. Double-strand break repair requires DNA-dependent protein kinase, composed of a catalytic subunit, DNA-PKcs, and a regulatory component, Ku. Ku DNA binding activity was reduced in extracts of postmortem AD midfrontal cortex, but was not significantly different from the age-matched controls. Decreased Ku DNA binding correlated with reduced protein levels of Ku subunits, DNA-PKcs, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1. Expression of the base excision repair enzyme Ref-1, however, was significantly increased in AD extracts compared to controls. Ku DNA binding and DNA-PK protein levels in the AD cases correlated significantly with synaptophysin immunoreactivity, which is a measure of synaptic loss, a major correlate of cognitive deficits in AD. Immunohistochemical analysis suggested that DNA-PK protein levels reflected both number of neurons and regulation of cellular expression.
12923346: !synaptophysin Recurrent mesectodermal leiomyoma of the ciliary body: a case report. A 19-yr-old woman with a previous history of a mass of the right ciliary body presented with a decreased visual acuity of right eye. Clinicoradiologic examinations suggested a recurrent mass of the ciliary body. Enucleation of the right eye was performed under the impression of malignant tumor. On microscopic examination, the tumor was a mesectodermal leiomyoma of the ciliary body. On immunohistochemistry, the tumor cells were reactive to smooth muscle actin and vimentin, but not reactive to cytokeratin, S-100 protein, neurofilament, desmin, epithelial membrane antigen, HMB-45, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and synaptophysin. Electron microscopy revealed numerous thin longitudinally placed myofilaments and focal densities in the cytoplasms. In the review of the literature, only 27 cases of mesectodermal leiomyoma of the ciliary body were reported, however, there was no report of recurrent cases. Mesectodermal leiomyoma should be differentiated from other orbital spindle-cell tumors such as amelanotic melanomas and glial tumors. Immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies may be useful for the correct diagnosis by showing smooth muscle differentiation in the tumor cells.
12920538: !synaptophysin Hyperproliferation of synapses on spinal motor neurons of Duchenne muscular dystrophy and myotonic dystrophy patients. Synapses on the motor neurons of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and myotonic dystrophy (MD) were studied immunohistochemically using antibodies against synaptobrevin and synaptophysin. Some motor neurons showed hyperproliferation of synapses on the soma and the proximal dendrites. Hyperproliferated synapses were non-cholinergic, because they were not identified with antibodies against vesicular acetylcholine transporter. Regeneration of motor nerve terminals in patients with muscular diseases may affect reorganization of the subsets of central synapses.
12915951: !synaptophysin Rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor of the fourth ventricle. Rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor (RGNT) of the fourth ventricle has been reported recently as a novel type of primary CNS neoplasm. We present the case of a 35-year-old male patient with RGNT of the fourth ventricle. The tumor was found incidentally; the patient did not suffer from any neurological symptoms. The tumor mass involved the caudal cerebellar vermis, filled the fourth ventricle and protruded into the caudal part of the mesencephalic aquaeduct. Smaller tumor nodules were visible in the adjacent right cerebellar hemisphere. Histologically, prominent neurocytic rosettes with synaptophysin expression were embedded in a glial tumor component resembling pilocytic astrocytoma. Clinicopathological features of our case closely resemble those reported in the original description. Thus, our case confirms RGNT as a new distinct type of primary CNS neoplasm. Due to its distinct features, adoption of RGNT as a new entity into the WHO classification of tumors should be considered.
12915689: !synaptophysin Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease: paradoxical responses of cortisol secretion to dexamethasone occur in vitro and are associated with increased expression of the glucocorticoid receptor. Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) is a rare cause of ACTH-independent adrenal Cushing's syndrome (CS), which is often associated with Carney complex (CNC). We have recently described a paradoxical increase in cortisol excretion after dexamethasone administration in most patients with PPNAD. In the present study we investigated the hypothesis that this phenomenon is due to a primary abnormality of the tissues affected by PPNAD, rather than a defect of the patients' hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis; as such it should be replicated in vitro by adrenal slices exposed directly to dexamethasone. We were able to study adrenal tissues from eight patients with CS caused by PPNAD; two patients were also studied in vivo according to a protocol first described in ACTH-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (AIMAH) for the clinical detection of aberrant hormone receptor expression. Their DNA has been previously screened for inactivating mutations of the PRKAR1A gene, the most frequent molecular defect leading to PPNAD and/or CNC. We also investigated whether glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression underlies paradoxical dexamethasone responses in PPNAD by immunohistochemistry and semiquantitative PCR, and we correlated GR expression with that of other markers for PPNAD (e.g. synaptophysin). Indeed, we demonstrated that dexamethasone induced cortisol secretion in vitro in five of these tumors; no such increase was seen in adenomatous or AIMAH tissues that were treated in the same manner. GR mRNA was expressed, and GR immunoreactivity was detected in PPNAD nodular cells. Staining for GR was not seen in surrounding cortical cells, and hence, it correlated with synaptophysin, which also stains PPNAD in a similar manner. In normal adrenal tissue, GR was detected mostly in medullary areas, whereas GR immunoreactivity was weak in adenomatous and AIMAH tissues. We conclude that 1) dexamethasone produces an increase in glucocorticoid synthesis by PPNAD adrenal slices in vitro, suggesting a direct effect on adrenocortical tissue, and 2) this phenomenon is accompanied by increased expression of the GR in PPNAD nodules. PPNAD and/or CNC patients with and without mutations leading to protein kinase A activation demonstrated in vitro and/or in vivo paradoxical dexamethasone responses and GR expression, indicating that PRKAR1A alterations are not necessary for these phenomena.
12914951: !synaptophysin SNARE regulators: matchmakers and matchbreakers. SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptors) are membrane-associated proteins that participate in the fusion of internal membranes in eukaryotic cells. SNAREs comprise three distinct and well-conserved families of molecules that act directly as membrane fusogens or, at the least, as elements that bring membranes into close apposition and allow for subsequent fusion events to occur. While the molecular events leading to fusion are still under debate, it is clear that a number of additional factors are required to bring about SNARE-mediated membrane fusion in vivo. Many of these factors, which collectively can be called SNARE regulators (e.g. Sec1/Munc18, synaptotagmin, GATE-16, LMA1, Munc13/UNC-13, synaptophysin, tomosyn, Vsm1, etc.), bind directly to SNAREs and are involved in the regulation of SNARE assembly as well as the ability of SNAREs to participate in trafficking events. In addition, recent studies have suggested a role for posttranslational modification (e.g., phosphorylation) in the regulation of SNARE functions. In this review the possible role of SNARE regulators in SNARE assembly and the involvement of SNARE phosphorylation in the regulation of intracellular membrane trafficking will be discussed.
12901842: !synaptophysin ApoE4 impairs hippocampal plasticity isoform-specifically and blocks the environmental stimulation of synaptogenesis and memory. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with genetic risk factors, of which the allele E4 of apolipoprotein E (apoE4) is the most prevalent, and is affected by environmental factors that include education early in life and socioeconomic background. The extent to which environmental factors affect the phenotypic expression of the AD genetic risk factors is not known. Here we show that the neuronal and cognitive stimulations, which are elicited by environmental enrichment at a young age, are markedly affected by the apoE genotype. Accordingly, exposure to an enriched environment of young mice transgenic for human apoE3, which is the benign AD apoE allele, resulted in improved learning and memory, whereas mice transgenic for human apoE4 were unaffected by the enriched environment and their learning and memory were similar to those of the nonenriched apoE3 transgenic mice. These cognitive effects were associated with higher hippocampal levels of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin and of NGF in apoE3 but not apoE4 transgenic mice. In contrast, cortical synaptophysin and NGF levels of the apoE3 and apoE4 transgenic mice were similarly elevated by environmental enrichment. These findings show that apoE4 impairs hippocampal plasticity and isoform-specifically blocks the environmental stimulation of synaptogenesis and memory. This provides a novel mechanism by which environmental factors can modulate the function and phenotypic expression of the apoE genotype.
12900923: !synaptophysin Organization of glomeruli in the main olfactory bulb of Xenopus laevis tadpoles. Structural and functional investigations were carried out to study olfactory glomeruli in the main olfactory bulb (OB) in tadpoles of the clawed frog, Xenopus laevis. Calcium imaging of odor response patterns of OB neurons revealed that the synapses within the glomeruli are functional. Tracing axons of individual olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), dendrites of mitral/tufted (M/T) cells and processes of periglomerular interneurons indicate that the glomerular architecture is solely determined by terminal branches of ORN axons and tufts of M/T primary dendrites. The small population of periglomerular neurons forms wide-field arborizations that always extend over many glomeruli, enter the glomeruli, but lack any glomerular tufts. Antibodies to synaptophysin indicate a high density of synapses within glomeruli, which was further confirmed at the ultrastructural level and quantified to approximately 0.5 synaptic sites per microm(2). Combining immunocytochemistry and ultrastructural investigations, we show that glomeruli in Xenopus laevis tadpoles lack any cellular borders. Glomeruli are surrounded neither by periglomerular somata nor by glial processes. Taken together, our results demonstrate that olfactory glomeruli in Xenopus laevis tadpoles (1) are fully functional, (2) are spheroidal neuropil aggregations of terminal tufts of ORNs and tufts of primary dendrites of M/T cells, and (3) are not enwrapped by a border formed by juxtaglomerular cells.
12899733: !synaptophysin Tolerance to the anhedonic effects of lipopolysaccharide is associated with changes in syntaxin immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens. The bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) produces a host of effects in mammals known collectively as 'sickness' behaviours. Acute treatment with LPS also results in a loss of hedonic capacity in rodents that can be measured by changes in responding for reinforcing electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus. In contrast, repeated exposure to LPS typically leads to the development of tolerance to many of the physiological and behavioural effects of endotoxin, although the effect of chronic treatment with LPS on anhedonia remains unknown. In the present experiment, rats were trained to respond on an ascending-series current-intensity intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) protocol, and were then treated with either acute or sub-chronic LPS (100 microg). Compared to vehicle-treated subjects, acute exposure to LPS induced a dramatic loss of ICSS responding; however, with repeated exposure to LPS, rats developed a behavioural tolerance to its anhedonic effects. To investigate a potential molecular substrate for the anhedonic effects of LPS, quantitative immunohistochemistry was used to measure levels of the synaptic proteins syntaxin, SNAP-25 and synaptophysin in the dorsal and ventral striatum of rats treated acutely and sub-chronically with LPS. A single injection of LPS produced a significant decrease in syntaxin immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens core and shell, while similar treatment in chronically treated rats that displayed behavioural tolerance had no effect. These results demonstrate a novel molecular substrate for the effects of LPS, and imply that the underlying physiology of the transient anhedonic effects of LPS may differ from that involved in chronic psychiatric disorders in humans.
12898156: !synaptophysin Neuropathological analysis in spinal muscular atrophy type II. We performed a neuropathological analysis, including in situ nick end labeling (ISEL) and immunohistochemistry, of two cases of clinicogenetically confirmed infantile spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) type II. Both cases showed severe reduction of the motor neurons and gliosis in the spinal cord and brain stem, although the occurrences of central chromatolysis and ballooned neurons were not frequent. Clark's and lateral thalamic nuclei, which are usually altered in SMA type I, were spared, whereas Betz cells in the precentral gyrus and large myelinated fibers in the lateral funiculus were reduced in number. Regarding apoptosis, only the younger case demonstrated a few ISEL-positive nuclei in the dorsal horn, with reduced Bcl-x expression level in the Purkinje cells. Unlike SMA type I, the expression of neurofilaments was not disturbed and the reduction in synaptophysin expression level in the anterior horn was mild. An oxidative stress-related product was deposited in atrophic motor neurons in the spinal cord, and neurons with nuclei immunoreactive for 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine were found in the lateral thalamus. In contrast, the expression of glial glutamate transporters was not altered. These data suggest that oxidative stress and, to a lesser extent, apoptotic cell death, but not disturbed neurofilament metabolism or excitotoxicity, may be involved in neurodegeneration in SMA type II.
12895235: !synaptophysin Carcinosarcoma (pure endocrine cell carcinoma with sarcoma components) of the stomach. A case of gastric carcinosarcoma with a rare histology is reported. Grossly, a huge ulcerative tumor (Borrmann type 3 tumor, measuring 10 x 6 cm) was observed on the lesser curvature side of the stomach. Microscopically, the tumor consisted of carcinoma and sarcoma components. The main tumor component consisted of an endocrine cell carcinoma exhibiting positive reactions for cytokeratins, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and CD56. The sarcoma component occupied less than 10% of the entire tumor area and consisted of spindle cells, some of which showed a rhabdomyosarcoma differentiation. Some of the spindle cells also showed an atypical cartilage or osseous differentiation. This sarcoma component exhibited positive staining not only for vimentin and desmin, but also for cytokeratins. Transitions between these two components were occasionally observed. These findings suggest that the sarcoma component in our case most likely originates from the endocrine cell carcinoma component.
12890511: !synaptophysin Alzheimer's disease proteins in cerebellar and hippocampal synapses during postnatal development and aging of the rat. Alzheimer's dementia may be considered a synaptic disease of central neurons: the loss of synapses, reflected by early cognitive impairments, precedes the appearance of extra cellular focal deposits of beta-amyloid peptide in the brain of patients. Distinct immunocytochemical patterns of amyloid precursor proteins (APPs) have previously been demonstrated in the synapses by ultrastructural analysis in the cerebellum and hippocampus of adult rats and mice. Now we show that during postnatal development and during aging in these structures, the immunocytochemical expression of APPs increases in the synapses in parallel with the known up-regulation of total APPs brain levels. Interestingly, as shown previously in the adult rodents, the presenilins (PSs) 1 and 2, which intervene in APPs metabolism, exhibit a synaptic distribution pattern similar to that of APPs with parallel quantitative changes throughout life. In the brain tissue, single and double immunocytochemistry at the ultrastructural level shows co-localisation of APPs and PSs in axonal and dendritic synaptic compartments during postnatal synaptogenesis, adulthood and aging. In addition, double-labelling immunocytofluorescence detects these proteins close to synaptophysin at the growth cones of developing cultured neurons. Thusly, the brain expression of APPs and PSs appears to be regulated synchronously during lifespan in the synaptic compartments where the proteins are colocated. This suggests that PS-dependent processing of important synaptic proteins such as APPs could intervene in age-induced adjustments of synaptic relationships between specific types of neurons.
12883960: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma of the nasal cavity: a case report. We describe the case of a 72-year-old woman presenting with a 1-year history of recurrent epistaxis and unilateral progressive nasal obstruction with associated rhinolalia resulting from the presence of a tumor mass occupying two-thirds of the right nasal cavity. Histopathologically, neoplastic cells or "chief cells" were arranged in well-defined nests, which had the classic alveolar or so-called "zellballen" pattern. Immunohistochemical studies highlighted the presence of S-100 protein-positive sustentacular cells located at the periphery of the clusters of chief cells. The chief cells showed a diffuse and intense positivity for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. A diagnosis of paraganglioma was made. The lesion was excised completely and the patient did not develop recurrences or distant metastases after 8 months of follow-up. Paragangliomas arising in the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses are extremely rare tumors. We report on the clinical, histopathological and immunohistochemical findings of our case and review the cases previously described in the literature.
12883251: !synaptophysin Evidence of neural differentiation in a case of post-therapy primitive neuroectodermal tumor/Ewing sarcoma of bone. Neural differentiation with the appearance of ganglion-like cells has been reported in untreated primitive neuroectodermal tumor/Ewing sarcoma (PNET/EWS) at peculiar sites, such as the cauda equina, and following treatment. The case is presented here of a 17-year-old girl with a tumor in the iliac bone. An open biopsy was diagnosed as PNET/EWS of the bone. The tumor had the typical morphology of this tumor type and showed diffuse membranous immunoreactivity for CD99, intense immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, and focal immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase and S-100 protein. Occasional reactivity for vimentin was evident, while no immunoreactivity for NB84a, Hu, chromogranins A and B, neurofilaments, cytokeratins, and desmin was present. The patient underwent chemotherapy and radiotherapy, followed by right internal hemipelvectomy. The post-treatment residual viable tumor showed a morphologic appearance resembling a neuroblastoma, with immunoreactivity for NB84a, Hu, synaptophysin, and chromogranins A and B, but not for CD99. RT-PCR performed on tumor tissue before and after therapy showed the presence of the EWS-FLI1 fusion transcript, type I in both samples. This case of PNET/EWS is unique in the sense of showing the typical fusion transcript associated with this tumor both in the morphologically typical pretherapy tumor and in the sample from the post-therapy specimen showing neuroblastoma-like features.
12879983: !synaptophysin Synaptic pathology and cell death in the cerebellum in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Prion protein (PrP(c)) is a cell membrane glycoprotein particularly abundant in the synapses. Prion diseases are characterized by the replacement of the normal PrPc by a protease-resistant, sheet-containing isoform (PrP(CJD), PrP(Sc), PrP(BSE)) that is pathogenic. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) in humans, scrapie (Sc) in sheep and goats, and bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in cattle are typical prion diseases. Classical CJD can be presented as sporadic, infectious or familial, whereas the new variant of CJD (nvCJD) is considered a BSE-derived human disease. Spongiform degeneration, glial proliferation, involving astrocytes and microglia, neuron loss and abnormal PrP deposition are the main neuopathological findings in most human and animal prion diseases. Yet recent data point to synapses as principal targets of abnormal PrP deposition. Loss of synapses is an early abnormality in experimental scrapie. Decreased expression of crucial proteins linked to exocytosis and neurotransmission, covering synaptophysin, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25,000 mol wt (SNAP-25), synapsins, syntaxins and Rab3a occurs in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum in sporadic CJD. Moreover, impairment of glomerular synapses and attenuation of parallel fiber pre-synaptic terminals on Purkinje cell dendrites is a cardinal consequence of abnormal PrP metabolism in CJD. Accumulation of synaptic proteins in the soma and axonal torpedoes of Purkinje cells suggests additional impairment of axonal transport. Increase in nuclear DNA vulnerability leading to augmented numbers of cells bearing nuclear DNA fragments is a common feature in the brains of humans affected by prion diseases examined at post-mortem, but also in archival biopsy samples processed with the method of in situ end-labeling of nuclear DNA fragmentation. This form of cell death is reminiscent of apoptosis found in experimental scrapie in rodents. It is not clear that all forms of cell death in human and animal prion diseases are due to apoptosis. Yet new observations have shown cleaved (active) caspase-3 (17 kDa), a main executioner of apoptosis, expressed in scattered cells in the brains of mice with experimental scrapie and in the cerebellum of patients with sporadic CJD. Together, these data suggest activation of the caspase pathway of apoptosis in human and animal prion diseases.
12874899: !synaptophysin [Carcinoids of the gastrointestinal tract: importance of determining differentiation and proliferation markers]. The group of 35 carcinoid tumours obtained from 34 patients was reviewed according to recent histopathological criteria. Consequently, evaluation of the Grimelius staining and immunohistochemical detection of chromogranin A (CgA), Leu-7 (CD-57), synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), (beta-III tubulin, Ki-67 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) was performed. The majority of tumours (29, i.e. 83%) were classified as typical carcinoids composed predominantly of mixed solid and trabecular or solid and tubular growth patterns. Six tumours (17%) revealed more prominent cytological abnormalities corresponding with the diagnosis of atypical carcinoid. The majority of tumours (31, i.e. 93.9%) showed granular cytoplasmic positivity in Grimelius staining and diffuse cytoplasmic positivity of NSE (34, i.e. 97.1%). All of the 32 stained tumour samples showed positive immunoreactivity for synaptophysin. A high percentage of tumours (32, i.e. 91.4%) revealed also a positive reaction with antibody TU-20 detecting (beta-III tubulin, a marker of an early stage of neuronal differentiation. Thirty-four tumours (97.1%) showed granular cytoplasmic positivity for both markers of neuroendocrine granules (CgA and Leu-7). One tumour (2.9%) was positive only for Leu-7. Tumour cells revealed predominantly low proliferative activity evaluated by PCNA and Ki-67 immunodetection. Higher degree of proliferation was observed especially in atypical carcinoids.
12871169: !synaptophysin Immunophilins in nervous system degeneration and regeneration. Immunophilins are receptors for immunosuppressive drugs like cyclosporin A, FK506, rapamycin and their non- immunosuppressive analogs, which are collectively referred to as "immunophilin ligands" (IPL). Cyclosporin A binds to a class of IP called cyclophilins, whereas the receptors for FK506 and rapamycin belong to the family of FK506- binding proteins (FKBP). The latter are designated according to their molecular weight: FKBP12, 25, 52 etc. FKBP levels in the rat brain are up to 50 times higher than in the immune system. FKBP12 is associated with IP3 and ryanodine receptors present on the endoplasmic reticulum and plays a role in stabilizing calcium release. It has also been proposed to be a modulator of the TGFbeta receptor activity. Crush injury of facial or sciatic nerves in rat leads to markedly increased FKBP12 levels in the respective nerve nuclei and this increase is related to nerve regeneration. Cyclophilin A protects cells from death following expression of mutant Cu/ Zn superoxide dismutase, which is associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Our recent studies show that FKBP12 and FKBP52 are expressed in the human nervous system, especially in the substantia nigra- deep gray matter axis. In neurodegenerative diseases, FKBP12 levels increase in neurons situated in areas of pathology. This IP colocalizes with synaptophysin and alpha- synuclein, suggesting that it may become a novel marker of pathology. Immunophilins participate in axonal transport, synaptic vesicle assembly and may play a role in neuroprotection against abnormal protein aggregation, suggesting a potential avenue of therapeutic interventions.
12870256: !synaptophysin Clear cell ependymoma with a lipidized component that developed in the thoracic spinal cord. The authors report a case of clear cell ependymoma with a lipidized component that developed in the thoracic spinal cord. A 59-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with an itchy pain in the left forearm to the left anterior and lateral chest for the past three years. Neurological findings on admission included dissociated sensory disturbance below the C8 level and increased deep tendon reflex in both lower extremities. An MRI scan of the spinal cord revealed an intramedullary tumor with a longer diameter of 3.5 cm at the T3-T4 level and a distended syrinx at the T2-T3 level. Surgery was performed after T1-T5 laminectomy. The gray, soft and well demarcated tumor was removed subtotally. Light microscopy revealed a portion where clear cells proliferated and a portion where foamy cells proliferated. In some tissue, there were a very few nuclear areas suggestive of a perivascular pseudorosette. Neither nuclear division nor necrosis was observed. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), vimentin, and negative for cytokeratin, synaptophysin. The MIB-1 staining index was 0.25%. Based on these findings, diagnosis of clear cell ependymoma with a lipidized component was made.
12868072: !synaptophysin Coexpression of functional P2X and P2Y nucleotide receptors in single cerebellar granule cells. The present study describes the presence and expression of functional nucleotide receptors, both ionotropic and metabotropic, in highly purified cultures of cerebellar granule neurons. Microfluorimetric experiments have been carried out to record specific [Ca(2+)](i) transients in individual granule neurons after challenge with diverse nucleotides. Although great heterogeneity was found in nucleotide responses in single cells, these responses all became modified during the course of granule cell differentiation, not only at the level of the number of responding cells, but also in the magnitude of the response to nucleotides. These in vitro developmental changes were more significant in metabotropic responses to pyrimidine nucleotides, UTP and UDP, which were down- and upregulated, respectively, during the time in culture. At least two types of ADP-specific receptors seem expressed in different granule cell subpopulations responding to 2MeSADP, as the specific P2Y(1) antagonist MRS-2179 inhibited Ca(2+) responses in only one of these populations. The great diversity of metabotropic responses observed was confirmed by the RT-PCR expression of different types of P2Y receptors in granule cell cultures: P2Y(1), P2Y(4), P2Y(6), and P2Y(12). Similarly, ionotropic nucleotide responses were confirmed by the presence of specific messengers for different P2X subunits, and by immunolabeling studies (P2X(1), P2X(2), P2X(3), P2X(4) and P2X(7)). Immunolabeling reflected great variety in the P2X subunit distribution along the granule neuron cytoarchitecture, with P2X(2), P2X(3) and P2X(4) present at somatodendritic locations, and P2X(1), P2X(7), and P2X(3), located at the axodendritic prolongations. The punctuated labeling pattern obtained for P2X(3) and P2X(7) subunits is particularly notable, as it presents a high degree of colocalization with synaptophysin, a specific marker of synaptic vesicles, suggesting specialized localization and function in granule neurons.
12861532: !synaptophysin Effects of prenatal dexamethasone on the intestine of rats with gastroschisis. Intestinal lesions observed in gastroschisis (Gx) are accompanied by neonatal gastrointestinal dysfunction. This study examines the effects of transplacental dexamethasone on the eviscerated intestine of fetal rats with Gx.
12852087: !synaptophysin Effects of transgene Oncostatin M on the development of retinal neuron in transgenic mice. Oncostatin M (OSM) is a cytokine released by macrophages and lymphocytes that can function as a growth regulator. A current study shows that leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), a homologue of OSM, can prevent photoreceptor cell death when expressed in the lens of transgenic mice. We determined the efforts of lens-specific overexpression of OSM on the development of eye.
12851875: !synaptophysin Distribution of CCK1 and CCK2 receptors in normal and diseased human pancreatic tissue. The localization and functional role of cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor proteins in normal and diseased human pancreas, particularly in ductal pancreatic carcinomas, remain unclear.
12851216: !synaptophysin Raf-1 activation suppresses neuroendocrine marker and hormone levels in human gastrointestinal carcinoid cells. Gastrointestinal carcinoid cells secrete multiple neuroendocrine markers and hormones including 5-HT and chromogranin A. The intracellular signaling pathways that regulate production of bioactive molecules are not completely understood. Our aim was to determine whether activation of the raf-1/MEK/MAPK signal transduction pathway in carcinoid cells could modulate production of neuroendocrine markers and hormones. Human pancreatic carcinoid cells (BON) were stably transduced with an estrogen-inducible raf-1 construct creating BON-raf cells. Activation of raf-1 in BON-raf cells led to a marked induction of phosphorylated MEK and ERK1/2 within 48 h. Importantly, raf-1 activation resulted in morphological changes accompanied by a marked decrease in neuroendocrine secretory granules by electronmicroscopy. Moreover, induction of raf-1 in BON-raf cells led to significant reductions in 5-HT, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin levels. Furthermore, treatment of BON-raf cells with MEK inhibitors PD-98059 and U-0126 blocked raf-1-mediated morphological changes and hormone suppression but not ERK1/2 phosphorylation. These results show that raf-1 induction suppresses neuroendocrine marker and hormone production in human gastrointestinal carcinoid cells via a pathway dependent on MEK activation.
12846798: !synaptophysin Isolation and characterization of a human sperm antigen gene h-Sp-1. We isolated and characterized a human sperm antigen gene (h-Sp-1) from human testis complementary DNA using antiserum against the human sperm membrane. Northern blot analysis detected two transcripts (2.3 and 1.1 kb) of the h-Sp-1 gene. The 2.3-kb transcript is ubiquitous, whereas the 1.1-kb transcript is specific to the human testis with a high level of expression. Determination of the base sequence of h-Sp-1 showed a size of 2170 bp and 43.4% homology with human synaptophysin. The base sequence indicates a molecule consisting of 259 amino acids, with four hydrophilic and four hydrophobic regions. In order to further characterize the h-Sp-1 molecule, we synthesized the probable region of amino acids with high antigenicity based on the amino acid sequence (amino acid nos. 174-198) and immunized rabbits to prepare an antiserum. In our experimental model of fertilization between human sperm and zona pellucida-free hamster ova, partial inhibition of fertilization was observed. We were able to synthesize a large quantity of recombinant protein by inserting the h-Sp-1 gene into a baculovirus vector and infecting spodoptera frugiperda culture cells (sf9 insect cells). The synthesized protein had a molecular weight of 30 kDa. We then immunized Balb/c mice with this protein to prepare a monoclonal antibody (G3G9), which was used to localize the h-Sp-1 molecule in sperm and tissues (e.g. testis). The h-Sp-1 molecule was present in the cell membrane from the head to tail of human sperm. Staining of the testis and epididymis also showed h-Sp-1 to be present in spermatogonia, spermatocyte, sperm and epididymal duct epithelium. These findings suggest that the h-Sp-1 molecule is expressed in sperm and testes and plays a role in fertilization.
12845211: !synaptophysin Does sophisticated diagnostic workup on neuroectodermal tumors have an impact on the treatment of esthesioneuroblastoma? The diagnostic workup on esthesioneuroblastoma is more extensive than ever before. We have investigated whether improvements in diagnosis of sinonasal neuroectodermal tumors, including esthesioneuroblastomas (ENB), sinonasal neuroendocrine carcinomas (SNEC) and sinonasal undifferentiated carcinomas (SNUC), have had an impact on treatment and outcome.
12844263: !synaptophysin Neurocytoma arising in the pelvis. Central neurocytoma represents a rare neoplasm of the central nervous system with advanced neurocytic and sometimes focal lipomatous differentiation, a low proliferative potential and a favorable prognosis depending on the efficiency of surgical resection. This entity has been described as an intraventricular tumor near the foramen Monroi. Here, we report a case of a 21-year-old male with peripheral neurocytoma. Using computed tomography, a tumor of unknown origin was located behind the bladder. After complete surgical resection of the tumor, histologically small uniform cells, zones of fibrillarity and neuropil-like islands were seen. Immunohistochemistry revealed positivity for the neuronal markers synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase and neurofilaments. Vimentin, pan-keratin, desmin, chromogranin, CD-99 and glial fibrillary acidic protein were immuno-negative. A low proliferation rate (1-2%) was found. Several case reports described extraventricular central neurocytomas. A sole publication documented a peripheral neurocytoma arising within a mature cystic teratoma of the ovary. To our knowledge, this is the second reported case of a neurocytoma outside the central nervous system, indicating that this entity may also occur infrequently in peripheral tissues.
12841633: !synaptophysin Expression of neuronal plasticity markers in hypoglycemia induced brain injury. The expression of neuroplasticity markers was analyzed in four brain regions, namely cerebral hemispheres (CH), cerebellum (CB), brain stem (BS) and diencephalon (DC) from insulin-induced hypoglycemic young adult rats. Significant decrease in neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) isoforms and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) was observed following hypoglycemic injury from majority of brain regions studied. The glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) level increased significantly in cerebral hemispheres and diencephalon regions, whereas, synaptophysin level increased in cerebellum, brain stem and diencephalon regions. The selective downregulation of the neuronal plasticity marker proteins (GAP-43 and NCAM), and enhanced expression of GFAP and synaptophysin suggests that in acute hypoglycemia, mechanisms other than energy failure may also contribute to neuronal cell damage in the brain.
12836157: !synaptophysin Cell-specific expression pattern of monocarboxylate transporters in astrocytes and neurons observed in different mouse brain cortical cell cultures. Evidence suggests that lactate could be a preferential energy substrate transferred from astrocytes to neurons. Such a process implies the presence of specific monocarboxylate transporters on both cell types. Expression of MCT1 and MCT2, two isoforms of the monocarboxylate transporter (MCT) family, was studied in enriched cultures of mouse cortical astrocytes or neurons. It was observed that, at both the mRNA and the protein levels, astrocytes strongly expressed MCT1 but had very little if any MCT2. By contrast, neurons had high amounts of MCT2 mRNA, although MCT1 mRNA was also detected. Double immunofluorescent labelings with appropriate markers confirmed the cell-specific preference in the expression of MCT1 and MCT2, but they revealed that a subset of neurons expresses low to moderate levels of MCT1. Parallel immunocytochemical stainings of cultured neurons with the presynaptic marker synaptophysin showed that MCT2 expression is correlated with synaptic development. Although MCT2 and synaptophysin were not colocalized, their distribution was similar, and they were often closely apposed, suggesting that MCT2 could be associated with postsynaptic terminals. Interaction between astrocytes and neurons, as occurring in layered cultures, did not modify the levels of MCT1 and MCT2 expression or their distribution and cell-specific preference under the conditions used. However, a close apposition between neurites and MCT1-expressing astrocytic processes was apparent and developed as cultures evolved. In addition to providing an extensive description of MCT distribution in cultured cells, our data underscore the potential of such preparations for future studies on the regulation of MCT expression.
12832696: !synaptophysin Long-term culture and differentiation of rat embryonic stem cell-like cells into neuronal, glial, endothelial, and hepatic lineages. The in vitro differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells into different somatic cell types such as neurons, endothelial cells, or myocytes is a well-established procedure. Long-term culture of rat embryonic stem cells is known to be hazardous, and attempts to differentiate these cells in vitro so far have been unsuccessful. We herein describe stable long-term culture of an alkaline phosphatase-positive rat embryonic stem cell-like cell line (RESC) and its differentiation into neuronal, endothelial, and hepatic lineages. RESCs were characterized by typical growth in single cells as well as in embryoid bodies when cultured in the presence of leukemia inhibitory factor. RESC expressed stage-specific-embryonic antigen-1 and the major histocompatibility complex class I molecule. For neuronal differentiation, cells were incubated with medium containing 10(-6) M retinoic acid for 14 days. For endothelial differentiation, RESCs were grown on Matrigel for 14 days, and for induction of hepatocyte-specific antigen expression, RESCs were grown in medium supplemented with fibroblast growth factor-4. Differentiated cells exhibited typical morphological changes and expressed neuronal (nestin, mitogen-activated protein-2, synaptophysin), glial (S100, glial fibrillary acid protein), endothelial (panendothelial antibody, CD31) and hepatocyte-specific (alpha-fetoprotein [alphaFP], albumin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, CK18) antigens. In addition, expression of hepatocyte-specific genes (alphaFP, transthyretin, carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase, and coagulation factor-2) was detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. We were able to culture RESCs under stable, long-term conditions and to initiate programmed differentiation of RESCs to endothelial, neuronal, glial, and hepatic lineages in the rat species.
12832546: !synaptophysin Selectively reduced expression of synaptic plasticity-related genes in amyloid precursor protein + presenilin-1 transgenic mice. A critical question in Alzheimer's disease (AD) research is the cause of memory loss that leads to dementia. The amyloid precursor protein + presenilin-1 (APP+PS1) transgenic mouse is a model for amyloid deposition, and like AD, the mice develop memory deficits as amyloid deposits accumulate. We profiled gene expression in these transgenic mice by microarray and quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). At the age when these animals developed cognitive dysfunction, they had reduced mRNA expression of several genes essential for long-term potentiation and memory formation (Arc, Zif268, NR2B, GluR1, Homer-1a, Nur77/TR3). These changes appeared to be related to amyloid deposition, because mRNA expression was unchanged in the regions that did not accumulate amyloid. Transgene expression was similar in both amyloid-containing and amyloid-free regions of the brain. Interestingly, these changes occurred without apparent changes in synaptic structure, because a number of presynaptic marker mRNAs (growth-associated protein-43, synapsin, synaptophysin, synaptopodin, synaptotagmin, syntaxin) remained stable. Additionally, a number of genes related to inflammation were elevated in transgenic mice, primarily in the regions containing amyloid. In AD cortical tissue, the same memory-associated genes were downregulated. However, all synaptic and neuronal transcripts were reduced, implying that the loss of neurons and synapses contributed to these changes. We conclude that reduced expression of selected genes associated with memory consolidation are linked to memory loss in both circumstances. This suggests that the memory loss in APP+PS1 transgenic mice may model the early memory dysfunction in AD before the degeneration of synapses and neurons.
12832527: !synaptophysin Angiotensin II stimulates spinally projecting paraventricular neurons through presynaptic disinhibition. Paraventricular nucleus (PVN) neurons that project to the spinal cord are important in the control of sympathetic outflow. Angiotensin II (Ang II) can stimulate PVN neurons, but its cellular mechanisms are not clear. In this study, we determined the effect of Ang II on the excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs to spinally projecting PVN neurons. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed on PVN neurons labeled by a retrograde fluorescence tracer injected into the thoracic spinal cord of rats. Immunocytochemistry labeling revealed that the immunoreactivity of angiotensin type 1 (AT1) receptors was colocalized with a presynaptic marker, synaptophysin, in the PVN. Application of 0.1-5 microm Ang II significantly decreased the amplitude of evoked GABAergic IPSCs in a concentration-dependent manner. Also, Ang II decreased the frequency of miniature IPSCs from 2.56 +/- 0.45 to 1.05 +/- 0.20 Hz (p < 0.05; n = 12), without affecting the amplitude and the decay time constant. The effect of Ang II on miniature IPSCs was blocked by losartan but not PD123319. However, Ang II had no effect on the evoked glutamatergic EPSCs and did not alter the frequency and amplitude of miniature EPSCs at concentrations that attenuated IPSCs. Furthermore, Ang II increased the firing rate of PVN neurons from 3.75 +/- 0.36 to 7.89 +/- 0.85 Hz (p < 0.05; n = 9), and such an effect was abolished by losartan. In addition, Ang II failed to excite PVN neurons in the presence of bicuculline. Thus, this study provides substantial new evidence that Ang II excites spinally projecting PVN neurons by attenuation of GABAergic synaptic inputs through activation of presynaptic AT1 receptors.
12828615: !synaptophysin Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor of small round cell type with pleomorphic spindle cell sarcomatous areas. An unusual case of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST) arising in the posterior mediastinum of a 59-year-old man is reported. Histopathologically, the tumor showed an admixture of a dense proliferation of small round cells resembling a primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) and a pleomorphic spindle cell sarcomatous area. Abortive rosettes, primitive neural tube-like structures, and a few glandular structures were found in the small round cell area. Small round cells were immunoreactive for neural cell adhesion molecule and synaptophysin, but were not immunoreactive for MIC2 and neuron-specific enolase. Pleomorphic spindle cells were occasionally arranged in a storiform pattern and were diffusely immunoreactive for S-100 protein. The MPNST of small round cell type is distinguishable from PNET by its negative immunoreactivity for MIC2, and the present tumor is assumed to be derived from primitive neuroectodermal cells in the peripheral nerve capable of bidirectional (neuron and Schwann cell) differentiation.
12826904: !synaptophysin Cellular expression and specific intragranular localization of chromogranin A, chromogranin B, and synaptophysin during ontogeny of pancreatic islet cells: an ultrastructural study. To get more insight into the differentiation patterns of pancreatic islet neuroendocrine cells and granules during ontogeny, the expression and localization of chromogranin A (CgA), chromogranin B (CgB), synaptophysin, and insulin were ultrastructurally studied with the immunogold technique in porcine and human pancreatic islet neuroendocrine cells.
12824520: !synaptophysin Cardiomyopathy associated with angiomatous pheochromocytoma in a rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta). A 24-year-old female rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta) presented with a clinical history of chronic heart disease and prolonged recovery from sedation and anesthesia. At necropsy, the heart was markedly enlarged, with thinned ventricular walls, dilated chambers, and severe left atrioventricular valvular insufficiency. The ventricular walls contained numerous narrow, pale, often coalescing streaks that often extended along vessels into the deeper myocardium. Histologically, bands of interstitial fibrosis in the heart were associated with areas of myofiber atrophy, myofibril degeneration and loss, and inflammation. The left adrenal gland contained a 2 x 1 x 0.5 cm tumor with an unusual angiomatous pattern consisting largely of blood-filled sinusoids lined by one to four layers of low cuboidal to polyhedral tumor cells. In most sinusoids, the tumor cells appeared to be in direct contact with blood, although endothelial cells lined some sinusoids. Ultrastructurally, the tumor cells contained abundant electron-dense cytoplasmic granules. These granules were argyrophilic by Sevier-Munger staining and intensely immunoreactive for synaptophysin, chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, and S-100. These findings helped confirm the diagnosis of angiomatous pheochromocytoma. The heart lesions match those reported for catecholamine cardiomyopathy in other species.
12824278: !synaptophysin The postnatal environment can counteract prenatal effects on cognitive ability, cell proliferation, and synaptic protein expression. Many environmental factors during the pre- or postnatal period can affect an individual's cognitive function and neural development throughout life. Little is known, however, about the combined effects of the pre- and postnatal environments on cognitive function of adult offspring and structural alterations in the adult brain. In this study, we confirmed that pre- or postnatal stress impaired learning and memory performance of rats. Conversely, pre- or postnatal enriched housing improved behavioral performance. These experience-dependent behavioral alterations were consistent with changes in 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-labeled cell number in the granule cell layer of the hippocampus and in the expression level of synaptic markers such as neuronal cell adhesion molecule and synaptophysin, and expression of a neurotrophic factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Postnatal stress appeared to have no influence on cell proliferation, however. We did find that postnatal environment could attenuate prenatal effects partly via a longitudinal cross-housing study, in which pups born to mothers housed under enriched conditions were reared under stressful conditions and vice versa. These results suggest that postnatal environmental manipulations can counteract the cognitive alterations in early adulthood and the structural changes in the young adult brain induced by prenatal experience.
12821672: !synaptophysin Rapid tau aggregation and delayed hippocampal neuronal death induced by persistent thrombin signaling. Tau hyperphosphorylation, leading to self-aggregation, is widely held to underlie the neurofibrillary degeneration found in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other tauopathies. However, it is unclear exactly what environmental factors may trigger this pathogenetic tau hyperphosphorylation. From several perspectives, the coagulation serine protease, thrombin, has been implicated in AD and activates several different protein kinase pathways but has not previously been shown how it may contribute to AD pathogenesis. Here we report that nanomolar thrombin induced rapid tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation in murine hippocampal neurons via protease-activated receptors, which was followed by delayed synaptophysin reduction and apoptotic neuronal death. Mechanistic study revealed that a persistent thrombin signaling via protease-activated receptor 4 and prolonged downstream p44/42 mitogenactivated protein kinase activation are at least in part responsible. These results pathogenetically linked thrombin to subpopulations of AD and other tauopathies associated with cerebrovascular damage. Such knowledge may be instrumental in transforming therapeutic paradigms.
12821390: !synaptophysin Localization of alpha-, beta-, and gamma-synuclein during neuronal development and alterations associated with the neuronal response to axonal trauma. Genetic and protein studies have indicated abnormalities in alpha-synuclein in neurodegenerative diseases. However, the developmental localization and cellular role of synuclein isoforms is contentious. We investigated the cellular localization of alpha-, beta-, and gamma-synuclein in developing cultured rat neurons and following axonal transection of relatively mature neurons, a model that disrupts the axonal cytoskeleton and results in regenerative sprouting. Cortical neurons were grown up to 21 days in vitro (DIV). Axon bundles at 21 DIV were transected and cellular changes examined at 4 and 24 h post-injury. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that alpha- and beta-synuclein were localized to cellular cytosol and growth cones at 3DIV, with accumulating puncta-like labeling within axons and growth cones by 10-21DIV. In contrast, gamma-synuclein immunoreactivity was limited at all time points. By 21DIV, alpha- and beta-synuclein were present in the same neurons but largely in separate subregions, only 26% of puncta contained both alpha- and beta-synuclein immunoreactivity. Less than 20% of alpha-, beta-, and pan-synuclein immunoreactive puncta directly colocalized to synaptophysin profiles at 10DIV, decreasing to 10% at 21DIV. Both alpha- and beta-synuclein accumulated substantially within damaged axons at 21DIV and were localized to cytoskeletal abnormalities. At latter time points post-injury, alpha- and beta-synuclein immunoreactive puncta were localized to growth cone-like structures in regenerating neurites. This study shows that alpha- and beta-synuclein have a precise localization within cortical neurons and are generally nonoverlapping in their distribution within individual neurons. In addition, synuclein proteins accumulate rapidly in damaged axons and may have a role in regenerative sprouting.
12819400: !synaptophysin Uterine tumor resembling ovarian sex-cord tumor: report of a case mimicking cervical adenocarcinoma. Uterine tumors resembling ovarian sex-cord tumors (UTROSCTs) are unusual neoplasms with histologic features that resemble those within ovarian Sertoli and granulosa cell tumors. We report the case of a 24-year-old woman with a UTROSCT presenting as a cervical mass, which on initial evaluation was thought to represent cervical adenocarcinoma. The patient's cervical biopsy specimen contained epithelioid cells arranged in tubules and anastomosing cords, without significant cellular atypia or mitotic activity. Because this morphology elicited a broad differential diagnosis, immunohistochemical studies were performed. The tumor was found to be diffusely positive for cytokeratin cocktail, calretinin, and desmin, focally positive for CK7 and SMA, and negative for EMA, CEA, inhibin, CD10, CK20, chromogranin, and synaptophysin. Ultrastructural examination revealed occasional gland-like lumens with cells joined by desmosomes and a continuous basal lamina. UTROSCTs have features that may cause them to be confused with more common tumors, especially in limited biopsy samples, and should be included in the differential diagnosis when a gland-forming neoplasm with an unusual appearance is identified in a cervical or endometrial biopsy specimen.
12819387: !synaptophysin Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the uterine cervix: a clinicopathological study of six cases. Six cases of cervical large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas (LCNEC) were found among 972 patients (0.6%) with invasive cervical carcinoma. The patients, who were from 27 to 51 (mean 38) years of age, presented with vaginal bleeding or an abnormal Papanicolaou smear. Five tumors were stage Ib and one was IIa. All patients underwent radical hysterectomy and received adjuvant chemotherapy and pelvic radiotherapy. Four patients died of tumor 6 to 19 months (mean 14 months) postoperatively. On histologic examination, the tumor cells were arranged in an organoid growth pattern and were larger than those of typical small cell carcinoma. Glandular differentiation was present in one case. Mitotic figures ranged from 15 to 45 (mean 29) per 10 high-power fields. Prominent vascular invasion and necrosis was seen in all of the tumors. Each tumor was immunoreactive for chromogranin A and/or synaptophysin. The results of this study confirm the aggressive nature of cervical LCNECs. The recognition of LCNECs is necessary to establish the most effective treatment for these aggressive tumors.
12817884: !synaptophysin Papillary glioneuronal tumor--a new variant of benign mixed brain neoplasm. We report a case of a 14-year-old girl with papillary glioneuronal tumor (PGNT) in right parietal lobe. On MRI the tumor presented as a contrast enhancing mass with small central hypodense area and consisted of areas similar to central neurocytoma intermixed with vessels surrounded with glial cells. There were also small loose areas superficially reminding DNT. Neurocytic component presented strong synaptophysin immunostaining, while intermixed glial element presented GFAP-immunopositivity. Our case is similar to previously reported PGNT, but an important difference lies in not distinct cystic formation and a presence of loose, edematous tissue. PGNT may be regarded as a variant of ganglioglioma or as a complex variant of extraventricular neurocytoma and belongs to a wide group of benign, dysembryoplastic or even hamartomatous neuroepithelial tumors, which may differentiate into both, glial or neuronal direction: pleomorphic astrocytoma may posses neurocytic differentiation, desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma may be regarded as complex superficial dural astrocytoma and DNT may present gliomatous areas (complex DNT). Also other rare tumors reminding DNT have been reported: DNT-like neoplasm of septum pellucidum and rosetted glioneuronal tumor. From this point of view it is important to remember that such a wide spectrum may be difficult to discriminate into very narrow clinico-pathological entities.
12816683: !synaptophysin [Multidrug resistance and its relationship with neuroendocrine differentiation in non-small cell lung carcinoma]. To study the multidrug resistance (MDR) of non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) and its relationship with neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation.
12813646: !synaptophysin [Solid-pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas as differential diagnosis in pancreatic tumors of the young]. The presentation of solid pseudopapillary tumors of the pancreas (SPTP) with examples of our own surgical department. SPTP occur typically in young women or in children and are for most of benign behavior. In about 5 % a malignant course with occurrence of metastases can develop.
12812975: !synaptophysin CALL interrupted in a patient with non-specific mental retardation: gene dosage-dependent alteration of murine brain development and behavior. Investigation of MR patients with 3p aberrations led to the identification of the translocation breakpoint in intron five of the neural Cell Adhesion L1-Like (CALL or CHL1) gene in a man with non-specific mental retardation and 46,Y, t(X;3)(p22.1;p26.3). The Xp breakpoint does not seem to affect a known or predicted gene. Moreover, a fusion transcript with the CALL gene could not be detected and no mutations were identified on the second allele. CALL is highly expressed in the central and peripheral nervous system, like the mouse ortholog 'close homolog to L1' (Chl1). Chl1 expression levels in the hippocampus of Chl1(+/-) mice were half of those obtained in wild-type littermates, reflecting a gene dosage effect. Timm staining and synaptophysin immunohistochemistry of the hippocampus showed focal groups of ectopic mossy fiber synapses in the lateral CA3 region, outside the trajectory of the infra-pyramidal mossy fiber bundle in Chl1(-/-) and Chl1(+/-) mice. Behavioral assessment demonstrated mild alterations in the Chl1(-/-) animals. In the probe trial of the Morris Water Maze test, Chl1(-/-) mice displayed an altered exploratory pattern. In addition, these mice were significantly more sociable and less aggressive as demonstrated in social exploration tests. The Chl1(+/-) mice showed a phenotypic spectrum ranging from wild-type to knockout behavior. We hypothesize that a 50% reduction of CALL expression in the developing brain results in cognitive deficits. This suggests that the CALL gene at 3p26.3 is a prime candidate for an autosomal form of mental retardation. So far, mutation analysis of the CALL gene in patients with non-specific MR did not reveal any disease-associated mutations.
12811479: !synaptophysin Overexpression of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) antigens on intestinal smooth muscles in hypoganglionosis: is hypoganglionosis a disorder of the neuromuscular junction? Hypoganglionosis (HP) is characterized histologically by a decreased number of ganglion cells in intestinal myenteric plexuses and functionally by severely impaired gut motility. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) in small- and large-intestine biopsy specimens from patients with HP.
12809352: !synaptophysin Mini-infarct encephalopathy associated with uncommon microvessel convolute formation presenting with presenile dementia. A female patient started to suffer from transient ischemic attacks when she was 47 years of age, followed by increasing predominantly left-side spastic tetraparesis, generalized seizures and progressive dementia over a period of 11 years. She died when she was 58 years of age. On gross examination the brain showed enlarged ventricles and arteriosclerotic changes of large extracerebral vessels of the circulus arteriosus. Microscopic examination of the atrophic brain showed innumerable incomplete microinfarcts in the white and gray matter throughout all parts of the brain. In the white matter these lesions were characterized by small foci of demyelination and loss of oligodendrocytes while occasionally some scavenger cells were seen. Axons seemed to be unaffected or displayed irregular axonal regeneratory growth. Any inflammatory reaction failed. In the cerebral cortex and subcortical nuclei the lesions showed loss of neurons and decrease in synaptophysin expression. Intracerebral arteries showed fibrosis or fibrohyalinosis of the entire intracerebral small-vessel network. In addition, numerous uncommon clusters of angioma-like telangiectatic vessels were observed. Medium-sized ischemic infarcts were found in the right putamen and adjacent internal capsule region, left-side dorsolateral brain stem and cerebellar hemisphere as well as a left-side pyramidal tract degeneration. Contralateral pseudohypertrophy of the inferior olivary nucleus was seen. The clinical and the neuropathologic observations made in this patient are compatible with small vessel disease characterized by a multicentric special and not yet described type of incomplete mini-infarcts in cerebral cortex and white matter accompanied by some larger ischemic infarcts of the common type in brain stem and cerebellum.
12805290: !synaptophysin Alzheimer's presenilin 1 mutations impair kinesin-based axonal transport. Several lines of evidence indicate that alterations in axonal transport play a critical role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology, but the molecular mechanisms that control this process are not understood fully. Recent work indicates that presenilin 1 (PS1) interacts with glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta). In vivo, GSK3beta phosphorylates kinesin light chains (KLC) and causes the release of kinesin-I from membrane-bound organelles (MBOs), leading to a reduction in kinesin-I driven motility (Morfini et al., 2002b). To characterize a potential role for PS1 in the regulation of kinesin-based axonal transport, we used PS1-/- and PS1 knock-inM146V (KIM146V) mice and cultured cells. We show that relative levels of GSK3beta activity were increased in cells either in the presence of mutant PS1 or in the absence of PS1 (PS1-/-). Concomitant with increased GSK3beta activity, relative levels of KLC phosphorylation were increased, and the amount of kinesin-I bound to MBOs was reduced. Consistent with a deficit in kinesin-I-mediated fast axonal transport, densities of synaptophysin- and syntaxin-I-containing vesicles and mitochondria were reduced in neuritic processes of KIM146V hippocampal neurons. Similarly, we found reduced levels of PS1, amyloid precursor protein, and synaptophysin in sciatic nerves of KIM146V mice. Thus PS1 appears to modulate GSK3beta activity and the release of kinesin-I from MBOs at sites of vesicle delivery and membrane insertion. These findings suggest that mutations in PS1 may compromise neuronal function by affecting GSK-3 activity and kinesin-I-based motility.
12799519: !synaptophysin Nerve growth factor attenuates hippocampal cholinergic deficits and operant learning impairment in rats with entorhinal cortex lesions. In the present study we investigated whether continuous intraventricular nerve growth factor (NGF) infusion could ameliorate hippocampal cholinergic deficits and learning impairment following entorhinal cortex lesions. Rats with such lesions received continuous intraventricular infusions of NGF or vehicle. Unlesioned rats with a sham operation were studied as controls. After learning sessions, a dialysis probe was implanted in the CA3 hippocampal region. In addition, brain sections were stained for synaptophysin immunoreactivity. In rats undergoing surgical procedures similar to those in the behavioral study, brains were processed for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry. NGF-treated rats showed partial amelioration of lesion-associated hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) efflux deficits and fixed-interval schedule learning impairment compared with vehicle-treated rats. Histochemical, immunohistologic, and microdensitometric analyses confirmed greater density of AChE-positive fibers and synaptophysin immunoreactivity in CA3, in NGF-treated rats relative to vehicle-treated rats, although not as great as in sham-operation rats, indicating partial recovery in NGF-treated rats. These results suggest that enhanced performance of the learning task with NGF treatment was related to improved hippocampal cholinergic function: specifically, increased cholinergic neurotransmission resulting from NGF effects on cholinergic neurons and presynaptic terminals.
12786981: !synaptophysin Synaptic changes characterize early behavioural signs in the ME7 model of murine prion disease. Prion diseases are fatal, chronic neurodegenerative diseases of mammals, characterized by amyloid deposition, astrogliosis, microglial activation, tissue vacuolation and neuronal loss. In the ME7 model of prion disease in the C57BL/6 J mouse, we have shown previously that these animals display behavioural changes that indicate the onset of neuronal dysfunction. The current study examines the neuropathological correlates of these early behavioural changes. After injection of ME7-infected homogenate into the dorsal hippocampus, we found statistically significant impairment of burrowing, nesting and glucose consumption, and increased open field activity at 13 weeks. At this time, microglia activation and PrPSc deposition was visible selectively throughout the limbic system, including the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, medial and lateral septum, mamillary bodies, dorsal thalamus and, to a lesser degree, in regions of the brainstem. No increase in apoptosis or neuronal cell loss was detectable at this time, while in animals at 19 weeks postinjection there was 40% neuronal loss from CA1. There was a statistically significant reduction in synaptophysin staining in the stratum radiatum of the CA1 at 13 weeks indicating loss of presynaptic terminals. Damage to the dorsal hippocampus is known to disrupt burrowing and nesting behaviour. We have demonstrated a neuropathological correlate of an early behavioural deficit in prion disease and suggest that this should allow insights into the first steps of the neuropathogenesis of prion diseases.
12783420: !synaptophysin Statins induce angiogenesis, neurogenesis, and synaptogenesis after stroke. We demonstrate that the 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors atorvastatin and simvastatin enhance functional outcome and induce brain plasticity when administered after stroke to rats. With atorvastatin treatment initiated 1 day after stroke, animals exhibited significant increases in vascular endothelial growth factor, cyclic guanosine monophosphate, angiogenesis, endogenous cell proliferation and neurogenesis, and an increase in the synaptic protein, synaptophysin. Atorvastatin-induced angiogenesis in a tube formation assay was reduced by an antibody against the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (FIK-1) and by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N-mono-methyl-L-arginine (L-NAME). Atorvastatin also induced phosphorylation of Akt and Erk in cultured primary cortical neurons. These data indicate that atorvastatin induced brain plasticity and has neurorestorative activity after experimental stroke.
12781914: !synaptophysin Hippocampal synaptophysin immunoreactivity is reduced during natural hypothermia in ground squirrels. Natural hypothermia during hibernation results in physiological and behavioral deficits. These changes may be traced at the level of hippocampal signal transduction. We investigated synaptophysin immunoreactivity (SYN-ir) in the hippocampus after short and long periods of hypothermia and short and long periods of euthermy in hibernating ground squirrels. SYN-ir in the stratum lucidum of the hippocampus was transiently reduced during natural hypothermia. Natural hypothermia thus reduces synaptic efficacy. This may play a role in the reduced neuronal connectivity of CA3 pyramidal cell dendrites observed in hibernating ground squirrels.
26680943: !synaptophysin Clinical Features of Pulmonary Large Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma. This study was performed to investigate the clinical features of large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas (LCNEC).
12774167: !synaptophysin Formation of insulin-positive cells in implants of human pancreatic duct cell preparations from young donors. Pancreatic ducts are considered as potential sites for neogenesis of beta cells. In vitro studies have reported formation of islets from postnatal human and rodent duct tissue. We examined whether postnatal human duct-cell preparations can generate new beta cells after transplantation.
12773583: !synaptophysin Effects of environmental enrichment on spatial memory and neurochemistry in middle-aged mice. The present study compared the effects of environmental enrichment on spatial memory, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) activity, and synaptophysin levels in middle-aged male and female mice. Prior to testing, a subset of 18-month-old male and female C57BL/6 mice was housed with two to three toys and a running wheel in the home cage for up to 29 d. Adult mice (7 mo) of both sexes and the remaining middle-aged mice were group (social) housed, but not exposed to enriching objects. After the enrichment period, all mice were tested in a 1-day version of the Morris water maze, in which both spatial and nonspatial memory were assessed. Immediately after testing, the hippocampus and frontoparietal cortex were dissected, and GAD activity and synaptophysin levels were measured. Environmental enrichment reduced the age-related impairment in spatial acquisition and retention; relative to adult social controls, middle-aged enriched mice were unimpaired, whereas middle-aged social controls were impaired. This reduction was similar in middle-aged males and females. Enrichment did not affect cued memory in either sex. Although hippocampal GAD activity was increased by enrichment in males, all other neurochemical measurements were unaffected by enrichment or aging in either sex. These data suggest that environmental enrichment initiated at middle age can reduce age-related impairments in spatial memory in males and females, although the underlying neurobiological mechanisms of this effect remain unknown.
12769185: !synaptophysin Lysosomal activation is a compensatory response against protein accumulation and associated synaptopathogenesis--an approach for slowing Alzheimer disease? Previous reports suggest that age-related lysosomal disturbances contribute to Alzheimer-type accumulations of protein species, blockage of axonal/dendritic transport, and synaptic decline. Here, we tested the hypothesis that lysosomal enzymes are upregulated as a compensatory response to pathogenic protein accumulation. In the hippocampal slice model, tau deposits and amyloidogenic fragments induced by the lysosomal inhibitor chloroquine were accompanied by disrupted microtubule integrity and by corresponding declines in postsynaptic glutamate receptors and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin. In the same slices, cathepsins B, D, and L, beta-glucuronidase, and elastase were upregulated by 70% to 135%. To address whether this selective activation of the lysosomal system represents compensatory signaling, N-Cbz-L-phenylalanyl-L-alanyl-diazomethylketone (PADK) was used to enhance the lysosome response, generating 4- to 8-fold increases in lysosomal enzymes. PADK-mediated lysosomal modulation was stable for weeks while synaptic components remained normal. When PADK and chloroquine were co-infused, chloroquine no longer increased cellular tau levels. To assess pre-existing pathology, chloroquine was applied for 6 days after which its removal resulted in continued degeneration. In contrast, enhancing lysosomal activation by replacing chloroquine after 6 days with PADK led to clearance of accumulated protein species and restored microtubule integrity. Transport processes lost during chloroquine exposure were consequently re-established, resulting in marked recovery of synaptic components. These data indicate that compensatory activation of lysosomes follows protein accumulation events, and that lysosomal modulation represents a novel approach for treating Alzheimer disease and other protein deposition diseases.
12767494: !synaptophysin Developmental stages of cortical Lewy bodies and their relation to axonal transport blockage in brains of patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. We investigated 10 dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) brains showing various degrees of Lewy pathology using alpha-synuclein-immunohistochemistry, and morphologically divided cortical Lewy bodies (LB) into six developmental stages. Further, we demonstrated the ultrastructure of each stage of cortical LB using alpha-synuclein-immunoelectron microscopy. In the initial stage, alpha-synuclein accumulated in part of the neuronal cytoplasm without filamentous components, then formed LB and LB-related neurites composed of granulo-filamentous components. Finally, LB degraded to extracellular LB composed of loose filamentous components with involved astroglial processes. In addition, we immunohistochemically investigated the accumulation of axonal transported substances in cortical LB, and showed that APP, chromogranin-A, synphilin-1 and synaptophysin accumulated in cortical LB from stages 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. These findings suggest that chronic axonal transport blockage is implicated in the development of cortical LB in DLB brains.
12763070: !synaptophysin Sec6 is localized to the plasma membrane of mature synaptic terminals and is transported with secretogranin II-containing vesicles. The sec6/8 (exocyst) complex is implicated in targeting of vesicles for regulated exocytosis in various cell types and is believed to play a role in synaptogenesis and brain development. We show that the subunits sec6 and sec8 are present at significant levels in neurons of adult rat brain, and that immunoreactivity for the two subunits has a differential subcellular distribution. We show that in developing as well as mature neurons sec6 is concentrated at the inside of the presynaptic plasma membrane, while sec8 immunoreactivity shows a diffuse cytoplasmic distribution. Among established, strongly synaptophysin-positive neuronal boutons, sec6 displays highly differential concentrations, indicating a role for the complex independent of the ongoing synaptic-vesicle release activity. Sec6 is transported along neurites on secretogranin II-positive vesicles, while sec6-negative/secretogranin II-positive vesicles stay in the cell body. In PC12 cells, sec6-positive vesicles accumulate at the plasma membrane at sites of cell-cell contact. Neuronal induction of the PC12 cells with nerve growth factor shows that sec8 is not freely soluble, but may probably interact with cytoskeletal elements. The complex may facilitate the targeting of membrane material to presynaptic sites and may possibly shuttle vesicles from the cytoskeletal transport machinery to presynaptic membrane sites. Thus, we suggest that the exocyst complex serves to modulate exocytotic activity, by targeting membrane material to its presynaptic destination.
12757551: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characteristics of canine aortic and carotid body tumours. In an immunohistochemical study of 25 canine chemodectomas, 17 tumours were stained with antisera to neurone specific enolase and the same number were stained for synaptophysin; a single tumour was stained for S100. Staining for Ki-67 occurred in 18 cases; the Ki-67-labelling index and the intensity of immunostaining was increased in more pleomorphic and malignant tumours, as assessed on histological grounds. Immunohistochemistry did not aid in recognition of less well-differentiated tumours.
12746763: !synaptophysin Adrenal cortical phaeochromocytoma: a case report of a rare entity. Adrenal cortical phaeochromocytomas (pseudo-phaeochromocytomas) are a very rare entity and a diagnostic challenge. Of the few cases previously reported, most have incomplete data or lack clinical and biochemical follow-up documenting the cure of the excess secretion of catecholamines after resection of the tumour. We report herein a 62-year-old patient with clinical and biochemical findings diagnostic of a phaeochromocytoma associated with a 2-cm adrenal mass on CT scan. Surgery revealed the presence of an adrenal cortical adenoma with positive staining for the neuroendocrine marker synaptophysin, but negative for chromogranin, as has been previously reported for these rare cortical phaeochromocytomas. After removal of the tumour the clinical symptoms resolved and biochemical markers normalized, demonstrating the causal relationship between the cortical tumour and the excess production of catecholamines.
12746201: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural spectrum of medulloblastoma with immunocytochemical correlations. Electron microscopy was used to examine 72 cases of medulloblastoma to better characterize the ultrastructural spectrum of this tumor. Twenty-four cases showed prominent neural differentiation. Twenty-three cases showed minimal (21) or no (2) recognizable neural differentiation, and the remainder of the cases (25) showed intermediate differentiation. All 42 cases tested stained for neuron-specific enolase, 28 for synaptophysin, and 12 for neurofilament protein. All cases showed strong reactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) within reactive astrocytes. Three cases showed reactivity for GFAP within tumor cells. Medulloblastoma exhibits a broad spectrum of neural differentiation, with nearly all cases showing at least some degree of this change, and it universally exhibits participation of reactive astrocytes which can create a potential for diagnostic confusion.
12741904: !synaptophysin Clear cell carcinoid tumor of the gallbladder. A case without von Hippel-Lindau disease. A golden yellow polyp was detected in the gallbladder of a 64-year-old man who presented with epigastric pain. The lesion was composed of clear polygonal cells arranged in a trabecular and glandular pattern. The tumor invaded through the wall into the perimuscular subserosal layer. Immunohistochemical stains showed that neoplastic cells were positive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, somatostatin, gastrin, and pancreatic polypeptide and negative for glucagon, serotonin, insulin, S100 protein, and inhibin. This tumor resembles the recently described clear cell endocrine tumors of the gallbladder and pancreas that are associated with von Hippel-Lindau disease. Our patient, however, had neither personal nor family history indicative of von Hippel-Lindau disease. Furthermore, published accounts of clear cell endocrine tumors in von Hippel-Lindau disease describe immunoreactivity for inhibin; the current case was negative for the disease. There may be a subtype of clear cell carcinoid tumor not associated with von Hippel-Lindau disease, which is characterized by its lack of immunoreactivity against inhibin.
12740598: !synaptophysin Tyrosine nitration of a synaptic protein synaptophysin contributes to amyloid beta-peptide-induced cholinergic dysfunction. Amyloid beta (Abeta) is a critical factor involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have previously demonstrated that continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of Abeta1-40 induced a time-dependent expression of the inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase (iNOS) and an overproduction of NO in the rat hippocampus. The pathophysiological significance of the overproduction of NO on brain function was manifested by an impairment of nicotine-evoked acetylcholine(ACh) release and memory deficits.(4) Molecular mechanisms by which NO participates in the Abeta-induced brain dysfunction, however, remain to be determined. Here we show that chronic Abeta1-40 infusion caused a robust peroxynitrite formation and subsequent tyrosine nitration of proteins in the hippocampus. Immunoprecipitation and Western blot analyses further revealed that synaptophysin, a synaptic protein, was a main target of tyrosine nitration. Chronic infusion of Abeta1-40 resulted in an impairment of nicotine-evoked ACh release as analyzed by microdialysis. Daily treatment with the iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine (AG) or the peroxynitrite scavenger uric acid (UA) prevented the tyrosine nitration of synaptophysin as well as the impairment of nicotine-evoked ACh release induced by Abeta. Our findings suggest that the tyrosine nitration of synaptophysin is related to Abeta-induced impairment of ACh release.
12733148: !synaptophysin Prognostic implications of neuroendocrine differentiation and hormone production in patients with Stage I nonsmall cell lung carcinoma. Approximately 10-20% of nonsmall cell lung carcinomas (NSCLC) show neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation, as evaluated by panendocrine markers or ultrastructural evidence of dense-core secretory granules. However, little is known regarding the prevalence and clinical implications of NE differentiation in patients with Stage I NSCLC.
12732241: !synaptophysin Differential expression and subcellular distribution of dystrophin Dp71 isoforms during differentiation process. Dp71 is the major product of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene in the brain. In order to study the function of Dp71 in the nervous system we examined the expression of Dp71 isoforms in PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cell line, a well-established system to study neuronal differentiation. We show by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot assays that PC12 cells express two Dp71 isoforms. One isoform lacks exon 71 and the other isoform lacks exons 71 and 78 (Dp71d and Dp71f isoforms respectively). Nerve growth factor-induced neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells results in differential regulation of the expression and subcellular localization of Dp71 isoforms: a) the amount of Dp71f protein increases nine-fold in total extracts while Dp71d increases up to seven-fold in nuclear extracts; b) Dp71f relocates from the cytoplasm to neuritic processes, being prominent at varicosities and the growth cone; c) Dp71d relocates almost entirely to the nucleus and is detected to a lower extent in the cytoplasm and neuritic processes. Dp71f co-localizes with beta-dystroglycan and synaptophysin while Dp71d co-localizes with beta-dystroglycan in the nucleus. Dp71d accumulates at cell-cell contacts where Dp71f is absent. These results suggest that Dp71d and Dp71f associate with different subcellular complexes and therefore may have distinct functions in PC12 cells.
12729362: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in colorectal carcinomas: assessing its prognostic significance. There is evidence that colorectal carcinomas with extensive neuroendocrine features have a substantially worse prognosis than those without, but the frequency and clinical significance of neuroendocrine features in conventional carcinomas has not been settled since few studies have been performed, with conflicting results. The aim of the study was to investigate neuroendocrine differentiation in colorectal carcinomas in relation to its prognostic significance.
12727319: !synaptophysin Stress (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis) and pain response in male rats exposed lifelong to high vs. low phytoestrogen diets. Estrogens exhibit complex but beneficial effects on brain structure, function and behavior. Soy-derived dietary phytoestrogens protect against hormone-dependent and age-related diseases, due to their estrogen-like hormonal actions. However, the effects of phytoestrogens on brain and behavior are relatively unknown. This study examined the influence of exposing male Long-Evans rats (lifelong) to either a phytoestrogen-rich (Phyto-600) or a phytoestrogen-free (Phyto-free) diet on body weights, behavioral pain thresholds, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) hormonal stress response, hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor and brain neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAM) and synaptophysin levels using standard behavioral and biochemical techniques. Body weights were significantly decreased in Phyto-600 fed animals compared to Phyto-free values. There were no significant changes in behavioral pain thresholds, circulating corticosterone concentrations (after acute immobilization stress) or NCAM and synaptophysin levels in various brain regions by the diet treatments. However, Phyto-600 fed males displayed significantly higher plasma adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) (post-stress) and hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor levels vs. Phyto-free values. These data suggest that (1) body weights are significantly reduced by soy-derived phytoestrogens, (2) behavioral pain thresholds (via heat stimuli) are not influenced by dietary phytoestrogens, but (3) these estrogenic molecules in the hippocampus enhance glucocorticoid receptor abundance and alter the negative feedback of stress hormones towards a female-like pattern of higher ACTH release after activation of the HPA stress axis. This study is the first to show that lifelong consumption of dietary phytoestrogens alters the HPA stress response in male rats.
12727026: !synaptophysin CD56: a useful marker for diagnosing Merkel cell carcinoma. Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) of the skin is an aggressive but rare malignant neuroendocrine tumor. For its pathological diagnosis, we use a panel of immunohistochemical markers, such as cytokeratin 20 (CK 20), epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), chromogranin A, neuron specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin, and Leu7 (CD57) to demonstrate its epithelial and neuroendocrine features. CD56, or neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), has been demonstrated recently as the tumor marker of the pulmonary neuroendocrine cell system. Its expression in MCC, however, has still rarely been investigated. Furthermore, in such very few previous studies on NCAM expression in MCC, all the tumor cells were not necessarily demonstrated to express NCAM.
12722922: !synaptophysin Expression of presenilin 1 and synapse-related proteins during postnatal development is not different between accelerated senescence-prone and -resistant mice. SAMP1TA/Ngs is an inbred strain of senescence-accelerated mice in which there is delayed development of cognitive functions and dendritic spine formation compared with normal control SAMR1TA//Ngs mice. It is hypothesized that abnormalities might be in the postnatal expression of synapse-related proteins in SAMP1TA/Ngs mice. Quantitative western blot analyses showed that the postnatal developmental changes in the expression of synaptophysin, post-synaptic density protein 95 and presenilin 1 in the cerebrum were similar between SAMP1TA/Ngs and SAMR1TA//Ngs mice. Therefore, the expression of synapse-related proteins was not disturbed in SAMP1TA/ Ngs mice regardless of reported abnormal numbers of dendritic spines during postnatal development. Immunohistochemical studies showed that the expression of synaptophysin in the neuropil increased postnatally with development in the same way in SAMP1TA/Ngs and SAMR1TA//Ngs mice. Presenilin 1 expression was relatively high at age 5 days in the neuropil of the cerebral cortex and decreased with postnatal development in the same way in SAMP1TA/Ngs and SAMR1TA//Ngs mice. At age 5 days the distribution of presenilin 1 was similar to the distribution of synaptophysin in that there were two separate immunoreactive patterns: a subpial band and patches in the middle layers reminiscent of barrels. These findings suggest that presenilin 1 is transiently expressed in the neuropil to induce synaptogenesis, and then its expression decreases overall.
12719457: !synaptophysin Frequent occurrence of low grade cases among metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumours. Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs) are uncommon mesenchymal neoplasms. Some metastasise, whereas others remain asymptomatic for years, but it is difficult to distinguish between them histologically. This report analyses the characteristics of seven metastasising GISTs and compares clinicopathological parameters of the metastatic and non-metastatic groups.
12717716: !synaptophysin Upregulation of calretinin immunostaining in the ferret inferior colliculus after cochlear ablation. In many systems, including ascending auditory pathways, calcium-binding proteins are markers of specific neuronal circuits. Previous studies suggest that calretinin immunostaining may be a specific marker for circuits in the inferior colliculus (IC) that code timing information. We undertook experiments to determine the changes in calretinin immunostaining in the IC that take place in response to cochlear ablation. Cochlear ablation was performed unilaterally in ferrets just after hearing onset. Animals survived for 2-3 months after ablation and brains were then processed for calretinin immunocytochemistry. The mean optical density and stained area of the calretinin immunopositive plexus in the IC were determined for five coronal sections through the right and left IC. In controls (n = 3), measurements of these parameters in the central nucleus of the IC showed symmetry between the two sides. In experimental animals (n = 8) the calretinin immunopositive plexus contralateral to the cochlear ablation was denser and larger than that in either the ipsilateral IC or in the IC of control animals. The calretinin plexus in the ipsilateral IC was slightly less dense and smaller than in controls but the differences did not reach statistical significance. IC volume measurements and synaptophysin immunostaining analysis in the central nucleus of the IC revealed no statistical differences between ablated and control animals or between the two sides in ablated animals. The significant increase in both mean optical density and immunostained area of the calretinin plexus in the IC contralateral to the cochlear ablation may reflect an upregulation in calretinin expression in the nuclei that contribute to this plexus.
12717707: !synaptophysin Spatiotemporal distribution of neuronal calcium sensor-1 in the developing rat spinal cord. The present study revealed the localization of neuronal calcium sensor (NCS)-1 immunoreactivity (IR) in the developing rat spinal cord. The NCS-1 IR first appeared at embryonic day 12 in the peripheral nerves and their somata. Intense NCS-1 IR was expressed in ascending and descending tracts in the white matter during the late prenatal period, which gradually decreased to the faint level during postnatal development. Intense NCS-1 IR was colocalized with growth associated protein (GAP)-43 IR in the marginal zone and with the glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST) IR in the radial processes traversing the marginal zone. In the adult rat white matter, radially oriented astrocytes and astrocytes in the glia limitans were double-labeled for NCS-1 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), whereas small dots on finger-like dendritic projections were double-labeled for NCS-1 and synaptophysin. In the developing gray matter, the NCS-1 IR appeared at embryonic day 12 and gradually increased in the neuronal somata and neuropil, reaching a plateau after the end of the 4th postnatal week. The small dots in neuropil were colabeled for NCS-1 and GFAP or NCS-1 and synaptophysin in the adult rat gray matter. These results strongly suggest that NCS-1 is involved in axogenesis and synaptogenesis in the developing rat spinal cord. NCS-1 can serve as a Ca(2+)-sensor not only in neurons but also in radial glial cells or even in radially oriented astrocytes in the adult rat spinal cord.
12717248: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinomas of the pancreas with 'Rhabdoid' features. Neuroendocrine carcinomas of the pancreas are rare neoplasms whose morphologic features generally mirror those seen in neuroendocrine tumors in other organs. Rarely, however, they may display unusual morphologic appearances that can introduce difficulties for diagnosis. We report four cases of primary neuroendocrine carcinomas of the pancreas (islet cell tumors) that were characterized by prominent "rhabdoid" features of the tumor cells. The lesions occurred in two men and two women 37-79 years of age who presented with symptoms of biliary obstruction and epigastric pain; one patient had recurrent gastric ulcers and an elevated gastrin level. The tumors were located in the head and tail of the pancreas and measured 2.5-4.5 cm in greatest diameter. Histologic examination revealed sheets of monotonous tumor cells with uniform round nuclei showing dispersed chromatin and containing abundant densely eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusions that displaced the nuclei toward the periphery. In all cases, the rhabdoid elements appeared to merge with areas showing a more conventional neuroendocrine morphology. Immunohistochemical studies in all cases showed strong cytoplasmic positivity of the rhabdoid tumor cells for chromogranin, synaptophysin, and cytokeratin. Recognition of this unusual morphologic appearance is of importance to avoid mistaking these lesions for other types of malignant neoplasm.
12714119: !synaptophysin Enrichment enhances spatial memory and increases synaptophysin levels in aged female mice. The present study tested whether environmental enrichment can reduce age-related spatial reference memory deficits and alter synaptic protein levels in aged female mice. Female C57BL/6 mice, (4 or 27-28 months), were tested in spatial and cued Morris water maze tasks. Prior to (14 days) and during testing, a subset of aged females was exposed to rodent toys and running wheels for 3h per day. The remaining aged females were group housed but were not exposed to enriching objects. At the conclusion of testing, levels of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin were measured in hippocampus and frontoparietal cortex. Enrichment improved spatial memory acquisition; relative to young controls, aged enriched females performed similarly, whereas aged control females were impaired. Enrichment also accelerated the development of a spatial bias in spatial probe trials. In contrast, the cued task was not significantly affected by enrichment. Hippocampal and cortical synaptophysin levels were increased in aged enriched females relative to young and aged controls. These data suggest that environmental enrichment can be a potent cognitive enhancer for aged females and suggests a potential neurobiological mechanism of this effect.
12713639: !synaptophysin Morphological and molecular heterogeneity in release sites of single neurons. We have previously shown that labelling intensities for synaptic proteins vary strongly among synaptic boutons. Here we addressed the questions as to whether there are heterogeneous levels of integral membrane synaptic vesicle proteins at distinct active release sites of single neurons and if these sites possess the ultrastructural features of synapses. By double-immunostaining with specific antibodies against synaptophysin, synaptotagmin I, VAMP1 and VAMP2, we identified different relative levels of these integral membrane proteins of synaptic vesicles in comparison to boutons of the same rat cortical neuron. This heterogeneity could also be observed between the two isoforms VAMP1 and VAMP2. By studying pairs of these proteins implicated in neurotransmitter release, including both VAMP isoforms, we also show that the sites that contained predominantly one protein were nevertheless functional, as they internalized and released FM1-43 upon potassium stimulation. Using electron microscopy, we show that these active sites could have either synaptic specializations, or the features of vesicle-containing varicosities without a postsynaptic target. Different varicosities of the same neuron showed different intensities for synaptic vesicle proteins; some varicosities were capable of internalizing and releasing FM1-43, while others were silent. These results show that integral membrane synaptic vesicle proteins are differentially distributed among functional release sites of the same neuron.
12713568: !synaptophysin Primary carcinoid tumor in a polycystic kidney. A case of a primary carcinoid tumor within a polycystic kidney is reported. A 51-year-old woman with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) underwent a bilateral nephrectomy because of an infection in her polycystic kidneys. A tumor (1.5 cm in diameter) was incidentally found close to the hilum of the left kidney. Histologically, the tumor exhibited a predominantly trabecular pattern of cuboidal or columnar cells. Grimelius staining showed numerous silver-stained neurosecretory granules in most of the tumor cells; the tumor cells were also positive for chromogranin, synaptophysin, prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) and neuron-specific enolase (NSE). The tumor was diagnosed as a primary carcinoid tumor of the kidney. Primary renal carcinoid is a very rare neoplasm, and this is the first report of such a lesion arising in a polycystic kidney.
12711073: !synaptophysin Is fragile X mental retardation protein involved in activity-induced plasticity of dendritic spines? Dendritic morphology of 2-week-old cultured neurons, taken from postnatal day 1 fragile X mental retardation gene1 knock out (FMR1-/-) mice hippocampus, were compared with cells taken from wild type mice. Under control conditions the FMR1-/- neurons displayed significantly lower spine densities compared to wild type neurons. Pharmacological stimulation of electrical activity, induced by bicuculline, caused a reduction in dendritic spine density in both the FMR1-/- and the wild type cells. In both groups, bicuculline induced a significant shrinkage of spines that were occupied by one or more synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals. The concentration of FMR1 in the wild type cultures was not affected by bicuculline treatment. These experiments indicate that FMR1 is not likely to be an essential factor in activity-modulated morphological plasticity of dendritic spines in cultured hippocampal neurons.
12710971: !synaptophysin Grafting of a new target prevents synapse loss in abducens internuclear neurons induced by axotomy. The loss of afferent synaptic boutons is a prominent alteration induced by axotomy on adult central neurons. In this work we attempted to prove whether synapse loss could be reverted by reconnection with a new target. We severed the medial longitudinal fascicle of adult cats and then transplanted embryonic cerebellar primordia at the lesion site immediately after lesion. As previously shown, the transected axons from abducens internuclear neurons penetrate and reinnervate the graft [J Comp Neurol 444 (2002) 324]. By immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy we studied the synaptology of abducens internuclear neurons under three conditions: control, axotomy and transplant (2 months of survival time). Semithin sections of the abducens nucleus were immunostained against calretinin, to identify abducens internuclear neurons, and either synaptophysin (SF), to label synaptic terminals, or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) to detect the astrocytic reaction. Optical and linear density of SF and GFAP immunostaining were measured. Data revealed a significant decrease in the density of SF-labeled terminals with a parallel increase in GFAP-immunoreactive elements after axotomy. On the contrary, in the transplant group, the density of SF-labeled terminals was found similar to control, and the astrocytic reaction induced by lesion was significantly reduced. At the ultrastructural level, synaptic coverage and linear density of boutons were measured around the somata of abducens internuclear neurons. Whereas a significant reduction in both parameters was found after axotomy, cells of the transplant group received a normal density of synaptic endings. The ratio between F- and S-type boutons was found similar in the three groups. Therefore, these findings indicate that the grafting of a new target can prevent the loss of afferent synaptic boutons produced by the axotomy.
12708794: !synaptophysin FGFR1 expression and FGFR1-FGF-2 colocalisation in rat retina: sites of FGF-2 action on rat photoreceptors. To identify sites of FGF-2 action on photoreceptors of the rat retina, by localizing FGFR1 in the intact retina, and to assess the colocalisation of FGF-2 with FGFR1.
12707048: !synaptophysin Dendritic and synaptic pathology in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Evidence has shown that excitotoxicity may contribute to the loss of central nervous system axons and oligodendrocytes in multiple sclerosis and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Because dendrites and synapses are vulnerable to excitotoxicity, we examined these structures in acute and chronic models of EAE. Immunostaining for microtubule-associated protein-2 showed that extensive dendritic beading occurred in the white matter of the lumbosacral spinal cord (LSSC) during acute EAE episodes and EAE relapses. Retrograde labeling confirmed that most motoneuron dendrites were beaded in the white matter of the LSSC in acute EAE. In contrast, only mild swelling was observed in the gray matter of the LSSC. Dendritic beading showed marked recovery during EAE remission and after EAE recovery. In addition, synaptophysin, synapsin I, and PSD-95 immunoreactivities were significantly reduced in both the gray and white matter of the LSSC during acute EAE episodes and EAE relapses, but showed partial recovery during EAE remission and after EAE recovery. Pathologically, both dendritic beading and the reduction in synaptic protein immunoreactivity were well correlated with inflammatory cell infiltration in the LSSC at different EAE stages. We propose that dendritic and synaptic damage in the spinal cord may contribute to the neurological deficits in EAE.
12706456: !synaptophysin Ryanodine receptor modulation by diadenosine polyphosphates in synaptosomal and microsomal preparations of rat brain. Diadenosine polyphosphates (Ap(n)As) are transmitter-like substances that act intracellularly via unclear mechanisms. Here we tested hypotheses that diadenosine tetraphosphate (Ap(4)A) modulates ryanodine binding in microsomal and synaptosomal fractions of rat brain, and that Ap(4)A affects modulation of ryanodine binding by divalent cations and caffeine. Using [3H]ryanodine-binding assays, we showed that Ap(4)A produced significant and concentration-dependent increases in [3H]ryanodine binding in microsomes and these actions were reduced by Mg(2+) and potentiated by caffeine. In synaptosomal subfractions, effects of Ap(4)A on [3H]ryanodine binding were most profound in subfractions enriched in synaptic vesicle-associated protein synaptophysin. These results suggest that Ap(n)As and ryanodine receptors are well placed to modulate Ca(2+)-dependent synaptic processes.
21262155: !synaptophysin [Immunohistochemical and ultrastructual study of so-called sclerosing hemangioma of the lung suggests different origins of cells]. To study the morphological characteristics, immunohistochemical stain and histological origin of so-called sclerosing hemangioma of the lung (S-SH), and to investigate the significance and diagnostic value of expressions of surfactant protein B (SP-B), thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1) and other markers in S-SH.
12701886: !synaptophysin Differential somatostatin receptor subtype expression in human normal pineal gland and pineal parenchymal tumors. Somatostatin is a potent antiproliferative signal in both tumoral and normal mammalian cells, and altered somatostatin receptor (sst) expression is associated with carcinogenesis in human tissues. In this study, two normal and three tumoral human pineal glands were analyzed using the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the presence of mRNA coding for the five different somatostatin receptors (sst1-sst5). Pineal parenchymal tumor (PPT) differentiation was confirmed by immunohistochemical detection of neuroendocrine markers (synaptophysin, neurofilaments, and chromogranin A). The presence of mRNA coding for c-myc, a proto-oncogene, and for tryptophan hydroxylase (TPOH), serotonin N-acetyltransferase (NAT), and hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase (HIOMT), enzymes of the melatonin pathway, was also analyzed by RT-PCR. Only the tumoral tissues contained c-myc mRNA. All five tissues contained TPOH, NAT, and HIOMT mRNA, the levels of HIOMT mRNA being lower in PPT than in the normal pineal gland, suggesting that PPT retain the ability to synthesize melatonin. All tissues contained sst1, sst2, and sst3 transcripts, but not sst4, while small amounts of sst5 mRNA were only found in normal pineal glands. Real-time PCR, performed only with the most abundant subtpe sst2, evidenced an about sixfold higher level in in normal pineal glands. These results demonstrate the presence of somatostatin receptors in the human pineal gland, as described in other species, and point to a differential expression of the sst2 and sst5 subtypes associated with carcinogenesis.
12698357: !synaptophysin Vesicular glutamate transporter 2 immunoreactivity in putative vagal mechanosensor terminals of mouse and rat esophagus: indication of a local effector function? Intraganglionic laminar endings (IGLEs) represent the major vagal afferent structures throughout the gastrointestinal tract. Previous ultrastructural investigations have revealed synaptic contacts of IGLEs on myenteric neurons. Thus, in addtion to functioning probably as mechanosensors, IGLEs may also synaptically influence myenteric neurons. In search of clues for potential transmitters in IGLEs, we investigated, by combined neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry in the esophagus, the correlation between IGLEs and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2), which is considered a reliable marker for glutamatergic neurons. In rat esophagus, IGLEs were immunostained with calretinin. In the mouse, anterograde wheat germ agglutinin/horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) tracing from nodose ganglion was used in order to label esophageal IGLEs. Confocal laser scanning microscopy demonstrated that VGLUT2 immunoreactivity was highly colocalized with synaptophysin and that both calretinin and tyramide amplified WGA-HRP in rat and mouse esophagus, respectively. No colocalization was found with calcitonin gene-related peptide, a marker for spinal primary afferents. Thus, VGLUT2 is found in vagal afferent endings in the esophagus, suggesting that glutamate is contained in, and probably released from, synaptic vesicles previously described in IGLEs. Functional evidence pending, this finding is in favor of a local effector function of IGLEs onto myenteric neurons.
12687689: !synaptophysin VR1-positive primary afferents contact NK1-positive spinoparabrachial neurons. Neurons in rat superficial dorsal horn that express neurokinin receptor 1 (NK1), a receptor for substance P, play a critical role in the development of hyperalgesia. Thermal hyperalgesia is dramatically reduced after ablation of these neurons, but, paradoxically, not in mice that lack the NK1 receptor (Mantyh et al. [1997] Science 278:275-279). Because primary afferents that express vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1), a receptor for noxious heat, are essential for thermal nociception and hyperalgesia, we reasoned that VR1-positive fibers may terminate onto NK1-expressing dorsal horn neurons. We therefore combined immunofluorescent staining for VR1 and NK1 to show that NK1-positive neurons in lamina I are contacted by VR1-positive fibers. That these contacts represent synapses was verified by staining for the presynaptic marker synaptophysin and by electron microscopy. By combining retrograde tracing with immunocytochemistry, we also found that most NK1-positive cells contacted by VR1-positive fibers project to the lateral parabrachial nucleus. Because quantitative evaluation suggests a preferential targeting of NK1-positive lamina I neurons by fibers containing VR1, these results demonstrate a significant monosynaptic innervation of spinoparabrachial neurons by VR1-positive afferents.
12687684: !synaptophysin Primary afferent terminals that express presynaptic NR1 in rats are mainly from myelinated, mechanosensitive fibers. Presynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in terminals of primary afferents to spinal cord of rats were first reported by Liu et al. (1994; Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91:8383-8387) and were proposed to modulate nociceptive input (Liu et al. [1997] Nature 386:721-724). We previously demonstrated kainate and AMPA receptors in numerous primary afferent terminals in the spinal cord fixed with diluted paraformaldehyde and no glutaraldehyde. Therefore, we reinvestigated the occurrence of presynaptic NMDAR1 (NR1) with this fixation protocol. With confocal microscopy, numerous immunofluorescent puncta were double-stained for NR1 and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin throughout the spinal gray. NR1-immunostained puncta costained more frequently with a tracer that labels myelinated afferents (cholera toxin subunit B; CTB) than with a tracer that labels non-peptidergic unmyelinated afferents (Griffonia simplicifolia isolectin B4; IB4). Virtually no double staining was found for NR1 and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), which labels somatic peptidergic primary afferents. In the gracile nucleus, virtually all puncta labeled for CTB appeared immunopositive for NR1. At the electron microscopic level, most immunopositive terminals in spinal cord and gracile nucleus displayed morphological characteristics of endings of myelinated primary afferents. NR1 was presynaptic in 60-65% of all synapses in which it was expressed pre- or postsynaptically, or both, in spinal laminae I-IV. Estimates for the gracile nucleus were higher (80%). No presynaptic NR1 was found in the ventroposterior thalamus. Because of the relative sparsity of presynaptic NR1 in terminals in laminae I and IIo and in terminals of peptidergic unmyelinated afferents, it is suggested that presynaptic NMDA receptors play a more significant role in modulation of mechanosensitive, innocuous input than in nociception.
12687639: !synaptophysin Age-related loss of synapses in the frontal cortex of SAMP10 mouse: a model of cerebral degeneration. SAMP10 mouse is a model of brain aging in which senescence is characterized by cerebral atrophy most prominent in the frontal cortex, deterioration in performance of learning and memory tasks, and alterations of the central dopaminergic system. The present study investigates age-related changes in the expression of synapse-related proteins to determine whether the number of synapses is decreased in SAMP10 mice. We quantified expression levels of synaptophysin, a presynaptic protein, and of PSD-95, a postsynaptic protein in various brain regions by immunoblotting. Both synapse-related proteins (52% of synaptophysin and 55% of PSD-95) were lost from the anterior cerebral cortex in SAMP10 mice at age 10-12 months compared with those in mice at age 3 months. Synaptophysin was lost by 30% from the posterior cerebral cortex of SAMP10 mice at age 15-16 months. The level of synaptophysin, but not of PSD-95 decreased by about 25% in the brain stem of SAMP10 mice aged 7 and 10-12 months. A loss of synapse-related proteins was not significant in other brain regions. Age-related loss of synaptophysin or PSD-95 was not evident in normal aging control SAMR1 mice that do not develop brain atrophy. In summary, synapses were lost with aging in SAMP10 mice and the synaptic loss was most prominent in the anterior cerebral neocortex. Since a loss of neocortical synapses is the primary correlate with the intellectual decline in human neurodegenerative diseases, SAMP10 mouse is a useful model with which to study the mechanisms underlying synaptic loss in human neurodegenerative dementias.
12685552: !synaptophysin Minute mixed ductal-endocrine carcinoma of the pancreas with predominant intraductal growth. We report a rare case of minute (5 mm x 4 mm) mixed ductal-endocrine carcinoma of the pancreas with predominant intraductal growth. A 34-year-old Japanese man was admitted because of elevated serum pancreatic enzymes. Endoscopic retrograde pancreatography revealed an unidentified material of 18 mm within the main pancreatic duct. Stone or parasite with acute pancreatitis was suspected clinically, and the biopsy revealed malignant cells positive for CA19-9, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and synaptophysin. No apparent tumor was identified in the pancreas by various imaging techniques. Resection of pancreatic body and tail was performed. Grossly, the main pancreatic duct in the pancreatic body was occluded by as much as 20 mm. The pancreas had minute carcinoma of 5 mm x 4 mm just around the occluded main pancreatic duct. The tumor cells invaded the main pancreatic duct and spread within it as long as 20 mm. Histologically, the carcinoma had biphasic pattern; one was ductal carcinoma with tubular formations and another was carcinoma with neuroendocrine features. These two elements were admixed, and the ductal element comprised 30% while the endocrine element comprised 70%. The ductal element was immunoreactive for cytokeratins, CEA and CA19-9, while the endocrine element was immunoreactive for chromogranin A and synaptophysin. No immunoreactivity for pancreatic enzymes was noted. Ultrastructural observations showed dense core granules and no zymogen granules. Our case is unique clinically in that the tumor manifested as an intraductal material and no apparent tumor was found by imaging modalities, and pathologically in that the tumor was rare mixed ductal-endocrine carcinoma and the tumor was very small and mainly grew within the main pancreatic duct.
12685198: !synaptophysin Fine needle aspiration cytology of solid papillary carcinoma of the breast. A report of four cases. Solid papillary carcinoma of the breast (SPCB) is a distinctive form of papillary carcinoma that tends to occur in older women and usually has a favorable prognosis.
12683899: !synaptophysin Primary primitive peripheral neuroectodermal tumor of the prostate. Immunophenotypic and molecular study of a case. A case of primitive peripheral neuroectodermal tumor arising in the prostate gland of a 31-year-old man and first diagnosed through a biopsy is reported. Microscopically, the tumor was made up of solid nests and sheets of small round cells, and it was difficult to distinguish the neoplasm from other small round cell tumors, such as small cell carcinoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, or malignant lymphoma. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells showed immunoreactivity for CD99, vimentin, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin. The neoplasm was excised by a radical surgical procedure preceded by chemotherapy and radiation therapy. The morphologic diagnosis of the prostatectomy specimen was complemented by molecular analysis performed on viable microdissected tissue obtained from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor sections. Polymerase chain reaction and sequencing assessment showed the presence of EWS/FLI1 type 2 chimeric transcript, confirming the diagnosis of peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor. To our knowledge, this is the first description of a primary peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor in the prostate gland.
12676529: !synaptophysin Coincidence in dendritic clustering and synaptic targeting of homer proteins and NMDA receptor complex proteins NR2B and PSD95 during development of cultured hippocampal neurons. Homer is a scaffold protein that binds glutamate receptor complexes and actin cytoskeleton in postsynapses. The present study analyzed developmental changes in subcellular localization of Homer proteins in cultured hippocampal neurons. All three Homer family proteins, Homer 1b/c, Cupidin/Homer 2, and Homer 3, not only form heteromeric coclusters, but also localize close to the NMDA receptor complex including the NR2B subunit and PSD95 throughout dendritic and synaptic differentiation. Synaptic clustering of Homer proteins is enhanced by simultaneous blockade of NMDA receptor and cAMP phosphodiesterase activities, as is clustering of NMDA receptors. Homer proteins colocalize with actin-cytoskeletal proteins F-actin and Drebrin partially during the middle stage and to a greater extent in the late stage, and with the GluR1 subunit of AMPA receptors only in the late stage. Clustering sites of Homer are not synaptic in early-middle stages, but become synaptic in the late stage, as deduced from synaptic targeting of Bassoon, Synaptophysin, and N-cadherin. Our results indicate a coincidence in dendritic clustering in addition to developmental and activity-regulated synaptic targeting between Homer and the NMDA receptor complex.
12675130: !synaptophysin SSR2(a) receptor expression and adrenergic/cholinergic characteristics in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells. Somatostatin (SS) is an inhibitory regulator of secretory and proliferative responses that activates a group of receptors in the plasma membrane termed SSR1-5. SSR2 is one of the most abundant SSR, which also is expressed in high numbers in many neuroendocrine tumor types. Here, we describe a study of the presence and intracellular localization of the spliced variant SSR2(a) and its endogenous ligand SS in the cultured human neuroblastoma (NB) cell line, SH-SY5Y, by immunohistochemistry and confocal laser scanning. The integral neuronal synaptic vesicle membrane proteins synaptophysin (p38) and SV2 were studied, as well as the IR of catecholaminergic and cholinergic markers. RA treatment was used as an inducer of neuronal-like differentiation in our SH-SY5Y cell line. After the treatment, the presence of catecholaminergic markers (including NPY) decreased while the cholinergic markers (including VIP) increased. p38 and SV2 as well as VIP were shifted into the rather long neuritic processes, indicating efficient intracellular transport. The SSR2(a) protein was significantly increased by RA treatment, but only minor increases in mRNA for this receptor protein could be seen. No subcellular co-localization between p38/SV2 and the cytoplasmic granular receptor material was demonstrated. The SSR2(a) receptor ligand SS was found to be present not only in the cytoplasm but also in the nucleus, and more strongly so after RA treatment. The possible reason for this may be that this peptide, like other small peptides, may serve as transcription factor, or cofactor.
12670712: !synaptophysin Expression of calmin, a novel developmentally regulated brain protein with calponin-homology domains. We examined the expression in the mouse brain of a recently isolated protein named calmin that has two calponin-homology domains in tandem at the N-terminus and a transmembrane domain at the C-terminus. Calmin mRNA and protein were detected in neurons of the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and thalamus, Purkinje cells, and also in the choroid plexus and ependymal cells. The protein is present predominantly in dendrites and cell bodies of the neurons, but not in axons. Furthermore, the amounts of calmin mRNA and protein increase during the period of maturation of the mouse brain after birth, in a manner similar to that of PSD95 and synaptophysin. These results indicate that calmin may be involved in the development and/or maintenance of neuronal functions.
12670050: !synaptophysin Atypical neuronal-glial tumors of cerebral hemispheres in adults with PNET-like component: clinicopathological features of 5 cases. We investigated 5 cases with brain tumors composed ofneuronal and astrocytic differentiated tumor cells occurring in the cerebral hemispheres of adults. Patients ranged from 33 - 69 years of age, 3 females and 2 males. Radiologically, contrast enhancement was demonstrated in these tumors. All tumors were surgically resected following radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Four patients have been free of recurrence for 2-5 years. One recurred 15 years after the operation. Histologically, tumor cells were mainly composed of round or oval nucleate cells with scant cytoplasm and compactly arranged with neurocytic features. Immunohistochemically, some tumor cells were immunoreactive for synaptophysin, neurofilament, beta-tubulin, chromogranin A, GFAP and vimentin. There were little immunoreactive cells for myelin basic protein and epithelial membrane antigen. Ultrastructurally, tumor cells were variably differentiated as follows: undifferentiated cells having prominent nuclei and scanty cytoplasm with inconspicuous organelles; neuronal cells consisting of neurosecretory granules or vesicles and abortive synapses, and astrocytic cells with cytoplasmic intermediate filaments. The Ki-67 labeling index ranged from 4.5 - 9.8%. Allelic loss of chromosome Ip occurred in 2 cases (50%) and allelic loss of chromosome 19q occurred in 2 cases (50%) of 4 informative cases. These tumors were characterized as neuronal and astrocytic differentiated tumors with primitive PNET-like component. However, there was little oligodendrocytic or ependymal differentiation in these tumors.
12667466: !synaptophysin No alterations of hippocampal neuronal number and synaptic bouton number in a transgenic mouse model expressing the beta-cleaved C-terminal APP fragment. Previous studies in the literature have resulted in conflicting reports on the potential neurotoxicity of the beta-cleaved Alzheimer's disease C-terminal fragment (beta-CTF) of beta-amyloid precursor protein in vivo. To readdress this question by rigorous quantitative methods, we analyzed transgenic mice expressing human beta-CTF with the I45F mutation (SPA4CT) under control of the prion protein promoter by stereological techniques. The transgene was expressed in hippocampus and cortex in large pyramidal neurons and in dentate gyrus granule cells. Proteolytic processing of beta-CTF released Abeta. However, most of it remained uncleaved. Neurodegeneration was evaluated by investigating the numbers of hippocampal pyramidal and granule neurons, as well as the number of synaptophysin-immunopositive presynaptic boutons in the hippocampus of 15-month-old SPA4CT mice with design-based stereological techniques. The analyses showed that a fourfold higher expression of the transgene compared to murine APP levels had no effect on the numbers of both neurons and synaptophysin-immunopositive presynaptic boutons. These data implicate that expression of beta-CTF per se is not neurotoxic, and that other mechanisms are responsible for the neurotoxic events in Alzheimer's disease brain.
12662269: !synaptophysin Feline cutaneous neuroendocrine carcinoma (Merkel cell tumour): clinical and pathological findings. A case of a feline Merkel cell tumour is described. An 8-year-old, female cat developed a round, alopecic, reddish mass on the nose. Wide excisional surgery was performed with cartilage resection. Histologically the mass was composed of solid islands of mostly basophilic densely packed cells with a scant cytoplasm, which was suggestive of a neuroendocrine origin. Results of immunohistochemical studies using antibodies against neurone-specific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin and pan-cytokeratin allowed classification of the lesion as a Merkel cell tumour. Ultrastructurally, dense core granules were identified in the cytoplasm. In a 2-year follow-up no relapses or metastases were observed. The clinical course recorded is in contrast with the malignant nature of a Merkel cell tumour recently described in a cat and of the human Merkel cell tumour, but is similar to the course of the canine Merkel cell tumour which is often benign. Early diagnosis along with the use of wide surgical excision might be considered an important factor in preventing relapse of this tumour.
12658132: !synaptophysin [Intestinal ganglioneuromatosis diagnosed in adult patients]. Intestinal ganglioneuromatosis is essentially described in children and rarely in adults. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical pathological patterns of intestinal ganglioneuromatosis diagnosed in adult patients.
12657949: !synaptophysin Immunocytes and activated stellate cells in pancreatic fibrogenesis. Chronic pancreatitis is a progressive chronic inflammatory disease characterized by irreversible destruction of exocrine pancreatic tissue and extensive fibrosis. Excessive alcohol consumption has been identified as the main etiologic factor of this disease in the Western world. Idiopathic pancreatitis accounts for approximately 30% of cases. An autoimmune mechanism may be involved in some patients, but this concept has not been generally accepted as a new clinical entity. The purpose of this work was to investigate the pathogenesis of pancreatic fibrosis and to establish the role of immunocytes and activated stellate cells in chronic pancreatitis, which was categorized into three groups: chronic alcoholic pancreatitis (AP), chronic idiopathic pancreatitis (IP), and chronic pancreatitis in the presence of pancreatic cancer (CA).
12655127: !synaptophysin Peripheral neuroblastoma in a young labrador retriever. A 2-year-old Labrador Retriever developed atrophy of the right temporal muscle, subsequently showed generalized seizure and died 2 months after the clinical onset. Postmortem examination revealed the tumor masses in the right mandibulopharyngeal area, nasopharynx and intracranial space. Histopathologically, these tumor masses were composed of small round neoplastic cells and neuropil-like stroma separated by fibrovascular septa. In the neoplastic masses, small neoplastic cells with round to oval hyperchromatic nuclei and scanty cytoplasm predominated, and angulated neoplastic cells with larger nuclei and moderate cytoplasm were scattered. Immunohistochemically, neoplastic cells were positive for neuron specific enorase, neurofilament protein, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and tyrosine hydroxylase. Based on these findings, this case was diagnosed as peripheral neuroblastoma, presumably originated from the sympathetic ganglion, maybe right craninal cervical ganglion.
12654507: !synaptophysin Elevated D3 dopamine receptor mRNA in dopaminergic and dopaminoceptive regions of the rat brain in response to morphine. As opiates increase dopamine transmission, we measured the effects of morphine on dopamine-related genes using a real-time optic PCR assay that reliably detects small differences in mRNA in discrete brain regions. Tissue from dopaminoceptive and dopaminergic brain regions was collected from rats injected twice daily for 7 days with saline or increasing doses of morphine. Tissues were assayed for D1, D2 and D3 dopamine receptor mRNAs (D1R, D2R and D3R), as well as for mRNAs for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and the dopamine transporter (DAT). The neuron-associated mRNAs for SNAP-25 and synaptophysin, as well as the glial-associated mRNA for S100-beta and three 'housekeeping' mRNAs, were also measured. As reported previously by others, there was no alteration in D1R mRNA and a 25% decrease in D2R mRNA in the caudate-putamen, 2 h after the final morphine injection. Importantly, in the same RNA extracts, D3R mRNA showed significant increases of 85% in the caudate-putamen and 165% in the ventral midbrain, including the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. There were no other significant morphine effects. Mapping of brain regions in saline control rats agreed with previous studies, including showing the presence of low abundance TH mRNA and the absence of DAT mRNA in the caudate-putamen. The finding that chronic, intermittent injections of morphine caused an increase in D3R mRNA extends our understanding of the ability of D3R agonists to reduce the effects of morphine.
12653600: !synaptophysin Diffuse neuroendocrine differentiation in a morphologically composite mammary infiltrating ductal carcinoma: a case report and review of the literature. Neuroendocrine differentiation has been reported in both in situ and infiltrating breast cancers. The prognostic significance of neuroendocrine differentiation in mammary carcinoma is unclear. We report a case of infiltrating ductal carcinoma in which there was a morphologically conventional-appearing infiltrating ductal component admixed with nests of cells that resembled a carcinoid tumor and initially mimicked the appearance of intraductal carcinoma. Immunohistochemical stains for synaptophysin and chromogranin demonstrated diffuse, strong positivity uniformly throughout the tumor, even in the more conventional-appearing areas. Electron microscopic examination of tissue retrieved from paraffin blocks was attempted unsuccessfully. We concluded that this was an infiltrating ductal carcinoma with morphologic and immunohistochemical evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation. The case is discussed with a review of the literature and a discussion of nomenclature for tumors of the breast showing variable degrees of neuroendocrine differentiation.
12647782: !synaptophysin Day-night changes in plasma melatonin levels, synaptophysin expression and ultrastructural properties of pinealocytes in developing female sheep under natural long and short photoperiods. The aim of the present study was to analyze the 24-h rhythm in plasma melatonin concentration and the day-night differences in synaptophysin expresion and ultrastructural characteristics of the pinealocytes in developing female sheep. Ewes of three different ages were examined: infantile (1-6 months old), pubertal and early fertile age (9-24 months old) and adult (36-60 months old). Experiments were conducted under natural non-stimulatory (long) and stimulatory (short) photoperiods. The obtained results were similar for both analyzed photoperiods. Plasma melatonin concentration, measured in samples obtained every 4 h, showed a similar pattern in the three age groups, with peak values at 02:00 h and troughs at 14:00 h. Mean value of plasma melatonin levels in 9-24 month-old sheep was significantly greater than that in younger or older sheep. The weight of pineal glands obtained at night (02:00 h) was significantly higher than in daylight (14:00 h). Pubertal and early fertile sheep had the largest pineal glands. The pineal volume, and the total number of pinealocytes per gland of 9-24 months-old sheep differed significantly from that of younger or older sheep. The pineal volume, and the mean volume of pinealocytes was significantly greater in animals killed at night. Number of pinealocytes did not vary between animals killed during daylight or at night. The mean volumen of pinealocytes did not show statistical differences between the age groups. In quantitative ultrastructural analysis of pinealocyte cells, the relative volume of mitochondria, rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complexes was significantly greater in 9-24 month-old sheep and in animals killed at night. The relative volume of lipid droplets was highest in older sheep. Collectively, the data support the existence of developmental changes in pinealocyte morphology and quantity, partially in coincidence with a higher melatonin secretion rate.
12647218: !synaptophysin Immunoprofile of cervical and endometrial adenocarcinomas using a tissue microarray. Adenocarcinomas of the uterine cervix show a wide range of morphological features, and can be confused with endometrial adenocarcinoma in biopsy or curetting specimens. The objective of this study was to use tissue microarray technology to evaluate the immunoprofile of a large set of uterine adenocarcinomas with an extended panel of antibodies, comparing the profile of primary cervical and endometrial adenocarcinomas. A tissue microarray was constructed using paraffin-embedded, formalin-fixed tissues from 141 hysterectomy specimens. Duplicate 0.6-mm cores were obtained from 57 cervical adenocarcinomas (16 in situ and 41 invasive) and 84 endometrial adenocarcinomas. Tissue array sections were immunostained with 21 commercially available antibodies [B72.3, CD 99, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), c-kit, pancytokeratin, CK 5/6, CK 7, CK8/18, CK19, CK 20, CK 22, EMA, estrogen receptor (ER), KP-1, melan-A, p53, PLAP, S-100, synaptophysin, TTF-1, and vimentin] utilizing the avidin-biotin (ABC) technique. Hierarchical clustering analysis of the tumors was done based on the immunostaining results. Only ER ( P<0.001), CEA ( P=0.04), vimentin ( P<0.001), and CK 8/18 ( P=0.002) showed a significantly different frequency of positivity in endometrial relative to cervical adenocarcinomas. ER, vimentin, and CK 8/18 were more likely to be expressed in endometrial adenocarcinomas, while cervical adenocarcinomas more frequently expressed CEA. We were able to identify immunoprofiles that were highly specific for endocervical adenocarcinoma (ER(-), vimentin(-), CK 8/18(-), CEA(+)) or endometrial adenocarcinoma (ER(+), vimentin(+), CK 8/18(+), CEA(-)), but most tumors showed an intermediate, non-specific immunophenotype. Hierarchical clustering analysis was useful in the interpretation of these intermediate immunophenotypes. Papillary serous adenocarcinoma of the endometrium was less likely to express vimentin ( P=0.002) than endometrioid carcinoma of the endometrium.
12642909: !synaptophysin [Molecular biology of drug dependence and behavioral sensitization]. Molecular mechanisms in the development of drug abuse and dependence were reviewed by taking behavioral sensitization induced by psychostimulants like amphetamines and cocaine as a typical example. Behavioral sensitization is characterized by three main features, progressive quantitative and qualitative changes in responsiveness to the drug, very long-lastingness, and development of vulnerability to other drugs and nonspecific physical and psychological stressors, in other words, cross-sensitization. These serial changes in response to the drug during abuse must result from plastic changes in the brains of abusers. As to subcellular neurochemical mechanisms of sensitization, the activation of three main cascades is indispensable, 1) D1 dopamine (DA) receptors/PKA/phospho-34Thr-DARPP-32/PP-1 cascade activated by psychostimulant-induced enhancement of DA release in the accumbens, 2) NMDA receptors and CaM-KII activated by enhanced release of glutamate, 3) activation of MAP kinase cascade by BDNF and beta 1 subunit of G protein. These, in turn, activate several transcription factors, including delta-Fos B, and affect transcription and translation of 4th or later messengers. Finally, these result in the rearrangement of neural networks, where the tone of the A10 dopamine pathway from the ventral tegmentum area to the accumbens is strengthened, and regulation by glutamatergic afferents from the frontal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus shifts into abnormal positive regulation. As amphetamines increase expression of some plasticity-related genes (e.g. synaptophysin, stathmin and arc), synaptogenesis, neuritic sprouting and elongation must develop during behavioral sensitization. These plastic changes with structural modification of neural networks in the CNS during drug abuse could induce and reinforce psychological dependence and susceptibility to drug-induced psychoses, which become increasingly intractable.
12639941: !synaptophysin Targeting sst2A receptor-expressing cells in the rat hypothalamus through in vivo agonist stimulation: neuroanatomical evidence for a major role of this subtype in mediating somatostatin functions. Numerous physiological studies as well as in situ hybridization and PCR experiments concur in reporting a role for the sst2A receptor in transducing somatostatin (SRIF) actions in the rat hypothalamus. However, the distribution of this receptor protein is not known within this structure. Regional and cellular localization of the sst2A receptor was therefore examined in the rat hypothalamus using highly sensitive immunohistochemical techniques. In close correspondence with the distribution of SRIF-immunoreactive fibers, numerous hypothalamic areas displayed sst2A receptor immunoreactivity. Receptor labeling was, however, diffusely distributed over the tissue, and few immunopositive cells were apparent. Unraveling the distribution of receptor-expressing cells was achieved through acute in vivo agonist stimulation and subsequent receptor internalization. At the cellular level, double-immunolabeling experiments with synaptophysin and microtubule-associated protein 2 demonstrated that sst2A receptors were predominantly internalized in perikarya and dendrites. Double-labeling experiments with SRIF revealed that 93% of arcuate, but only 18% of periventricular, SRIF-positive neurons expressed internalized receptors. Taken together, these results demonstrate for the first time that the sst2A receptor protein is widely, but selectively, distributed in the hypothalamus, and that postsynaptic sst2A auto- and heteroreceptors are well poised to play an important role in the somatostatinergic regulation of hypothalamic endocrine and metabolic processes.
12639939: !synaptophysin Gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons coexpress orexin 1 receptor immunoreactivity and receive direct contacts by orexin fibers. The orexins are produced in neurons of the lateral hypothalamic area and implicated in the regulation of both feeding and reproductive function. Orexins stimulate LH secretion in steroid-primed ovariectomized female rats and suppress LH secretion in nonprimed ovariectomized rats. The aim of the present study was to characterize the neuroanatomical pathway by which orexin might modulate LH secretion in the rat. Using double- and triple-label immunofluorescence coupled with confocal microscopy, we found that 75-85% of GnRH neurons were contacted by orexin fibers, and triple labeling with synaptophysin provided additional confirmation of close contacts. Furthermore, about 85% of GnRH neurons were colocalized with the orexin receptor 1 (OX-R1), and the OX-R1-expressing GnRH neurons were contacted by orexin terminals, providing the basis for a functional neuroanatomical pathway. GnRH nerve terminals in the median eminence, however, do not express OX-R1. An additional study investigated the coexpression of neuropeptide Y Y4-like receptors and orexin fibers in relation to GnRH neurons. There is evidence that Y4 receptor stimulation results in LH release, and studies from our laboratory show Y4-like immunoreactivity in the majority of orexin cell bodies in the lateral hypothalamic area and some orexin fibers scattered throughout the hypothalamus. The present study found that, although Y4-positive orexin fibers are in present in the area of GnRH neurons, they never come in close contact with GnRH neurons. Together, these data suggest that Y4 receptor modulation of LH release is likely to be indirect through orexin cell bodies and that orexin modulates GnRH neurons directly via OX-R1.
12637952: !synaptophysin Flattening the glucocorticoid rhythm causes changes in hippocampal expression of messenger RNAs coding structural and functional proteins: implications for aging and depression. Subtle changes in glucocorticoid levels, including a flattening of the diurnal rhythm with raised nadir, are prevalent, being characteristic of both aging and major depression. Both these conditions are also associated with deficits in hippocampally mediated cognitive functions. We hypothesized that this profile of glucocorticoid levels causes structural and functional changes in the hippocampus, which in turn may engender cognitive deficits. We implanted slow-release corticosterone pellets into adrenally intact adult male rats to produce a flattened glucocorticoid rhythm with levels clamped midway between the normal nadir and zenith. Using density profile analysis we measured hippocampal expression of messenger RNAs encoding structural and functional proteins. In rats with a flattened glucocorticoid rhythm, the expression of the mRNA coding for microtubule associated protein-2b (MAP2b) was reduced in CA3 relative to sham-operated controls, but unchanged in dentate gyrus and CA1. In contrast, the expression of the mRNA coding the alpha subunit of calcium-calmodulin dependent kinase (CAMKIIalpha) was reduced in dentate gyrus in animals with a flattened glucocorticoid rhythm, but unchanged in CA3. The expression of the mRNA coding the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin was unchanged in both CA3 and dentate gyrus. The data indicate that a flattening of the normal diurnal glucocorticoid rhythm decreases the hippocampal expression of mRNAs coding key structural and functional proteins, and does so in a regionally selective manner. The data may have relevance for cognitive deficits characteristic of aging and depression.
12637763: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical evaluation of a malignant intestinal carcinoid in a dog. An intestinal carcinoid with multiple metastases was identified in a 5-year-old male Shih Tzu with a clinical history of anemia, fatigue, anorexia, vomiting, intermittent diarrhea, intestinal bleeding, and progressive emaciation. There was a yellowish-white mass 15 mm in diameter in the anterior jejunum and white nodules consistent with metastases in many organs. Histopathologically, the mass consisted of neoplastic cells arranged in lobules, trabeculae, or closely interdigitating islands of cells. Neoplastic cells were generally polygonal with round hyperchromatic nuclei, modest amounts of eosinophilic cytoplasm, and eosinophilic cytoplasmic granules. Mitoses were common. Rosette formations of tumor cells were apparent in metastatic tumors. Immunohistochemically, tumor cells stained positive for cytokeratin 13, synaptophysin, protein gene product 9.5, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, calcitonin gene-related peptide, serotonin (5-HT), and Leu-7. Serum 5-HT concentrations for this dog were increased 10-fold compared with those of normal dogs. All findings were consistent with a diagnosis of a malignant intestinal carcinoid.
12637752: !synaptophysin Adrenal cortical carcinomas with myxoid differentiation in the domestic ferret (Mustela putorius furo). A total of 15 adrenocortical carcinomas with myxoid differentiation from 15 ferrets were evaluated in this retrospective study. Six of these ferrets (40%) either were euthanatized or died due to invasive and/or metastatic disease. The myxoid component was a variable part (between 5% and 95%) of the adrenal cortical neoplasm and consisted of sheets and cords of small, polygonal neoplastic cells that formed lumenlike spaces. Such spaces contained a variable amount of alcian blue (pH 2.5)-positive mucinous product (i.e., acidic mucopolysaccharides). Neoplastic cells were negative for the argentaffin reaction, but immunohistochemically they were strongly positive for vimentin and alpha-inhibin and lightly positive for synaptophysin. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-labeling indices (LI) of adrenal cortical neoplastic cells within the myxoid component of the neoplasm were significantly elevated (P < 0.05) compared with those of typical neoplastic adrenal cortical cells or the adjacent nonneoplastic zona reticularis. Ultrastructurally, cells in the myxoid component exhibited a typical adrenocortical phenotype characterized by cytoplasmic lipid vacuoles, prominent rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum, and zonula adherens. This lesion was interpreted as an adrenal cortical carcinoma with myxoid differentiation and appeared to be highly malignant based on PCNA LI, rate of invasion into adjacent tissue, and metastasis (6/15). This report is the first description of this histologic variant in the ferret, which morphologically resembled the rare myxoid variant of adrenocortical carcinoma described in humans.
12635521: !synaptophysin Synaptic plasticity in thalamic nuclei enhanced by motor skill training in rat with transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. The goal of this study was to determine if synaptic plasticity in the thalamus of rats subjected to stroke could be altered by motor training. Transient occlusion of right middle cerebral artery in adult female Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 35) was induced with an intraluminal filament followed by three training conditions, 1. motor skill training on Rota-rod requiring balance and coordination skills, 2. simple exercise on treadmill, and 3. nontrained controls. Synaptic plasticity in brain was evaluated by synapotophysin immunocytochemistry at 14 or 28 days after training procedures. Infarct volume was determined in Nissl stained sections. Both at 14 and 28 days after Rota-rod training, intense synaptophysin immunoreactivity was present in the right but not the left mediodorsal and ventromedial nuclei of thalamus of ischemic rats. In treadmill-trained animals, however, similarly intense synaptic plasticity in these two thalamic nuclei was seen only at 28 days. Immunostaining was found also in other brain regions adjacent to or remote from infarct site. The data suggest that motor training, particularly motor skill training involving balance and coordination, facilitates a uniquely lateralized synaptogenesis in the thalamus.
12634456: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunohistochemistry during vestibular hair cell recovery after gentamicin treatment. In the present study, morphometric and immunohistochemical techniques were used to evaluate the degree of synaptic recovery in the chinchilla crista sensory epithelia during various post-gentamicin-treatment periods of hair cell loss and recovery. For this purpose, two groups of animals were treated with Gelfoam pellets impregnated with 50 micro g of gentamicin implanted in the perilymphatic space within the otic capsule of the superior semicircular canal. Animals were sacrificed 1, 2 and 4 weeks after treatment. The degree of synaptic reinnervation was evaluated in the horizontal crista of the first group of animals using immunohistochemical techniques and antibodies against synaptophysin, a marker for synaptic reinnervation and synaptogenesis. Quantification of immunoreactivity in this group was made in the mid-region of the crista using the NIH 'Image' program. The second group of animals was used for quantification of the number of hair cells and supporting cells in the horizontal crista. In the normal sensory epithelium, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was found in the areas corresponding to the known distribution of afferent and efferent nerve terminals. Immunoreactivity was predominantly located within the afferent calyces of type I hair cells. No immunoreactivity was found in the supporting cells. Seven days after treatment there was a significant loss of hair cells and synaptophysin-stained area (SSA). In the mid-region of the crista the loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity was quantitatively the greatest within the central zone of this region (93%) while the loss of hair cells was the smallest. These results suggest that afferent and efferent nerve terminals were also severely affected by the ototoxic treatment. Four weeks after treatment corresponding to the end of the recovery phase of gentamicin ototoxicity, there was a proportional increase in the number of hair cells and of the degree of SSA in the mid-region of the crista. The number of hair cells recovered to 58% with a recovery of SSA to 54% of normal. These results suggest that a greater fraction of synaptophysin expression within the sensory epithelium depends on the presence of afferent calyceal endings, which are greatly affected by gentamicin. Also, these results demonstrate a significant level of reinnervation of the newly regenerated hair cells, forecasting the potential for functionality of the regenerated hair cells.
12634090: !synaptophysin Cell death and decreased synaptic protein expression in the ventral horn of Holstein-Friesian calves with spinal muscular atrophy. A neuropathological study of Holstein-Friesian calves with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) demonstrated decreased numbers of motor neurons in the brachial and lumbo-sacral regions of the spinal cord, together with swelling and accumulation of phosphorylated neurofilaments, and neuronophagia in most of the remaining motor neurons. The pyramidal tracts, motor cortex and thalamus were not affected. Synaptophysin immunohistochemistry revealed a marked reduction of punctate terminals but only around swollen neurones, suggesting loss of terminal afferents on motor neurons at advanced stages of the degenerative process. An immunohistochemical study of proteins linked with cell death and cell survival demonstrated reduced expression of Fas, Fas-L, Bcl-2 and Bax in swollen motor neurons. Punctate cytochrome C immunoreactivity, consistent with mitochondrial localization, was detected in the soma of normal motor neurons, but not in swollen motor neurons. Finally, no labelling of motor neurons with antibodies to cleaved (active) caspase-3 (17kD) was detected, suggesting a lack of involvement of the apoptotic pathways in motor neuron death. Taken together, the present findings point to necrosis as a major cause of motor neuron death in the advanced stages of SMA in Holstein-Friesian calves.
12629866: !synaptophysin [Solid and papillary epithelial tumor of the pancreas: cytologic and histologic features]. Cytologic and histologic features in a case of solid and papillary epithelial neoplasm (SPEN) of the pancreas in a 34-year-old female are presented. In the fine-needle aspiration material, there was a predominance of pseudopapillary fragments with delicate fibrovascular core lined with one or more layers of uniform tumor cells with clear cytoplasm. There were also acinar-like or rosette-like structures and dispersed tumor cells. Tumor cells had small, round to oval nuclei, with finely granular chromatin and inconspicuous nucleolus. Rarely, nuclear grooves were present. Mitoses were not seen. Histologically, the encapsulated tumor was predominantly solid, with focal pseudocystic and pseudopapillary areas; foreign body granulomas were focally present. Tumor cells were small and uniform with clear cytoplasm. Mitoses were extremely rare. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells revealed diffuse positivity of vimentin, and focal positivity for alpha 1-antitrypsin and CD68. No immunoreactivity for chromogranin, synaptophysin, cytokeratin, HMB 45, estrogen and progesterone receptors was found. In differential diagnosis, it is important to distinguish SPEN mainly from mucinous tumors of the pancreas, microcystic adenoma and pseudocysts, but also from endocrine tumors of the pancreas, acinic cell carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, adrenal cortical adenoma and primary extrapulmonary sugar tumor.
12629665: !synaptophysin Heterogeneous expression of SNAP-25 and synaptic vesicle proteins by central and peripheral inputs to sympathetic neurons. Neurons in prevertebral sympathetic ganglia receive convergent synaptic inputs from peripheral enteric neurons in addition to inputs from spinal preganglionic neurons. Although all inputs are functionally cholinergic, inputs from these two sources have distinctive neurochemical and functional profiles. We used multiple-labeling immunofluorescence, quantitative confocal microscopy, ultrastructural immunocytochemistry, and intracellular electrophysiologic recordings to examine whether populations of inputs to the guinea pig coeliac ganglion express different levels of synaptic proteins that could influence synaptic strength. Boutons of enteric intestinofugal inputs, identified by immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide, showed considerable heterogeneity in their immunoreactivity to synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), synapsin, synaptophysin, choline acetyltransferase, and vesicular acetylcholine transporter. Mean levels of immunoreactivity to these proteins were significantly lower in terminals of intestinofugal inputs compared with terminals of spinal preganglionic inputs. Nevertheless, many boutons with undetectable levels of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity formed morphologically normal synapses with target neurons. Treatment with botulinum neurotoxin type A (20-50 nM for 2 hours in vitro) generated significant cleavage of SNAP-25 and produced similar dose- and time-dependent inhibitions of synaptic transmission from all classes of inputs, regardless of their mean level of SNAP-25 expression. The simplest interpretation of these results is that only synaptic boutons with detectable levels of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity contribute significantly to fast cholinergic transmission. Consequently, the low synaptic strength of intestinofugal inputs to final motor neurons in sympathetic pathways may be due in part to the low proportion of their boutons that express SNAP-25 and other synaptic proteins.
12629164: !synaptophysin Interleukin-1 mediates pathological effects of microglia on tau phosphorylation and on synaptophysin synthesis in cortical neurons through a p38-MAPK pathway. The presence of tangles of abnormally phosphorylated tau is a characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the loss of synapses correlates with the degree of dementia. In addition, the overexpression of interleukin-1 (IL-1) has been implicated in tangle formation in AD. As a direct test of the requirement for IL-1 in tau phosphorylation and synaptophysin expression, IL-1 actions in neuron-microglia cocultures were manipulated. Activation of microglia with secreted beta-amyloid precursor protein or lipopolysaccharide elevated their expression of IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) mRNA. When such activated microglia were placed in coculture with primary neocortical neurons, a significant increase in the phosphorylation of neuronal tau was accompanied by a decline in synaptophysin levels. Similar effects were evoked by treatment of neurons with recombinant IL-1beta. IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) as well as anti-IL-1beta antibody attenuated the influence of activated microglia on neuronal tau and synaptophysin, but anti-TNFalpha antibody was ineffective. Some effects of microglial activation on neurons appear to be mediated by activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38-MAPK), because activated microglia stimulated p38-MAPK phosphorylation in neurons, and an inhibitor of p38-MAPK reversed the influence of IL-1beta on tau phosphorylation and synaptophysin levels. Our results, together with previous observations, suggest that activated microglia may contribute to neurofibrillary pathology in AD through their production of IL-1, activation of neuronal p38-MAPK, and resultant changes in neuronal cytoskeletal and synaptic elements.
12629157: !synaptophysin Plasma membrane GABA transporters reside on distinct vesicles and undergo rapid regulated recycling. Plasma membrane neurotransmitter transporters affect synaptic signaling through transmitter sequestration. Transporters redistribute to and from the plasma membrane, suggesting a role for trafficking in regulating synaptic transmitter levels. One method for controlling transmitter levels would be to regulate transporter redistribution in parallel with transmitter release. Thus, how similar are these processes? We show that the trafficking of the GABA transporter GAT1 resembles the trafficking of neurotransmitter-filled synaptic vesicles: (1) transporters located on the plasma membrane are internalized and reinserted into the plasma membrane on the order of minutes; (2) the rate of recycling is depolarization and calcium dependent; (3) GAT1 internalization is associated with clathrin and dynamin; and (4) intracellular GAT1 is associated with multiple compartments and, more importantly, is found on a distinct class of vesicles. These vesicles are clear, approximately 50 nm in diameter, and contain many proteins found on neurotransmitter-containing small synaptic vesicles; however, they appear to lack several traditional small synaptic vesicle proteins, such as synaptophysin and the vesicular GABA transporter. These data provide additional support for the hypothesis that GABA transporters traffic in parallel with neurotransmitter-containing small synaptic vesicles and also raise the possibility that some fraction of vesicles found in GABAergic neurons may not be participating in transmitter release but rather in the rapid regulated redistribution of membrane proteins involved in transmitter uptake.
12627718: !synaptophysin Intramedullary hemangioblastoma in a dog. A 6-year-old male Pointer dog was presented with a 4-week history of progressive hind-limb stiffness. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a focal intramedullary lesion at T1 level with a pattern of ring contrast enhancement. At necropsy, a circumscribed intramedullary reddish-gray tumor was observed. Microscopically, the tumor was composed of thin-walled capillaries lined by endothelial cells and separated by pleomorphic cells (stromal cells) with a moderate degree of anisokaryosis. Immunohistochemically, the endothelial cells were positive for factor VIII-related antigen and the stromal cells were positive for neuron-specific enolase and vimentin. GFAP-positive astrocytes were occasionally observed within the tumor. Both endothelial and stromal cells were negative for synaptophysin, S-100 protein, pankeratin, smooth muscle actin, CD34, CD68, alpha1-antichymotrypsin, and lysozyme. The tumor showed considerable morphologic and immunohistochemical similarities with human hemangioblastoma, and hence the inclusion of this tumor type within the primary neoplasms of the canine central nervous system is suggested.
12622144: !synaptophysin Brain metastasis from small-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the urinary bladder: a case report. Eight months after radical surgery for small-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (SCNC) of the urinary bladder, a 69-year-old man was admitted with a brain tumor in the left frontal lobe. The tumor, about 5 cm in diameter, was intensely but heterogeneously enhanced on computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. The tumor was subtotally removed, leaving only the portion adjacent to the anterior horn of the left lateral ventricle. Microscopically, the tumor was composed of diffuse sheets of small tumor cells with round to spindle-shaped nuclei, indistinct nucleoli, scant or absent cytoplasm, and indistinct cell margins. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, and keratin. Ultrastructurally, the tumor cells showed classic neurosecretory granules and microvilli in the cytoplasm. The tumor was diagnosed as a brain metastasis from SCNC of the urinary bladder. After surgery, whole-brain radiation therapy of 40 Gy was performed, which succeeded in controlling the residual tumor. However, 4 months after surgery, the patient died of meningeal carcinomatosis. To our knowledge, this is the first report focusing on brain metastasis from SCNC of the urinary bladder. The clinicopathological features and pathological diagnosis of this tumor are discussed.
12622135: !synaptophysin Intrasellar gangliocytomas associated with acromegaly. The present study was designed to investigate the immunohistochemical characteristics of gangliocytomas associated with growth hormone (GH)-secreting pituitary adenomas. In our surgical collection of 476 GH-secreting adenoma cases, we examined tumor tissue from 6 patients (1.3%). All 6 patients were women, ranging from 29 to 52 years (mean, 40.3 +/- 9.5 SD) of age. Among 470 patients with GH-secreting adenomas without gangliocytoma, there were 255 female and 215 male patients. The preponderance of female patients with gangliocytomas was striking. Histological examination of the resected specimens showed areas of ganglion cells and adenomatous cells. Ganglion cell lesions were stained positively for synaptophysin (4 of 4; 100%) and neurofilament (4 of 4; 100%) as well as GH-releasing hormone (5 of 6; 83.3%). Subtypes of GH cell adenomas included 4 cases of sparsely granulated type and 2 cases of mixed GH and prolactin (PRL) cell adenomas. Based on these findings, we hypothesized that the intrasellar gangliocytoma promoted the growth of the pituitary adenoma by chronic overstimulation from excess GH-releasing hormone.
12621311: !synaptophysin Cholecystokinin induces cerebral vasodilatation via presynaptic CCK2 receptors: new implications for the pathophysiology of panic. The authors report that cholecystokinin (CCK), via its subtype 2 receptor (CCK2R) located presynaptically on cerebral arteries, mediates the release of nitric oxide (NO), which induces vasodilatation. Whereas CCK octapeptide and its fragment CCK tetrapeptide (CCK-4) lack a direct effect on the smooth muscle of pial vessels, the authors showed that both CCK peptides modulate the neurogenic responses in bovine cerebral arteries. The neurogenic vasodilatation induced by CCK-4 was blocked by the CCK2R antagonist, L-365,260, and antagonized by neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) inhibitors, but was independent of the endothelium. In whole-mount arteries, CCK2Rs were detected in nerve fibers and colocalized with nNOS and synaptophysin. The findings provide, for the first time, a neural mechanism by which CCK may increase cerebral blood flow.
12617187: !synaptophysin Large-cell medulloblastoma with arrestin-like protein expression. We report a case of a cerebellar large-cell medulloblastoma in a 12-year-old patient. Despite a gross-total resection followed by a radiation therapy and then a chemotherapy, the death occurred 6 months later. The cyogenetic analysis showed an isochromosome 17q. Immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, neurofilaments, chromogranin and arrestin-like proteins was detected, whereas rhodopsin, vimentin, EMA and PAX-6 were negative. In this study, we demonstrate that large-cell medulloblastoma with translocation in chromosome 17q is a neuronal differentiated medulloblastoma with non-photoreceptor characterization. By reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, using primers for beta1, beta2 and visual arrestin, we demonstrate corresponding mRNA for beta1, beta2 arrestin but not for visual arrestin. These results suggest that arrestin immunoreactivity in this tumor corresponds to non-visual arrestin. This case corresponds to a new entity of large-cell medulloblastoma. The potential role of a new marker linked to a beta2 adrenergic receptor needs further molecular characterization to be useful.
12612887: !synaptophysin High diagnostic accuracy of adrenal core biopsy: results of the German and Austrian adrenal network multicenter trial in 220 consecutive patients. Incidentally detected adrenal tumors are a common finding during abdominal ultrasonography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. Although most of these lesions are benign adenomas, adrenocortical carcinomas and metastases constitute 5% to 10% of all tumors. Adrenal biopsy may be helpful, but its diagnostic value is controversial and disputed, and prospective studies have not yet been performed. Therefore, the diagnostic accuracy of adrenal core biopsy was evaluated in a prospective multicenter study involving 8 surgical centers in Germany and Austria. A total of 220 biopsies from surgical specimens of the adrenal gland were punctured in an ex vivo approach and processed for pathohistologic diagnosis using paraffin sections, routine staining, and immunohistochemistry (keratin KL1, vimentin, S100 protein, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, D11, MiB-1, and p53 protein). The evaluating pathologist was blinded for clinical data from the patients. A total of 89 adrenal adenomas (40.5%), 22 adrenal carcinomas (10.0%), 55 pheochromocytomas (25.0%), 15 metastases (6.8%), 16 adrenal hyperplasias (7.2%), and 23 other tumors (10.5%) were studied. Nine cases were excluded due to incomplete data (n = 2) or insufficient biopsy specimen (n = 7). In the remaining 211 tumors, compared with the final diagnoses of the surgical specimen, bioptic diagnoses were absolutely correct in 76.8% of the cases, nearly correct in 13.2% of the cases, and incorrect in 10% of the cases. Pheochromocytomas were correctly diagnosed in 96% of the cases, cortical adenomas were correctly or nearly correctly reported in 91% of the cases, cortical carcinomas were correctly or nearly correctly reported in 76% of the cases, and metastases were correctly or nearly correctly reported in 77% of the cases. Of the 39 malignant lesions, only 4 were misclassified, 2 as benign and 2 as possibly malignant. This resulted in an overall sensitivity for malignancy of 94.6% and specificity of 95.3%. Our findings suggest that adrenal core biopsy is a useful method for identifying and classifying adrenal tumorous lesions if sufficient biopsy specimens can be obtained. However, in clinical practice it remains to be shown whether the benefits of biopsy outweigh the risks of the procedure.
12611618: !synaptophysin Pharyngeal pituitary non-functioning adenoma with normal intra-sellar gland: massive tumor shrinkage on octreotide therapy. Functioning or non-functioning ectopic tumors may develop from pharyngeal pituitary remnants. They constitute <1% of all obstructive pharyngeal masses and they have a strong tendency to bleed. We report a case of a non-functioning ectopic pituitary adenoma of the rhino-pharynx studied over a long-term somatostatin analog treatment. PATIENT AND TREATMENT: A 60-Year-old woman presented with severe posterior epistaxis. She had complained of nasal obstruction for the past 2 Years. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and endoscopic examination revealed a 2 cm exophytic, bleeding mass in the cavum, which was judged inoperable, and a biopsy was performed. On immunostaining, tumor cells were positive for pancytokeratins MNF 116 and C11, epithelial membrane antigen, chromogranin and neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and negative for synaptophysin, desmin, actin, estrogen and progesterone receptors, all anterior pituitary hormones and human chorionic gonadotropin. Blood levels of the above hormones and tumor markers were normal, except for a moderate elevation of NSE (33.8 microg/l, normal value <12 microg/l). It was concluded that this was a non-functioning pituitary adenoma of the rhino-pharynx. MRI showed a normal intra-sellar pituitary gland, including the normal bright signal of the posterior lobe. Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (SRS) disclosed intense tracer uptake in the tumor, indicating high somatostatin receptor content. There was also an intense uptake in the intra-sellar pituitary. Therapy with long-acting octreotide was started, 20 mg per Month i.m.
12610647: !synaptophysin The axonal chemorepellant semaphorin 3A is increased in the cerebellum in schizophrenia and may contribute to its synaptic pathology. The neuropathological features of schizophrenia are suggestive of a developmentally induced impairment of synaptic connectivity. Semaphorin 3A (sema3A) might contribute to this process because it is a secreted chemorepellant which regulates axonal guidance. We have investigated sema3A in the cerebellum (an area in which expression persists in adulthood), and measured its abundance in 16 patients with schizophrenia and 16 controls. In adults, sema3A was predominantly localized to the inner part of the molecular layer neuropil, whereas infants and rats showed greater labelling of Purkinje cell bodies. Sema3A was increased in schizophrenia, as shown by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (+28%; P<0.05) and immunohistochemistry (+45%; P<0.01). We also measured reelin mRNA, since reelin is involved in related developmental processes and is decreased in other brain regions in schizophrenia. Reelin mRNA showed a trend reduction in the subjects with schizophrenia (-26%; P=0.07) and, notably, was negatively correlated with sema3A. Sema3A also correlated negatively with synaptophysin and complexin II mRNAs. The results show that sema3A is elevated in schizophrenia, and is associated with downregulation of genes involved in synaptic formation and maintenance. In this respect, sema3A appears to contribute to the synaptic pathology of schizophrenia, perhaps via ongoing effects of persistent sema3A elevation on synaptic plasticity. The findings are consistent with an early neurodevelopmental origin for the disorder, and the reciprocal changes in sema3A and reelin may be indicative of a pathogenic mechanism that affects the balance between trophic and inhibitory factors regulating synaptogenesis.
12610363: !synaptophysin Removal of mercuric chloride deposits from B5-fixed tissue will affect the performance of immunoperoxidase staining of selected antibodies. B5 clearing is a step used before immunoperoxidase staining to remove the precipitated mercuric chloride deposits caused by B5 fixation of tissue. In the B5 clearing procedure, the slides are treated with Lugol's iodine and 5% sodium thiosulfate before antigen retrieval and the application of the primary antibody. The goal of this project was to study the effect of the B5 clearing protocol on immunoperoxidase staining on paraffin-embedded tissue, which has not been previously reported in a series of antibodies. We evaluated 75 antibodies using the 2-step clearing protocol and performed paired immunoperoxidase staining on the Ventana ES instrument, with and without the clearing protocol. We found that among 75 antibodies studied, 3 (CD5, CD30, and synaptophysin) showed total obliteration of reactivity, and 3 (ALK, Ulex, and GFAP) showed partial reduction of the staining compared with the controls. Pathologists must be aware of the possible false-negative staining effect caused by the routinely used B5 clearing protocol. Control tissues must receive the same clearing protocol (i.e., placed on case slides) to ensure detection of this effect.
12606034: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and biochemical analyses of GD3, GT1b, and GQ1b gangliosides during neural differentiation of P19 EC cells. In an earlier study, we showed that expressions of GD3, GT1b, and GQ1b gangliosides in P19 embryonic carcinoma (EC) cells were enhanced during their neural differentiation induced by retinoic acid. We now further demonstrated that this increase of the b-series gangliosides is due to an increase in their corresponding synthases (sialyltransferase-II, -IV, and -V) in the Golgi. Of the three gangliosides studied, GQ1b appeared to be the best candidate for monitoring such differentiation process. We also used fluorescence-labeled monoclonal antibodies and confocal fluorescence microscopy to obtain direct visual information about the relationship of gangliosides and neural specific proteins in neuron development. Again, GQ1b is the most interesting as it localizes with synaptophysin and neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAMs) on synaptic boutons or dendritic spines in RA-induced neurons (R/N). This suggests that GQ1b could be used as a marker for synapse formation during construction of the neural network.
12605891: !synaptophysin Neuronal injury in hippocampus with human immunodeficiency virus transactivating protein, Tat. Patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection may develop a dementing illness. Using both in vitro and in vivo models, we investigated the susceptibility of the hippocampal formation to the Tat protein of human immunodeficiency virus. We also determined the pattern of hippocampal injury in patients with human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis. Following exposure of hippocampal slices to Tat, marked susceptibility of CA3 region with relative insensitivity of the CA1/2 region was observed. Injection of Tat into different regions of the rat hippocampus produced similar neuronal loss in both CA3 region and the dentate gyrus. In animals administered Tat, lesions were dose-dependent and immunohistochemical staining showed marked gliosis and loss of microtubule associated protein-2 in the affected areas at 3 days post-injection. Interestingly, synaptophysin staining was relatively preserved. In hippocampal tissue from patients with human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis, loss of microtubule-associated protein-2 staining was reduced in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. The results of our experiments demonstrate a unique pattern of hippocampal injury in organotypic culture and rats exposed to Tat. Our observations that patients with human immunodeficiency virus reveal a similar pattern of damage suggests that Tat protein may be pathophysiological relevant in human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis.
12599727: !synaptophysin Development of the human cerebral cortex: a histochemical study. In recent years, improvement in diagnostic techniques has led to better recognition of "disorders of cortical development". These disorders constitute a significant cause of epilepsy, mental retardation, developmental delay and neurological deficits in childhood, and may also contribute to the pathogenesis of psychological and neurodegenerative diseases in adults. Hitherto, however, few systematic studies of the human fetal cortex have been performed, and little is known about the ontogenetic processes of the neocortex in man. The aim of the study is to establish an understanding of the developmental events that occur in the second and third trimesters of gestation, by investigating the biochemical patterns of development of the human neocortex during this period. The temporal and spatial patterns of expression of the neuronal markers gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), dopamine beta hydroxylase (DBH), dopamine receptor DR1 and synaptophysin, as well as the glial cell markers glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S100B and excitatory amino acid transporter protein GLT-1 are delineated in the fetal cortex using immunohistochemistry. Results of this study showed that different neuronal and glial cell proteins follow different developmental patterns and many show inter- or intra-regional variations in expression. Details of these patterns are described and discussed. The early expression of these proteins suggests that they play important roles in the developmental processes of cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. Both neurotransmitters and glial cell proteins probably function outside the confines of synapses in the fetal brain, as paracrine/autocrine factors. Early developmental events seem to be dictated by an innate programme, whereas late events may be more susceptible to extrinsic influences. It is hoped that knowledge of the normal developmental process can lead to better understanding of the causes and mechanisms of "disorders of cortical development", and to better treatments.
12596036: !synaptophysin The expression pattern and assembly profile of synaptic membrane proteins in ribbon synapses of the developing mouse retina. In the present study, we generated a systematic overview of the expression pattern and assembly profile of synaptic membrane proteins in ribbon synapses of the developing mouse retina. Using indirect immunofluorescence microscopy, we analyzed the spatial and temporal distribution of 11 important membrane and membrane-associated synaptic proteins (syntaxin 1/3, SNAP-25, synaptobrevin 2, synaptogyrin, synaptotagmin I, SV2A, SV2B, Rab3A, clathrin light chains, CSP and neuroligin I) during synaptogenesis. The temporospatial distribution of these synaptic proteins was "normalized" by the simultaneous visualization of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, which served as an internal reference protein. We found that expression of various synaptic membrane proteins started at different time points and changed progressively during development. At early stages of development synaptic vesicle membrane proteins at extrasynaptic locations did not always colocalize with synaptophysin, indicating that these proteins probably do not reside in the same transport vesicles. Despite a non-synchronized onset of protein expression, clustering and colocalization of all synaptic membrane proteins at ribbon synapses roughly occurred in the same time window (between day 4 after birth, P4, and P5). Thus, the basic synaptic membrane machinery is already present in ribbon synapses before the well-known complete morphological maturation of ribbon synapses between P7 and P12. We conclude that ribbon synapse formation is a multistep process in which the concerted recruitment of synaptic membrane proteins is a relatively early event and clearly not the final step.
12595243: !synaptophysin Activity blockade increases the number of functional synapses in the hippocampus of newborn rats. During development neuronal circuitries are refined by activity. Here we studied the role of spontaneous electrical activity in the regulation of synapse formation in the intact newborn (Postnatal Day 3; P3) rat hippocampus in vitro. The blockade of the spontaneous network activity with TTX led to an increase in the number of functional excitatory synapses in the CA3 area of the developing hippocampus. In parallel, there was a substantial increase in the expression levels of the presynaptic markers synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and synapsin I and of GluR1 AMPA receptor subunits. These changes were associated with an increase in the frequency and amplitude of AMPA receptor-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). Our correlated immunocytochemical, electronmicroscopical, and electrophysiological experiments indicate that in the developing hippocampus spontaneous network activity controls the number of functional synapses.
12588433: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical analysis for histopathological subtypes in pediatric medulloblastomas. Medulloblastomas occurring in children represent a histological spectrum of varying anaplasia and nodularity. In order to determine whether immunohistochemical markers might be useful parameters in subclassifying these tumors, 17 pediatric medulloblastomas, including nine diffuse/non-anaplastic, four diffuse/anaplastic, three nodular/non-anaplastic and one nodular/anaplastic subtypes, were studied. In the present report, we investigate the expression of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR), neurofilament (NF), synaptophysin (SYN), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S100, Bcl-2, and Ki-67 by using the immunohistochemistry against specific antibodies. This study showed that NGFR, NF, GFAP and S100 were not detected in anaplastic subtypes of medulloblastomas (0/5), while non-anaplastic subtypes were mainly expressed within the nodules. All 17 tumors were reactive for NCAM, SYN and Bcl-2. In addition, Ki-67 labeling indices for anaplastic subtypes (39.0 +/- 7.42%) were significantly higher than that of non-anaplastic medulloblastomas (11.4 +/- 8.04%; P < 0.0001). These results suggest that immunohistochemical markers are a useful adjunct in characterizing subtypes of pediatric medulloblastomas.
12587661: !synaptophysin Spatiotemporal distribution of the insulin-like growth factor receptor in the rat olfactory bulb. Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) and its receptor (IGF-IR) are involved in growth of neurons. In the rat olfactory epithelium, we previously showed IGF-IR immunostaining in subsets of olfactory receptor neurons. We now report that IGF-IR staining was heaviest in the olfactory nerve layer of the rat olfactory bulb at embryonic days 18, and 19 and postnatal day 1, with labeling of protoglomeruli. In the adult, only a few glomeruli were IGF-IR-positive, some of which were unusually small and strongly labeled. Some IGF-IR-positive fibers penetrated deeper into the external plexiform layer, even in adults. In developing tissues, IGF-IR staining co-localized with that for olfactory marker protein and growth associated protein GAP-43, but to a lesser extent with synaptophysin. In the adult, IGF-IR-positive fibers were compartmentalized within glomeruli. IGF-I may play a role in glomerular synaptogenesis and/or plasticity, possibly contributing to development of coding patterns for odor detection or identification.
12586437: !synaptophysin Postnatal development of the glutamate vesicular transporter VGLUT1 in rat cerebral cortex. The expression of the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT1 in the rat neocortex was studied during postnatal development using immunocytochemistry and Western blotting. At all ages, VGLUT immunoreactivity is localized to puncta that coexpress the presynaptic marker synaptophysin. VGLUT1 immunoreactivity is faint at birth, increases in the subplate during the first postnatal week, invades the supragranular layers in the second week and reaches the adult pattern at P20-P30. Its spatial and temporal maturation patterns suggest that VGLUT1 may be the vesicular transporter in developing corticocortical connections.
12584991: !synaptophysin [Pheochromocytoma--pathohistologic and immunohistochemical aspects]. Pheochromocytoma originates in chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla. Its incidence is similar in both sexes and most frequent between the ages of thirty and fifty. Multiple and bilateral pheochromocytomas constitute 5 to 10 percent of all cases. Pheochromocytoma occurs sporadically or is related to family syndromes such as: syndrome of multiple endocrine neoplasia--MEN IIA and IIB, neurofibromatosis (von Recklinghausen's disease), von Hippel-Lindau's disease, Sturge-Weber's syndrome, and tuberous sclerosis. Cases in a family usually occur at a younger age and are mostly bilateral and with more aggressive biological behaviour.
12575533: !synaptophysin [Adrenocortical tumors with neuroendocrine differentiation]. 18 adrenocortical tumours and 5 pheochromocytomas were studied immunohistochemically. Expression of synaptophysin and chromogranin A was found in cells of cortical adenomas, "frontier" neoplasms and in 20-75% of carcinoma cells, this ultramicroscopically was confirmed by observation of typical neuroendocrine granules. Some groups of cells of cortico-medullary tumours also expressed proteins of neural differentiation (protein S-100).
12574425: !synaptophysin Transient and progressive electrophysiological alterations in the corticostriatal pathway in a mouse model of Huntington's disease. Alterations in the corticostriatal pathway may precede symptomatology and striatal cell death in Huntington's disease (HD) patients. Here we examined spontaneous EPSCs in striatal medium-sized spiny neurons in slices from a mouse model of HD (R6/2). Spontaneous EPSC frequency was similar in young (3-4 weeks) transgenics and controls but decreased significantly in transgenics when overt behavioral symptoms began (5-7 weeks) and was most pronounced in severely impaired transgenics (11-15 weeks). These differences were maintained after bicuculline or tetrodotoxin, indicating they were specific to glutamatergic input and likely presynaptic in origin. Decreases in presynaptic and postsynaptic protein markers, synaptophysin and postsynaptic density-95, occurred in 11-15 week R6/2 mice, supporting the electrophysiological results. Furthermore, isolated, large-amplitude synaptic events (>100 pA) occurred more frequently in transgenic animals, particularly at 5-7 weeks, suggesting additional dysregulation of cortical inputs. Large events were blocked by tetrodotoxin, indicating a possible cortical origin. Addition of bicuculline and 4-aminopyridine facilitated the occurrence of large events. Riluzole, a compound that decreases glutamate release, reduced these events. Together, these observations indicate that both progressive and transient alterations occur along the corticostriatal pathway in experimental HD. These alterations are likely to contribute to the selective vulnerability of striatal medium-sized spiny neurons.
12566595: !synaptophysin Synapse loss may be a minor contributor to decreased regional cerebral blood flow in Alzheimer disease. In this study we tested the hypothesis that synapse loss contributes to decreased regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in Alzheimer disease (AD). We compared antemortem rCBF and postmortem analysis of synaptophysin, as a measure of synapse loss, in 13 cases of AD. rCBF studies were performed using inhaled xenon gas (Xe-133), which yields quantitative results. Synapse loss was evaluated in postmortem brain samples using an enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) that measures synaptophysin, with results expressed as picomoles synaptophysin/10 mg brain. Synaptophysin was expressed either as concentration (QS method) or as the ratio of the concentration to the combined results in frontal, temporal and parietal lobe (RS method). There was no correlation between synapse loss and rCBF using the QS method and only borderline significance between right SPECT and right temporal synaptophysin using the RS method. The results of this study suggest that synapse loss may be a minor contributor to the decreased rCBF observed in AD.
12564764: !synaptophysin Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor of the central nervous system: clinico-pathological study. Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT) is a new entity among malignant pediatric brain tumors. This study was performed to investigate the clinicopathologic and cytogenetic features of the tumor. Five cases from a series of the brain tumors were studied. Clinical features of the patients were assessed with age, sex, location of the tumors, treatments and survival periods. Histopathologic features were analyzed by routine HE stain and immunohistochemical stains for epithelial membrane antigen, cytokeratin, vimentin, smooth muscle actin, desmin, GFAP, S-100 protein, neurofilament protein, synaptophysin and alpha-feto protein. Cytogenetic studies for karyotype analysis and fluorescent in situ hybridization were available in three cases. Mean age of patients was 5.6 years, and maximal survival periods were less than 13 months despite surgical and radiation therapy. The tumors were located in infratentorial and supratentorial areas. Histopathologically, the tumors were chiefly composed of rhabdoid cells, modified rhabdoid cells and undifferentiated small cells, mixed with epithelial, mesenchymal, and neural tumor-like areas. These polyphenotypic features of the tumor cells were supported by diverse immunoreaction. Monosomy of chromosome 22 was demonstrated in two cases of the tumor. These results suggest that AT/RT may be a unique clinicopathologic entity, and histopathologic diagnosis of it should be made judiciously by differentiating other polymorphous tumors of the brain.
12562943: !synaptophysin Glucocorticoid exposure at the dose used clinically alters cytoskeletal proteins and presynaptic terminals in the fetal baboon brain. Glucocorticoids have been used for 30 years to accelerate fetal lung maturation in human pregnancy at risk of preterm delivery. Exposure to inappropriate levels of steroid, however, leads to altered maturation of the cardiovascular, metabolic and central nervous systems. The effects of betamethasone on neuronal development and function were determined in the fetal baboon brain by examination of cytoskeletal microtubule associated proteins (MAPs) and the presynaptic marker protein synaptophysin. At 0.73 gestation, commencing 28 weeks of gestation, pregnant baboons received four doses of saline (n = 8) or 87.5 microg (kg body weight)(-1) betamethasone I.M. (n = 7) 12 h apart. This dose is equivalent to 12 mg betamethasone administered daily over two consecutive days to a 70 kg woman. Baboons underwent Caesarean section 12 h after the last injection. Paraffin sections of the fetal neocortex and the underlying white matter were labelled immunohistochemically against MAP1B, MAP2abc, MAP2ab and synaptophysin and stained histochemically with hematoxylin-eosin and silver. Tissue staining was quantified morphometrically. Betamethasone exposure resulted in decreased immunoreactivity (IR) of MAP1B by 34.3 % and MAP2abc by 34.1 % (P < 0.05). Loss of MAP2 IR was due to loss of IR of the juvenile isoform MAP2c (P < 0.05). MAP1B and MAP2c are involved in neuritogenesis and neuronal plasticity. Synaptophysin IR was reduced by 51.8 % (P < 0.01). These changes might reflect functional neuronal disturbances because they were not accompanied by an alteration of the density of neurofibrils or neuronal necrosis. These results are in agreement with earlier findings of alterations of cytoskeletal proteins and presynaptic terminals in the fetal sheep brain after betamethasone infusion directly to the fetus and support a common effect of inappropriate fetal exposure to glucocorticoids on neuronal cytoskeleton and synapses in mammalian species.
12562289: !synaptophysin Carcinoid tumors of the urinary bladder. Immunohistochemical study of 2 cases and review of the literature. We report the clinical, histopathologic, and immunophenotypic features of 2 carcinoid tumors of the urinary bladder and review the literature. Both tumors were located in the bladder neck, presented with hematuria, were small, and appeared to be completely excised cystoscopically. The tumors were smooth-surfaced sessile polypoid nodules covered by urothelium. Both tumors had glandular architecture. One tumor had regular bland nuclei, and the other had focal moderate nuclear pleomorphism. Neuroendocrine differentiation was readily confirmed by the immunohistochemical markers chromogranin, synaptophysin, and neural cell adhesion molecule (CD56/NCAM). In 1 of the tumors, 20% of the cells were positive for the beta subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin, and 20% were positive for thyroid transcription factor 1.
12562240: !synaptophysin Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ampulla of vater. We report a large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma arising in the ampulla of Vater. The patient, a 74-year-old woman, presented with a 3-cm ulcerated mass located in the ampullary region. She died of disease 8 months after surgery. Microscopically, the tumor was extensively necrotic. It was composed of islands and trabeculae irregularly infiltrating the muscular wall of the duodenum. Neoplastic cells were large and had a high mitotic index. Immunohistochemically, they expressed cytokeratin, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase. Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma is very rare in the ampulla of Vater, and it shares with its more common pulmonary counterpart the same morphology and probably the same poor prognosis.
12559105: !synaptophysin Differences in lesion-induced hippocampal plasticity between mice and rats. We studied the differences between mice and rats in lesion-induced sprouting in the hippocampus. The entorhinal cortex was unilaterally lesioned with ibotenic acid in adult, female mice and rats. Four weeks later the subsequent axonal sprouting in the dentate gyrus was analysed, by measuring the density of the synaptophysin immunohistochemical and acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining in the termination area of the entorhinal cortex axons. The data demonstrate that both mice and rats display a significantly increased density of staining for synaptophysin and acetylcholinesterase in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, indicative of axonal sprouting. Both species also show an upregulation in the density of staining for acetylcholinesterase in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Further, rats, but not mice, show a significant upregulation of synaptophysin staining in stratum lacunosum moleculare of CA1 following the lesions. However, whereas rats show significant shrinkage of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, mice do not show any shrinkage of that layer following entorhinal cortex lesions. Taken together, these data indicate that whereas the process of reinnervation in the hippocampus is similar between the mouse and the rat, the hippocampal response to denervation shows clear differences between these two species.
12554763: !synaptophysin Estrogen enhances depolarization-induced glutamate release through activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase in cultured hippocampal neurons. Changes in synaptic efficacy are considered necessary for learning and memory. Recently, it has been suggested that estrogen controls synaptic function in the central nervous system. However, it is unclear how estrogen regulates synaptic function in central nervous system neurons. We found that estrogen potentiated presynaptic function in cultured hippocampal neurons. Chronic treatment with estradiol (1 or 10 nm) for 24 h significantly increased a high potassium-induced glutamate release. The estrogen-potentiated glutamate release required the activation of both phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and MAPK. The high potassium-evoked release with or without estradiol pretreatment was blocked by tetanus neurotoxin, which is an inhibitor of exocytosis. In addition, the reduction in intensity of FM1-43 fluorescence, which labeled presynaptic vesicles, was enhanced by estradiol, suggesting that estradiol potentiated the exocytotic mechanism. Furthermore, protein levels of synaptophysin, syntaxin, and synaptotagmin (synaptic proteins, respectively) were up-regulated by estradiol. We confirmed that the up-regulation of synaptophysin was blocked by the MAPK pathway inhibitor, U0126. These results suggested that estrogen enhanced presynaptic function through the up-regulated exocytotic system. In this study, we propose that estrogen reinforced excitatory synaptic transmission via potentiated-glutamate release from presynaptic sites.
12544098: !synaptophysin Rosette formation within a proliferative nodule of an atypical combined melanocytic nevus in an adult. Rosette formation is a feature that has not been described as occurring in melanocytic neoplasms. We present such a unique case. A 59-year-old man presented with an asymptomatic, soft, hairy 3.0 x 2.0-cm pigmented lesion that had been present for many years in the right external ear, extending from the conchal bowl onto the antitragus area. Examination of histologic sections showed a proliferation of nonatypical and heavily pigmented melanocytes in the superficial dermis and around deep adnexal structures, characteristic of a congenital nevus. In other areas, pigmented spindled and dendritic cells infiltrated thickened collagen bundles in a pattern of a blue nevus. A nodular proliferation of epithelioid melanocytes was seen within the deep dermis and subcutaneous tissue. The periphery of the nodule merged with the surrounding nevus cells. Neoplastic cells with nuclear atypia, melanin pigment, pseudonuclear inclusions, and balloon cell change were present. In addition, there was rosette formation by the tumor cells, with a central aggregate of coarse cell processes. Neuroid cords were also noted. No prominent mitotic figures, necrosis, or significant inflammatory infiltrate were noted. The neoplastic cells were positive for S-100 protein, Mart-1, tyrosinase, neuron-specific enolase, and vimentin. HMB-45 and Ki-67 (MIB-1) labeled only rare neoplastic cells within the proliferative nodule. The tumor cells were negative for synaptophysin, protein gene product 9.5, CD57, epithelial membrane antigen, CD31, and CD34. The central cell processes of the rosettes were negative for trichome, type IV collagen, neurofilament protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and tyrosine hydroxylase. We also retrospectively examined 78 congenital nevi of 65 pediatric patients at our institution. Rosette formation was not seen in any of these cases.
12543171: !synaptophysin A case of carcinoid tumor of the middle ear. We report here a case of a carcinoid tumor observed in the middle ear (ME), which was initially diagnosed as ME adenoma. The patient was a 64-year-old woman who was first seen in our hospital in March 2001 for a 7-month hearing loss. On otoscopic examination, a whitish mass could be observed through the intact tympanic membrane. High-resolution computed tomography demonstrated a tumor-like lesion in the ME with no evidence of bone destruction. A myringotomy and biopsy were performed and an initial diagnosis of ME adenoma was made. Light microscopy showed fragments of cellular tissue in which both glandular (adenomatous) and trabecular (carcinoid) growth patterns could be identified, but neuroendocrine differentiation was not detected by immunohistochemistry (negative staining for chromogranin A and synaptophysin). On the basis of this diagnosis, the patient underwent a tympanomastoidectomy in June 2001, in which the presumed ME adenoma was completely excised and the diagnosis was modified to ME carcinoid tumor. Immunohistochemical examinations at that time showed positive staining of the tumor cells for chromogranin A and synaptophysin. This case suggests the difficulties in distinguishing ME carcinoid tumors from ME adenomas. The patient is without recurrence of her disease to date.
12541316: !synaptophysin Cerebrospinal fluid-contacting neurons in the rat spinal cord, a gamma-aminobutyric acidergic system expressing the P2X2 subunit of purinergic receptors, PSA-NCAM, and GAP-43 immunoreactivities: light and electron microscopic study. Cerebrospinal fluid-contacting neurons (CSFcNs) occur in various brain regions of lower vertebrates. In mammals, they are restricted to medullospinal areas, and little is known about their projection sites. In the present work, we investigated some morphofunctional characteristics of such neurons in the rat spinal cord by light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. CSFcNs expressing the P2X(2) subunit of purinergic receptors were present throughout the spinal cord, though more numerous at lower thoracolumbar and sacral levels. These neurons coexpressed GAD and the polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a marker of cellular plasticity. From low thoracic levels downward, tiny amyelinic axons (less than 200 nm in diameter) were tightly packed in bundles, which ran along the ependyma and extended ventrally, eventually concentrating against the walls of the ventral median fissure. In addition to P2X(2), GAD, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and PSA, these axons expressed GAP-43 immunoreactivity. Moreover, they were labelled along their entire lengths with antibodies against synaptotagmin and synaptophysin, but these failed to reveal intraspinal terminal fields. Taken together, our observations indicate the presence in the rat spinal cord of a highly plastic system of GABAergic CSFcNs that express the P2X(2) subunit of purinergic receptors. The function of this original system remains open to question. In these neurons, the P2X(2) receptors may confer a sensitivity to ATP either present in the CSF or released by nearby neurons of the central autonomic area.
12541308: !synaptophysin Expression of vesicular glutamate transporters, VGluT1 and VGluT2, in axon terminals of nociceptive primary afferent fibers in the superficial layers of the medullary and spinal dorsal horns of the rat. We examined immunohistochemically whether the vesicular glutamate transporters (VGluTs), VGluT1 and VGluT2, might be expressed in synaptic terminals of nociceptive primary afferent fibers within laminae I and II of the medullary and spinal dorsal horns of the rat. VGluT1 immunoreactivity (IR) was intense in the inner part of lamina II but weak in lamina I and the outer part of lamina II. VGluT2-IR was most intense in lamina I and the outer part of lamina II. Expression of VGluTs in synaptic terminals was confirmed by dual immunofluorescence histochemistry for VGluTs and synaptophysin. Expression of VGluTs in axon terminals of primary afferent fibers terminating in laminae I and II was also confirmed immunohistochemically after unilateral dorsal rhizotomy. The dual immunofluorescence histochemistry indicated expression of VGluTs in substance P (SP)-containing axon terminals in lamina I and the outer part of lamina II. Electron microscopy confirmed the coexpression of VGluTs and SP in axon terminals within laminae I and II; VGluTs was associated with round synaptic vesicles at the asymmetric synapses. It was further observed that isolectin IB4, a marker for unmyelinated axons, often bound with VGluT2-immunopositive structures but rarely with VGluT1-immunopositive structures in lamina II. Thus, the results indicated in laminae I and II of the medullary and spinal dorsal horns that both VGluT1 and VGluT2 were expressed in axon terminals of primary afferent fibers, including SP-containing nociceptive fibers and that VGluT in unmyelinated primary afferent fibers terminating in lamina II was primarily VGluT2.
12539703: !synaptophysin [Detection of neuroendocrine feature about salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma]. To study the possibility of neuroendocrine feature of salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma (SACC).
12538629: !synaptophysin Distribution of vesicular glutamate transporter-2 messenger ribonucleic Acid and protein in the septum-hypothalamus of the rat. The excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate is involved in the control of most, perhaps all, neuroendocrine systems, yet the sites of glutamatergic neurons and their processes are unknown. Here, we used in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry for the neuron-specific vesicular glutamate transporter-2 (VGLUT2) to identify the neurons in female rats that synthesize the neurotransmitter glutamate as well as their projections throughout the septum-hypothalamus. The results show that glutamatergic neurons are present in the septum-diagonal band complex and throughout the hypothalamus. The preoptic area and ventromedial and dorsomedial nuclei are particularly rich in glutamatergic neurons, followed by the supraoptic, paraventricular, and arcuate nuclei, whereas the suprachiasmatic nucleus does not express detectable amounts of VGLUT2 mRNA. Immunoreactive neurites are seen in very high densities in all regions analyzed, particularly in the preoptic region, followed by the ventromedial, dorsomedial, and arcuate nuclei as well as the external layer of the median eminence, whereas the mammillary complex does not exhibit VGLUT2 immunoreactivity. Many VGLUT2 immunoreactive fibers also contained synaptophysin, suggesting that the transporter is indeed localized to presynaptic terminals. Together, the results identify glutamatergic cell bodies throughout the septum-hypothalamus in region-specific patterns and show that glutamatergic nerve terminals are present in very large numbers such that most neurons in these brain regions can receive glutamatergic input. We examined the GnRH system as an example of a typical neuroendocrine system and could show that the GnRH perikarya are closely apposed by many VGLUT2-immunoreactive boutons, some of which also contained synaptophysin. The presence of VGLUT2 mRNA-containing cells in specific nuclei of the hypothalamus indicates that many neuroendocrine neurons coexpress glutamate as neurotransmitter, in addition to neuropeptides. These systems include the oxytocin, vasopressin, or CRH neurons as well as many others in the periventricular and mediobasal hypothalamus. The presence of VGLUT2 mRNA in steroid-sensitive regions of the hypothalamus, such as the anteroventral periventricular, paraventricular, or ventromedial nuclei indicates that gonadal and adrenal steroid can directly alter the functions of these glutamatergic neurons.
12533609: !synaptophysin Aberrant activation of focal adhesion proteins mediates fibrillar amyloid beta-induced neuronal dystrophy. Neuronal dystrophy is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) that is not observed in other neurodegenerative disorders that lack amyloid deposition. Treatment of cortical neurons with fibrillar amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides induces progressive neuritic dystrophy accompanied by a marked loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity (Grace et al., 2002). Here, we report that fibrillar Abeta-induced neuronal dystrophy is mediated by the activation of focal adhesion (FA) proteins and the formation of aberrant FA structures adjacent to Abeta deposits. In the AD brain, activated FA proteins are observed associated with the majority of senile plaques. Clustered integrin receptors and activated paxillin (phosphorylated at Tyr-31) and focal adhesion kinase (phosphorylated at Tyr-297) are mainly detected in dystrophic neurites surrounding Abeta plaque cores, where they colocalize with hyperphosphorylated tau. Deletion experiments demonstrated that the presence of the LIM domains in the paxillin C terminus and the recruitment of the protein-Tyr phosphatase (PTP)-PEST to the FA complex are required for Abeta-induced neuronal dystrophy. Therefore, both paxillin and PTP-PEST appear to be critical elements in the generation of the dystrophic response. Paxillin is a scaffolding protein to which other FA proteins bind, leading to the formation of the FA contact and initiation of signaling cascades. PTP-PEST plays a key role in the dynamic regulation of focal adhesion contacts in response to extracellular cues. Thus, in the AD brain, fibrillar Abeta may induce neuronal dystrophy by triggering a maladaptive plastic response mediated by FA protein activation and tau hyperphosphorylation.
12530264: !synaptophysin [Immunohistochemical identification of hormonally-inactive tumors of the adrenal gland]. An immunohistochemical study was carried out to differentiate between such neoplasms of the cortical and cerebral layers of the adrenal as adrenocortical tumor and pheochromocytoma. It used antibodies to chromogranin A, synaptophysin, vimentin, cytokeratin 8, pancytokeratin, carcinoembryonic antigen, epithelial membrane antigen, neurofilaments, alpha-fetoprotein, alpha-antitripsin and neuron-specific enolase. Chromogranin A and synaptophysin appeared to be immunohistochemical markers for pheochromocytoma since it responded negatively to vimentin and cytokeratin. Adenocortical tumors were associated with positive reaction to vimentin and a negative one to cytokeratin. These characteristics were used to differentiate adrenocortical tumors from adenomas which responded to cytokeratin and hardly to vimentin. A possibility of adrenal tumors consisting of endocrine and neurogenic cells is considered.
12527716: !synaptophysin Histidine decarboxylase expression as a new sensitive and specific marker for small cell lung carcinoma. Histidine decarboxylase is one of the enzymes of the amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation system and is known to be distributed in mast cells and enterochromaffin-like cells. With the hypothesis that histidine decarboxylase expression is a marker for neuroendocrine differentiation, we studied the immunoreactivity of histidine decarboxylase in neuroendocrine cells and tumors of the thyroid gland, adrenal medulla, lung, and gastrointestinal tract. Formalin-fixed paraffin sections were subjected to immunohistochemistry using anti-histidine decarboxylase antibody, and the sensitivity and specificity were compared with those of conventional neuroendocrine markers (CD56, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase). Enterochromaffin or enterochromaffin-like cells, adrenal chromaffin cells, and thyroid C-cells were positive for histidine decarboxylase, and related tumors (carcinoid tumor, pheochromocytoma, medullary carcinoma) showed a high percentage of positive staining. Furthermore, we used the antibody to distinguish small cell lung carcinoma from non-neuroendocrine lung carcinoma and also to detect neuroendocrine differentiation in large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma and gastrointestinal small-cell carcinoma. The anti-histidine decarboxylase antibody stained most small cell lung carcinoma (18 of 23, sensitivity 0.78), and was rarely reactive with non-neuroendocrine lung tumors (2 of 44; specificity, 0.95). These values were close to those obtained from CD56 staining (sensitivity/specificity, 0.87/0.98). Histidine decarboxylase was also positive for 6 of 12 large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas and 4 of 7 gastrointestinal small cell carcinomas. In conclusion, we demonstrated that histidine decarboxylase is useful to distinguish between small cell lung carcinoma and non-neuroendocrine carcinoma and to demonstrate neuroendocrine differentiation.
12524180: !synaptophysin The effects of combined fluid percussion traumatic brain injury and unilateral entorhinal deafferentation on the juvenile rat brain. The current study was designed to address the effects of traumatic brain injury (TBI) on plasticity and reorganization in the juvenile brain. Given that two of the major pathological sequelae of TBI involve a generalized neuroexcitation insult and diffuse axonal injury, we have employed models of these pathologies, delivered either independently or in combination, to examine their effects on injury-induced synaptic reorganization of the dentate gyrus in the developing rat. Postnatal day 28 rats received either sham, central fluid percussion traumatic brain injury (TBI), unilateral entorhinal cortical lesion (UEC), or TBI+UEC (TUEC) injury. Cognitive performance was assessed in the Morris water maze (MWM) between 11 and 15 days post-injury and the brains were processed for synaptophysin immunohistochemistry and routine electron microscopy. The MWM results revealed that TBI or UEC lesions delivered independently do not produce significant morbidity in P28 rats. However, when these injuries are combined, they reveal significant deficits in the MWM, accompanied by measurable changes in the distribution of presynaptic synaptophysin immunoreactivity over the deafferented dentate molecular layer. These observations are further supported by qualitative ultrastructural alterations in synaptic architecture in the same subregions of the dentate neuropil. The present findings show that the resilience of the immature brain following TBI is reduced when neuroexcitatory insult is combined with deafferentation. Moreover, when deafferented tissue is assessed morphologically, evidence exists for aberrant plasticity and abnormal synaptic reorganization in the juvenile brain.
12518782: !synaptophysin Primary carcinoid tumor of the testis: case report. Carcinoid tumor of the testis is exceedingly rare. Most carcinoid tumors occur in the appendix or ileocecal region (85%), while others are found in the lung, liver, and genitourinary tract (15%). A primary carcinoid testis tumor may originate from argentaffin or Kulchitsky's cells, which are located in the Lieberkuhn crypt. Preoperative ultrasound may show a solid, hypoechoic, well-defined margin mass combined with calcification or a cyst. Differential diagnosis of the ultrasound appearance is testicular tumor (teratoma/embryonal cell carcinoma), epidermoid tumor, tuberculous epididymo-orchitis, and the result of trauma. Radical orchiectomy remains the main treatment for a carcinoid testis tumor. Grossly, surgical removal of the tumor presents with a solid mass, tan to white in color. Immunohistochemical study shows that tumor cells are diffusely reactive to antibodies to keratins AE1 and AE3, chromogranin-A, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and synaptophysin. A pure primary testicular carcinoid tumor has been treated as a benign lesion, while metastatic carcinoid tumor has a poor prognosis regardless of the primary site. To rule out the possibility of metastasis resulting from an extra-testicular primary carcinoid, careful and thorough postoperative whole body surveys are important. Chest X-ray, chest computed tomogram (CT), abdominal and pelvic CT, and octreotide scintigraphy are indicated. We herein describe a case of primary carcinoid tumor of the testis and review the literature.
12515971: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical profile of malignant pleural effusions of small-cell lung cancer. Small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) is a highly malignant tumour of a somewhat distinctive cell type. The aim of this study was to determine the immunocytochemical profile of tumor cells and lymphoid cell in SCLC pleural fluids.
12511773: !synaptophysin Cerebral hypoperfusion and delayed hippocampal response after induction of adult kaolin hydrocephalus. In chronic hydrocephalus, a role for tissue hypoxia resulting from cerebrovascular compression is suggested. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the time course of adult kaolin-induced hydrocephalus correlated with immunohistochemical neuronal responses.
12507327: !synaptophysin Experimental retinal detachment in the cone-dominant ground squirrel retina: morphology and basic immunocytochemistry. The cellular responses of the cone-dominant ground squirrel retina to retinal detachment were examined and compared to those in rod-dominant species. Retinal detachments were made in California ground squirrels. The retinas were prepared for light, electron, and confocal microscopy. Tissue sections were labeled with antibodies to cone opsins, rod opsin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), vimentin, synaptophysin, cytochrome oxidase, and calbindin D 28K. Wax sections were probed with the MIB-1 antibody to detect proliferating cells. By 10 h postdetachment many photoreceptor cells in the ground squirrel already show structural signs of apoptosis. At 1 day many photoreceptors have collapsed inner segments (IS), yet others still have short stacks of outer segment discs. At 3 days there is a marked increase in the number of dying photoreceptors. Rod and medium-/long-wavelength opsins are redistributed in the cell membrane to their synaptic terminals. At 7 days photoreceptor cell death has slowed. Some regions of the outer nuclear layer (ONL) have few photoreceptor somata. IS remnants are rare on surviving photoreceptors. At 28 days these trends are even more dramatic. Retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) cells do not expand into the subretinal space. The outer limiting membrane (OLM) appears flat and uninterrupted. Müller cells remain remarkably unreactive; they show essentially no proliferation, only negligible hypertrophy, and there is no increase in their expression of GFAP or vimentin. Horizontal cells show no dendritic sprouting in response to detachment. The speed and extent of photoreceptor degeneration in response to detachment is greater in ground squirrel than in cat retina-only a small number of rods and cones survive at 28 days of detachment. Moreover, the almost total lack of Müller cell and RPE reactivity in the ground squirrel retina is a significant difference from results in other species.
12507133: !synaptophysin Genetic differences between neurocytoma and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor and oligodendroglial tumors. Because of their histological similarities, it is occasionally difficult to differentiate neurocytoma and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT) from oligodendroglial tumors. This study was conducted to investigate genetic differences among these tumor types in terms of loss of heterozygosity on chromosomes 1p and 19q, and p53 gene mutation.
12506104: !synaptophysin Cone photoreceptor recovery after experimental detachment and reattachment: an immunocytochemical, morphological, and electrophysiological study. To compare the morphologic and functional recovery of the retina after detachment and reattachment in an animal with a cone-dominant retina, the ground squirrel.
12500709: !synaptophysin Functional improvement after motor training is correlated with synaptic plasticity in rat thalamus. The goals of this study were to determine whether functional outcome after motor training in rats was linked to synaptic plasticity in thalamus, and whether the Rota-rod apparatus, widely used to test motor function, could be used as an easy and quantitative motor skill training procedure. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 39) were evaluated under three training conditions: 1. Movement requiring balance and coordination skills on Rota-rod; 2. simple exercise on treadmill; 3. nontrained controls. Motor function was evaluated by a series of motor tests (foot fault placing, parallel bar crossing, rope and ladder climbing) before and 14 or 28 days after training procedure. Synaptic strength in brain was assessed by synaptophysin immunocytochemistry. After 14 days of training, Rota-rod-trained animals significantly (p < 0.01) improved motor performance, compared to treadmill and nontrained animals. Animals with up to 28 days of simple exercises on the treadmill did not show a significantly improved performance on most motor tasks, except for an improvement in foot fault placing. Intensive synaptophysin immunoreactivity was present in the right but not the left mediodorsal and ventromedial nuclei of thalamus in Rota-rod-trained rats at 14 and 28 days, and in treadmill-trained rats at 28 days. The data suggested that functional outcome is effectively improved by motor skill training rather than by simple exercises, and this may be related, at least partially, to uniquely lateralized synaptogenesis in the thalamus. Both Rota-rod and treadmill could be quantitatively used in rats for motor training of different complexity.
12498786: !synaptophysin Interaction of synaptophysin with the AP-1 adaptor protein gamma-adaptin. Synaptophysin is one of the most abundant proteins of the synaptic vesicle membrane. Here, we selected the cytoplasmic carboxyterminal region of synaptophysin to search for interacting proteins by using the yeast two-hybrid system. This identified gamma-adaptin, a component of the AP-1 adaptor complex, as a synaptophysin binding protein. An anti-synaptophysin antibody coimmunoprecipitated gamma-adaptin from brain extracts, and immunocytochemistry disclosed a partial colocalization of synaptophysin and gamma-adaptin in the perinuclear region of cultured hippocampal neurons. Our results are consistent with synaptophysin serving as a docking site for AP-1 during clathrin-dependent vesicle budding and/or kinesin-based transport reactions.
12496091: !synaptophysin The synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin: purification and characterization of its channel activity. The synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin was solubilized from rat brain synaptosomes with a relatively low concentration of Triton X-100 (0.2%) and was highly purified (above 95%) using a rapid single chromatography step on hydroxyapatite/celite resin. Purified synaptophysin was reconstituted into a planar lipid bilayer and the channel activity of synaptophysin was characterized. In asymmetric KCl solutions (cis 300 mM/trans 100 mM), synaptophysin formed a fast-fluctuating channel with a conductance of 414 +/- 13 pS at +60 mV. The open probability of synaptophysin channels was decreased upon depolarization, and channels were found to be cation-selective. Synaptophysin channels showed higher selectivity for K(+) over Cl(-) (P(K(+))/P(Cl(-)) > 8) and preferred K(+) over Li(+), Na(+), Rb(+), Cs(+), or choline(+). The synaptophysin channel is impermeable to Ca(2+), which has no effect on its channel activity. This study is the second demonstration of purified synaptophysin channel activity, but the first biophysical characterization of its channel properties. The availability of large amounts of purified synaptophysin and of its characteristic channel properties might help to establish the role of synaptophysin in synaptic transmission.
12495223: !synaptophysin Id-1 expression defines a subset of vimentin/S-100beta-positive, GFAP-negative astrocytes in the adult rat pineal gland. Id proteins are dominant negative members of the helix-loop-helix (HLH) transcription factor family which are involved in the differentation of many cell types, including glia. We have recently identified the adult rat pineal gland as a major site of Id-1 and Id-3 expression. In the present study, double fluorescence immunocytochemical analysis was used to examine the co-localization of Id-1 and Id-3 with both neuronal (synaptophysin, betaIII-tubulin) and astrocytic markers (GFAP, vimentin, S-100beta) in the rat pineal. In addition to localizing Id-1 and Id-3 protein to the melatonin-producing pinealocytes, we have also made the novel observation that Id-1, but not Id-3, is highly expressed in a population of vimentin-positive/S-100beta-positive/GFAP-negative astrocytes. Surprisingly, Id-1 was primarily cytoplasmic in these cells, and expression extended throughout the cellular processes. The pineal has been recognized previously as a unique region of the central nervous system in which a vimentin-positive/GFAP-negative glial phenotype is maintained in adult mammals. The exclusion of Id-1 from GFAP-positive cells, and expression in a population of vimentin-positive pineal astrocytes is evidence of a role for Id-1 in the adult stabilization of one form of astrocyte. These results identify the rat pineal gland as a model system for the functional analysis of Id-1.
12493563: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterization of clathrin assembly protein AP180 and synaptophysin in human brain. Neurons rely on clathrin-mediated endocytosis for retrieving synaptic vesicles (SVs) at the presynaptic compartment after the release of neurotransmitters. The clathrin assembly protein AP180 is shown to be a regulator for this clathrin-dependent SV recycling pathway. AP180 is efficient in facilitating the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles and regulating their size, but its exact location in synapse is not clear. In this study, we compared the expression of AP180 with synaptophysin in the aged human brain using confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. Synaptophysin is well characterized for its association with SVs and therefore a commonly used presynaptic marker. We achieved satisfactory immunofluorescent labeling by using an autofluorescence blocker Sudan Black B and more photostable Alexa Fluor dyes. Although we found that AP180 had an overall expression similar to synaptophysin, the immunoreactivity for the two proteins did not always co-localize.
12492469: !synaptophysin RE-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) regulates human synaptophysin gene transcription through an intronic sequence-specific DNA-binding site. Synaptophysin, one of the major proteins on synaptic vesicles, is ubiquitously expressed throughout the brain. Synaptophysin and synapsin I, another synaptic vesicle protein, are also expressed by retinoic acid-induced neuronally differentiated P19 teratocarcinoma cells. Here, we show that inhibition of histone deacetylase activity in P19 cells is sufficient to activate transcription of the synaptophysin and synapsin I genes, indicating that neuronal differentiation and impairment of histone deacetylases results in a similar gene expression pattern. The transcription factor REST, a repressor of neuronal genes in non-neuronal tissues, has been shown to function via recruitment of histone deacetylases to the transcription unit, indicating that modulation of the chromatin structure via histone deacetylation is of major importance for REST function and neuron-specific gene transcription. Furthermore, REST has been shown to be the major regulator of neuronal expression of synapsin I. Here, we have identified a functional binding site for REST in the first intron of the human synaptophysin gene indicating that REST blocks human synaptophysin gene transcription through an intronic neuron-specific silencer element. The synaptophysin promoter is, however, devoid of neuron-specific genetic elements and directs transcription in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells. Using a dominant-negative approach we have identified the transcription factor Sp1 as one of the regulators responsible for constitutive transcription of the human synaptophysin gene.
12486146: !synaptophysin Modulation of Alzheimer-like synaptic and cholinergic deficits in transgenic mice by human apolipoprotein E depends on isoform, aging, and overexpression of amyloid beta peptides but not on plaque formation. The most frequent human apolipoprotein (apo) E isoforms, E3 and E4, differentially affect Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk (E4 > E3) and age of onset (E4 < E3). Compared with apoE3, apoE4 promotes the cerebral deposition of amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides, which are derived from the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and play a central role in AD. However, it is uncertain whether Abeta deposition into plaques is the main mechanism by which apoE isoforms affect AD. We analyzed murine apoE-deficient transgenic mice expressing in their brains human APP (hAPP) and Abeta together with apoE3 or apoE4. Because cognitive decline in AD correlates better with decreases in synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity, and ChAT-positive fibers than with plaque load, we compared these parameters in hAPP/apoE3 and hAPP/apoE4 mice and singly transgenic controls at 6-7, 12-15, and 19-24 months of age. Brain aging in the context of high levels of nondeposited human Abeta resulted in progressive synaptic/cholinergic deficits. ApoE3 delayed the synaptic deficits until old age, whereas apoE4 was not protective at any of the ages analyzed. Old hAPP/apoE4 mice had more plaques than old hAPP/apoE3 mice, but synaptic/cholinergic deficits preceded plaque formation in hAPP/apoE4 mice. Moreover, despite their different plaque loads, old hAPP/apoE4 and hAPP/apoE3 mice had comparable synaptic/cholinergic deficits, and these deficits were found not only in the hippocampus but also in the neocortex, which in most mice contained no plaques. Thus, apoE3, but not apoE4, delays age- and Abeta-dependent synaptic deficits through a plaque-independent mechanism. This difference could contribute to the differential effects of apoE isoforms on the risk and onset of AD.
12485399: !synaptophysin The synaptophysin/synaptobrevin interaction critically depends on the cholesterol content. Synaptophysin interacts with synaptobrevin in membranes of adult small synaptic vesicles. The synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex promotes synaptobrevin to built up functional SNARE complexes thereby modulating synaptic efficiency. Synaptophysin in addition is a cholesterol-binding protein. Depleting the membranous cholesterol content by filipin or beta-methylcyclodextrin (beta-MCD) decreased the solubility of synaptophysin in Triton X-100 with less effects on synaptobrevin. In small synaptic vesicles from rat brain the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex was diminished upon beta-MCD treatment as revealed by chemical cross-linking. Mice with a genetic mutation in the Niemann-Pick C1 gene developing a defect in cholesterol sorting showed significantly reduced amounts of the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex compared to their homo- or heterozygous littermates. Finally when using primary cultures of mouse hippocampus the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin complex was down-regulated after depleting the endogenous cholesterol content by the HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitor lovastatin. Alternatively, treatment with cholesterol up-regulated the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin interaction in these cultures. These data indicate that the synaptophysin/synaptobrevin interaction critically depends on a high cholesterol content in the membrane of synaptic vesicles. Variations in the availability of cholesterol may promote or impair synaptic efficiency by interfering with this complex.
12484569: !synaptophysin Astrocytic deformity and globular structures are characteristic of the brains of patients with aceruloplasminemia. Aceruloplasminemia is an interesting disease, the study of which helps elucidate how iron-induced oxidative stress is involved in neuronal cell death. In order to study the neuropathological characteristics associated with oxidative stress, we scrutinized the brains of 5 patients with aceruloplasminemia histopathologically and immunohistochemically. The pathological findings were essentially similar in all patients. In the frontal cortices, iron deposition and neuronal cell loss were trivial, but in the basal ganglia (especially in the caudate nucleus and putamen), severe iron overload and extensive neuronal loss were noted. Iron deposition was more prominent in the astrocytes than in the neurons in both regions. 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), one of the most physiologically active lipid peroxides, was strongly detected on neurons and astrocytes by immunostaining. Markedly deformed astrocytes were observed in the striatum. These astrocytes were similar to Alzheimer type 1 astrocytes. Globular structures were seen in proportion to the degree of iron deposition. They clearly reacted with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and anti-S-100 antibodies and contained glial fibril-like filaments, but showed no or only faint immunoreactivity to antibodies for neuronal marker proteins, such as neurofilament and synaptophysin. Therefore, the globular structures presumably originated from astrocytes. The structures also reacted positively to anti-HNE and anti-ubiquitin antibodies. We conclude that astrocytic deformities and globular structures are characteristic neuropathological features of aceruloplasminemia and are closely linked to iron overload and subsequent oxidative stress.
12483688: !synaptophysin Palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 is targeted to the axons in neurons. Palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1) is a depalmitoylating enzyme whose deficiency leads to infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis. The disease is characterized by early loss of vision and massive neuronal death. Although PPT1 is expressed in many tissues, a deficiency of PPT1 damages neurons only in the cerebral and cerebellar cortexes and retina; other cell types remain relatively unaffected. We previously demonstrated that PPT1 is present in the synaptosomes and synaptic vesicles of neurons. To understand the crucial role of PPT1 for neuronal cells, we further investigated the expression and targeting of PPT1 in retinal, hippocampal, and cortical neurons during their maturation in culture. We found that PPT1 activity increases by neuronal maturation and is highest in retinal neuron cultures. In retinal neurons the expression of PPT1 precedes that of the synaptic vesicle protein 2 and synaptophysin, indicating a significant role for PPT1 in the early development of neuronal cells. We also found by quantitative confocal immunofluorescence microscopy that PPT1 is targeted preferably to axons in mature neurons, as indicated by its colocalization with the axonal marker microtubule-associated protein 1. In axons PPT1 is targeted specifically to axonal varicosities and presynaptic terminals, as indicated by its significant colocalization with growth-associated protein 43 and synaptophysin. Axonal localization of PPT1 was confirmed by double labeling with synaptophysin and postembedding immunoelectron microscopy. The polarized axonal targeting of PPT1 may well indicate a role for PPT1 in the exocytotic pathway of neurons.
12481020: !synaptophysin Tissue microarrays are an effective quality assurance tool for diagnostic immunohistochemistry. There has been considerable variability in the reported results of immunohistochemical staining for some diagnostically relevant antigens. Our objectives in this study were to (1) use a multitumor tissue microarray with tissue from 351 cases received in our department, representing 16 normal tissues and 47 different tumor types, to compare immunohistochemical staining results in our laboratory with published data, using a panel of 22 antibodies; (2) assess interlaboratory variability of immunohistochemical staining for S-100 using this microarray; and (3) test the ability of hierarchical clustering analysis to group tumors by primary site, based on their immunostaining profile. Tissue microarrays consisting of duplicate 0.6-mm cores from blocks identified in the hospital archives were constructed and stained according to our usual protocols. Antibodies directed against the following antigens were used: B72.3, bcl-2, carcinoembryonic antigen, c-kit, pankeratin, CD 68, CD 99, CK 5/6, CK 7, CK 8/18, CK19, CK 20, CK 22, epithelial membrane antigen, estrogen receptor, melan-A, p53, placental alkaline phosphatase, S-100, synaptophysin, thyroid transcription factor-1, and vimentin. Staining results on the array cases were compared with published results, and hierarchical clustering analysis was performed based on the immunohistochemical staining results. Unstained slides of the multitumor tissue microarray were sent to five other diagnostic immunohistochemistry laboratories and stained for S-100 protein. The staining results from the different laboratories were compared. Staining results using our current methods and samples from our laboratory were compatible with those described in the literature for most antigens. Placental alkaline phosphatase staining was not specific with our protocol, showing staining of a broad spectrum of different tumors; this finding initiated a review of our recent requests for placental alkaline phosphatase immunostaining and revealed two instances in which placental alkaline phosphatase positivity was incorrectly interpreted as evidence of a germ cell tumor. S-100 staining was less sensitive but more specific for the diagnosis of melanoma or neural tumor in our laboratory, compared to some published reports. Assessment of interlaboratory variability of S-100 immunostaining showed that there was more frequent staining of carcinomas in some laboratories, resulting in decreased specificity of S-100 staining in distinguishing melanoma from carcinoma. Hierarchical clustering analysis showed a strong trend for tumors to cluster by tissue of origin, but there were significant exceptions. We conclude that multiple-tumor microarrays are an efficient method for assessing the sensitivity and specificity of staining with any antibody used diagnostically. As a tool for quality assurance, they offer the advantage of taking into account local differences in tissue fixation, processing, and staining. They also allow cost-effective assessment of interlaboratory variability in immunohistochemical staining. Results of hierarchical clustering analysis show the potential for panels of immunohistochemical stains to identify the primary site of metastatic carcinomas but also confirm the limitations of currently available antibodies in giving unequivocal tissue-specific staining patterns.
12478483: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the cervix: a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 23 cases. Twenty-three patients with primary small cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix are presented. Their ages ranged between 23 and 63 years (average, 43 years). Blood spotting or vaginal bleeding was the most common clinical presentation. Histologically, the tumors were densely cellular and showed trabecular nesting or a sheet-like pattern. The neoplastic cells had scant cytoplasm, round nuclei, absence of nucleoli, and finely dispersed chromatin. Nuclear molding, single cell necrosis, and high mitotic activity were found in all tumors. There was a minor component of large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma in three cases, while foci of adenocarcinoma were identified in two cases. Immunohistochemical studies were performed in all 23 tumors which showed immunoreactivity for cytokeratin. Ten small cell carcinomas were immunoreactive for chromogranin, 13 for synaptophysin, and 10 expressed p53 protein. Treatment modalities included hysterectomy alone or combined with chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. A few patients received chemotherapy and/or radiation alone. Follow-up information was obtained in 22 cases; 15 patients died of tumor between 6 and 43 months, while seven patients have remained alive 12 to 273 months. One patient was lost to follow-up. Small cell carcinoma of the cervix is a highly aggressive neoplasm. However, early diagnosis and combined therapeutic modalities may lead to longer survival in some patients. Although the use of immunohistochemistry may be helpful in the diagnosis, small cell carcinoma still remains a morphologic diagnosis.
12478371: !synaptophysin Developmental changes of synaptic proteins expression within the hippocampal formation of the rat. A properly structured neuronal network, which is a prerequisite of a correctly functioning central nervous system, depends on the proper construction of synaptic terminals. There are some studies concerning development of hippocampal cells, however, the data about maturation of the synaptic terminals network within the hippocampal formation are only fragmentary. The study was performed on Wistar rats of various ages. The following synaptic proteins: synaptophysin, SNAP-25 and GAP-43 (a growth axon cone protein) were used to study the maturation of synaptic terminals. We have found that, at the time of birth, the hippocampal formation is very immature. Synaptogenesis begins on P4 and lasts till P10 or P14. The strongest immunoreactivity of all proteins is observed at the beginning of this period. Thereafter, immunoreactivity decreases and, after P14, it is similar to that of adult animals. On P60 and P90, the level of immunoreactivity increases again. In the pyramidal and granular cell layers, the formation of synaptic terminals and their maturation occur earlier in embryonal life, and are almost completely mature at birth.
12472893: !synaptophysin Ontogeny and the possible function of a novel epidermal growth factor-like repeat domain-containing protein, NELL2, in the rat brain. In this study we investigated the mRNA expression of NELL2, a neural tissue-specific epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like repeat domain-containing protein, in the developing and adult rat CNS using in situ hybridization histochemistry and northern blot analysis. The possible candidates that interact with or be regulated by NELL2 were screened with a cDNA expression array in antisense (AS) NELL2 oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN)-injected rat hypothalami. NELL2 mRNA was detected as early as embryonic day 10, and was predominant in the CNS throughout the pre-natal stages. Its expression gradually increased during embryonic development and its strong expression was observed throughout the CNS until embryonic day 20. It was detected in the ventricular zone of the spinal cord, medulla and pons in 12-day-old-embryos, suggesting that NELL2 plays a role in the neurogenesis of these areas. After birth its expression gradually decreased, but high levels of expression could be observed in the tenia tecta, piriform cortex, hippocampus, dentate gyrus, cerebellar cortex, ambiguus nucleus, and inferior olivary nucleus of adult rat brains. The analysis of cDNA expression arrays revealed that the administration of AS NELL2 ODN markedly decreased the expression of several Ca2+-binding proteins and those involved in the transport and release of vesicles such as EF-hand Ca2+-binding protein p22 and rab7. This finding was confirmed by relative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The effect of NELL2 on synaptic vesicle content in median eminence (ME) nerve terminals was determined with synaptophysin levels as a marker protein in the AS NELL2 ODN-injected rat. It was significantly decreased by the AS ODN. These data suggest that NELL2 may play an important role in the development of the CNS as well as maintenance of neural functions, by regulating the intracellular machinery involving Ca2+ signaling, synaptic transport and/or release of vesicles.
12462403: !synaptophysin Gene expression profiles of cholinergic nucleus basalis neurons in Alzheimer's disease. Cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis (NB) are selectively vulnerable in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the molecular mechanisms associated with their dysfunction remain unknown. We used single cell RNA amplification and custom array technology to examine the expression of functional classes of mRNAs found in anterior NB neurons from normal aged and AD subjects. mRNAs encoding neurotrophin receptors, synaptic proteins, protein phosphatases, and amyloid-related proteins were evaluated. We found that trkB and trkC mRNAs were selectively down-regulated in NB neurons, whereas p75NTR mRNA levels remained stable in end stage AD. TrkA mRNA was reduced by approximately 28%, but did not reach statistical significance. There was a down-regulation of synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and protein phosphatases PP1alpha and PP1beta mRNAs in AD. In contrast, we found a selective up-regulation of cathepsin D mRNA in NB neurons in AD brain. Thus, anterior NB neurons undergo selective alterations in gene expression in AD. These results may provide clues to the molecular pathogenesis of NB neuronal degeneration during AD.
12458898: !synaptophysin Combined adenocarcinoma and carcinoid tumor in atrophic gastritis. The development of adenocarcinoma or carcinoid tumors in atrophic gastritis is widely documented. We report the simultaneous occurrence of gastric adenocarcinoma and carcinoid (composite tumor) in atrophic gastritis, a finding reported only twice before in the literature. This 52-yr-old man with rectal bleeding, epigastric pain, and iron deficiency anemia was noted to have multiple polypoid masses on upper endoscopy. Biopsy revealed features of both adenocarcinoma and carcinoid tumor in a background of atrophic gastritis, leading to a total gastrectomy, lymph node dissection, and liver biopsy. The gastrectomy specimen was characterized by a 6 cm pedunculated polyp and multiple sessile nodular masses between 0.4 and 2.5 cm in the background of a granular mucosa. On microscopic examination, the large polypoid mass corresponded to a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma, intestinal type, infiltrating the wall. The smaller nodules were composed of carcinoid tumors, restricted to the mucosa, or infiltrating the gastric wall. Carcinoid tumor was also seen in the large polypoid mass closely intermingled with adenocarcinoma. The carcinoid tumor metastasized to the liver. Lymph nodes showed both adenocarcinoma and carcinoid tumor. The gastric mucosa was characterized by atrophic gastritis with intestinal metaplasia, neuroendocrine hyperplasia, and microcarcinoids. The adenocarcinoma stained strongly for CK7, CK 20, MIB-1, and focally for chromogranin and synaptophysin. The carcinoid tumor was negative for CK7, CK 20 and MIB-1, and was positive for chromogranin and synaptophysin. Overexpression of p53 was noted only in the adenocarcinoma. Electron microscopy revealed neurosecretory granules in the carcinoid characteristic of a neuroendocrine tumor. Composite tumor can occur in the setting of atrophic gastritis. The findings in this patient reinforce the concept that the epithelial and neuroendocrine cells of the gastrointestinal tract both result from multidirectional differentiation of a primitive cell.
12454818: !synaptophysin Classification of low-grade neuroendocrine tumors of midgut and unknown origin. Metastasized neuroendocrine tumors of the gastrointestinal tract and of unknown origin show a highly variable clinical course. Within this group, low-grade and high-grade malignant tumors can be recognized based on the revised classification of neuroendocrine tumors of the lung, pancreas, and gut published by Capella et al in 1995. The present study investigated whether fine-tuning the prediction of prognosis was possible by dividing the group of low-grade malignant tumors of the midgut and of unknown origin into typical and atypical carcinoids by grading them according to the World Health Organization (WHO) classification criteria for neuroendocrine tumors of the lung. Moreover, the prognostic value of immunohistochemical stainings and clinical parameters was evaluated. The study group comprised patients diagnosed between 1983 and 1999 with liver metastases of a neuroendocrine tumor of the midgut n = 40) or of unknown origin (n = 16). As a control for the consistency of grading, 10 patients with metastasized neuroendocrine tumors of the lung also were evaluated. Immunohistochemical stainings for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, Leu 7/CD57, neural cell adhesion molecule/CD56, cytokeratin 8, bcl-2, p53, ki67, and HER2/neu were performed. The clinical parameters age, gender, urinary 5-HIAA level, and presence or absence of the carcinoid syndrome were evaluated. Tumors of the midgut and of unknown origin were evaluated together, because they were clinically similar. In this group of 56 patients, both the Capella and the WHO classification systems recognized the high-grade malignant tumors with a bad prognosis. When the low-grade malignant tumors (Capella) were divided into typical and atypical carcinoids (WHO), no difference in survival was observed, but when the dichotomy into typical and atypical was based on mitotic count alone, the difference became borderline significant (P =.072). Of the immunohistochemical stainings used, synaptophysin, cytokeratin 8, and ki67 had limited prognostic value. Age above 60 was the only clinical parameter of unfavorable prognostic significance. We conclude that high-grade malignant neuroendocrine tumors of the midgut and of unknown origin are recognized by both the Capella classification and the WHO classification of neuroendocrine tumors of the lung. Further subdividing low-grade malignant tumors at this location appears to be of less value than in the lung, but assessing the mitotic activity of these tumors might be of prognostic value.
12453493: !synaptophysin Activity-dependent changes in synaptophysin immunoreactivity in hippocampus, piriform cortex, and entorhinal cortex of the rat. Synaptophysin, an integral membrane glycoprotein of synaptic vesicles, has been widely used to investigate synaptogenesis in both animal models and human patients. Kindling is an experimental model of complex partial seizures with secondary generalization, and a useful model for studying activation-induced neural growth in adult systems. Many studies using Timm staining have shown that kindling promotes sprouting in the mossy fiber pathway of the dentate gyrus. In the present study, we used synaptophysin immunohistochemistry to demonstrate activation-induced neural sprouting in non-mossy fiber cortical pathways in the adult rat. We found a significant kindling-induced increase in synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the stratum radiatum of CA1 and stratum lucidum/radiatum of CA3, the hilus, the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, and layer II/III of the piriform cortex, but no significant change in layer II/III of the entorhinal cortex, 4 weeks after the last kindling stimulation. We also found that synaptophysin immunoreactivity was lowest in CA3 near the hilus and increased with increasing distance from the hilus, a reverse pattern to that seen with Timm stains in stratum oriens following kindling. Furthermore, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was lowest in dorsal and greatest in ventral sections of both CA3 and dentate gyrus in both kindled and non-kindled animals. This demonstrates that different populations of sprouting axons are labeled by these two techniques, and suggests that activation-induced sprouting extends well beyond the hippocampal mossy fiber system.
12452775: !synaptophysin Brain signaling and behavioral responses induced by exposure to (56)Fe-particle radiation. Previous experiments have demonstrated that exposure to 56Fe-particle irradiation (1.5 Gy, 1 GeV) produced aging-like accelerations in neuronal and behavioral deficits. Astronauts on long-term space flights will be exposed to similar heavy-particle radiations that might have similar deleterious effects on neuronal signaling and cognitive behavior. Therefore, the present study evaluated whether radiation-induced spatial learning and memory behavioral deficits are associated with region-specific brain signaling deficits by measuring signaling molecules previously found to be essential for behavior [pre-synaptic vesicle proteins, synaptobrevin and synaptophysin, and protein kinases, calcium-dependent PRKCs (also known as PKCs) and PRKA (PRKA RIIbeta)]. The results demonstrated a significant radiation-induced increase in reference memory errors. The increases in reference memory errors were significantly negatively correlated with striatal synaptobrevin and frontal cortical synaptophysin expression. Both synaptophysin and synaptobrevin are synaptic vesicle proteins that are important in cognition. Striatal PRKA, a memory signaling molecule, was also significantly negatively correlated with reference memory errors. Overall, our findings suggest that radiation-induced pre-synaptic facilitation may contribute to some previously reported radiation-induced decrease in striatal dopamine release and for the disruption of the central dopaminergic system integrity and dopamine-mediated behavior.
12447684: !synaptophysin Solid adenoma with exclusive hepatocellular differentiation: a new variant among pancreatic benign neoplasms? We report a unique, previously unreported pancreatic tumor with hepatoid differentiation associated with serous microcystic adenoma in a 70-year-old man. These two lesions localized, respectively, at the body and the tail of the pancreas, were found incidentally on abdominal ultrasonography. Serum alpha-fetoprotein was not increased and no hepatic lesion was displayed on computed tomography. A subtotal pancreatectomy with splenectomy was performed. The patient is alive and well 12 months after resection. Pathological examination showed a very unusual encapsulated solid tumor with hepatocytic differentiation, bile production and immunoreactivity for hepatocyte paraffin-1 antibody. The tumor cells were negative for endocrine (neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, synaptophysin) and acinar (amylase, trypsin) markers. Ultrastructurally, zymogen and neurosecretory granules were absent. The features of the tumor were almost indistinguishable from those of hepatocellular adenoma; therefore, we believe that this solid hepatoid tumor may represent a variant of pancreatic adenoma. Recognition of this entity is important because the only reported pancreatic hepatoid tumors to date have been malignant. The main differential diagnoses include hepatoid ductal adenocarcinoma, hepatoid acinar cell carcinoma, primitive hepatoid endocrine tumor, and metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma.
12446703: !synaptophysin Nerve growth factor-dependent sorting of synaptotagmin IV protein to mature dense-core vesicles that undergo calcium-dependent exocytosis in PC12 cells. Synaptotagmin IV (Syt IV) is a fourth member of the Syt family and has been shown to regulate some forms of memory and learning by analysis of Syt IV null mutant mice (Ferguson, G. D., Anagnostaras, S. G., Silva, A. J., and Herschman, H. R. (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 97, 5598-5603). However, the involvement of Syt IV protein in vesicular trafficking and even its localization in secretory vesicles are still matters of controversy. Here we present several lines of evidence showing that the Syt IV protein in PC12 cells is normally localized in the Golgi or immature vesicles at the cell periphery and is sorted to fusion-competent mature dense-core vesicles in response to short nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulation. (i) In undifferentiated PC12 cells, Syt IV protein is mainly localized in the Golgi and small amounts are also present at the cell periphery, but according to the results of an immunocytochemical analysis, they do not colocalize with conventional secretory vesicle markers (Syt I, Syt IX, Rab3A, Rab27A, vesicle-associated membrane protein 2, and synaptophysin) at all. By contrast, limited colocalization of Syt IV protein with dense-core vesicle markers is found in the distal parts of the neurites of NGF-differentiated PC12 cells. (ii) Immunoelectron microscopy with highly specific anti-Syt IV antibody revealed that the Syt IV protein in undifferentiated PC12 cells is mainly present on the Golgi membranes and immature secretory vesicles, whereas after NGF stimulation Syt IV protein is also present on the mature dense-core vesicles. (iii) An N-terminal antibody-uptake experiment indicated that Syt IV-containing vesicles in the neurites of NGF-differentiated PC12 cells undergo Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, whereas no uptake of the anti-Syt IV-N antibody was observed in undifferentiated PC12 cells. Our results suggest that Syt IV is a stimulus (e.g. NGF)-dependent regulator for exocytosis of dense-core vesicles.
12445624: !synaptophysin Repetitive activation of protein kinase A induces slow and persistent potentiation associated with synaptogenesis in cultured hippocampus. Mammalian brain memory is hypothesized to be established through two phases; short-term plasticity, as exemplified by long-term potentiation (LTP) where pre-existing synapses change transmission efficiency, and long-lasting plasticity where new synapses are formed. This hypothesis, however, has not been verified experimentally. Using cultured hippocampal slices, we show that the repeated induction of late-phase LTP by brief applications of forskolin (FK) led to a slowly-developing long-lasting synaptogenesis, as judged from electrophysiological, cytological and ultrastructural indices. These indices include (1) field postsynaptic potential standardized by field action potential, which should represent the number of synapses per neuron; (2) the amounts of synaptic marker proteins; (3) the number of synaptophysin-immunopositive puncta; (4) the number of dendritic spines per length; (5) the density of synaptic ultrastructures; (6) ultrastructures similar to synapse perforation. Increment in these indices occurred approximately 10 days after FK-application and outlasted the following weeks. The increment depended on the times and intervals of FK-application. A biologically inert FK analogue failed to produce the similar effect. An inhibitor for cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) blocked the synaptogenesis. The cultured brain slice repeatedly exposed to FK should serve as a good model system for the analysis of persistent synaptogenesis possibly related to long-term memory in mammalian CNS.
12441163: !synaptophysin Adrenergic differentiation and SSR2a receptor expression in CAD-cells cultured in serum-free medium. The CAD cell line originates from catecholaminergic neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) of a simian virus large T antigen transgenic mouse. In the present study, we have immunohistochemically characterized the cell line after differentiation in serum-free medium, using immunofluorescence in combination with confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM), immunoblot, and ribonuclease protection assay (RPA). Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-, phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT)-, neuropeptide Y (NPY)-, vesicular monoamine transporter subtype 2-, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-, somatostatin (SS)-, synaptophysin-, synaptic vesicle protein 2 (SV2)-, and growth-associated protein of 43 (GAP-43)-immunoreactivities (IRs) were present in the cells but not choline acetyltransferase and vesicular acetylcholine transporter. The immunoreactive substances were present in cell bodies in serum-containing medium (SCM), but after serum withdrawal (protein-free medium, PFM) these proteins and peptides were partially shifted into the long process and their varicosities. A few cells cultured in PFM were occasionally found with extremely high TH-immunoreactivity (IR) in cell bodies and processes. Growth-associated protein of 43-immunoreactivity was weak in SCM but was up-regulated (verified with immunoblot) in PFM and concentrated in varicosities along the processes and the distal tips of neurites. The somatostatin receptor subtype 2a (SSR(2(a))) was found in the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of the CAD-cells. After serum deprivation, all three methods showed that SSR(2(a)) was up-regulated in the cells. Thus, the CAD cell line after differentiation may be suitable for studying dynamics of SSR(2(a)).
12440786: !synaptophysin Extraventricular neurocytoma: morphological and immunohistochemical considerations on differential diagnosis. Neurocytoma is an unusual neuronal tumor especially affecting young people. It commonly arises in the ventricles and has a benign outcome. Herein, we report on a rare case of extraventricular neurocytomas (right parietal lobe) in a young girl admitted to hospital for a cranial trauma subsequent to a seizure. The tumor, radiologically well-circumscribed, cystic and enhancing, was surgically excised. The patient, who received no post surgical treatment, is alive and well after 18 months of follow-up. Pathological examination showed a well-differentiated lesion composed of uniform, round cells with perinuclear halos in a neuropil background and immunohistochemically positive for neuronal markers (synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, neurofilaments). The authors emphasize the role of the morphological and immunohistochemical evaluations to recognize this rare tumor.
12438222: !synaptophysin DNA ligase IV suppresses medulloblastoma formation. Substantial neural defects are often present in mice with targeted inactivation of DNA repair factors such as DNA ligase IV (Lig4). Whereas Lig4(-/-) mice undergo widespread neural apoptosis and die during development, p53 deficiency rescues this death. We found that all Lig4(-/-)p53(-/-) mice developed medulloblastoma, but did not develop other tumors of the nervous system. Lig4(-/-)p53(-/-) medulloblastoma occurred as early as 21 days of age, originated in the external granule layer of the developing cerebellum, and was synaptophysin immunoreactive. These data reveal a pronounced susceptibility of the cerebellum to the effects of chronic DNA damage and provide a direct link between genotoxic stress and medulloblastoma formation.
12438157: !synaptophysin Circle of life of secretory vesicles in gastric enterochromaffin-like cells. Enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells are neuroendocrine cells in the gastric epithelium characterized by numerous electron-empty, histamine-containing secretory vesicles. The antral hormone gastrin is the key stimulus of histamine secretion from this cell type, thereby controling acid secretion. Following receptor binding, gastrin activates a biphasic calcium signal in ECL cells that involves activation of inositol triphosphate receptors and calcium entry across the plasma membrane. Dihydropyridines block gastrin-induced histamine secretion. However, no depolarization was observed following stimulation with gastrin. Elevation of intracellular calcium by gastrin is an important prerequisite for exocytosis. In permeabilized ECL cells, addition of calcium results in histamine release, which can be inhibited by tetanus toxin and botulinum neurotoxin A, underlining the functional importance of the synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) and synaptobrevin. Immunocytochemistry also confirmed the presence of these SNAP receptor (SNARE) proteins, as well as synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and syntaxin. Following 3-6 h of incubation in isolated cells, several transcription factors are induced by gastrin, such as ERK1/2, Sp1, and CRE. Gastrin thereby directly stimulates transcription of the vesicular monoamine transporter subtype 2 (VMAT-2) and chromogranins. Gene expression of histidine decarboxylase (HDC) appears to be stimulated by a putative "gastrin-responsive" element adjacent to the HDC exon 1 gene. ECL cells thereby share several similarities with adrenal chromaffin cells and neurons, but have their own functional properties. Gastrin coordinates secretion, synthesis, and storage by activating diverging signal transducers, leading to a functional synergy in this cell type.
12436063: !synaptophysin Quantitative immunocytochemistry of GABA and synaptophysin in the cerebellar cortex of old ethanol-fed rats. Ethanol-related synaptic loss, Purkinje neuron dendritic regression, and parallel fiber degeneration have been reported in the molecular layer of the adult cerebellar cortex. The known plasticity of the cerebellar cortex suggests that this region may respond to ethanol-related losses by compensatory remodeling of cerebellar circuitry. Stellate and basket interneurons may play an essential role in the remodeling process. Little is known about ethanol-related effects on cerebellar interneurons or on the GABAergic synapses that they form despite the fact that ethanol-related alterations in these components may contribute to the sensitivity of the cerebellum to ethanol. The paucity of data on GABAergic synapses extends to other synaptic components as well including synaptophysin, a glycoprotein component of synaptic vesicles and a synaptic marker.
12429371: !synaptophysin Altered synaptophysin expression in the rat spinal cord after chronic constriction injury of sciatic nerve. Injury to the peripheral nervous system can lead to spontaneous pain, hyperalgesia and allodynia. Previous studies have shown sprouting of Abeta-fibres into lamina II of the spinal cord dorsal horn after nerve injury and the formation of new synapses by these sprouts. Synaptophysin is a presynaptic vesicle protein, useful in the identification of synaptogenesis. Here we investigated whether synaptogenesis as measured by the expression of synaptophysin protein correlates with symptoms of neuropathic pain in rats with a chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve. We used immunohistochemistry, Western immunoblotting and densitometry to study the distribution of synaptophysin and to quantify relative protein. Synaptophysin was increased in the ipsilateral dorsal horn with a peak level on day 14 and returned to baseline on day 21 post-CCI. Synaptophysin levels temporally correlated with thermal hyperalgesia but not with tactile allodynia. Our results indicate that thermal hyperalgesia in CCI significantly correlates with synaptogenesis within the superficial layers of the dorsal horn.
12429223: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin in the cochlear nucleus following acoustic trauma. Chinchillas are notable for a low-frequency hearing range similar to that of humans and a marked sensitivity to loud noise. A single noise exposure that produces cochlear damage may lead to progressive loss of synaptic endings in the cochlear nucleus, followed by new axonal growth. As an index of synaptic regulation during such changes, we have examined the expression of a synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, in the cochlear nucleus following a damaging acoustic stimulus in adult chinchillas. With one ear protected by a plug, following a 3-h exposure to an octave-band noise of 108 dB sound pressure level, centered at 4 kHz, the unprotected cochlea and the cochlear nuclei exhibited degeneration of hair cells and axons over periods of 7, 14, 30, 90, and 150 days. Axonal degeneration, as revealed by a silver degeneration method, was heavy ipsilateral to the cochlear damage, but sparse degeneration also appeared on the contralateral, unexposed side. Synaptophysin immunostaining underwent a major, bilateral decline in the anteroventral and posteroventral cochlear nuclei, interrupted at intervening periods by transient increases in the numbers of stained structures. A distinction in staining between large perisomatic structures and smaller puncta in the neuropil and between the dorsal and the ventral zones of the ventral cochlear nuclei revealed some variations in the response and degree of recovery of synaptophysin staining. These findings could best be explained by degeneration of synaptic endings followed by new growth of terminals and by regulatory changes in the levels of synaptophysin expression and synaptic vesicle accumulation over time.
12429219: !synaptophysin Cell lines derived from hippocampal neurons of the normal and trisomy 16 mouse fetus (a model for Down syndrome) exhibit neuronal markers, cholinergic function, and functional neurotransmitter receptors. We have established hippocampal cell lines from normal and trisomy 16 fetal mice, a model of human trisomy 21. Both cell lines, named H1b (derived from a normal animal) and HTk (trisomic) possess neuronal markers by immunohistochemistry (enolase, synaptophysin, microtubule associated protein-2, and choline acetyltransferase) and lack glial markers (glial fibrillary acidic protein and S-100). Also, we evaluated intracellular Ca(2+) levels ([Ca(2+)](i)) in response to neurotransmitter agonists, in cells loaded with the fluorescent Ca(2+) indicators Indo-1 and Fluo-3. Both cell lines responded to glutamatergic stimuli induced by glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, I-amino-2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-oxo-4-isoxazole propanoic acid or kainate. Glutamate responses were only partially prevented by addition of 5 mM EGTA and the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, trans-(1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid (ACPD), increased [Ca(2+)](i) in both cell types. These results confirm the presence of glutamatergic metabotropic receptors. In glutamate-induced responses, HTk cells exhibited slower time-dependent decay kinetics than H1b cells. Cholinergic agonists (nicotine and muscarine) induced a rapid, transient increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in both cell types. Furthermore, some cells were sensitive to histamine and norepinephrine. All responses to the aforementioned agonists were prevented by addition of specific antagonists. We also studied incorporation and release of [(3)H]choline in the cells, and observed no differences in uptake parameters. However, release induced by K(+) and nicotine depolarization was greatly reduced in HTk cells. The results show that H1b and HTk cells retain neuronal characteristics and respond to specific neurotransmitter stimuli. The HTk differences could be related to neuronal pathophysiology in Down syndrome.
12429123: !synaptophysin Identification of SNARE and cell trafficking regulatory proteins in the salivary glands of the lone star tick, Amblyomma americanum (L.). Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) stimulates secretion of tick salivary gland proteins via a phosphoinositide signaling pathway and mobilization of intracellular Ca(2+) (). Highly conserved intracellular SNARE (soluble NSF attachment protein receptors) complex proteins are associated with the mechanism of protein secretion in vertebrate and invertebrate neuronal and non-neuronal cells. Proteins in the salivary glands of partially fed female lone star ticks cross-react individually with antibodies to synaptobrevin-2 (vesicle (v)-SNARE), syntaxin-1A, syntaxin-2 and SNAP-25 (target (t)-SNAREs), cytosolic alpha/beta SNAP and NSF (N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein), Ca(2+) sensitive synaptotagmin, vesicle associated synaptophysin, and regulatory cell trafficking GTPases Rab3A and nSec1. V-SNARE and t-SNARE proteins form an SDS-resistant, boiling sensitive core complex in the salivary glands. Antibodies to SNARE complex proteins inhibit PGE(2)-stimulated secretion of anticoagulant protein in permeabilized tick salivary glands. We conclude that SNARE and cell trafficking regulatory proteins are present and functioning in the process of PGE(2)-stimulated Ca(2+) regulated protein secretion in tick salivary glands.
12425166: !synaptophysin [Localization of primary small cell carcinoma with liver metastasis: a rare combination of colonic adenocarcinoma and undifferentiated small cell carcinoma]. Neuroendocrine or small cell cancer (SCC) is a rare tumor, accounting for less than 1% of all colorectal cancers. There is a high rate of metastasis in SCC. Overlying adenomas are commonly present in colorectal SCC. We present a case of a 67-year-old female patient with liver metastasis of SCC. Initially, the primary tumor was not found and the patient underwent chemotherapy. Ten months later, an adenocarcinoma of the right hemicolon was endoscopically diagnosed due to anal hemorrhage and right hemicolectomy was performed. Microscopic examination revealed that the adenocarcinoma was combined with an undifferentiated carcinomatous component. Immunocytochemistry was positive for synaptophysin and chromogranin. In our case a very rare combination of colonic adenocarcinoma and SCC within an overlying adenoma was found.
12424308: !synaptophysin Dopamine modulates synaptic transmission in the nucleus of the solitary tract. 10.1152/jn.00224.2002. Dopamine (DA) modulates the cardiorespiratory reflex by peripheral and central mechanisms. The aim of this study was to examine the role of DA in synaptic transmission of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), the major integration site for cardiopulmonary reflexes. To examine DA's role, we used whole cell, voltage-clamp recordings in a rat horizontal brain stem slice. Solitary tract stimulation evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) that were reduced to 70 +/- 5% of control by DA (100 microM). The reduction in EPSCs by DA was accompanied by a decrease in the paired pulse depression ratio with little or no change in input resistance or EPSC decay, suggesting a presynaptic mechanism. The D1-like agonist SKF 38393 Br (30 microM) did not alter EPSC amplitude, whereas the D2-like agonist, quinpirole HCl (30 microM), depressed EPSCs to 73 +/- 4% of control. The D2-like receptor antagonist, sulpiride (20 microM), abolished DA modulation of EPSCs. Most importantly, sulpiride alone increased EPSCs to 131 +/- 10% of control, suggesting a tonic D2-like modulation of synaptic transmission in the NTS. Examination of spontaneous EPSCs revealed DA reversibly decreased the frequency of events from 9.4 +/- 2.2 to 6.2 +/- 1.4 Hz. Sulpiride, however, did not alter spontaneous events. Immunohistochemistry of NTS slices demonstrated that D2 receptors colocalized with synaptophysin and substance P, confirming a presynaptic distribution. D2 receptors also localized to cultured petrosal neurons, the soma of presynaptic afferent fibers. In the petrosal neurons, D2 was found in cells that were TH-immunopositive, suggesting they were chemoreceptor afferent fibers. These results demonstrate that DA tonically modulates synaptic activity between afferent sensory fibers and secondary relay neurons in the NTS via a presynaptic D2-like mechanism.
12421621: !synaptophysin Estrogen replacement improves spatial reference memory and increases hippocampal synaptophysin in aged female mice. Estrogen deficiency during menopause is often associated with memory dysfunction. However, inconsistencies regarding the ability of estrogen to improve memory in menopausal women highlight the need to evaluate, in a controlled animal model, the potential for estrogen to alleviate age-related mnemonic decline. The current study tested whether estrogen could ameliorate spatial reference memory decline in aged female mice. At the conclusion of testing, levels of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin, and activities of the synthetic enzymes for acetylcholine and GABA, were measured in the hippocampus and neocortex. Aged (27-28-month-old) female C57BL/6 mice were given daily subcutaneous injections of 1 microg or 5 microg of beta-estradiol-3-benzoate dissolved in sesame oil. Control mice received daily injections of sesame oil or no injections. Estradiol treatment began 5 days prior to behavioral testing and continued throughout testing. Spatial and non-spatial memory were assessed in the Morris water maze. The 5 microg dose of estradiol significantly improved spatial learning and memory in aged females. The performance of 5 microg females improved significantly more rapidly than that of control females; estradiol-treated females performed at asymptotic levels by session 2. Furthermore, 5 microg females exhibited a more robust spatial bias than controls during probe trials. In contrast, 1 microg of estradiol did not improve spatial task performance. Neither dose affected performance of the non-spatial task. In the hippocampus, synaptophysin was increased in 5 microg females relative to controls. Estrogen did not affect enzyme activities in either brain region. This study is the first to examine the effects of estrogen replacement on spatial reference memory and synaptophysin expression in aged post-estropausal female rodents. The results suggest that: (1) estrogen can profoundly improve spatial reference memory in aged females, and (2) this improvement may be related to increased hippocampal synaptic plasticity, but not modulation of the synthetic enzymes for acetylcholine and GABA.
12417972: !synaptophysin [Small-cell mesothelioma of the pleura: description of a case]. A case of mesothelioma with a small cell component in a 53-year-old, non-smoker woman. The patient had a history of asbestos exposure, and presented with thoracic pain. A total body computed tomogram showed a left pleural effusion and a 7.5-cm pleural mass. Thoracoscopy revealed a diffuse nodular thickening of the left parietal pleura, and a biopsy was performed. The patient died of the disease 4 months after diagnosis. Microscopically, the pleural neoplasm was composed of three different components: 40% of the tumor showed the classic histology of a malignant epithelial mesothelioma, 40% was composed of small- to medium-sized cells with open nuclear chromatin, evident nucleoli and high mitotic activity, and 20% of the neoplasm was indistinguishable from a small cell carcinoma. Immunohistochemically, the first component was diffusely and strongly positive for cytokeratin AE1/AE3, cytokeratin CAM 5.2 and EMA, focally positive for BER-EP4, and negative for CD15, B 72.3, CEA, LCA, chromogranin, synaptophysin, TTF-1 and CD99. The cells of the second component were positive only for cytokeratin AE1/AE3 and cytokeratin CAM 5.2, and the elements of the third component were negative for all the antibodies tested. Pleural mesothelioma with a small cell component is rare. The most useful parameters to distinguish it from other small cell malignancies that may involve the pleura, particularly small cell carcinoma of pulmonary origin, are discussed.
12417676: !synaptophysin Primary afferent terminals in spinal cord express presynaptic AMPA receptors. Larger dorsal root ganglion neurons are stained by an antibody for the C terminus of glutamate receptor subunit 2 (GluR2) and GluR3 (GluR2/3) rather than by an antibody for GluR4. In dorsal roots, anti-GluR2/3 stains predominantly myelinated fibers; anti-GluR4 or anti-GluR2/4 stains predominantly unmyelinated fibers. In the dorsal horn, puncta immunopositive for synaptophysin and GluR2/3 are predominantly in laminas III and IV, whereas puncta immunopositive for synaptophysin and GluR4 or GluR2/4 are predominantly in laminas I and II. Puncta immunopositive for GluR2/3 costain with the B subunit of cholera toxin, whereas puncta immunopositive for GluR2/4 costain with isolectin B4 after injections of these tracers in the sciatic nerve. No puncta costain with calcitonin gene-related peptide and AMPA receptor subunits. Electron microscopy indicates that AMPA receptor-immunopositive terminals are more numerous than suggested by confocal microscopy. Of all synapses in which immunostaining is presynaptic, postsynaptic, or both, the percentage of presynaptic immunostain is approximately 70% with anti-GluR4 or anti-GluR2/4 (in laminas I-III), 25-30% with anti-GluR2/3 (in laminas III and IV), and 5% with anti-GluR2 (in laminas I-III). Because of fixation constraints, the types of immunostained terminals could be identified only on the basis of morphological characteristics. Many terminals immunostained for GluR2/3, GluR4, or GluR2/4 have morphological features of endings of primary afferents. Terminals with morphological characteristics of presumed GABAergic terminals are also immunostained with anti-GluR2/4 and anti-GluR4 in laminas I and II and with anti-GluR2/3 in laminas III and IV. The conspicuous and selective expression of presynaptic AMPA receptor subunits may contribute to the characteristic physiological profile of different classes of primary afferents and suggests an important mechanism for the modulation of transmitter release by terminals of both myelinated and unmyelinated primary afferents.
12414123: !synaptophysin Neural membrane protein 35/Lifeguard is localized at postsynaptic sites and in dendrites. We have previously identified and characterized a cDNA coding for neural membrane protein 35 (NMP35). We showed that NMP35 mRNA is predominantly expressed in the adult CNS with a neuronal expression pattern. Functional analysis indicates that the human homologue of NMP35, Lifeguard, plays a role in Fas-mediated cell death. In this study we used affinity-purified antibodies raised against the putative cytoplasmic N-terminal domain of NMP35 to determine its precise subcellular localization in the adult CNS. NMP35 protein is widely expressed throughout the brain and spinal cord, most prominently in dendrites of several neuronal cell types and in the surrounding neuropil. Immunofluorescence confocal microscopy reveals colocalization of NMP35 with the glutamate receptor GluR2 and adjacent localization to the presynaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. These data suggest that NMP35 may be localized to the postsynaptic membrane. Immunoelectron microscopy with NMP35 antibodies confirms the expression of the protein in dendritic processes and in a subset of synapses at the postsynaptic membrane and density. These findings suggest a role for NMP35 in synapses of the adult central nervous system.
12414095: !synaptophysin Postnatal development of synaptic inputs to rat masseter motoneurons. We examined postnatal changes in rat masseter motoneuron morphology and the density of synaptic inputs to masseter motoneurons using retrograde labeling combined with synaptophysin immunohistochemistry. The cross-sectional area and perimeter of masseter motoneurons increased through P21 whereas synaptic input density increased throughout the time frame sampled. Data suggest that changes in masseter motoneuron morphology and the density of its synaptic input contribute to the maturation of mastication behavior.
12412143: !synaptophysin Neurochemical characterization of receptor-expressing cell populations by in vivo agonist-induced internalization: insights from the somatostatin sst2A receptor. Characterization of both neurochemical phenotype of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR)-expressing cells and receptor compartmentalization is a prerequisite for the elucidation of receptor functions in the central nervous system. However, it is often prevented by the diffuse and homogeneous distribution of receptor immunoreactivity. This is particularly true for the somatostatin (SRIF) sst2A receptor, which is largely distributed in the mammalian brain. By using this receptor as a model, we investigated whether receptor internalization, a biochemical property shared by numerous GPCRs, would reveal sst2A-expressing cell populations in the rat dorsolateral septum (LSD), a region in which SRIF might play an important modulatory role. Thirty minutes to 1 hour after intracerebroventricular injection of the sst2A receptor agonist octreotide, numerous sst2A-immunoreactive neurons and processes became apparent due to intracytoplasmic accumulation of intensely stained granules. Double-immunolabeling experiments with synaptophysin and MAP2 provided evidence that internalized sst2A receptors are predominantly localized in the somatodendritic compartment. Revealing sst2A receptor-expressing cell bodies permitted to analyze their neurotransmitter content. Quantitative analysis demonstrated an extensive overlap (approximately 85%) between SRIF- and sst2A-expressing neuronal populations. Additionally, numerous SRIF-immunoreactive axon-like terminals were found in close apposition with sst2A-positive cell bodies and dendrites. Taken together, these data suggest that the sst2A receptor is predominantly expressed in LSD neurons as a postsynaptic autoreceptor, thus providing novel neuroanatomic clues to elucidate SRIF neurotransmission in this region. More generally, in vivo agonist-induced internalization appears as a rapid and powerful tool for the neurochemical characterization of GPCR-expressing cell populations in the mammalian brain.
12408346: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumours of the uterus: a case report with cytological correlation and review of the literature. A case of primitive neuroectodermal tumour (PNET) co-existing with endometrial adenocarcinoma of the uterus is reported in a 48-year-old female. Histologically, the neoplastic cells formed neuroectodermal rosettes and displayed ependymal differentiation. Focal positive immunohistochemical staining for synaptophysin, chromogranin A, CD57 and cytokeratins was noted. Merging imperceptibly with the neuroectodermal component were areas of endometrial adenocarcinoma and, to the best of our knowledge, this report represents the second case of a uterine PNET with an admixed müllerian component. The patient was disease-free 6 months following surgical resection of the tumour. The literature on this uncommon entity is critically reviewed and the histogenesis, differential diagnoses and cytomorphological features of PNET are also discussed.
12403815: !synaptophysin Recapitulation of embryonic neuroendocrine differentiation in adult human pancreatic duct cells expressing neurogenin 3. Regulatory proteins have been identified in embryonic development of the endocrine pancreas. It is unknown whether these factors can also play a role in the formation of pancreatic endocrine cells from postnatal nonendocrine cells. The present study demonstrates that adult human pancreatic duct cells can be converted into insulin-expressing cells after ectopic, adenovirus-mediated expression of the class B basic helix-loop-helix factor neurogenin 3 (ngn3), which is a critical factor in embryogenesis of the mouse endocrine pancreas. Infection with adenovirus ngn3 (Adngn3) induced gene and/or protein expression of NeuroD/beta2, Pax4, Nkx2.2, Pax6, and Nkx6.1, all known to be essential for beta-cell differentiation in mouse embryos. Expression of ngn3 in adult human duct cells induced Notch ligands Dll1 and Dll4 and neuroendocrine- and beta-cell-specific markers: it increased the percentage of synaptophysin- and insulin-positive cells 15-fold in ngn3-infected versus control cells. Infection with NeuroD/beta2 (a downstream target of ngn3) induced similar effects. These data indicate that the Delta-Notch pathway, which controls embryonic development of the mouse endocrine pancreas, can also operate in adult human duct cells driving them to a neuroendocrine phenotype with the formation of insulin-expressing cells.
12399130: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical neuroendocrine differentiation is an independent prognostic factor in surgically resected large cell carcinoma of the lung. The clinical significance of neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation is unclear in large cell carcinoma (LCC) of the lung. Fifty-five surgically resected carcinomas of the lung with an original pathologic diagnosis of LCC were reviewed histologically with special attention to NE morphology. Antibodies against neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), chromogranin A (CGA) and synaptophysin (SY) were used to confirm the NE differentiation. Thirteen (24%) cases were classified as large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, 9 (16%) as LCC with NE differentiation, and 33 (60%) as pure LCC. There was no significant difference in overall survival between the three groups. When the 55 carcinomas were divided into three groups depending on the number of NE marker expression, there was significantly better overall survival in the NE > or = 2 (P = 0.02). Multivariate analysis proved NE > or = 2 was an independent predictor of survival. The number of NE markers was more important in terms of survival than histological sub-classification.
12393229: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine plasticity in GnRH release during rat estrous cycle: correlation with molecular markers of synaptic remodeling. Morphological changes in the gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons in the preoptic area (POA) and their terminals in the median eminence-arcuate (ME-ARC) region are reported to occur during ovarian cycle that may be involved in the GnRH release into the portal blood during preovulatory surge. However, the neuronal substrates participating in altered GnRH neuronal plasticity are poorly understood. The present study was designed to determine whether morphological changes occurring in the GnRH neuron cell bodies in the POA and their terminals in the ME-ARC region of hypothalamus with pulsatile GnRH release in cycling female rats are associated with expression of intrinsic determinants of neuronal plasticity. The plasticity markers studied are polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), high molecular weight isoforms of NCAM, growth associated protein (GAP-43), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and synaptophysin. Regularly cycling female rats were sacrificed at diestrous, i.e., when GnRH release is low, and at proestrous, i.e., when preovulatory GnRH surge occurs, using perfusion fixation method for immunohistochemical staining of GnRH cells. GnRH cell bodies and their terminals from the POA and ME-ARC region respectively, were localized using immunohistochemical technique in proestrous and diestrous phase of estrous cycle and our results showed a marked increase in the GnRH nerve terminals length and immunoreactivity in the ME-ARC region from proestrous phase rats as compared to diestrous rats. Immunoblot analyses of the POA and ME-ARC region of the hypothalamus revealed a significant increase in the content of PSA-NCAM, NCAM-180, NCAM-140, GAP-43 and synaptophysin from proestrous phase rats as compared to diestrous phase rats. The ME-ARC region showed more pronounced increase in the protein expression of these markers of neuronal plasticity as compared to the POA, whereas, hippocampal region did not show any significant change in the content of these markers showing specificity of the changes to the GnRH system. GFAP content was significantly decreased in the POA with a marginal increase in the GFAP level from the ME-ARC region. These results demonstrate the involvement of synaptic proteins in the dynamic plasticity of the ME-ARC region of hypothalamus, allowing GnRH nerve terminals to release the neurohormone into the pituitary portal blood on the day of proestrous.
12391610: !synaptophysin Region-specific reduction of A beta-degrading endopeptidase, neprilysin, in mouse hippocampus upon aging. Metabolism of amyloid-beta peptide (A beta) is closely associated with the pathology and etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neprilysin is the only rate-limiting catabolic peptidase proven by means of reverse genetics to participate in A beta metabolism in vivo. The aim of the present study is to assess whether possible spatial changes in neprilysin level in the brain with aging correlate to AD-vulnerable regions. When neprilysin levels in various brain regions of 10-, 80- and 132-week-old mice were evaluated by neprilysin-dependent endopeptidase activity assay and Western blot-based quantitative analysis, a clear change in neprilysin level with aging was observed in the hippocampal formation, in which the level was reduced by 20% at 132 weeks, compared to the 10-week group. Quantitative immunohistochemical analysis confirmed a marked local reduction of neprilysin levels with aging at the outer molecular layer and polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus, and the stratum lucidum of the hippocampus, where the densities were reduced by 56%, 82% and 83%, respectively, at 132 weeks compared to the 10-week group. Thus, neprilysin was decreased selectively at the terminal zones and on axons of the lateral perforant path and the mossy fibers. These are the sites that show A beta pathology in mutant amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice, and that show synaptic loss in AD. The immunoreactivities to synaptic vesicle protein-2 and synaptophysin in the stratum lucidum and the dentate gyrus were unchanged, suggesting that a loss or decrease of synapses was not responsible for the decrease in the neprilysin levels. These observations suggest that downregulation of neprilysin is likely to be related to AD pathology and to the A beta deposition associated with normal aging in humans.
12391607: !synaptophysin Gene expression profiling of 12633 genes in Alzheimer hippocampal CA1: transcription and neurotrophic factor down-regulation and up-regulation of apoptotic and pro-inflammatory signaling. Alterations in transcription, RNA editing, translation, protein processing, and clearance are a consistent feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. To extend our initial study (Alzheimer Reports [2000] 3:161-167), RNA samples isolated from control and AD hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) were analyzed for 12633 gene and expressed sequence tag (EST) expression levels using DNA microarrays (HG-U95Av2 Genechips; Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA). Hippocampal CA1 tissues were carefully selected from several hundred potential specimens obtained from domestic and international brain banks. To minimize the effects of individual differences in gene expression, RNA of high spectral quality (A(260/280) > or= 1.9) was pooled from CA1 of six control or six AD subjects. Results were compared as a group; individual gene expression patterns for the most-changed RNA message levels were also profiled. There were no significant differences in age, postmortem interval (mean < or = 2.1 hr) nor tissue pH (range 6.6-6.9) between the two brain groups. AD tissues were derived from subjects clinically classified as CDR 2-3 (CERAD/NIA). Expression data were analyzed using GeneSpring (Silicon Genetics, Redwood City, CA) and Microarray Data Mining Tool (Affymetrix) software. Compared to controls and 354 background/alignment markers, AD brain showed a generalized depression in brain gene transcription, including decreases in RNA encoding transcription factors (TFs), neurotrophic factors, signaling elements involved in synaptic plasticity such as synaptophysin, metallothionein III, and metal regulatory factor-1. Three- or morefold increases in RNAs encoding DAXX, cPLA(2), CDP5, NF-kappaBp52/p100, FAS, betaAPP, DPP1, NFIL6, IL precursor, B94, HB15, COX-2, and CEX-1 signals were strikingly apparent. These data support the hypothesis of widespread transcriptional alterations, misregulation of RNAs involved in metal ion homeostasis, TF signaling deficits, decreases in neurotrophic support and activated apoptotic and neuroinflammatory signaling in moderately affected AD hippocampal CA1.
12391588: !synaptophysin Turnover of synaptic membranes: age-related changes and modulation by dietary restriction. We examined age-related changes in the turnover rates of synaptic membrane components that might underlie the decrease in synaptic functions in senescence. Synaptic membrane constituents were labeled in vivo with deuterium and the disappearance of the deuterated molecules from synaptic membranes was measured by mass spectrometry. The turnover rates of phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, cholesterol, and synaptophysin were all shown to slow down with aging. Dietary restriction, which is known to retard various aging processes, was found to decrease the turnover rates of membrane lipid species. Consequently, the fatty acid composition in phospholipids remained unchanged in the synaptic plasma membranes of food restricted mice. In contrast, the turnover rate of synaptophysin was accelerated under dietary restriction. This may mean that increased turnover enhances the removal of damaged proteins from membranes.
12389158: !synaptophysin [Cerebral neuroblastomas: diagnosis and treatment]. To review the literature on cerebral neuroblastomas (CN), including their anatomopathological filiation, clinical characteristics together with those they display in imaging studies, and the different therapeutic options with their prognosis.
12388603: !synaptophysin Synaptic localization of nitric oxide synthase and soluble guanylyl cyclase in the hippocampus. Functional evidence suggests that nitric oxide released from CA1 pyramidal cells can act as a retrograde messenger to mediate hippocampal long-term potentiation, but the failure to find neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS-I) in the dendritic spines of these cells has cast doubt on this suggestion. We hypothesized that NOS-I may be in spines but in a form inaccessible to antibody when using standard histological fixation procedures. Supporting this hypothesis, we found that after a weak fixation protocol shown previously to enhance staining of synaptic proteins, CA1 pyramidal cells exhibit clear immunoreactivity for NOS-I. Confocal microscopy revealed that numerous dendritic spines in the stratum radiatum contained the NR2 subunit of the NMDA receptor and the adaptor protein postsynaptic density-95, and a subset of these spines also contained NOS-I. Quantitative studies showed that only approximately 8% of synaptic puncta (identified by synaptophysin staining) were associated with NOS-I, and approximately 9% contained the beta subunit of soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC), a major target of NO. However, the majority of NOS-I-positive synaptic puncta was associated with sGC and vice versa. Postembedding immunogold electron microscopy showed that NOS-I concentrates just inside the postsynaptic plasma membrane of asymmetric axospinous synapses in the stratum radiatum of CA1, whereas sGCbeta concentrates just inside the presynaptic membrane. Together, these findings support the possibility that NO may act as a retrograde messenger to help mediate homosynaptic plasticity in a subpopulation of synapses in the stratum radiatum of CA1.
12376920: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the cervix: a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of two cases. Two cases of primary primitive neuroectodermal tumors of the cervix are presented. The two female patients are 35 and 51 years of age who presented with abnormal uterine bleeding of several weeks' duration. On gynecologic examination, a mass in the cervical area was palpated and a biopsy was obtained. The initial biopsy was interpreted as possible small cell carcinoma in both women. A radical hysterectomy was performed in both patients. Grossly, in both cases, the uterine cervix showed an ill-defined tumor involving the ectocervix and endocervix, measuring 3.0 and 4.0 cm in greatest dimension, respectively, and showing areas of necrosis and hemorrhage. Histologic sections showed the presence of a malignant neoplasm arranged in cords and with a vague nesting pattern. Areas of hemorrhage and necrosis were also present. The neoplastic cells were characterized by having indistinct cell borders, small round to oval nuclei, and inconspicuous nucleoli. Mitotic figures were easily identified. In one patient, the tumor had metastasized to lymph nodes. Immunohistochemical studies revealed the neoplastic cells to be positive for antibodies for CD99 and focally for synaptophysin, while keratin, chromogranin, smooth muscle actin, desmin, and neurofilament protein were negative. Both patients received adjuvant chemotherapy and remain alive 5 and 18 months after initial diagnosis, respectively. The present cases highlight the importance of keeping primitive neuroectodermal tumors in the differential diagnosis of small cell neoplasms of the uterine cervix.
12375611: !synaptophysin Predictors of malignant behaviour in gastrointestinal stromal tumours: a clinicopathological study of 34 cases. The clinicopathological features of gastrointestinal (GI) stromal tumours were analysed to find out the features that influence prognosis in these neoplasms.
12371605: !synaptophysin Amyloid-beta1-42 treatment does not have a specific effect on cholinergic neurons in in vitro basal forebrain neuronal cultures of rat. The neurotoxic effect of amyloid-beta peptide (1-42) was investigated in cultures of neuronal tissue derived from the basal forebrain of embryonic rat. The axonal varicosities of the cholinergic cells were revealed by vesicular acetylcholine transporter staining, and the axonal varicosities in general by synaptophysin immunohistochemistry. The results demonstrate that the treatment of in vitro neuronal cultures with 20 microM amyloid-beta peptide (1-42) for 2 days on day 5, 12 or 15 exerted a neurotoxic effect on both the cholinergic and the non-cholinergic neurons. In the same cultures, the absolute number of synaptophysin-positive axon varicosities was reduced to greater extent (control: 203 +/- 37/field vs treated: 101 +/- 16/field) than the number of vesicular acetylcholine transporter-immunoreactive (control: 48 +/- 4/field vs treated: 0/field) structures. It is concluded that amyloid-beta peptide (1-42) does not have a specific effect only on the cholinergic neurons, but affects non-cholinergic neurons as well.
12371598: !synaptophysin Distinctive pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma-like tumor with exclusive abortive or aberrant neuronal differentiation and repeated recurrence--case report. A 9-year-old girl with a 1-month history of generalized seizure presented with a distinctive tumor resembling pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma. Neuroimagings showed a right frontotemporal lobe tumor. Histological examination of the resected tumor indicated similarity to pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma without staining for glial fibrillary acidic protein. The neuronal immunoreactivity and ultrastructural features showed two discrepancies: Numerous cytoplasmic processes containing rich structures suspected to be microtubules and neurofilaments were present, but neurofilament protein 70 kd/200 kd staining was negative; and many tumor cells showed synaptophysin staining, but no synaptic structures or vesicles were observed. She suffered recurrence 14 months after the first surgery. The specimen from the second operation revealed no malignant transformation with a MIB-1 labeling index of 1.9%. Only 2 months after the second operation, there was a second recurrence. Irradiation was administered (60.2 Gy). Twenty-eight months later, no tumor progression was seen. This tumor was an unconventional type with "abortive" or "aberrant" neuronal differentiation or an extreme variant of pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma.
12365216: !synaptophysin Loss of cell cohesion in breast cytology as a characteristic of neuroendocrine carcinoma. To characterize a specific group of breast cancers displaying a scattered single cell pattern in cytology and correlate it with histologic and immunohistochemical findings.
12363201: !synaptophysin Increased synaptophysin expression through whisker stimulation in rat. 1. Synaptophysin is responsible for the cycling of the synaptic vesicles containing the neurotransmitter, and it can be phosphorylated. 2. This study examined whether repeated whisker stimulation alters the expression of synaptophysin mRNA in the rat barrel cortex, and found induced expression of synaptophysin mRNA in the contralateral barrel cortex compared to that in the ipsilateral hemi sphere. 3. This result suggests that synaptophysin is involved in the modulation of the synaptic plasticity.
12360045: !synaptophysin Plexiform xanthomatous tumor: a report of 20 cases in 12 patients. We present 12 patients with 20 plexiform xanthomatous tumors (PXTs). All patients were male. Patient ages ranged from 20 to 59 years (mean 45 years). Clinical information was available for 11 (92%) patients. Only one patient with markedly elevated cholesterol levels had a family history of hypercholesterolemia; none of the others had a family or personal history of diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, or hyperlipoproteinemia. Three patients had markedly elevated serum triglyceride levels. The tumors were solitary in seven patients and multiple in five patients: three patients had two tumors, one presented had three, and one had four. PXTs were located on the knee (n = 8), elbow (n = 5), foot or hand (n = 3), and one each on the Achilles tendon, buttock, toe, and back. PXT was white to yellow in color and ranged in size from 0.7 to 5 cm (mean 2.7 cm). The tumors were located in the dermis and subcutis, had a distinctive plexiform arrangement, and were composed of various admixtures of uniform epithelioid and xanthomatous cells. All tumors in patients with solitary or multiple lesions had a plexiform architecture. Most of the nodules of the plexiform pattern of PXTs measured 0.5-2 mm. Rarely cholesterol clefts, necrosis, sparse inflammation, and multinucleated Touton giant cells were present. In two patients with multiple tumors, the PXT completely lacked the xanthoma cells and thus resembled an epithelioid lesion. Immunohistochemically, all lesions were KP1 (CD68) and vimentin positive and lysozyme, S-100 protein, HMB-45, epithelial membrane antigen, cytokeratins, factor VIIIrag, CD34, muscle-specific actin, alpha-smooth muscle actin, desmin (D33), desmin (Der-11), chromogranin, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, and glial fibrillary acidic protein negative. Two patients with multiple lesions noted recurrences over 10 years. With the exception of one patient who died of an unknown cause, all 10 patients with follow-up were alive, some with residual disease, over a mean of 9 years (range 1-25 years). Some PXTs may represent a morphologic variant of tuberous or tendinous xanthoma, yet its exclusive occurrence in men, absence of personal/familial hyperlipemia/hypercholesterolemia in some patients, and relative paucity of inflammation and cholesterol clefts may make this a distinctive entity.
12353137: !synaptophysin An ultrastructural and immunohistochemical study of olfactory neuroepithelioma with rhabdomyoblasts. A rare case of olfactory neuroepithelioma with rhabdomyoblasts in a 61-year-old man was investigated using electron microscopic and immunohistochemical methods. A large tumor enhanced by gadolinium-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) was demonstrated on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), located within the anterior cranial fossa without bone destruction. The tumor mostly consisted of small cells with scant cytoplasm. Tubular rosettes were often found. Immunoreactivity for cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) was strongly positive. Most of the tumor cells were shown to be positive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and vimentin and weakly positive for synaptophysin and S-100. Rhabdomyoblasts, which showed oval cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm and a nucleus sometimes displaced toward the periphery of the cell body, were frequently intermingled with the tumor cells. The immunoreactivity for myoglobin was frequently positive in these oval cells. The MIB-1 index showed high values, of 20%-40%. About 10% of the tumor cells revealed positivity for p53 protein and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Ultra-structurally, numerous junctional complexes were observed between cell bodies and processes. The cell processes frequently contained numerous microtubules. There were sometimes numerous filaments with small aggregates of Z-band material and thick filament-ribosomal complexes in the oval cells. They were concluded to be consistent with rhabdomyoblasts on light microscopic and immunohistochemical findings.
12352297: !synaptophysin Collision tumor of the stomach: a case report of mixed gastrointestinal stromal tumor and adenocarcinoma. Collision tumors of the stomach are uncommon. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of gastric collision tumor composed of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) intermixed with primary adenocarcinoma in the English literature. The adenocarcinoma was determined to be the primary tumor based on histologic features. The tumor cells of the GIST were diffusely and strongly positive for CD34 and CD117, weakly positive for smooth muscle actin (5% of cells), and negative for desmin, S-100 protein, synaptophysin, and cytokeratin. There was no transition between the different components. We hypothesized that the stomach was influenced by the same unknown carcinogen, resulting in a simultaneous proliferation of different cell lines (epithelial and stromal cell). This case represents an example of two independent tumors in a unique one-on-another pattern, namely growth of adenocarcinoma on GIST.
12352185: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine marker expression in cervical carcinomas of non-small cell type. Small-cell carcinomas of the uterine cervix are highly aggressive tumors. Up to 100% of these tumors express at least one neuroendocrine marker such as neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin A (CgA), and synaptophysin (SYN). In other tumor types such as non-small-cell carcinomas of the lung, colon, and prostate, the presence of these markers has been associated with a better prognosis in some studies, a worsened prognosis in others, or has had no prognostic effect in still other studies. However, little is known about their expression and prognostic significance in the common "non-small-cell" carcinomas of the uterine cervix. The primary tumors of 54 previously untreated patients with histologically confirmed non-small-cell carcinoma of the cervix uteri (squamous carcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma) were analyzed by immunohistochemistry for expression of NSE, CgA, and SYN. The expression status was correlated to pathological characteristics and outcome. In addition, the expression of these markers was investigated in cervical carcinoma cell lines. None of the 54 tumors expressed NSE or CgA, although SYN was positive in five tumors (9%) of which four were squamous and one was adenocarcinoma. These five patients relapsed within the first 6 months of follow-up and four have died. Among eight cancer cell lines only one was positive for CgA and another one for SYN. We conclude that the neuroendocrine marker SYN is expressed in a small subset of non-small-cell carcinomas of the cervix and its expression seems to correlate with a poor outcome.
12297946: !synaptophysin [Merkel cell carcinoma]. Merkel cell carcinoma (cutaneous neuroendocrine carcinoma) is an uncommon, highly malignant, neuroendocrine skin tumour. Typically, the primary is a fast-growing tough dermal nodule that is characterized histologically by uniform round cells with a small cytoplasmic rim. The tumour cells express the cytokeratins 8, 18, 19, 20, neurofilament, synaptophysin, chromogranin, and neuron-specific enolase. A high frequency of local recurrences (25-77%) and lymph-node metastases (50%) are characteristic features of Merkel cell carcinoma. The 5-year survival rate is 30-74%. Merkel cell carcinomas are highly radiosensitive. Thus, besides surgical methods, radiation should be included into the treatment concept in every stage. We present four cases of Merkel cell carcinoma with different courses for a review-like discussion of this disease giving instructions for rapid diagnosis and effective therapy.
12242522: !synaptophysin Expression of neuroendocrine markers: a signature of human undifferentiated carcinoma of the colon and rectum. The frequency and prognostic significance of neuroendocrine marker expression in undifferentiated colorectal cancers has not yet been studied in great detail. Therefore, the survival of 20 patients with small cell undifferentiated colorectal cancers, treated at our institution between 1982 and 1997 (0.8% of all operated colorectal carcinomas), was correlated with the extent of neuroendocrine differentiation. Chromogranin A, synaptophysin, syntaxin1, VAMP2, SNAP25 and alpha/beta-SNAP were used as neuroendocrine markers. Based on the degree of immunoreactivity for these marker proteins, tumors were separated into group 0 (<2% cells stained positive for neuroendocrine markers) and group 1 (>2% cells stained positive). Patients were followed up for at least 5 years or until death. Of 20 (45%) undifferentiated colorectal tumors, 9 expressed neuroendocrine markers (group 1). Only one patient of this group survived for 2 years (11%), whereas the 2-year-survival rate was 45.4% in group 0. Of the 11 patients in group 0, 9 were diagnosed with UICC stages I-III, whereas 8 of 9 tumors with expression of neuroendocrine markers were diagnosed with UICC stage IV ( P=0.002). Our results show that neuroendocrine differentiation is often seen in small cell undifferentiated colorectal cancer. It correlates with a more aggressive course of the disease.
12242483: !synaptophysin Identification and characterization of small cells in the adult pancreas: potential progenitor cells? In this report we describe the identification of a novel cell type in human and canine pancreas using tissue culture techniques. These cells, representing less than 1% of total islet cells, are of a small size (7-10 microm) and highly quiescent. They display a fairly immature morphology, which is characterized by a weakly developed protein synthesis machinery, a few mitochondria and a small number of neuroendocrine granules. These cells, which we have termed "small cells," are usually organized into small clusters, which can be identified within the islets of predominantly small size. They can also be collected as separate structures from preparations of freshly isolated islets. Immunohistochemically, small cells are positive for PDX-1, synaptophysin, insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, pancreatic polypeptide, alpha-fetaprotein and Bcl-2 and negative for cytokeratin 19 and nestin. Insulin secretion studies demonstrated that these cells secrete insulin in a glucose-responsive fashion, although do not respond to secretagogues such as IBMX and arginine as do mature beta cells. Although this study does not provide evidence of the proliferative and differentiation potential of small cells, their immature morphology, along with a small size and quiescence, let us hypothesize that these cells may serve as progenitors contributing to the islet growth.
12240569: !synaptophysin Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor presenting in the retroperitoneum: a case report with immunohistochemical study. It is now believed that malignant peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) form a distinct tumor entity from other malignant small round cell tumors exhibiting neuroectodermal differentiation by morphologic, immunohistochemical or electron microscopic analyses. A 17-year-old Ethiopian boy was found to have a big upper extra osseous retroperitoneal tumor mass not associated with peripheral nerve that had infiltrated the body of the pancreas. Histologic sections from excised biopsy showed neoplastic cells with a high nuclear-cytoplasmic ratio and had an indistinct cytoplasm with numerous Homer-Wright rosettes. Immunohistochemically, isolated tumor cells and the centre of rosettes disclosed strong positivity to neural markers, synaptophysin and chromogranin. To the best of our knowledge, this case report represents the first patient described in Ethiopia.
12237909: !synaptophysin Morphology and therapeutic strategies for neuroendocrine tumors of the genitourinary tract. Although many articles have been published regarding neuroendocrine tumors (NET) and neuroendocrine carcinomas of both low- and high-grade malignancy (NEC) of the genitourinary tract, the histologic diagnosis and therapeutic strategies for treating these entities remains difficult. In the current study the author discusses the significant differences between NET and NEC of the urinary bladder and the prostate, including therapeutic consequences.
12221932: !synaptophysin Cryopreservation of brain tissue for primary culture. Factors affecting recovery of brain cells from cryopreserved cerebral tissues of fetal rats were examined based on yields of viable cells on cell culture. Favorable preservation was obtained with freezing small pieces (less than 1 mm cube) of brain tissues rather than whole tissues or dissociated single cells, and use of 10% dimethylsulfoxide as a cryoprotectant in liquid nitrogen. As for cell preparation procedures, cell survival was improved when tissues were heated at 32 degrees C during papain digestion and centrifugation. Under favorable conditions, the number of brain cells recovered from cryopreserved tissues corresponded to 20-30% of those from fresh control tissues. Immunocytochemical characteristics of cultured neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes from cryopreserved and fresh tissues were indistinguishable. Semi-quantitive analyses of microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP-2) and synaptophysin revealed that there was no difference in the amounts of these markers between cultures from both fresh and cryopreserved tissues. These results suggest that most of all cell types including neurons were equally susceptible to the cryopreservation procedures. We concluded that cryopreservation in liquid nitrogen is an effective method for preservation of embryonic brain tissues for later use in cell culture studies.
12221070: !synaptophysin Agrin plays an organizing role in the formation of sympathetic synapses. Agrin is a nerve-derived factor that directs neuromuscular synapse formation, however its role in regulating interneuronal synaptogenesis is less clear. Here, we examine agrin's role in synapse formation between cholinergic preganglionic axons and sympathetic neurons in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) using agrin-deficient mice. In dissociated cultures of SCG neurons, we found a significant decrease in the number of synapses with aggregates of presynaptic synaptophysin and postsynaptic neuronal acetylcholine receptor among agrin-deficient neurons as compared to wild-type neurons. Moreover, the levels of pre- and postsynaptic markers at the residual synapses in agrin-deficient SCG cultures were also reduced, and these defects were rescued by adding recombinant neural agrin to the cultures. Similarly, we observed a decreased matching of pre- and postsynaptic markers in SCG of agrin-deficient embryos, reflecting a decrease in the number of differentiated synapses in vivo. Finally, in electrophysiological experiments, we found that paired-pulse depression was more pronounced and posttetanic potentiation was significantly greater in agrin-deficient ganglia, indicating that synaptic transmission is also defective. Together, these findings indicate that neural agrin plays an organizing role in the formation and/or differentiation of interneuronal, cholinergic synapses.
12220561: !synaptophysin Effect of prenatal auditory enrichment on developmental expression of synaptophysin and syntaxin 1 in chick brainstem auditory nuclei. Neural activity plays an important role in shaping the developing brain. We have determined the consequence of increased auditory stimulation on the developmental profile of synaptic proteins, synaptophysin and syntaxin 1, in the chick brainstem auditory nuclei, nucleus magnocellularis and nucleus laminaris, by immunohistochemistry and western blotting techniques. The chick embryos were provided with patterned sounds of species-specific calls or musical notes of a sitar, a stringed instrument, in a graded manner from embryonic day 10 (E10) through hatching, for 15 min every hour. During normal synaptogenesis of nucleus magnocellularis and nucleus laminaris, synaptophysin immunoreactivity increased significantly from E8 to E20, in parallel with synapse formation, and reduced at hatching. The embryos receiving species-specific sound stimuli exhibited a similar pattern with higher levels of immunoreactivity, though the difference between the study groups was not statistically significant. The music stimulated embryos showed an earlier peak at E16, followed by a gradual decline until hatching. In all three groups studied, syntaxin immunoreactivity showed a surge at E12, followed by a decline at E16 and subsequent stabilization. The stimulated groups continually expressed higher amounts of syntaxin immunoreactivity. The results suggest that prenatal sound stimulation enhances the normal pattern of synaptic protein expression in these auditory nuclei.
12212771: !synaptophysin Calpain inhibitors: a treatment for Alzheimer's disease. Activation of the calpain system might contribute to the impairment of synaptic transmission in Alzheimer's disease (AD) (Liu et al., 1999; Rapoport, 1999; Selkoe, 1994). Calpains regulate the function of many proteins by limited proteolysis and initiate the complete degradation of other proteins. In particular, they modulate processes that govern the function and metabolism of proteins key to the pathogenesis of AD, including tau and amyloid precursor protein (APP). (Xie and Johnson, 1998; Wang, 2000). We have found that overexpression of APP(K670M:N671L) and PS1(M146L) proteins in hippocampal cultures derived from transgenic mice causes an increase in the frequency of spontaneous release of neurotransmitter. We have also found that calpain immunoreactive clusters are co-localized with immunoreactivity for the vesicle-associated presynaptic marker, synaptophysin. Moreover, application of calpain inhibitor reduces the frequency of spontaneous release of neurotransmitter. Therefore, we have hypothesized that calpains might contribute to the increase in transmitter release. Based on this hypothesis, we propose to test whether it is possible to restore normal synaptic transmission between cells derived from the transgenic model of AD by using calpain inhibitors. The transgenic mouse model also shows spatial learning impairment, a phenomenon that is thought to be associated with plastic changes at synaptic level. Therefore, we will also test whether we can rescue the learning impairment through a treatment with calpain inhibitors.
12210830: !synaptophysin Malignant rhabdoid tumor shows incomplete neural characteristics as revealed by expression of SNARE complex. To elucidate the biological differences in neural phenotype between malignant rhabdoid tumor (MRT) and neuroblastoma cell lines, we examined the expression of solube N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex proteins in MRT cell lines under differentiation induction with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Six MRT cell lines (TM87-16, STM91-01, TTC642, TTC549, YAM-RTK1, and TTC1240) and six neuroblastoma cell lines (IMR-32, NH12, SCCH26, TGW, NB-1, and NB-NR) were used in this study. Expression of SNAREs: the vesicle SNARE (synaptotagmin, synaptophysin, and synaptobrevin-2) and the target SNARE (syntaxin 1A, SNAP-25A/B) was examined. Our results showed that in MRT cells, only two cell lines (TM87-16, TTC642) expressed the vesicle SNARE and the target SNARE with the exception of SNAP-25B, while all neuroblastoma cells expressed the entire SNARE complex. During differentiation, synaptotagmin was upregulated in these two MRT cell lines. Interestingly, synaptophysin was downregulated in these MRT cell lines in contrast with the neuroblastoma cell lines. SNAP-25B was not expressed in MRT cells after differentiation with TPA. MRT cells having a neural phenotype morphologically looked like neuroblastoma cells after treatment with TPA. However, the expression of SNARE complex was incomplete in MRT cells. Our results suggest that the biological characteristics of MRT cells with neural phenotype are distinct from those of neuroblastoma cells.
12209687: !synaptophysin Metastatic prostate carcinoma to bone: clinical and pathologic features associated with cancer-specific survival. The objective of this study was to examine the clinical and pathologic features of metastatic prostate carcinoma to bone in a large cohort of men, and the associations of these features with outcome.
12207971: !synaptophysin Characterization of neuronal dystrophy induced by fibrillar amyloid beta: implications for Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid deposition, neuronal dystrophy and synaptic loss are characteristic pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have used cortical neuronal cultures to assess the dystrophic effect of fibrillar amyloid beta (Abeta) and its relationship with neurotoxicity and synaptic loss. Treatment with fibrillar Abeta led to the development of neuritic dystrophy in the majority of the neurons present in the culture. Morphometric analysis and viability assays showed that neuronal dystrophy appeared significantly earlier and at lower Abeta concentrations than neurotoxicity, suggesting that both effects are generated independently by different cellular mechanisms. The development of dystrophic features required Abeta fibril formation and did not depend on the presence of the RHDS adhesive domain in the sequence of Abeta. Finally, a dramatic reduction in the density of synaptophysin immunoreactivity was closely associated with dystrophic changes in viable neurons. These results suggest that aberrant plastic changes and loss of synaptic integrity induced by fibrillar Abeta may play a significant role in the development of AD pathology.
12205683: !synaptophysin Adult bone marrow stromal stem cells express germline, ectodermal, endodermal, and mesodermal genes prior to neurogenesis. Bone marrow stromal stem cells (MSCs) normally differentiate into mesenchymal derivatives but recently have also been converted into neurons, classical ectodermal cells. To begin defining underlying mechanisms, we extended our characterization of MSCs and the differentiated neurons. In addition to expected mesodermal mRNAs, populations and clonal lines of MSCs expressed germinal, endodermal, and ectodermal genes. Thus, the MSCs are apparently "multidifferentiated" in addition to being multipotent. Conversely, the differentiating neurons derived from populations and clonal lines of MSCs expressed the specific markers beta-III tubulin, tau, neurofilament-M, TOAD-64, and synaptophysin de novo. The transmitter enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase and choline acetyltransferase were localized to neuronal subpopulations. Our observations suggest that MSCs are already multidifferentiated and that neural differentiation comprises quantitative modulation of gene expression rather than simple on-off switching of neural-specific genes.
12204309: !synaptophysin A reliable primary human CNS culture protocol for morphological studies of dendritic and synaptic elements. Primary dissociated human fetal forebrain cultures were grown in defined serum-free conditions. At 4 weeks in vitro the cultures contained abundant morphologically well differentiated neurons with complex dendritic arbors. Astrocytic proliferation was negligible without the use of antimitotic agents. Confocal scanning laser microscopy (CSLM) and electron microscopy confirmed the presence of a dense neuropil, numerous cell-cell contacts and synapses. Neurons expressed a variety of proteins including growth associated protein-43 (GAP43), microtubule associated protein-2ab (MAP), class-III beta tubulin (C3BT), neurofilaments (NF), synaptophysin (SYN), parvalbumin (PA) and calbindin (CB). The cultures have proven to be reliable and simple to initiate and maintain for many weeks without passaging. They are useful in investigations of dendritic growth and injury of primary human CNS neurons.
12204119: !synaptophysin KIF1Bbeta2, capable of interacting with CHP, is localized to synaptic vesicles. Kinesin family proteins are microtubule-dependent molecular motors involved in the intracellular motile process. Using a Ca2+ -binding protein, CHP (calcineurin B homologous protein), as a bait for yeast two hybrid screening, we identified a novel kinesin-related protein, KIF1Bbeta2. KIF1Bbeta2 is a member of the KIF1 subfamily of kinesin-related proteins, and consists of an amino terminal KIF1B-type motor domain followed by a tail region highly similar to that of KIF1A. CHP binds to regions adjacent to the motor domains of KIF1Bbeta2 and KIF1B, but not to those of the other KIF1 family members, KIF1A and KIF1C. Immunostaining of neuronal cells showed that a significant portion of KIF1Bbeta2 is co-localized with synaptophysin, a marker protein for synaptic vesicles, but not with a mitochondria-staining dye. Subcellular fractionation analysis indicated the co-localization of KIF1Bbeta2 with synaptophysin. These results suggest that KIF1Bbeta2, a novel CHP-interacting molecular motor, mediates the transport of synaptic vesicles in neuronal cells.
12203872: !synaptophysin Prostatic adenocarcinoma metastases mimicking small cell carcinoma on fine-needle aspiration. Prostate adenocarcinoma (PA) is known to metastasize widely to bone, lung, lymph nodes, and other sites. We have observed a rare, although distinctive, neuroendocrine (NE) cytomorphology of metastatic PA on fine-needle aspiration (FNA) that mimics small cell carcinoma (SCC). From a total of 117 cases, eight cases of metastatic PA diagnosed on FNA showed cytomorphologic features indistinguishable from SCC. All specimens were reviewed, along with immunoperoxidase (IPOX) studies using prostate specific (PSA, PSAP) and NE markers (synaptophysin, chromogranin, etc.). The patients ranged in age from 51-68 (mean age = 63). The PSA levels at the time of FNA ranged from <0.1 to 2,892 ng/ml (normal postprostatectomy <0.2 ng/ml). Sites of FNA included liver (two), soft tissue (five), and lymph node (one). FNA was performed from 11 mo to 6 yr after the initial diagnosis of the primary tumor. All primary PA were of high Gleason grade ranging from 7-9. None of the primary PA showed neuroendocrine morphology. Cytomorphologic characteristics observed on FNA included predominantly single cells with occasional sheets or loose cell aggregates. A predominant NE nuclear morphology was evident (i.e., hyperchromasia, fine dusty chromatin, inconspicuous nucleoli, nuclear molding, chromatinic crush artifact, karyorrhexis, mitoses, etc.), with none of the tumors displaying glandular formation. Taken together, these features gave these metastases a cytomorphology indistinguishable from SCC. IPOX studies revealed PSA-positivity (5/7), PSAP-positivity (4/7), and only focal NE markers positivity (3/6). Metastatic prostate carcinoma may rarely mimic a SCC (6.8% in this study). This often necessitates further patient workup to identify the primary source for the patient's metastasis, particularly if the patient has multiple lesions. An accurate diagnosis of these lesions as PA metastases is essential for effective, timely treatment and therapeutic design.
12200200: !synaptophysin Diabetic neuropathies in brain are induced by deficiency of BDNF. Diabetes is known to be one of the risk factors for dementia; however, neuropathic changes in the brain of patients with the disease have not been completely revealed. So in the present study, we investigated the brain function of rats with diabetes induced by streptozotocin (STZ), one of the most commonly used animal models for diabetes. In the diabetic rats, immediately working memory performance was impaired in the Y-maze task and neuronal cytoskeleton proteins such as calbindin, synaptophysin, and syntaxin were reduced. Furthermore, morphological observation by Golgi staining showed a decrease in the number of basal dendrites and abnormality of spine structure. Next, we measured the content of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the diabetic brain, because BDNF is one of the essential proteins for the maintenance of neuronal functions including synapse function and neuronal transmissions. In the diabetic brains, both protein and mRNA levels of BDNF were severely reduced. These results suggest that, in diabetes, synapse dysfunction is, at least in part, caused by a failure of BDNF synthesis in the brain.
12198120: !synaptophysin Ectopic expression of necdin induces differentiation of mouse neuroblastoma cells. Necdin is expressed predominantly in postmitotic neurons, and ectopic expression of this protein strongly suppresses cell growth. Necdin has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Prader-Willi syndrome, a human neurodevelopmental disorder associated with genomic imprinting. Here we demonstrate that ectopic expression of necdin induces a neuronal phenotype in neuroblastoma cells. Necdin was undetectable in mouse neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells under undifferentiated and differentiated conditions. N1E-115 cells transfected with necdin cDNA showed morphological differentiation such as neurite outgrowth and expression of the synaptic marker proteins synaptotagmin and synaptophysin. In addition, Western blot analysis of the retinoblastoma protein (Rb) family members Rb, p130, and p107 revealed that necdin cDNA transfectants contained an increased level of p130 and a reduced level of p107, a pattern seen in differentiated G(0) cells. The transcription factors E2F1 and E2F4 physically interacted with necdin via their carboxyl-terminal transactivation domains, but only E2F1 abrogated necdin-induced growth arrest and neurite outgrowth of neuroblastoma cells. Overexpression of E2F1 in differentiated N1E-115 cells induced apoptosis, which was antagonized by co-expression of necdin. These results suggest that necdin promotes the differentiation and survival of neurons through its antagonistic interactions with E2F1.
12192931: !synaptophysin [Prevalence of the neuroendocrine phenotype in thymus neoplasms]. To determine the prevalence of neuroendocrine differentiation in human thymic neoplasms, which are unusual tumours that may range from well-differentiated to overtly malignant, poorly differentiated lesions, an immunohistochemical study was conducted in 23 thymic neoplasms re-classified on the basis of the new 1999 WHO classification. Immunohistochemical evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation in the form of reactivity to the markers synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase and chromogranin A was found in 6 of 23 tissues (26%). Two of 3 patients with thymic carcinoids (or well-differentiated thymic neuroendocrine carcinoma) were affected by multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1). Myasthenia gravis was present in 2/6 patients with neuroendocrine differentiation. This study demonstrates the high prevalence of neuroendocrine markers in human thymic neoplasms. Whether and in what percentage of cases immunohistochemical reactivity may be correlated with clinical behaviour and outcome remains a controversial issue. Finally, the association between thymic carcinoids and MEN-1 is a strong indication for clinical and possibly genetic screening of all patients presenting this feature, just as all MEN-1 patients have to undergo thoracic imaging and prophylactic thymectomy in selected cases.
12187940: !synaptophysin Pheochromocytomas and ganglioneuromas in the aging rats: morphological and immunohistochemical characterization. We investigated, morphologically and immunohistochemically, 74 medullary adrenal tumors, including 64 pheochromocytomas (14 malignant and 50 benign), 9 ganglioneuromas, and 1 malignant schwannoma. The tumors were detected in 2-year-old Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats from carcinogenicity studies. Morphologically, benign pheochromocytomas were characterized by monomorphic, small, basophilic cells with almost absence of mitoses. Malignant pheochromocytomas presented a low grade of pleomorphism, higher rate of mitoses, necrosis, infiltrative growth and in 1 case metastases in the lung. Ganglioneuromas were characterized by ganglion and neuron-like cells embedded in an eosinophilic matrix containing neurites, Schwann cells, and scant fibrovascular elements. All pheochromocytomas were strongly immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis. Subpopulations of chromaffin cells expressed chromogranin A (CGA) positivity. Matrix and Schwann cells were positive for S-100 and for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). In focal areas of the tumors, ganglion cells and axons were positive for neurofilament proteins (NFP) and synaptophysin. Ganglion cells exhibited peripherin and beta-tubulin. Proliferative activity of the tumors was assessed by immunostaining the endogenous cell proliferation associated-antigen Ki-67 and the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). As expected, cell proliferation indices were much higher in malignant pheochromocytomas than in benign, yet ganglioneuromas remained immunonegative. Considering that Ki-67 antigen is more specific for cell proliferation, it should be regarded as marker of choice for supporting the differential diagnosis between benign and malignant pheochromocytomas.
12181340: !synaptophysin Fluorescence resonance energy transfer detection of synaptophysin I and vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 interactions during exocytosis from single live synapses. To investigate the molecular interactions of synaptophysin I and vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP2)/synaptobrevin II during exocytosis, we have used time-lapse videomicroscopy to measure fluorescence resonance energy transfer in live neurons. For this purpose, fluorescent protein variants fused to synaptophysin I or VAMP2 were expressed in rat hippocampal neurons. We show that synaptophysin I and VAMP2 form both homo- and hetero-oligomers on the synaptic vesicle membrane. When exocytosis is stimulated with alpha-latrotoxin, VAMP2 dissociates from synaptophysin I even in the absence of appreciable exocytosis, whereas synaptophysin I oligomers disassemble only upon incorporation of the vesicle with the plasma membrane. We propose that synaptophysin I has multiple roles in neurotransmitter release, regulating VAMP2 availability for the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor complex and possibly participating in the late steps of exocytosis.
12177203: !synaptophysin Regulation of structural plasticity by different channel types in rod and cone photoreceptors. In response to retinal disease and injury, the axon terminals of rod photoreceptors demonstrate dramatic structural plasticity, including axonal retraction, neurite extension, and the development of presynaptic varicosities. Cone cell terminals, however, are relatively inactive. Similar events are observed in primary cultures of salamander photoreceptors. To investigate the mechanisms underlying these disparate presynaptic responses, antagonists to voltage-gated L-type and cGMP-gated channels, known to be present on rod and cone cell terminals, respectively, were used to block calcium influx during critical periods of plasticity in vitro. In rod cells, L-type channel antagonists nicardipine and verapamil inhibited not only the outgrowth of processes and the formation of varicosities, but also the synthesis of vesicle proteins, SV2 and synaptophysin. In contrast, the synthesis of opsin in rod cells was unaffected. In cone cells, L-type channel antagonists caused only modest changes. However, cobalt bromide, which blocks all calcium channels, and l-cis-diltiazem, a potent antagonist of cGMP-gated channels, significantly inhibited varicosity formation and synthesis of SV2 in cone cells. Moreover, the cGMP-gated channel agonist 8-bromo-cGMP caused a significant increase in varicosity formation by cone but not rod cells. Thus voltage-gated L-type channels in rod cells and cGMP-gated channels in cone cells are the primary calcium channels required for structural plasticity and the accompanying upregulation of synaptic vesicle synthesis. The differing responses of rod and cone terminals to injury and disease may be determined by these differences in the regulation of Ca2+ influx.
12172918: !synaptophysin Pituicytomas, a mis-diagnosed benign tumor of the neurohypophysis: report of three cases. Pituicytoma is a rare benign primary tumor of the neurohypophysis, occurring in the sellar and suprasellar spaces. We report here three new cases with immunohistochemical and electron microscopic study. Particular attention was paid to the expression of some cell adhesion molecules. These tumors were characterized by bundles of elongated cells strongly immunoreactive to anti-vimentin, S-100 protein, neural cell adhesion molecule and neuron-specific enolase antibodies. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was not recorded. It expressed the very late antigen alpha2 (VLAalpha2), but not VLAalpha5, and lacked epithelial markers expression (epithelial membrane antigen, E-cadherin), and specific neuronal markers (synaptophysin, chromogranin, neurofilament). Staining for pituitary hormones was negative. At the ultrastructural level, tumor/blood vessel basal lamina and cytoplasmic intermediate filaments were observed but desmosome or pericellular basal lamina were lacking. In one case few secretory granules were recorded. Differential diagnoses include granular cell tumors, pilocytic astrocytomas and spindle cell tumors such as solitary fibrous tumors, fibroblastic meningiomas and schwannomas. However, the unique pattern of antigenic expression and ultrastructural features of pituicytomas distinguish this rare tumor. As a subpopulation of pituicytes (which are distinctive glial cells of the neurophypophysis), some pituicytomas do not expressed GFAP. This suggests that pituicytomas presumably arise from pituicytes at various stages of their differentiation.
12170092: !synaptophysin 'Spindle cell oncocytoma' of the adenohypophysis: a tumor of folliculostellate cells? We describe five primary tumors of the adenohypophysis featuring mitochondrion-rich spindle cells. The patient ages ranged from 53 to 71 years (mean 61.6 years); two were female. All presented with panhypopituitarism. Two also had visual field defect. On neuroimaging all tumors showed suprasellar extension and were indistinguishable from pituitary adenoma. None showed imaging or operative evidence of dural involvement. All were gross totally removed: four by transsphenoidal surgery and one by frontal craniotomy. Follow-up ranged from 2 to 68 months (mean 35.4 months). No recurrences were noted. The clinical workup was noncontributory in all but two patients: one (case no. 4) with an oncocytic thyroid adenoma and another (case no. 5) with squamous carcinoma of both the uterine cervix and of vocal cord. Histologically, the five tumors were composed mainly of fascicles of spindle cells with eosinophilic, granular cytoplasm. Mitoses were rare and necrosis was absent. Neoplastic cells were immunoreactive for vimentin, epithelial membrane antigen, S-100 protein, and galectin-3. Stains for pituitary hormones, synaptophysin, chromogranin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, cytokeratin CAM5.2, smooth muscle actin, CD34, and CD68 were negative. No thyroglobulin immunoreactivity was noted in the tumor of case no. 4. Ultrastructurally, the neoplastic cells contained numerous mitochondria with lamellar cristae. The neoplastic cells were linked by intermediate junctions and desmosomes. No secretory granules were noted. The histologic, immunohistochemical, and fine structural features of these tumors were unlike those of pituitary adenoma or any other primary sellar tumor. A derivation from adenohypophyseal folliculostellate cells is suggested.
12170084: !synaptophysin Hepatocyte antigen as a marker of hepatocellular carcinoma: an immunohistochemical comparison to carcinoembryonic antigen, CD10, and alpha-fetoprotein. Hepatocyte monoclonal antibody (Hep) (alternatively Hep Par 1 for Hep paraffin 1) has been reported to stain normal hepatic tissue and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with high specificity. We have studied the Hepatocyte expression in 96 cases of HCC and 311 cases of nonhepatic epithelial tumors. All cases of HCC were also stained with CEA-Gold 5, CD10, and alpha-fetoprotein. Hep, CEA-Gold 5, CD10, and alpha-fetoprotein immunostains were performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections. Hep immunoreactivity was detected in 88 of 96 cases of HCC (92%), with a cytoplasmic and granular pattern of staining. The level of Hep expression in HCC corresponded to the nuclear grade and growth pattern. All 50 cases of nuclear grade 1 and nuclear grade 2 HCC were positive (100%), whereas 37 of 44 nuclear grade 3 (84%) and 1 of 2 nuclear grade 4 (50%) were positive. Sixty-seven of 68 cases of HCC with a trabecular, pseudoglandular, or scirrhous growth pattern were positive (98%), whereas 22 of 27 cases of HCC with a compact growth pattern were positive (81%). CEA-Gold 5, CD10, and alpha-fetoprotein immunoreactivity was detected in 76% (73 of 96), 52% (50 of 96), and 31% (30 of 96) cases of HCC, respectively. The positive predictive value of the combination of all four antibodies was 97%. Three cases of HCC were negative for all four antibodies; these cases had a high nuclear grade or a sarcomatoid or compact growth pattern. Twenty of 311 cases of nonhepatic tumors were positive for Hep (6%): 15 were adenocarcinomas and five were neuroendocrine tumors. The negative predictive value of Hep in HCC was 94%. The Hep-positive nonhepatic epithelial tumors were easily distinguished from HCC by the expression of keratin 7 or keratin 20 for adenocarcinoma and chromogranin and synaptophysin for neuroendocrine tumors because HCC does usually not express these markers. With the exception of two cases of hepatoid gastric carcinoma, all Hep-positive nonhepatic epithelial tumors were negative for alpha-fetoprotein, CEA-Gold 5, and CD10. Our study demonstrates that Hep is a relatively specific marker for HCC. It is useful in differentiating HCC from primary hepatic cholangiocarcinoma and metastatic tumors when combined with other immunomarkers.
12168325: !synaptophysin Temporal and regional profile of neuronal and glial cellular injury after induction of kaolin hydrocephalus. To study regional and temporal pattern of glial and neuronal reaction to induction of kaolin hydrocephalus in adult rats. Enzyme- and immunohistochemistry was performed in 20 adult rats with kaolin-hydrocephalus after 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks to glial glutamatergic transmission activity (GLDH) and neuronal nitrous oxide synthetic activity (nNOS). Also, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), 68 kd neurofilament protein (NF68) and synaptophysin (SYN38) and basic fibroblastic growth-factor (bFGF) were stained. Results were quantified by imaging analysis (SCION IMAGE) and expressed as relative immunopositive area. After 2 weeks, nNos-activity increased in cortical and hippocampal neurones (CA1 and CA3) and GLDH-activity also showed increases, most significant in periventricular white matter (25.7 +/- 3.8 vs. 15.5 +/- 4.9; p < 0.001) and hippocampus (p < 0.01). After 4 or 6 weeks, global cortical GLDH-activity showed further marked increases (25.7 +/- 3.9 vs. 11.3 +/- 1.5; p < 0.05), while sustained structural changes have occurred: GFAP decreased in periventricular (3.3 +/- 0.5 vs. 6.3 +/- 1.2; p < 0.01), hippocampal and cortical astrocytes (0.9 +/- 0.34 vs. 5.0 +/- 0.7%; p < 0.01), whereas NF68 in cortical efferent neurones increased (6.5 +/- 1.5% vs. 4.7 +/- 0.1; p < 0.01) followed by a decrease in cortical and hippocampal (CA1) SYN 38 (p < 0.05). Acute glial and neuronal reactions were almost functional and in chronic stages sustained structural changes predominated. Since neuronal reactions were pronounced in selective vulnerable areas glial reaction was not restricted to periventricular astrocytes.
12167099: !synaptophysin New markers for pancreatic islets and islet cell tumors. Islets of Langerhans account for 2 g of endocrine tissue in the pancreas, comprising approximately one million islets, with each containing 1000 endocrine cells. The major hormone secreted from the islets is insulin, which regulates blood glucose, the main fuel of the body. Islets also secrete glucagon, somatostatin and pancreatic polypeptide and all are involved in the paracrine mechanism. Islet cells can be stained immunohistochemically for the general endocrine markers, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase and Leu7. Beta islet cells are well equipped with glucose transporter 2, which binds to glucose and regulates diffusion of glucose through the beta cell membrane. As all four islet hormones are initially synthesized as prohormones, all islet cells are equipped with prohormone convertase 1/3 and 2. In addition, islet cells also contain zinc-containing matrix metalloproteinases and their inhibitors, metallothionein, cyclin-dependent kinases and insulin-like growth factors, and many more hormones, peptides and enzymes. Thus, islets not only secrete insulin and other pancreatic hormones but are a complex organ whose major function is glucose homeostasis.
12165664: !synaptophysin Prediction of malignant behavior of pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas using immunohistochemical techniques. Pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas arise from the adrenal glands and extraadrenal paraganglia, respectively. Malignant behavior of these tumors is uncommon and is, in part, dependent on their sites of origin, such as extraadrenal location. Morphologic criteria for malignancy of pheochromocytoma and paragangliomas have not been clearly defined. In this study, to clarify the histologic features that distinguish the benign from malignant pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas, we examined metastatic and nonmetastatic tumors using immunohistochemical techniques. A total of eight cases, five pheochromocytomas from the adrenal glands (four benign and one malignant tumor) and three paragangliomas with invasion or metastasis, were studied. The markers used in this study were chromogranin A, synaptophysin, NCAM (CD56), SNAP25, neuron-specific enolase, S-100 protein, and MIB-1. Our results suggest that MIB-1 immunostaining is a useful adjunct marker to predict malignant behavior in these tumors.
12153493: !synaptophysin The internal pH of synaptic-like microvesicles in rat pinealocytes in culture. Synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs) are morphological and functional equivalents of neuronal synaptic vesicles, and are responsible for the storage and secretion of classical neurotransmitters in various endocrine cells. Vacuolar H+-ATPase acidifies the internal space of these organelles and provides a driving force for the uptake of neurotransmitters. Thus, the luminal pH is an important determinant of the function of SLMVs, although its value in living cells is unknown. Here, we determined the luminal pH of SLMVs in living rat pinealocytes by means of an immunoelectronmicroscopic procedure basedon the distribution of an amphipathic amine, 3-(2,4-dinitroanilino)-3'-amino-N-methyldipropylamine (DAMP). Use of double-labeling techniques with antibodies against 2,4-dinitrophenol for DAMP and synaptophysin for SLMVs, and of frozen ultrathin sections enabled us to determine the number of immunogold particles for DAMP per microm2 of SLMVs. Using the density of gold particles, the luminal pH of SLMVs was calculated to be 5.11 +/- 0.01. Treatment with either 1 microm bafilomycin A1, a specific inhibitor of vacuolar H+-ATPase, or 50 mm ammonium chloride, a dissipater of the transmembrane pH gradient, increased the luminal pH to 6.04 +/- 0.07 and 6.05 +/- 0.11, respectively. Simultaneously, the lysosomal pH was found to be 5.14 +/- 0.07, which increased to 5.77 +/- 0.09 and 5.93 +/- 0.13 with bafilomycin A1 and ammonium chloride, respectively. It is concluded that the luminal pH of SLMVs is comparable to that of lysosomes in vivo.
12152117: !synaptophysin Morphological and functional characterization of a rat vaginal smooth muscle sphincter. The aim of the present study was to gain information about adrenergic-, cholinergic- and non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic (NANC)- transmitter systems/mediators in the rat vagina, and to characterize its smooth muscles functionally. Tissue sections from vagina of Sprague Dawley rats were immunolabelled with antibodies against protein gene product 9.5 (PGP), synaptophysin (Syn), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), neuropeptide Y (NPY), nitric oxide synthase (NOS), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP). Circularly cut vaginal smooth muscle preparations from the distal vagina were studied in organ baths. In the paravaginal tissue, a large number of PGP-, NOS-, TH-, VIP-immunoreactive (IR) and few CGRP-IR nerve trunks were observed, giving off branches to the smooth muscle wall. The smooth muscle wall was supplied by a large number of PGP-, Syn-, VAChT-, NPY-, NOS- and TH- IR nerve terminals, whilst only a moderate to few numbers of CGRP-, VIP- and PACAP-IR terminals were identified. Especially the distal part of the vaginal wall, where the circularly running smooth muscle was thickened into a distinct sphincter structure, was very richly innervated, predominantly by PGP- and NOS-IR terminals. Below and within the basal parts of the epithelium in the distal half of the vagina, a large number of PGP- and few NOS- and PACAP-IR varicose terminals were observed. The vaginal arteries were encircled by plexuses of nerve terminals. A large number of these were PGP-, Syn-, VAChT-, NOS-, TH-, NPY- and VIP-IR, and few were CGRP- and PACAP-IR. In isolated preparations of the distal vagina, electrical field stimulation (EFS) caused frequency-dependent contractions, which were reduced by sildenafil, tetrodotoxin (TTX) and phentolamine. In preparations contracted by norepinephrine (NA), EFS produced frequency-dependent relaxations. Pretreatment with the NOS-inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine, TTX, or the inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase, ODQ, abolished the EFS relaxations. In NE precontracted preparations, cumulative addition of sildenafil caused concentration-dependent relaxation. Carbachol contracted the strips concentration-dependently from baseline. It can be concluded that the distal part of the rat vagina forms a distinct smooth muscle sphincter, which is richly innervated by adrenergic, cholinergic and NANC nerves. The present studies suggest that in the rat the L-arginine/NO-system not only plays an important role in the regulation of vaginal smooth muscle tone, but also affects blood flow, and may have sensory functions.
12150770: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical localisation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits in human cerebellum. Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are members of the ligand-gated ion channel superfamily composed of alpha and beta subunits with specific structural, functional and pharmacological properties. In this study we have used immunohistochemistry to investigate the presence of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits in human cerebellum. Tissue was obtained at autopsy from eight adult individuals (aged 36-56 years). Histological sections were prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material. alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 6, alpha 7, beta 2, and beta 4 subunits were present in this brain area associated with both neuronal and non-neuronal cell types. Most Purkinje cells were immunoreactive for all the above subunits, but most strongly for alpha 4 and alpha 7. A proportion of granule cell somata were immunoreactive for all subunits except alpha 3. Punctate immunoreactivity in Purkinje cell and granule cell layers was evident with antibodies against alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 6, and alpha 7 in parallel with synaptophysin immunoreactivity, suggesting the presence of these subunits on nerve terminals in the human cerebellum. All subunits were present in the dentate nucleus associated with neurones and cell processes. Strong immunoreactivity of neuropil in both the molecular and granule cell layers and within the dentate nucleus was noted with alpha 4, alpha 7 and beta 4 subunits. Astrocytes and astrocytic cell processes appeared to be immunoreactive for alpha 7 and cell processes observed in white matter, also possibly astrocytic, were immunoreactive for beta2. Immunoreactivity to all subunits was noted in association with blood vessels. We suggest that nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits may be involved in the modulation of cerebellar activity. Further investigations are warranted to evaluate the participation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in cerebellar pathology associated with both developmental and age-related disorders.
12150542: !synaptophysin Increased resistance to nitric oxide cytotoxicity associated with differentiation of neuroblastoma-glioma hybrid (NG108-15) cells. Nitric oxide (NO), synthesized by the enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS), acts as an intercellular messenger associated with various physiological and pathological events. In this study, we investigated whether there exits a difference in the vulnerability to NO-induced cytotoxicity between undifferentiated and differentiated NG108-15 cells, and if so, the mechanisms responsible for the difference. Following a 7- to 8-day exposure to dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP), NG108-15 cells exhibited a neuron-like morphology associated with the expression of the neuronal protein, synaptophysin, and with increased NADPH-d activity. Neuron-like differentiated NG108-15 cells acquired resistance to exogenously applied NO. This increased resistance to NO toxicity in differentiated cells was almost completely cancelled out by inhibiting the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), but not by inhibiting the activity of NOS. The present study suggested that the activity of SOD increased in parallel with the activity of NOS associated with differentiation and was crucial for the acquired resistance to NO toxicity in differentiated cells.
12147089: !synaptophysin Mixed ductal-pancreatic polypeptide-cell carcinoma of the pancreas. Mixed ductal-endocrine carcinomas of the pancreas are rare tumours with 10 cases reported in the English literature. We report the first case with a polypeptide-cell component.
12142876: !synaptophysin A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical analysis of melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy. The purpose of this study was to review the features of 8 cases of melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy (MNTI) of the jaws with respect to the expression of NB84, CD99, PGP 9.5, specific cytokeratins, and Ki-67, markers not previously reported in this entity.
12140780: !synaptophysin Reduction of synapsin in the hippocampus of patients with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Several studies suggest that decreased expression of presynaptic proteins may be characteristic of schizophrenia. We examined one such protein, synapsin, in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Samples of hippocampal tissue from controls (n = 13), patients with schizophrenia (n = 16), or bipolar disorder (n = 6), and suicide victims (n = 7) were used. The membrane and cytosolic fractions were analyzed by Western immunoblotting for synapsin using an antibody that detects synapsin Ia, IIa, and IIIa proteins. Synaptophysin was also measured for comparison. Total synapsin was decreased significantly in patients with schizophrenia (P = 0.034) and in bipolar disorder (P = 0.00008) as compared to controls. The synapsin/synaptophysin ratios were decreased in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, and additionally in suicide victims (P = 0.014). Age, postmortem interval, percentage of protein extracted, and pH of brain were not different between groups. No changes in total synapsin or synaptophysin in the hippocampus were produced by injecting rats with either lithium or haloperidol for 30 days. Reductions in synapsin in both patients with schizophrenia (synapsin IIa and IIIa) and bipolar disorder (synapsin Ia, IIa and IIIa) imply that altered or reduced synaptic function in the hippocampus may be involved in these disorders.
12137757: !synaptophysin Transplanted sheets of human retina and retinal pigment epithelium develop normally in nude rats. This study investigated whether transplanted sheets of human fetal retina together with its retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) could develop and maintain their cytoarchitecture after long survival times. Transplant recipients were nine albino athymic nu/nu rats with a normal retina. The donor tissue was dissected from fetuses of 12-17 weeks gestational age. Transplants were analyzed at 5-12 months after surgery by light and electron microscopy, and immunohistochemistry with various antibodies specific for rhodopsin, S-antigen, transducin, neurofilament and synaptophysin. In 4 of 11 transplants, the RPE stayed as a monolayer sheet and supported the development of the retinal sheet with a normal lamination, including photoreceptor inner and outer segments. Cones and rods in the organized transplants were labeled with different photoreceptor markers. Inner and outer plexiform layers, containing cone pedicles and rods spherules, were immunoreactive for synaptophysin. As the recipients had a normal retina, transplant/host integration was not expected. However, at the transplant/host interface, there were sometimes areas without glial barriers, and neurofilament-containing processes could be observed crossing between transplant and host. In other, more disorganized transplants, the RPE cells were partially dispersed or clumped together in clusters. Such transplants developed photoreceptors in rosettes, often with inner and outer segments. In conclusion, sheets of human fetal retina transplanted together with its RPE to the subretinal space of nude rats can develop and maintain perfectly laminated transplants after long survival times, indicating the potential of applying cotransplantation to human patients with retinal diseases.
12135350: !synaptophysin Generation and characterization of two transgenic mouse lines expressing human ApoE2 in neurons and glial cells. Apolipoprotein E (apoE) isoforms are key determinants of susceptibility to late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). The epsilon 4 and epsilon 2 alleles have been associated with increased and decreased risk for AD, respectively. We have generated and characterized transgenic mice in which the human apoE2 gene is expressed under the control of the platelet-derived growth factor B-chain (PDGF-B) promoter, or the transferrin (TF) promoter. S1 nuclease analysis and immunoblotting showed that the PDGF-B apoE2 mice express apoE2 exclusively in the brain whereas the TF apoE2 mice express apoE2 in the liver and in the brain. In the TF apoE2 mouse line, apoE2 is also detected in the plasma. The PDGF-B apoE2 and the TF apoE2 transgenic mice were bred back to apoE(-)(/)(-) background. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that the PDGF apoE2 x apoE(-)(/)(-) and the TF apoE2 x apoE(-)(/)(-) mice express human apoE2 within the neocortex in hippocampal neurons and glial cells, respectively. ApoE(-)(/)(-) mice have been shown to develop age-dependent loss of synaptophysin. Immunoblotting of mouse brain extracts and immunohistochemical analysis of brain sections showed that apoE expression in both apoE2 x apoE(-)(/)(-) transgenic lines was associated with significant recovery of brain synaptophysin levels as compared to the levels of apoE(-)(/)(-) littermates of the same age. These apoE2-expressing mice, when bred back on amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice or other mouse lines featuring alterations in lipoprotein metabolism, may provide new mouse models for elucidating the role of apoE2 in lipid homeostasis in the brain and in the pathogenesis of AD.
12131164: !synaptophysin Primary paraganglioma strictly confined to the liver and mimicking hepatocellular carcinoma: an immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization study. We describe a case of primary nonfunctioning paraganglioma that, unlike any other previously reported case, was strictly confined to the liver and must therefore have arisen on liver parenchyma. An asymptomatic 46-year-old man was referred to us for laparotomy and a right hemihepatectomy after a preoperative diagnosis of fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma, based on a fine-needle biopsy. An 8-cm resiliently firm, pale gray nodule with a large central area of fibrosis and a thin fibrous capsule was resected. The polygonal eosinophilic tumor cells containing round nuclei lacking nucleoli were arranged in small nests set in a vascularly rich stroma. At immunohistochemistry neoplastic cells were strongly positive for chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and IGF-II protein; they were negative for keratin, S-100 protein, CD10, vimentin, and smooth muscle actin. In situ hybridization confirmed that, as in other sites, liver paraganglioma can express IGF-II gene. Conversely (and unlike hepatocellular carcinomas), the neoplastic cells did not express albumin mRNA, which was detected only in surrounding hepatocytes. The clinical course was benign and the patient is well and free of neoplastic disease 9 years after surgery. Knowledge of the entity should avoid possible confusion with hepatocellular carcinoma, especially of the fibrolamellar variety.
12131156: !synaptophysin Prevalence and prognostic significance of acinar cell differentiation in pancreatic endocrine tumors. We have noted that many histologically and immunohistochemically confirmed pancreatic endocrine tumors show immunophenotypic evidence of acinar cell differentiation, but the clinical relevance of this finding is unknown. We performed this study to evaluate the prevalence and prognostic significance of exocrine differentiation by immunohistochemistry in pancreatic endocrine tumors that do not show morphologic features of acinar cell differentiation. Routinely processed tissue sections from 87 pancreatic endocrine tumors were immunohistochemically stained with monoclonal antibodies against acinar (lipase, chymotrypsin, trypsin) and endocrine cell markers (chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, Leu-7) and for the proliferation-associated peptide Ki67. The degree of staining with each marker was graded on a three-tier scale for acinar markers (grade 0, <5%; grade 1, 5-10%; grade 2, 11-25%; and grade 3, >25%) and on a four-tier scale for endocrine markers (grade 0, <5%; grade 1, 5-25%; grade 2, 26-50%; grade 3, 51-75%; and grade 4, >75%), and the results were correlated with clinical outcome (mean follow-up 53 months). Greater than 75% of the tumor cells stained for chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and Leu-7 in 100%, 96%, 93%, and 27% of cases, respectively. Overall, 66% of tumors stained positively for at least one acinar cell marker, 31% stained for at least two acinar cell markers, and 13% stained for all three acinar cell markers. Forty-seven percent stained for lipase (23 grade 1, 11 grade 2, seven grade 3), 37% for trypsin (22 grade 1, three grade 2, seven grade 3), and 25% stained for chymotrypsin (13 grade 1, five grade 2, four grade 3). No correlation was noted between the presence or extent of expression of any single or combination of acinar cell markers and clinical outcome. However, higher tumor stage correlated with a poor clinical outcome (p = 0.002), and location in the tail of the pancreas was associated with a longer interval to tumor recurrence (p = 0.03). The presence of synaptophysin (p = 0.03) and Leu-7 expression (p = 0.03) correlated significantly with less aggressive clinical behavior. An association was observed between increased Ki67 labeling and poorer clinical outcome, but this was not statistically significant (p >0.05). In conclusion, immunophenotypic evidence of acinar cell differentiation is common in pancreatic endocrine tumors, but this feature does not have any relevance to clinical prognosis. However, in addition to tumor stage, location in the pancreatic tail and the immunohistochemical expression of synaptophysin and/or Leu-7 may be useful prognostic indicators in patients with these lesions.
12127101: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical localization of neuronal calcium sensor-1 in the hippocampus and cerebellum of the mouse, with special reference to presynaptic terminals. Neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1) is a member of the EF-hand calcium-binding protein superfamily, which is considered to modulate synaptic transmission and plasticity. In this work, we first examined the distribution patterns of NCS-1 in the hippocampus and cerebellum. The intense NCS-1-immunoreactive (IR) elements in the hippocampus were restricted to dendritic layers, while those in the cerebellum occurred in both dendritic and cellular layers. Then, we examined the exact localization of NCS-1 using immunofluorescent double labeling for NCS-1 and synaptophysin, a marker of presynaptic terminals. In the hippocampus, the mossy fiber systems (terminals and bundles) exhibited intense NCS-1 immunoreactivity. On the other hand, the presumed principal cell dendrites were also NCS-1-IR in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of Ammon's horn and molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, where NCS-1-IR elements and synaptophysin-IR presynaptic terminals showed characteristic complementary distribution patterns. In the cerebellum, some of the basket cell axon terminals surrounding the somata of Purkinje cells exhibited NCS-1 immunoreactivity, while the pinceau showed consistent labeling for NCS-1. Higher magnification observations revealed that the NCS-1-IR presumed granule cell dendrites and synaptophysin-IR mossy fiber terminals in the glomeruli of the cerebellum showed characteristic complementary distribution patterns. Furthermore, we estimated quantitatively the relative amount of NCS-1 in the presynaptic terminals in individual layers, and confirmed that the mossy fiber terminals in the hippocampus contained comparatively high amounts of NCS-1. These results showed the diverse localization of NCS-1 in pre- and/or postsynaptic elements of the hippocampus and cerebellum, and suggest potential roles in specific synaptic transmission.
12127095: !synaptophysin Inflammation induces serine protease inhibitor 3 expression in the rat pineal gland. In the rat pineal gland, prominent expression of serine protease inhibitor 3 (SPI-3) mRNA is seen after systemic injection of lipopolysaccharide. The up-regulation of SPI-3 mRNA expression is also confirmed by northern blotting. Most SPI-3 mRNA-positive cells simultaneously express synaptophysin, a marker for pinealocytes, but not glial fibrillary acidic protein, a marker for astrocytes. This indicates that SPI-3 mRNA-positive cells are pinealocytes. Almost all SPI-3 mRNA-positive cells also showed translocation of the signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) into nuclei after lipopolysaccharide injection. These data support previous in vitro results that SPI-3 expression is induced in a STAT3-mediated manner. In addition, the expression of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor (CNTFR) and leukemia inhibitory factor receptor (LIFR) mRNAs, but not of interleukin 6 receptor mRNA, was up-regulated after systemic lipopolysaccharide treatment. Because these receptors are upstream of STAT3, the present results suggest that cytokines such as LIF and/or CNTF induce SPI-3 expression via STAT3 in the pineal gland in response to inflammatory stimulus. We conclude that although the functional consequences of SPI-3 in the pineal gland during systemic inflammation are unknown, SPI-3 may have a crucial role in preventing some degenerative proteolysis induced by inflammatory stimuli.
12126001: !synaptophysin Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla: a case report and immunohistochemical analysis. Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma (BSCC) is a recently recognized high-grade tumor with a propensity for nodal as well as systemic metastasis and can arise from different anatomic locations. The differential diagnosis includes adenoid cystic carcinoma, small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. Monoclonal antibodies reactive with cytokeratin (34betaE12, AE3, pancytokeratin), as well as other cellular antigens (vimentin [VIM]; synaptophysin [SYNF]; chromogranin A [ChA]; neuron-specific enolase [NSE]; S-100, desmin, smooth-muscle actin [SMA]), were used in an immunoperoxidase method with paraffin-embedded tissue to phenotypically characterize a case with features of BSCC arising in the maxillary sinus. Neoplastic cells reacted with the high-molecular-weight cytokeratin antibody 34betaE12, as well as with other antikeratin antibodies, but failed to react with the antibodies VIM, desmin and SMA and showed variable immunoreactivity for NSE, SYNF and S-100. The staining pattern for NSE was diffuse and intense and reactivity for ChA was inconsistent.
12124443: !synaptophysin Peroxynitrite affects exocytosis and SNARE complex formation and induces tyrosine nitration of synaptic proteins. The reactive species peroxynitrite, formed via the near diffusion-limited reaction of nitric oxide and superoxide anion, is a potent oxidant that contributes to tissue damage in neurodegenerative disorders. Peroxynitrite readily nitrates tyrosine residues in proteins, producing a permanent modification that can be immunologically detected. We have previously demonstrated that in the nerve terminal, nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity is primarily associated with synaptophysin. Here we identify two other presynaptic proteins nitrated by peroxynitrite, Munc-18 and SNAP25, both of which are involved in sequential steps leading to vesicle exocytosis. To investigate whether peroxynitrite affects vesicle exocytosis, we used the fluorescent dye FM1-43 to label a recycling population of secretory vesicles within the synaptosomes. Bolus addition of peroxynitrite stimulated exocytosis and glutamate release. Notably, these effects were strongly reduced in the presence of NaHCO(3), indicating that peroxynitrite acts mainly intracellularly. Furthermore, peroxynitrite enhanced the formation of the sodium dodecyl sulfate-resistant SNARE complex in a dose-dependent manner (100-1000 microm) and induced the formation of 3-nitrotyrosine in proteins of SNARE complex. These data suggest that modification(s) of synaptic vesicle proteins induced by peroxynitrite may affect protein-protein interactions in the docking/fusion steps, thus promoting exocytosis, and that, under excessive production of superoxide and nitric oxide, neurons may up-regulate neuronal signaling.
12123850: !synaptophysin Cryopreservation and primary culture of cerebral neurons from cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). We established the procedures for cryopreservation and primary culture of fetal cerebral neurons of cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). Three developmental stages of fetuses (80, 93, and 102 days of gestation) were compared to determine the optimal stage of cerebrum development for primary culture. Among the three fetuses, the 80-day-old fetus produced the most process-rich neurons with the highest survival. The number of total recovery cells from the cryopreserved 80-day-old fetus corresponded to 83.4% of that from fresh tissue. Besides, synchronous oscillations of intracellular calcium were first seen in primate cerebral neurons, which suggested the formation of synapse-networks. Cultured neurons expressed synaptophysin protein. Successful cryopreservation and subsequent cell culture of primate neurons would be useful tools for neuroscience research with species specificity.
12123695: !synaptophysin Estrogen up-regulates estrogen receptor alpha and synaptophysin in slice cultures of rat hippocampus. Previous studies have shown that estrogen application increases the density of synaptic input and the number of spines on CA1 pyramidal neurons. Here, we have investigated whether Schaffer collaterals to CA1 pyramidal cells are involved in this estrogen-induced synaptogenesis on CA1 pyramidal neurons. To this end, we studied estrogen-induced expression of both estrogen receptor (ER) subtypes (ERalpha and ERbeta) together with the presynaptic marker synaptophysin in the rat hippocampus. In tissue sections as well as in slice cultures mRNA expression of ERalpha, ERbeta and synaptophysin was higher in CA3 than in CA1, and mRNA expression and immunoreactivity for both ER subtypes were found in both principal cells and interneurons. By using quantitative image analysis we found stronger nuclear immunoreactivity for ERalpha in CA3 than in CA1. In slice cultures, supplementation of the medium with 10(-8) M estradiol led to an increase of nuclear immunoreactivity for ERalpha, but not for ERbeta, which was accompanied by a dramatic up-regulation of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in stratum radiatum of CA1. Together these findings indicate that estrogen effects on hippocampal neurons are more pronounced in CA3 than in CA1 and that ER activation in CA3 neurons leads to an up-regulation of a presynaptic marker protein in the axons of these cells, the Schaffer collaterals. We conclude that estradiol-induced spine formation on CA1 pyramidal cells may be mediated presynaptically, very likely by activation of ERalpha in CA3 pyramidal cells, followed by an increase in Schaffer collateral synapses.
12115694: !synaptophysin Cellular localization of the vesicular inhibitory amino acid transporter in the mouse and human retina. Horizontal cells are classically thought to mediate lateral inhibition by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-transporter mediated release. In the mammalian retina, however, GABA uptake and cloned GABA transporter were not detected in horizontal cells. Furthermore, the vesicular inhibitory amino acid transporter (VIAAT or VGAT) that loads GABA and glycine into synaptic vesicles was reported recently to be expressed in horizontal cells. To further assess synaptic transmission in mammalian horizontal cells, we examined the subcellular distribution of VIAAT in mouse and human retina by confocal microscopy with specific cell markers. VIAAT was observed in the mouse outer plexiform layer as punctate structures that localized in calbindin-positive horizontal cells. These structures were in close apposition with synaptophysin-, PSD-95-, dystrophin-, and bassoon-immunopositive photoreceptor terminals, suggesting that VIAAT is localized in horizontal cell tips at photoreceptor terminals. VIAAT-positive puncta were also in apposition to lectin-labeled cone terminals or dendrites of PKCalpha-immunopositive rod bipolar cells, indicating that VIAAT is expressed in horizontal cell tips at both rod and cone terminals. By contrast, only a very few puncta were observed in the human outer plexiform layer, whereas the inner plexiform layer remained labeled as in the mouse retina. When using adult human retinal cells in culture, horizontal cells identified by parvalbumin immunostaining were found to contain VIAAT, either at their terminals or throughout the entire cell similarly as in syntaxin-immunopositive cells. These differences between human retinal tissue and cultured cells were attributed to VIAAT degradation in postmortem retinal tissue. VIAAT localization in mouse and human horizontal cells further support the role of inhibitory transmitters in lateral inhibition at the photoreceptor terminals.
12114773: !synaptophysin Plurihormonal Bronchial Carcinoid Associated with Ectopic Cushing's Syndrome. A 31-year-old woman presented with progressive weight gain, facial acne, round facies, hirsutism, and secondary amenorrhea. Her plasma cortisol, urinary free cortisol, and plasma ACTH were elevated. CT scan of abdomen revealed bilateral diffuse adrenal enlargement. MRI of pituitary failed to identify a lesion. CT scan of chest revealed an 8 mm nodule in the lower lobe of the left lung. The diagnosis of ectopic Cushing's syndrome was made. The lung tumor was surgically removed. The tumor measured up to 1.5 cm in diameter. By light microscopy, a tumor with characteristic features of bronchial carcinoid was noted. Immunostains were positive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin, low-molecular-weight keratin, ACTH, beta endorphin, corticotropin-releasing hormone, bombesin, alpha subunit, and somatostatin. Electron microscopy revealed an endocrine neoplasm. The secretory granules displayed great variation subdividing the endocrine neoplasm. The secretory granules displayed great variation subdividing the cell population into an undetermined number of phenotypes. In situ hybridization demonstrated positivity for pro-opiomelanocortin mRNA in the tumor cells. Postoperatively, plasma cortisol had fallen. The patient remained symptom-free one year later. The case presented here was regarded as a plurihormonal bronchial carcinoid associated with ectopic Cushing's syndrome. This unique plurihormonal bronchial carcinoid tumor produced three hormones, ACTH, CRH, and bombesin, that may have contributed to the patient's ectopic Cushing's syndrome.
12114761: !synaptophysin Gallbladder Adenocarcinoma with Florid Neuroendocrine Cell Nests and Extensive Paneth Cell Metaplasia. We report a unique case of gallbladder adenocarcinoma associated with florid neuroendocrine cell nests and extensive Paneth cell metaplasia that has not been described previously. The patient was a 79-yr-old woman with a pedunculated, polypoid mass in the gallbladder. Microscopically, the mass was composed at tumor cells showing tubular and papillary growth patterns, consistent with well-differentiated adenocarcinoma. One-third or more of the tumor cell showed Paneth cell appearance. Goblet cell-type tumors were also intermingled. In addition, neuroendocrine cell nests, that were connected to the neoplastic glands, were scattered throughout the stroma. lmmunohistochemically, the labeling index of MIB-1 in adenocarcinoma cells including Paneth cell-type carcinoma cells was approx 40%. Neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin were positive in the neuroendocrine cells forming solid nests and intermingled within neoplastic glands. They were immunopositive for serotonin but negative for insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide (PP). Although MIB-1-positive neuroendocrine cell nests were very few with weak staining, we think that the neuroendocrine cell nests were neoplastic in nature. The formation of the multifocal neuroendocrine nests may be a consequence of the trophic effects of unknown substance(s), which can promote serotonin producing neuroendocrine cells to proliferate. We postulate that Paneth cell-type carcinoma cells may be intimately related to such substance(s) in our case.
12113637: !synaptophysin Gonadotropin-secreting pituitary tumor associated with hypersecretion of testosterone and hypogonadism after hypophysectomy. To review gonadotropin-secreting pituitary tumors and report the rare case of one of these tumors that caused high serum testosterone concentrations, followed by hypogonadism after hypophysectomy.
12112377: !synaptophysin Astrocytes in adult rat brain express type 2 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors. Astrocytes respond to neuronal activity by propagating Ca(2+) waves elicited through the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate pathway. We have previously shown that wave propagation is supported by specialized Ca(2+) release sites, where a number of proteins, including inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP(3)R), occur together in patches. The specific IP(3)R isoform expressed by astrocytes in situ in rat brain is unknown. In the present report, we use isoform-specific antibodies to localize immunohistochemically the IP(3)R subtype expressed in astrocytes in rat brain sections. Astrocytes were identified using antibodies against the astrocyte-specific markers, S-100 beta, or GFAP. Dual indirect immunohistochemistry showed that astrocytes in all regions of adult rat brain express only IP(3)R2. High-resolution analysis showed that hippocampal astrocytes are endowed with a highly branched network of processes that bear fine hair-like extensions containing punctate patches of IP(3)R2 staining in intimate contact with synapses. Such an organization is reminiscent of signaling microdomains found in cultured glial cells. Similarly, Bergmann glial cell processes in the cerebellum also contained fine hair-like processes containing IP(3)R2 staining. The IP(3)R2-containing fine terminal branches of astrocyte processes in both brain regions were found juxtaposed to presynaptic terminals containing synaptophysin as well as PSD 95-containing postsynaptic densities. Corpus callosum astrocytes had an elongated morphology with IP(3)R2 studded processes extending along fiber tracts. Our data suggest that PLC-mediated Ca(2+) signaling in astrocytes in rat brain occurs predominantly through IP(3)R2 ion channels. Furthermore, the anatomical arrangement of the terminal astrocytic branches containing IP(3)R2 ensheathing synapses is ideal for supporting glial monitoring of neuronal activity.
12111358: !synaptophysin Cortical perivascular satellitosis in intractable epilepsy; a form of cortical dysplasia? This report describes two cases of cortical dysplasia in patients with intractable epilepsy: the first case presents a 12-year-old male with a simple partial seizure of his left arm (case 1), while the second case presents an 8-year-old female with a complex partial seizure (case 2). Magnetic resonance images showed high signal intensity on T2-weighted and fluid attenuated inversion-recovery images in the cerebral cortex of right frontal convexity in case 1 and in the medial temporal lobe and anterior amygdala in case 2. The latter lesion showed focal contrast enhancement. Light microscopy revealed perivascular clustering of small round cells accompanied by dysplastic neurons in the second to sixth layers of the cerebral cortex. The perivascular small cells had uniformly round nuclei and plump, ground-glass-like cytoplasm. These cells closely apposed each other and were adhered to the capillaries. In case 2, a ganglioglioma was also found in the amygdala. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the perivascular small cells were vimentin and focally S-100 protein positive, but were negative for glial fibrillary acid protein, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, microtubule-associated protein 2, neuronal nuclei antigen, nestin, carbonic anhydrase II, myelin basic protein, CD68, factor VIII, cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, alpha-smooth muscle actin, CD20, CD45 and CD45RO. These data suggest that this is a previously undescribed form of cortical dysplasia comprising dysplastic neurons and immature perivascular cells of possible oligodendroglial or meningothelial lineage. We suggest the term cortical perivascular satellitosis be used to describe this lesion.
12105112: !synaptophysin Nicotine reduces the secretion of Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein containing beta-amyloid peptide in the rat without altering synaptic proteins. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by cerebrovascular deposition of the amyloid beta-peptide (A beta), which is derived from a larger beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP). Altered metabolism of beta APP, resulting in increased A beta production, appears central in the neuropathology of AD. The processing of the holoprotein beta APP by different "secretase" enzymes results in three major carboxyl-truncated species. One species, which results from the cleavage of beta APP by gamma-secretase, is secreted into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and is called sAPP gamma as it contains an intact A beta domain. Moreover, AD is characterized by cholinergic dysfunction and the loss of synaptic proteins. Reports of an inverse relation between nicotine intake, due to cigarette smoking, and the incidence of AD prompted us to investigate the effects of nicotine on beta APP processing and synaptic proteins in rats and in cell culture. Nicotine, 1 and 8 mg/kg/day, doses commensurate with cigarette smoking, and a higher but well tolerated dose, respectively, was administered over 14 days to rats. Levels of sAPP in the CSF sample were evaluated by Western blot analysis. The higher dose significantly increased levels of total sAPP; however, both doses significantly reduced sAPP gamma, which contains the amyloidogenic portion of A beta. These actions were blocked by nicotinic receptor antagonism. Nicotinic antagonists alone had no effect on either total sAPP or sAPP gamma levels in CSF. Nicotine did not significantly change the intracellular levels of total beta APP in rat brain extracts, which is consistent with neuronal cell culture data. Similarly, levels of vesicular protein, such as synaptophysin, and presynaptic terminal protein SNAP-25 were unaffected by nicotine treatment both in vivo and in cell culture experiments. Taken together, these results suggest that nicotine modifies beta APP processing away from the formation of potentially amyloidogenic products, without altering the levels of synaptic proteins, and that this can potentially offer therapeutic potential for Alzheimer's disease.
12105085: !synaptophysin Gene expression related to synaptogenesis, neuritogenesis, and MAP kinase in behavioral sensitization to psychostimulants. The most important characteristic of behavioral sensitization to psychostimulants, such as amphetamine and cocaine, is the very long-lasting hypersensitivity to the drug after cessation of exposure. Rearrangement and structural modification of neural networks in CNS must be involved in behavioral sensitization. Previous microscopic studies have shown that the length of dendrites and density of dendritic spines increased in the nucleus accumbens and frontal cortex after repeated exposure to amphetamine and cocaine, but the molecular mechanisms responsible are not well understood. We investigated a set of genes related to synaptogenesis, neuritogenesis, and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase after exposure to methamphetamine. Synaptophysin mRNA, but not VAMP2 (synaptobrevin 2) mRNA, which are considered as synaptogenesis markers, increased in the accumbens, striatum, hippocampus, and several cortices, including the medial frontal cortex, after a single dose of 4 mg/kg methamphetamine. Stathmin mRNA, but not neuritin or narp mRNA, which are markers for neuritic sprouting, increased in the striatum, hippocampus, and cortices after a single dose of methamphetamine. The mRNA of arc, an activity-regulated protein associated with cytoskeleton, but not of alpha-tubulin, as markers for neuritic elongation, showed robust increases in the striatum, hippocampus, and cortices after a single dose of methamphetamine. The mRNAs of MAP kinase phosphatase-1 (MKP-1), MKP-3, and rheb, a ras homologue abundant in brain, were investigated to assess the MAP kinase cascades. MKP-1 and MKP-3 mRNAs, but not rheb mRNA, increased in the striatum, thalamus, and cortices, and in the striatum, hippocampus, and cortices, respectively, after a single methamphetamine. Synaptophysin and stathmin mRNAs did not increase again after chronic methamphetamine administration, whereas the increases in arc, MKP-1, and MKP-3 mRNAs persisted in the brain regions after chronic methamphetamine administration. These findings indicate that the earlier induction process in behavioral sensitization may require various plastic modifications, such as synaptogenesis, neuritic sprouting, neuritic elongation, and activation of MAP kinase cascades, throughout almost the entire brain. In contrast, later maintenance process of sensitization may require only limited plastic modification in restricted regions.
12097491: !synaptophysin Gephyrin interacts with Dynein light chains 1 and 2, components of motor protein complexes. The clustering of glycine receptors and major subtypes of GABA(A) receptors at inhibitory synapses is mediated by the tubulin-binding protein gephyrin. In an attempt to identify additional components of inhibitory postsynaptic specializations, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen using gephyrin as bait. Multiple positive clones encoded either the dynein light chain-1 (Dlc-1), also known as dynein LC8 and protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, or its homolog Dlc-2. Dlc-1 protein bound efficiently to gephyrin in in vitro binding assays and colocalized with gephyrin during coexpression in HEK293 cells. The binding site for Dlc was mapped to a fragment of 63 amino acids within the central linker domain of gephyrin. In hippocampal neurons, endogenous Dlc protein was enriched at synaptic sites identified by synaptophysin and gephyrin immunostaining. Immunoelectron microscopy in spinal cord sections revealed Dlc immunoreactivity at the edges of postsynaptic differentiations, in close contact with cytoskeletal structures and at the periphery of the Golgi apparatus. Because Dlc-1 and Dlc-2 have been described as stoichiometric components of cytoplasmic dynein and myosin-Va complexes, our results suggest that motor proteins are involved in the subcellular localization of gephyrin.
12097487: !synaptophysin Synaptic and nuclear localization of brain-enriched guanylate kinase-associated protein. Brain-enriched guanylate kinase-associated protein (BEGAIN) interacts with postsynaptic density (PSD)-95/synapse-associated protein (SAP) 90. In immunohistochemistry and immunocytochemistry, BEGAIN was detected in nuclei and at synapses in neurons. Nuclear localization was also confirmed through subcellular fractionation. BEGAIN was localized exclusively in nuclei when expressed in epithelial cells. These findings led us to analyze the mechanism to determine the subcellular localization of BEGAIN in neurons. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged BEGAIN appeared first in nuclei and subsequently accumulated at dendrites. Approximately 75 and 90% of GFP-BEGAIN clusters were colocalized with synaptophysin and PSD-95/SAP90, respectively. GFP-protein containing only the N-terminal region also formed foci in nuclei and clusters at dendrites. The N-terminal BEGAIN was not precisely targeted to synapses, although it was partially localized at synapses, possibly through dimer formation with endogenous BEGAIN. The truncated form of PSD-95/SAP90 containing the guanylate kinase domain blocked synaptic targeting of BEGAIN but did not affect cluster formation at dendrites. NMDA receptor antagonists blocked localization of GFP-BEGAIN at synapses but did not affect recruitment to dendrites. These results suggest that BEGAIN is recruited to dendrites by the N-terminal region independently of NMDA receptor activity and that synaptic targeting of BEGAIN depends on NMDA receptor activity and may be mediated by interaction with PSD-95/SAP90.
12090816: !synaptophysin Gene expression profile for schizophrenia: discrete neuron transcription patterns in the entorhinal cortex. Several lines of evidence indicate the altered function of the temporal lobe, including the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex (EC), is associated with schizophrenia. We used single-cell gene expression technologies to assess coordinate changes in the expression of multiple genes, including neuronal signaling and synaptic-related markers in EC layer II stellate neurons.
12083804: !synaptophysin Necdin is required for terminal differentiation and survival of primary dorsal root ganglion neurons. Necdin is expressed predominantly in postmitotic neurons and serves as a growth suppressor that is functionally similar to the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein. Using primary cultures of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of mouse embryos, we investigated the involvement of necdin in the terminal differentiation of neurons. DRG cells were prepared from mouse embryos at 12.5 days of gestation and cultured in the presence of nerve growth factor (NGF). Immunocytochemistry revealed that necdin accumulated in the nucleus of differentiated neurons that showed neurite extension and expressed the neuronal markers microtubule-associated protein 2 and synaptophysin. Suppression of necdin expression in DRG cultures treated with antisense oligonucleotides led to a marked reduction in the number of terminally differentiated neurons. The antisense oligonucleotide-treated cells did not attempt to reenter the cell cycle, but underwent death with characteristics of apoptosis such as caspase-3 activation, nuclear condensation, and chromosomal DNA fragmentation. Furthermore, a caspase-3 inhibitor rescued antisense oligonucleotide-treated cells from apoptosis and significantly increased the population of terminally differentiated neurons. These results suggest that necdin mediates the terminal differentiation and survival of NGF-dependent DRG neurons and that necdin-deficient nascent neurons are destined to caspase-3-dependent apoptosis.
12082566: !synaptophysin Altered immunoreactivity of complexin protein in prefrontal cortex in severe mental illness. Recent imaging and postmortem studies suggest that impaired connectivity is involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and major affective disorders. We investigated the presynaptic proteins complexin (Cx) I and Cx II in postmortem prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia (n = 13; six suicide, seven nonsuicide), major depression (n= 11, all suicide) and controls (n = 11) with an enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay (ELISA). Overall analysis indicated a significant difference between groups (F = 3.93, P = 0.007). Cx I (enriched in inhibitory terminals) was decreased 33% in schizophrenia (26% in schizophrenia/nonsuicide, 42% in schizophrenia/suicide) and 27% in major depression. Cx II (enriched in excitatory terminals) was not significantly different. Analysis of the ratio of Cx II/Cx I was carried out as an indication of the balance of excitatory to inhibitory terminals. A significant difference between groups (ANOVA, F = 6.42, P = 0.005) was observed. The mean value of Cx II/Cx I was significantly increased by 34% in schizophrenia (26% in schizophrenia/nonsuicide and 43% in schizophrenia/suicide) and by 32% in depression compared with control (Student-Newman-Keuls test, P = 0.05). Immunoreactivities of the two complexins were highly correlated in all groups. However, compared with controls and depression, samples from cases with schizophrenia appeared to have relatively less Cx I for similar amounts of Cx II. Immunocytochemical studies of rat frontal cortex after 3 weeks treatment with chlorpromazine, trifluoperazine or haloperidol revealed no differences in complexins, synaptophysin, SNAP-25, syntaxin or VAMP in comparison with animals treated with vehicle. Alterations of complexins may contribute to the molecular substrate for abnormalities of neural connectivity in severe mental disorders.
12077483: !synaptophysin Expression of a kinase anchoring protein 79 and synaptophysin in the developing human red nucleus. Our previous study showed that in the human fetal and neonatal brain, the magnocellular and parvocellular parts of the red nucleus can be well delineated by calcium-binding proteins. To study the development of rubral afferents, the expression of A kinase anchoring protein 79 (AKAP79) and synaptophysin (SYN) was examined in the human fetal red nucleus. It was found that during prenatal development both AKAP79 and SYN expression increased gradually although a major alteration in the distribution of the proteins within the two compartments of the red nucleus was not observed. In AKAP79 immunopreparations, the magnocellular part became well demarcated from 23 weeks of gestation onwards and both parts showed punctate immunolabelling with moderate to high packing densities of immunoreactive cells. SYN immunoreactivity with a punctate appearance was, however, mainly located in the parvocellular part. It was evenly distributed throughout the compartment at 14-22 weeks of gestation, and then from 23 weeks to the time of birth, there was a pericellular arrangement of SYN. Our observations are mainly in line with connectivity data regarding the red nucleus.
12060346: !synaptophysin Synapse loss is greater in presenile than senile onset Alzheimer disease: implications for the cognitive reserve hypothesis. In the past, 'Alzheimer disease' (AD) referred to pathologic AD with clinical onset of dementia in the presenium, while 'senile dementia of the Alzheimer type' (SDAT) referred to senile onset AD. Because AD appears clinically homogeneous regardless of age of onset, the two subtypes in more recent years have not been distinguished. Pathologic differences have been noted, but synapse loss has not previously been compared between the two groups. Hypothesizing that synapse loss would be greater in presenile onset than senile onset AD, we compared synapse loss, as well as Alzheimer pathology in presenile and senile onset AD, using an ELISA method to quantify synaptophysin. Synaptophysin was significantly lower in presenile than senile AD in right frontal and bilateral parietal lobes. Neuritic plaque counts were significantly higher in presenile than senile AD in bilateral frontal and parietal lobes. Semi-quantitative evaluation of neurofibrillary tangles revealed significantly more tangles in bilateral frontal and parietal lobes in presenile than senile AD. Brain weight was significantly lower in presenile than senile AD. The differences in synapse loss and Alzheimer-type pathology in presenile and senile onset AD support the hypothesis that 'cognitive reserve' protects the human brain from neurodegenerative disease.
12056639: !synaptophysin Effect of chronic administration of cadmium on the rat thyroid: radioimmunological and immunohistochemical studies. The effect of chronic (12 months) oral cadmium (Cd) administration (5 or 50 mg Cd/dm3) to rats on the structure and function of the thyroid was evaluated. Paraffin thyroid and parathyroid sections were stained with H+E and immunocytochemically for calcitonin (CT), somatostatin (ST), synaptophysin (SPh), chromogranin A (CgA) and thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1). Serum levels of thyroid hormones: triiodothyronine (T3) and tetraiodothyronine (T4) as well as levels of Cd in the blood and calcium (Ca) in the serum were estimated. CT, ST and SPh were detected in C cells of the thyroid, while CgA in both thyroid and parathyroid cells. In animals exposed to Cd, proliferation of CT- and SPh-positive thyroid C cells was observed, ST being found only in very few C cells--both in control animals and in those exposed to Cd. Serum T3 concentration was not affected by Cd, while T4 was reduced but only at the exposure to the higher Cd concentration. Moreover, the rats exposed to Cd showed a decrease in serum Ca concentration.
12056635: !synaptophysin Thyroid C cells in male and female rats with chronic renal failure. The kidneys are responsible for iodine and of thyroid hormone biodegradation. The aim of this study was the histomorphological and immunohistochemical evaluation of the influence of sex on parafollicular thyroid C cells in rats with chronic renal failure. The experiment included 40 Wistar rats after subtotal nephrectomy, after sham operation, and without any surgical procedure. Two weeks after nephrectomy, fragments of thyroids were collected from the examined animals. Paraffin sections were stained with H+E and by silver impregnation. Calcitonin (CT), synaptophysin (SPh), somatostatin (ST), and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) were detected immunohistochemically in C cells. In rats with experimental uremia, immunostaining for the examined substances increased significantly in comparison to the controls. We also observed higher number of C cells with a stronger reaction in the group of males, compared to the female rats.
12056634: !synaptophysin Preliminary evaluation of pancreatic islets in rats with experimental uremia and after thyroparathyroidectomy. Hormonal disorders are the permanent symptoms of renal failure. They concern all known hormones and can be due to quantitative changes of the secretory activity and disturbances of endocrine cell functions. The aim of this study was to establish whether experimental thyroparathyroidectomy in uremic animals causes detectable histomorphological changes in endocrine cells of pancreatic islets. Thyroparathyroidectomy was performed in rats 30 days after nephrectomy. Fragments of pancreatic tissue were collected 14 days after the operation. Paraffin sections were stained with H+E and by silver salt impregnation. Immunohistochemical reactions were conducted using antibodies against calcitoningene-related peptide (CGRP), synaptophysin (SPh), somatostatin (ST), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and chromogranin (CgA). It was shown that endocrine cells of pancreatic islets in thyroparathyroidectomized rats show intensified immunoreactivity to SPh and ST as compared to the control group of animals. Immunocytochemical reactions for NSE, CgA, and CGRP were negative.
12056633: !synaptophysin The dynamics of morphological changes in the pyloric endocrine cells of rats with uremia. Disturbances in renal homeostatic function lead to changes in endocrine cell secretory activity. The aim of this study was the histomorphological estimation of dependence of gastric APUD system cell morphology and function on the time after subtotal nephrectomy in Wistar rats. Fragments of gastric pylorus were collected 1. 2, 4, and 6 weeks after nephrectomy. Paraffin sections were stained with H+E and by silver impregnation. Immunohistochemical reactions with the use of specific antibodies against calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), synaptophysin (SPh). somatostatin (ST), and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) were also performed. Immunoreactivity of the examined substances in the pyloric mucosa in the first week after nephrectomy was lower than in the control group. However, in the following time intervals, endocrine cells showed stronger immunostaining in comparison with the control rats. The results suggest that chronic renal failure can modulate secretory activity of APUD system cells.
12055683: !synaptophysin Mixed acinar-endocrine carcinoma arising in the ampulla of Vater. We present a case of mixed acinar-endocrine carcinoma arising in the periampullary region of the duodenum. The patient was a 78-year-old male with a periampullary mass diagnosed during upper endoscopy. On gross dissection, the mass was 2.3 cm in diameter, noncystic, and confined to the duodenal submucosa. Microscopically, the tumor formed nests that were positive for amylase, trypsin (weakly), and synaptophysin (diffusely). Ultrastructurally, the tumor had 2 populations of granules with mean diameters of 175 nm and 540 nm, consistent with endocrine and zymogen granules, respectively. These studies were consistent with a mixed acinar-endocrine carcinoma that arose in the duodenum. A review of the literature revealed 1 report of an acinar cell carcinoma arising in jejunal pancreatic heterotopia. The present article is the first reported case of an acinar cell carcinoma arising in the periampullary region of the duodenum, possibly in a focus of pancreatic heterotopia.
12053045: !synaptophysin Oncocytic paraganglioma of the cauda equina in a child. Case report and review of the literature. The authors report a case of oncocytic paraganglioma of the cauda equina in a 12-year-old girl who presented with lower back and leg pain on the right side of 6 months' duration. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an ellipsoidal, intradural, extramedullary mass causing cord compression at the level of L1. Total laminectomy was performed on T12 and L1, and the tumor was excised completely without difficulty despite adherence of the tumor to the spinal cord. Postoperatively, the leg pain and motor weakness were much improved. The use of electron microscopy, and the immunohistochemical demonstration of synaptophysin in this tumor, allowed a confident diagnosis of an oncocytic paraganglioma to be made. To the authors' knowledge, this patient represents the first definite case of an oncocytic paraganglioma of the cauda equina in a child.
12047721: !synaptophysin Comparison of somatostatin receptor expression in human gliomas and medulloblastomas. The expression of the five somatostatin receptor subtypes, sst1-5 was compared on tissue containing glial tumours (glioblastomas or oligodendrogliomas), medulloblastomas, and on normal human cortex. By semiquantitative reverse transcription coupled to polymerase chain reaction, the receptor expression profiles were high in cortex and in tissue containing oligodendrogliomas. It was moderate in medulloblastomas. Tissue containing glioblastomas displayed lower expression of somatostatin receptor subtypes, sst1 and sst3 being mostly expressed. By 125I-Tyr0DTrp8 somatostatin-14 or 125I-Leu8DTrp22 Tyr25 somatostatin-28 autoradiography combined with synaptophysin immunohistochemistry, it was possible to differentiate between isolated tumoral cell component infiltrating the cerebral parenchyma (cortex or white matter) and tumoral tissue (without residual parenchyma) in glioblastomas or oligodendrogliomas. Glial tumoral tissue per se presented few somatostatin receptors. By contrast, medulloblastoma tumoral cells exhibited numerous octreotide sensitive somatostatin receptors. sst2 immunocytochemistry demonstrated immunostaining of neuronal cells and neuropile; sst2 and sst3 immunostaining was identified on glioblastoma proliferating vessels endothelial cells and on medulloblastomas tumoral cells. Faint sst2 immunostaining among glial tumoral cells was due to microglia, while glioma cells did not significantly stain. In summary, medulloblastoma tumoral cells express sst2/sst3 receptors at a high level while glioma cells do not. In gliomas, sst expression is restricted to endothelial cells on proliferating vessels (displaying both sst2 and sst3 receptors), including parenchyma and reactive microglia (only sst2). The differential expression of sst2/sst3 receptors on gliomas and medulloblastomas has implications for the therapy of these tumours.
12047718: !synaptophysin Increased galanin synapses onto activated gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal cell bodies in normal female mice and in functional preoptic area grafts in hypogonadal mice. Galanin synaptic input onto gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neuronal cell bodies was analysed in female mice using the presynaptic vesicle-specific protein, synaptophysin (Syn) as a marker. In the first experiment, forebrain sections from normal ovariectomized ovarian steroid-primed mice exhibiting a surge of luteinizing hormone were processed for immunohistochemical labelling for GnRH, synaptophysin, galanin and Fos. Two representative sections from each brain, one passing through the anterior septum (anterior section) and the other through the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis-preoptic area (posterior section), were analysed under the confocal microscope. None of the GnRH cells analysed in the anterior sections were Fos immunoreactive (IR) or received input from galanin-IR fibres. In contrast, the majority of GnRH cells in the posterior sections analysed were Fos-positive. The number of galanin synapses onto the Fos-positive GnRH cells was significantly higher than that in the Fos-negative cells in this area of the brain, even though the number of Syn-IR appositions was comparable to each other. Transplantation of preoptic area (POA) into the third cerebral ventricle of hypogonadal (HPG) mice corrects deficits in the reproductive system. In the second experiment, synaptic input to GnRH cells was compared between HPG/POA mice with (functional graft) or without (nonfunctional graft) gonadal development. The mean numbers of Syn-IR appositions and galanin synapses per GnRH cell and the proportion of GnRH cells with galanin input were significantly higher in the functional than in the nonfunctional grafts. The results suggest that galanin can act directly on the GnRH cell bodies and may have an important regulatory role on the GnRH system.
12046730: !synaptophysin Long-term outcome in patients with central neurocytoma following stereotactic biopsy and radiation therapy. Total excision is usually the recommended treatment for central neurocytomas. The role of radiation therapy in their management is controversial, and is usually reserved for partially resected or recurrent tumours. Long-term outcome was studied in patients with central neurocytoma who were treated with radiation therapy. By retrospective chart review, eight patients with intraventricular tumours, who had undergone radiation therapy following stereotactic biopsy, were identified. The diagnosis of neurocytoma was confirmed based on positive immunostaining with synaptophysin. Clinical and radiological follow-up was obtained. Of eight patients, one died 5 years after treatment from shunt dysfunction and 1 had disseminated intracranial disease 15 months after treatment. Six patients were symptom-free at a mean follow-up period of 78 months and had good local control as demonstrated by CT. Since this tumour can be confused with an oligodendroglioma or an ependymoma on routine histopathology (as happened in seven of our cases); immunohistochemical studies with synaptophysin should be routinely performed for intraventricular glial tumours. Our study supports the beneficial effect of radiation therapy in the management of these tumours.
12040654: !synaptophysin Diagnosis of gastric glomus tumor by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy. A case report with cytologic, histologic and immunohistochemical studies. The majority of glomus tumor are small, benign neoplasms that arise from modified smooth muscle cells. They usually occur in the dermis or subcutis of the extremities. However, rare cases have been reported in the visceral locations, most often in the stomach.
12040056: !synaptophysin Synaptically targeted narp plays an essential role in the aggregation of AMPA receptors at excitatory synapses in cultured spinal neurons. Neuronal activity regulated pentraxin (Narp) has been implicated in the aggregation of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (GluR) at excitatory synapses. In the present paper, we examine the role of endogenous Narp in excitatory synapse formation by using novel, dominant-negative Narp mutants (dnNarp) that selectively bind endogenous Narp and prevent its accumulation at synapses. Axons from neurons transfected with wild-type Narp showed an increase in their ability to cluster AMPA receptors on spinal neurons, whereas axons from neurons transfected with dnNarp showed a marked decrease in their ability to induce GluR1 clusters on contacted dendrites. Despite their marked effect at excitatory synapses, dnNarp and wild-type Narp had no effect on the postsynaptic clustering of the inhibitory protein gephyrin or the percentage of contacts associated with staining for the presynaptic vesicle proteins GAD or synaptophysin. Use of the dnNarp mutants to suppress endogenous Narp expression by postsynaptic dendrites showed a complementary role for dendritic Narp in the clustering of synaptic AMPA receptors, as well as a reduction in the total number of excitatory synapses on transfected neurons. Together these experiments suggest an important role for Narp in the formation of excitatory synapses in cultured spinal neurons.
12034721: !synaptophysin Mechanisms underlying the neuronal calcium sensor-1-evoked enhancement of exocytosis in PC12 cells. Neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1) or the originally identified homologue frequenin belongs to a superfamily of EF-hand calcium binding proteins. Although NCS-1 is thought to enhance synaptic efficacy or exocytosis mainly by activating ion channel function, the detailed molecular basis for the enhancement is still a matter of debate. Here, mechanisms underlying the NCS-1-evoked enhancement of exocytosis were investigated using PC12 cells overexpressing NCS-1. NCS-1 was found to have a broad distribution in the cells being partially distributed in the cytosol and associated to vesicles and tubular-like structures. Biochemical and immunohistochemical studies indicated that NCS-1 partially colocalized with the light synaptic vesicle marker synaptophysin. When stimulated with UTP or bradykinin, agonists to phospholipase C-linked receptors, NCS-1 enhanced the agonist-mediated elementary and global Ca2+ signaling and increased the levels of downstream signals of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase. NCS-1 enhanced the UTP-evoked exocytosis but not the depolarization-evoked Ca2+ responses or exocytosis, suggesting that the enhancement by NCS-1 should involve phospholipase C-linked receptor-mediated signals rather than the Ca2+ channels or exocytotic machinery per se. Taken together, NCS-1 enhances phosphoinositide turnover, resulting in enhancement of Ca2+ signaling and exocytosis. This is a novel regulatory mechanism of exocytosis that might involve the activation of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase.
12031554: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical comparison of alpha- and beta-synuclein in adult rat central nervous system. We investigated the immunohistochemical localization of alpha- and beta-synuclein (alphaS and betaS) in the adult rat CNS and compared the distribution of these proteins with that of synaptophysin (SYN), a well-established presynaptic marker. Anti-SYN, alphaS and betaS antibodies immunolabeled the neuropil in a punctate pattern. No SYN immunoreactivity was found in the neuronal cytoplasm. In contrast, both anti-alphaS and betaS immunostained the neuronal cytoplasm and nucleus to various extents depending on the brain region. alphaS-positive neurons were found in the olfactory bulb, deeper layers of the cerebral neocortex, substantia nigra and pontine nucleus. Immunoreactivity was most intense in neurons of the substantia nigra. betaS-positive neurons were more widely distributed throughout the CNS: more than 50% of neurons were positive for betaS in the granular cell layer of the olfactory bulb, layer IV of the cerebral cortex, CA3 of the hippocampus, basal ganglia and thalamic reticular nuclei. Moreover, there were differences among these proteins in the distribution pattern of immunoreactivity in the neuropil in some CNS regions. These findings suggest that although alphaS and betaS are concentrated in presynaptic terminals, significant amounts of these proteins are also present in the neuronal perikarya. Furthermore, the distribution of alphaS-positive neurons is similar to that of intraneuronal inclusions in alphaS transgenic animals as well as in human alpha-synucleinopathies.
12025941: !synaptophysin Progressive reduction of synaptophysin message in single neurons in Alzheimer disease. The data presented here examine 2 hypotheses: 1) that viable but vulnerable single neurons remaining in the Alzheimer brain lose synaptic markers, and 2) that the extent of this loss is related to the disease state of these single neurons when disease state is defined by immunoreactivity. We used double immunohistochemistry (IHC) to define neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) and phosphorylation status of tau at selected defined epitopes. This double IHC was combined with quantitative in situ hybridization for message for the synaptic marker, synaptophysin, in 1,127 single hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons from 15 Alzheimer disease (AD) and 4 control cases. We found that there is a graded, progressive, decrease of synaptophysin message expressed by single neurons related to immunohistochemical markers of tau status, and that neurons in similar immunohistochemically defined classes show similar losses of synaptophysin message regardless of whether they were sampled from clinical control brains or advanced AD. The resulting conclusions are consistent with a suggestion that differences among clinically defined AD and control status are defined by the numbers of neurons in various disease states.
12019328: !synaptophysin Low levels of estrogen significantly diminish axonal sprouting after entorhinal cortex lesions in the mouse. This study tested the hypothesis that estrogen enhances axonal sprouting in the hippocampal formation in the female mouse. The entorhinal cortex was unilaterally lesioned with ibotenic acid in control mice and in ovariectomized mice that were treated with a high dose of, a moderate dose of, or zero estrogen supplementation pellets. Four weeks later the density of staining for synaptophysin immunoreactivity and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry was measured in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. In control mice, lesions of the lateral part of the entorhinal cortex increased synaptophysin and acetylcholinesterase staining (i.e., indicative of axonal sprouting) in the outer one-third of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Mice receiving high and moderate estrogen supplementation displayed the same sprouting response; however, in ovariectomized mice the sprouting response was significantly reduced (to nearly nothing). Thus, in ovariectomized compared with control mice the lesion-induced sprouting response is severely blunted, and this effect is reversed by estrogen supplementation. Together, these findings suggest that estrogen plays a prominent role in promoting neuronal plasticity and remodeling in the dentate gyrus.
12015436: !synaptophysin Influence of afferent synaptic innervation on the discharge variability of cat abducens motoneurones. The discharge variability of abducens motoneurones was studied after blocking inhibitory synaptic inputs or both excitatory and inhibitory inputs by means of an intramuscular (lateral rectus) injection of either a low (0.5 ng kg(-1)) or a high dose (5 ng kg(-1)) of tetanus neurotoxin (TeNT), respectively. Motoneuronal firing increased after low-dose TeNT. High-dose treatment, however, produced a firing depression, and in some cells, a total lack of modulation in relation to eye movements. Firing became increasingly more regular with larger TeNT doses as shown by significant reductions in the coefficient of variation after low- and high-dose treatments. Similarly, autocorrelation histograms of interspike intervals increased the number of resolvable peaks twofold in low-dose-treated motoneurones and sevenfold in high-dose-treated motoneurones. The plots of standard deviation versus the mean instantaneous firing frequency showed an upward deflexion with low firing frequencies. The upward deflexion occurred in controls at 39.9 +/- 4.9 ms, an interval similar to the mean afterhyperpolarisation (AHP) duration (48.4 +/- 8.8 ms). Low-dose TeNT treatment shifted the deflexion point to 20.9 +/- 3.9 ms, whereas the high dose increased it to 60.7 +/- 6.1 ms, in spite of the fact that no differences in AHP parameters between groups were found. The density of synaptophysin-immunoreactive boutons decreased by 14 % after the low-dose treatment and 40.5 % after the high-dose treatment, indicating that protracted synaptic blockade produces elimination of synaptic boutons. It is concluded that abducens motoneurone spike variability during spontaneous ocular fixations depends largely on the balance between inhibitory and excitatory synaptic innervation.
12014590: !synaptophysin Olfactory neuroepithelioma in a dog: an immunohistochemical and electron microscopic study. A case of olfactory neuroepithelioma was investigated electron microscopically and immunohistochemically. The tumor mass was found in the nasal cavities of a 10-year-old female dog, which showed epistaxis, nasal discharge and facial swelling. The tumor tissue consisted of tubular structure of cuboidal to columnar cells and compactly arranged nests of small cells surrounded by a fibrovascular stroma. Mitotic figures were frequently observed. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells frequently showed positive for neurofilament protein, synaptophysin and/or carnosine in addition to keratin. Ultrastructurally, tight junction was observed between the tumor cells. No dense-cored secretory granules were shown in the tumor cells. These findings indicated that the present tumor had neuronal and epithelial features probably originating from the olfactory epithelium.
12014495: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical staining patterns of canine meningiomas and correlation with published immunophenotypes. This study examined immunohistochemical staining patterns for several meningioma variants involving either the brain or spinal cord of dogs. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue from 15 tumors was obtained. The selected tumor group included seven meningothelial, three transitional, two malignant (anaplastic), one myxoid, one papillary, and one osteomatous meningiomas. Tumors were evaluated for reactivity to the following six immunohistochemical markers: vimentin, pancytokeratin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S100, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and synaptophysin. Vimentin expression was detected in all meningiomas, and 14 of 15 tumors demonstrated intense vimentin staining in more than 50% of the neoplastic cells. Pancytokeratin expression was present in 11 of 15 neoplasms; however, positive staining frequently was focal and often involved a small percentage of the neoplastic cells. GFAP expression was detected in a single, anaplastic meningioma. Although expression of NSE and S100 was detected in 12 of 25 meningiomas, the intensity of the staining and the percentage of positive neoplastic cells was highly variable. Synaptophysin was uniformly negative. These results will help to establish immunohistochemical profiles for meningiomas that will improve our ability to correctly differentiate these neoplasms of meningeal origin from central nervous system tumors originating from other sites.
12012094: !synaptophysin Abnormal synaptic protein expression and cell death in murine scrapie. Reduced expression of synaptophysin p38, synaptic-associated protein of molecular weight 25,000 (SNAP-25), syntaxin-1, synapsin-1, and alpha- and beta-synuclein, matching the distribution of spongiform degeneration, was found in the neurological phase of scrapie-infected mice. In addition, synaptophysin and SNAP-25 were accumulated in isolated neurons, mainly in the thalamus, midbrain and pons, and granular deposits of alpha- and beta-synuclein were present in the neuropil of the same areas. No modifications in the steady state levels of Bcl-2, Bax, Fas and Fas ligand were observed following infection. Yet antibodies against the c-Jun N-terminal peptide, which cross-react with products emerging after caspase-mediate proteolysis, recognize coarse granular deposits in the cytoplasm of reactive microglia. In situ end-labeling of nuclear DNA fragmentation showed positive nuclei with extreme chromatin condensation in the thalamus, pons, hippocampus and, in particular, the granular layer of the cerebellum. More importantly, expression of cleaved caspase-3, a major executioner of apoptosis, was seen in a few cells in the same regions, thus indicating that cell death by apoptosis in scrapie-infected mice is associated with caspase-3 activation. The present findings support the concept that synaptic pathology is a major substrate of neurological impairment and that caspase-3 activation may play a pivotal role in apoptosis in experimental scrapie. However, there is no correlation between decreased synaptic protein expression and caspase-3-associated apoptosis, which suggests that in addition to abnormal prion protein deposition, there may be other factors that distinctively influence synaptic vulnerability and cell death in murine scrapie.
12012086: !synaptophysin Pathology of the inferior olivary nucleus in patients with multiple system atrophy. The inferior olivary nucleus (ION) from nine patients with multiple system atrophy was examined with antibodies against alpha-synuclein, ubiquitin, synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, the Golgi apparatus (GA)-trans-Golgi network (TGN), and microglia/macrophages. As previously reported, there were neuronal loss, gliosis, and alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic inclusions in neurons and glia. In addition, all neurons with alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic inclusions contained abnormal profiles of the GA and TGN, which were reduced in size and numbers. This finding suggests a relationship between the pathogenetic mechanisms causing inclusion body formation and abnormalities of the GA-TGN. This study is also consistent with the conclusion that lesions of the ION may not always reflect changes of transsynaptic degeneration secondary to Purkinje cell loss.
12009097: !synaptophysin Serous oligocystic adenoma of the pancreas: a clinicopathological and immunohistochemical study of three cases with ultrastructural findings. Serous oligocystic adenoma of the pancreas is an uncommon benign neoplasm and is a recently described entity. To date, there are 19 adult cases of this tumour. We report three additional cases, two with macrocystic and one with unilocular types. We describe their clinicopathological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural findings and review the world's literature.
11989854: !synaptophysin Amphicrine carcinoma of breast with giant granules: an immunohistochemical, histochemical and ultrastructural study. A moderately differentiated grade 2 invasive ductal carcinoma was diagnosed in the right breast of an 81-year-old woman. The uniform nuclear profiles and moderately abundant granular cytoplasm suggested a neuroendocrine tumour and a Grimelius stain was positive. Neurone specific enolase, synaptophysin and somatostatin stained positively, and casein was interpreted as positive although with some background staining. By electron microscopy, tumour cells possessed desmosomes, tonofibrils, intercellular lumina, lamina and dense granules. Rounded dense granules 160-480 nm in diameter resembled neuroendocrine granules. They were found in both luminal and basal areas. Fewer and much larger ('giant') granules had a rounded profile and were up to 5 microm across. The smaller cytoplasmic granules were mostly Grimelius-positive while giant granules were negative. The smaller granules were also uranaffin-positive, but no uranaffin-positive cytoplasmic giant granules were encountered. Both small and giant granules were observed in lumina, and here both were uranaffin-positive. Intraluminal giant granules had a substructure of small pale lipid-like lacunae, and some had irregular profiles. The exceptional size of these exocrine granules is emphasised, and the nature of both the small and giant granules discussed in this amphicrine carcinoma.
11988740: !synaptophysin Dysfunction of store-operated calcium channel in muscle cells lacking mg29. The store-operated calcium channel (SOC) located in the plasma membrane (PM) mediates capacitative entry of extracellular calcium after depletion of intracellular calcium stores in the endoplasmic or sarcoplasmic reticulum (ER/SR). An intimate interaction between the PM and the ER/SR is essential for the operation of this calcium signalling pathway. Mitsugumin 29 (MG29) is a synaptophysin-family-related protein located in the junction between the PM and SR of skeletal muscle. Here, we identify SOC in skeletal muscle and characterise its regulation by MG29 and the ryanodine receptor (RyR) located in the SR. Targeted deletion of mg29 alters the junctional membrane structure, causes severe dysfunction of SOC and SR calcium homeostasis and increases the susceptibility of muscle to fatigue stimulation. Severe dysfunction of SOC is also identified in muscle cells lacking both type 1 and type 3 RyRs, indicating that SOC activation requires an intact interaction between the PM and the SR, and is linked to conformational changes of RyRs. Whereas defective SOC seems to be inconsequential to short-term excitation-contraction coupling, the slow cumulative calcium entry through SOC is crucial for long-term calcium homeostasis, such that reduced SOC activity exaggerates muscle fatigue under conditions of intensive exercise.
11988617: !synaptophysin Persistent defect in transmitter release and synapsin phosphorylation in cerebral cortex after transient moderate ischemic injury. Synaptic transmission is highly vulnerable to metabolic perturbations. However, the long-term consequences of transient metabolic perturbations on synapses are not clear. We studied the long-lasting changes in synaptic transmission and phosphorylation of presynaptic proteins in penumbral cortical neurons after transient moderate ischemia.
11984816: !synaptophysin Distribution of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptor aggregates in the deep cerebellar nuclei of normal and mutant mice. In the central nervous system, the aggregation of receptors is crucial for synapse formation and function. To study the role of presynaptic terminals in the maintenance of postsynaptic specializations, we analyzed the synaptic contacts between Purkinje cells and neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei in two in vivo models: the Lurcher and Purkinje cell-deficient (PCD) mutant mice. These mutants lose their Purkinje cells at different postnatal stages. By using confocal scanner microscopy and immunohistochemistry, we studied the distribution of the alpha subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor (GABA(A)Ralpha1) and gephyrin, one of its anchoring proteins, in relation to the distribution of presynaptic markers, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), or synaptophysin. In Lurcher the distribution of GABA(A) receptor aggregates on the membrane of postsynaptic neurons was not affected by the important loss of GAD-positive terminals, whereas in PCD, the number of large GABA(A) receptor aggregates increased. In both mutants the number of aggregates of gephyrin decreased. Most of these remaining aggregates were clustered to form groups, some of which were in front of GAD-positive terminals. This study shows, for the first time, the localization of GABA(A)R alpha 1 in Lurcher and PCD mutant mice. It clearly establishes that GABA(A)R alpha 1 and gephyrin are differentially affected by deafferentation. Because the receptor aggregates are maintained while the gephyrin aggregates are lost, as a result some receptor aggregates are not associated with any gephyrin. These two postsynaptic components appeared to be regulated by different mechanisms.
11979088: !synaptophysin A rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor of the fourth ventricle: infratentorial form of dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor? Eleven cases of a distinctive tumor of the posterior fossa are described. The patients (age range 12-59 years) presented with headache and/or ataxia. Neuroimaging revealed a relatively discrete, focally enhancing mass(es) primarily involving the aqueduct, fourth ventricle, and cerebellar vermis. Hydrocephalus was present in seven cases, and two lesions were multicentric. In two cases a significant increase in tumor size was documented. Gross total or subtotal resections were achieved in 10 cases. One patient underwent biopsy alone and another received postoperative irradiation. Histologically, two components were identified in all cases. One consisted of neurocytes forming neurocytic and/or perivascular pseudorosettes in a fibrillary, partly microcystic matrix. The second, astrocytic component resembled pilocytic astrocytoma in 10 cases and consisted of fibrillated spindle cells with oval nuclei associated with occasional Rosenthal fibers, granular bodies, glomeruloid capillaries, and microcalcifications. Regionally, this component was more diffuse and patternless, consisting of sheets of round to oval, oligodendrocyte-like cells. Rare ganglion cells were seen in four cases. The rosettes were consistently synaptophysin and MAP-2 immunoreactive, whereas the spindle cells were positive for S-100 protein and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Overall, atypia was minimal; no mitoses were found, and Ki67 labeling indices were low. Ultrastructurally, the neurocytic cells featured processes containing microtubules and occasional dense core granules. Mature synapses were found in one of the four cases studied. Although the histologic features of this unique tumor superficially resemble those of dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor, rosette formation by neuronal cells, the frequent presence of a pilocytic astrocytoma component, and the growing nature of the lesion argue against that diagnosis, as does occasional multifocality.
11978814: !synaptophysin Activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38 in an Alzheimer's disease model is associated with amyloid deposition. The mechanisms by which neurons and synapses are lost in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are not completely understood. To characterize potential signaling events linked to AD pathogenesis, activation-specific antibodies were used to examine mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase pathways at various ages in mice transgenic for human amyloid precursor protein-695 with the Swedish familial AD mutations (Tg2576) and homozygous for a P264L familial AD mutation introduced by targeting of the presenilin-1 gene (PS1(P264L)). Although the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 pathways were significantly activated in the cortex at both 7 and 12 months of age, there was no significant activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway. MAPK kinase-4, an upstream activator of JNK, was also significantly activated at 7 and 12 months, whereas c-Jun, a downstream effector of JNK-associated apoptotic signaling, was not induced. The lack of c-Jun activation is consistent with the absence of neuronal loss in both cortex and hippocampal CA1 at 12 months. The JNK activation was localized to amyloid deposits, within neurites containing phosphorylated tau. Synaptophysin was quantified biochemically as a measure of synaptic integrity and was significantly reduced in an age-dependent manner in the Tg2576/PS1(P264L) cortex but not in either PS1(P264L) or Tg2576 cortex. Stress-responsive MAP kinase pathways were activated in the brain of the Tg2576/PS1(P264L) AD model, and this activation was coincident with the age-dependent increase in amyloid deposition, tau phosphorylation, and loss of synaptophysin.
11967710: !synaptophysin Laparoscopic resection of a large periadrenal nonmalignant pheochromocytoma. This is, to our knowledge, the first case description of an extraadrenal pheochromocytoma located in the periadrenal fat. Pheochromocytoma is a tumor that originates in the chromaffin tissue. Extraadrenal pheochromocytomas have been described commonly in locations such as the organ of Zuckerkandle (29%); the bladder (12%); the sacrum, testis, rectum, and pelvic floor (2%); the upper abdomen in association with celiac, superior mesenteric, and inferior mesenteric ganglia (43%); the thorax (12%); and the neck (2%), most commonly in association with the ninth or tenth cranial nerve ganglion. Our patient was a 40-year-old woman known to have had an adrenal mass for the last 4 years. She was referred for surgery because of an increase in the size of the mass to 11 cm. Laparoscopic adrenalectomy was performed via a posterior flank approach. The pathology report was of periadrenal fat pheochromocytoma, with positive staining for synaptophysin, chromogranin, and vimentin. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 3. The unique feature in this case was the uncommon location of the extraadrenal tumor: the supraadrenal fat. The other unique finding in this case was that the pheochromocytoma was neither symptomatic nor malignant, common features of extraadrenal masses.
11955966: !synaptophysin Reduction of the synaptophysin level but normal levels of glycerophospholipids in the gyrus cinguli in schizophrenia. The 'membrane hypothesis' of schizophrenia postulates a disturbance in the metabolism and structure of membrane phospholipids resulting in a disturbance in the function of neuronal membrane proteins. Most studies exploring this hypothesis have examined components of peripheral blood. Since it may be questioned if these peripheral measurements reflect changes in the brain, we studied the fatty acid composition of glycerophospholipids in brain tissue. As a marker for synaptic density, we also measured the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. Brain tissue (gyrus cinguli) from 11 schizophrenic patients (mean age 80 +/- 10 years) and 13 controls (mean age 75 +/- 14 years) was examined. The glycerophospholipid fatty acids were determined by gas chromatography. Synaptophysin protein level was determined using quantitative immunoblotting followed by Western blotting. There were no significant differences between the groups in the total or in any individual level of fatty acids, either in the n - 6 or n - 3 series. The level of synaptophysin was significantly p = (0.002) decreased in the schizophrenic group(0.73 + 0.18) as compared with the control group (1.02 + 0.21). The normal pattern and concentration of glycerophospholipids fatty acids found in the present study do not support the membrane hypothesis of schizophrenia. The possibility of a type II error should, however. be considered. On the other hand, the reduced synaptophysin' levels in the gyrus cinguli demonstrate that biological differences can be revealed in this relatively small sample. This also lends further support to the notion that a synaptic disturbance or loss is of importance in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
11955335: !synaptophysin [The expression of thyroid transcription factor-1 in pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma and a further investigation on histogenesis of the tumor]. To investigate the histogenesis and pathologic features of pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma (SH) and its expression of thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1).
11955328: !synaptophysin [A clinicopathological and prognostic study of 22 cases central neurocytoma]. To investigate the clinicopathological features and prognosis of 22 cases of central neurocytoma (CNC), representing 0.48% of a series of 4 528 patients undergoing biopsy for central nervous system tumors.
11955327: !synaptophysin [Pathological and immunohistochemical study of pineal parenchymal tumors]. To investigate the histological typing and differentiation as well as clinical manifestation and prognosis in pineal parenchymal tumors (PPTs).
11954031: !synaptophysin Organization of human hypothalamus in fetal development. The organization of the human hypothalamus was studied in 33 brains aged from 9 weeks of gestation (w.g.) to newborn, using immunohistochemistry for parvalbumin, calbindin, calretinin, neuropeptide Y, neurophysin, growth-associated protein (GAP)-43, synaptophysin, and the glycoconjugate 3-fucosyl- N-acetyl-lactosamine. Developmental stages are described in relation to obstetric trimesters. The first trimester (morphogenetic periods 9-10 w.g. and 11-14 w.g.) is characterized by differentiating structures of the lateral hypothalamic zone, which give rise to the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and posterior hypothalamus. The PeF differentiates at 18 w.g. from LH neurons, which remain anchored in the perifornical position, whereas most of the LH cells are displaced laterally. A transient supramamillary nucleus was apparent at 14 w.g. but not after 16 w.g. As the ventromedial nucleus differentiated at 13-16 w.g., three principal parts, the ventrolateral part, the dorsomedial part, and the shell, were revealed by distribution of calbindin, calretinin, and GAP43 immunoreactivity. The second trimester (morphogenetic periods 15-17 w.g., 18-23 w.g., and 24-33 w.g.) is characterized by differentiation of the hypothalamic core, in which calbindin- positive neurons revealed the medial preoptic nucleus at 16 w.g. abutted laterally by the intermediate nucleus. The dorsomedial nucleus was clearly defined at 10 w.g. and consisted of compact and diffuse parts, an organization that was lost after 15 w.g. Differentiation of the medial mamillary body into lateral and medial was seen at 13-16 w.g. Late second trimester was marked by differentiation of periventricular zone structures, including suprachiasmatic, arcuate, and paraventricular nuclei. The subnuclear differentiation of these nuclei extends into the third trimester. The use of chemoarchitecture in the human fetus permitted the identification of interspecies nuclei homologies, which otherwise remain concealed in the cytoarchitecture.
11945011: !synaptophysin Undifferentiated ganglioneuroblastoma in a sheep. Ganglioneuroblastoma, presumably originating from the adrenal medulla, was found in an 18-month-old sheep. Histologically, the tumour was mainly composed of undifferentiated neuroblasts with neuropil and occasional ganglion cells. The morphological and immunohistochemical features with respect to intermediate filament proteins and the neuroendocrine nature of the tumour are described. The neoplastic cells were positive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and vimentin.
11939586: !synaptophysin Localization of the neuronal class III beta-tubulin in oligodendrogliomas: comparison with Ki-67 proliferative index and 1p/19q status. The class III beta-tubulin isotype (betaIII) is widely regarded as a neuronal marker in development and neoplasia. Whereas the expression of betaIII in neuronal/neuroblastic tumors is differentiation-dependent, the aberrant expression of this cytoskeletal protein in astrocytomas is associated with an ascending gradient of malignancy. To test the generality of this observation we have compared the immunoreactivity (IR) profiles of the betaIII isotype with the Ki-67 nuclear antigen proliferative index in 41 archival, surgically excised oligodendrogliomas (32 classical [WHO grade II] and 9 anaplastic [WHO grade III]). Seventeen of 41 tumors were examined by quantitative microsatellite analysis for loss of 1p and/or 19q. Minimal deletion regions were defined on 1p (D1S468, D1S214) and 19q (D19S408, D19S867). Three of 10 classical oligodendrogliomas had combined 1p/19q loss, while 2 exhibited loss of either 1p or 19q. Three of 7 anaplastic tumors had combined 1p/19q loss. BetaIII IR was present in all tumors, but was significantly greater in the anaplastic (median labeling index [MLI] 61%, interquartile range [IQR] 55%-64%) as compared with the classical variants (MLI, 19%, IQR, 11-36%) (p < 0.0001). A highly significant relationship was found to exist between betaIII and Ki-67 LIs (betaIII, p < 0.0001 and Ki-67, p < 0.0001. r = 0.809). BetaIII localization delineated hitherto understated unipolar or bipolar tumor phenotypes with growth cones and leading cell processes resembling migrating oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Codistribution of betaIII and GFAP IR was present in "gliofibrillary" tumor areas. Synaptophysin IR was detected in rare tumor cells (mean LI, 0.7%), and only in 4/41 samples (10%), denoting a lack of relationship between betaIII and synaptophysin expression. No significant differences in betaIII LIs were observed in tumors with 1p and/or 19q loss as compared to those with 1p/19q intact status. Increased betaIII IR in oligodendrogliomas is associated with an ascending degree of malignancy and thus is a potentially useful tumor marker. However, the significance of high betaIII LIs in low-grade oligodendrogliomas with respect to prognostic and predictive value requires further evaluation. Class III beta-tubulin expression in oligodendrogliomas should not be construed as a priori evidence of divergent neuronal differentiation.
11933264: !synaptophysin Cytology of primary central nervous system neoplasms in cerebrospinal fluid specimens. Although two-thirds of tumors occurring in the central nervous system (CNS) are primary neoplasms, only 10% of positive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens are from primary CNS tumors. In this study, we reviewed the cytologic findings of 21 positive CSF specimens from primary CNS tumors. A computer search identified 21 cases of positive CSF specimens from patients with primary CNS tumors from the archives. Follow-up included review of medical charts and histologic correlation. The specimens were from 20 patients (9 females and 11 males). Their ages ranged from 6-83 yr, old with a mean of 30 yr. The cases included 9 medulloblastomas, 7 gliomas (3 glioblastoma multiformes, 2 anaplastic astrocytomas, and 2 ependymomas), 2 germinomas, 2 non-Hodgkin's large B-cell lymphomas, and 1 ganglioneurocytoma. Two cases were classified as suspicious and the remaining as positive for malignancy. Immunocytochemistry was employed in 3 cases to support the cytologic diagnosis. These cases included one large-cell lymphoma (leukocyte-common antigen-positive), one germinoma (placental alkaline phosphatase-positive), and the ganglioneurocytoma (neuron-specific enolase- and synaptophysin-positive). There were no false-positive cases. Our results suggest that positive CSF cytology in patients with a primary CNS tumor is a reliable indicator of malignancy and reflects leptomeningeal involvement. The use of immunocytochemistry is helpful in confirming the cytologic impression in some cases.
11933053: !synaptophysin beta-Amyloid peptide induces ultrastructural changes in synaptosomes and potentiates mitochondrial dysfunction in the presence of ryanodine. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), loss of synapses exceeds neuronal loss and some evidence suggests a role of beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) in synaptic degeneration through a mechanism which may involve intraneuronal Ca2+ dyshomeostasis. Emerging evidence points to the participation of the internal Ca2+ stores in the pathophysiology of neurodegeneration in AD. To test the involvement of intrasynaptic Ca2+ mobilization in A toxicity, we explored the role of ryanodine receptor activation in rat cortical synaptosomes taken as a model system for the central presynapses. Evaluation of synaptosomal mitochondrial redox capacity was assessed by the MTT reduction technique, and ultrastructural changes of synaptosomes after exposure to Abeta and ryanodine were evaluated by electron microscopy. Our results show that Abeta potentiates mitochondrial dysfunction in the presence of ryanodine and induces morphological changes consisting of mitochondrial swelling and intense small synaptic vesicles depletion. These changes were accompanied by a reduction in the content of synaptophysin and actin proteins. The reduction of actin immunoreactivity was reversed in the presence of a wide range caspase inhibitors, suggesting the activation of synaptic apoptotic mechanisms.
11933048: !synaptophysin Establishment and characterization of immortalized neuronal cell lines derived from the spinal cord of normal and trisomy 16 fetal mice, an animal model of Down syndrome. We report the establishment of continuously growing cell lines from spinal cords of normal and trisomy 16 fetal mice. We show that both cell lines, named M4b (derived from a normal animal) and MTh (trisomic) possess neurological markers by immunohistochemistry (neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin, microtubule associated protein-2 [MAP-2], and choline acetyltransferase) and lack glial traits (glial fibrillary acidic protein and S100). MTh cells were shown to overexpress mRNA of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase, whose gene is present in autosome 16. We also studied intracellular Ca2+ signals ([Ca2+]i) induced by different agonists in Indo-1 loaded cells. Basal [Ca2+]i was significantly higher in MTh cells compared to M4b cells. Glutamate (200 microM) and (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACDP) (100 microM) induced rapid, transient increases in [Ca2+]i in M4b and MTh cells, indicating the presence of glutamatergic metabotropic receptors. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and kainate, but not alpha-amino-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA), produced [Ca2+)]i rises in both cell types. MTh cells exhibited faster time-dependent decay phase kinetics in glutamate-induced responses compared to M4b cells. Nicotine induced a transient increase in [Ca2+]i in M4b and MTh cells, with significantly greater amplitudes in the latter compared to the former. Further, both cell types responded to noradrenaline. Finally, we examined cholinergic function in both cell lines and found no significant differences in the [3H]-choline uptake, but fractional acetylcholine release induced by either K+, glutamate or nicotine was significantly higher in MTh cells. These results show that M4b and MTh cells have neuronal characteristics and the MTh line shows differences which could be related to neuronal pathophysiology in Down's syndrome.
11929717: !synaptophysin CEA producing primary hepatic carcinoid. Imaging studies of a hepatic tumor in a 53-year-old woman with elevated serum levels of neuron-specific enolase (NSE), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5HIAA) revealed a hypervascular tumor in the right lobe. Grossly, the brownish tumor was measured 13.5x12 cm with four daughter nodules. Microscopically, the majority of these columnar and round tumor cells had ribbon-or rosette-like patterns with the expression of neuroendocrine marker proteins, such as Grimelius, NSE, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin, and moderate expression of CEA but without the expression of cytokeratin nos 7,8,14,18,19 and OV-6; the minority had glandular patterns with a strong expression of CEA but without the expression of cytokeratin nos 7,8,14,18,19 and OV-6. Ultrastructurally, most tumor cells contained populations of electron-dense core granules ranging between 100 and 200 nm in diameter. After hepatectomy, serum CEA, NSE, and 5HIAA reverted to normal ranges and persisted for 19 months. These findings suggested that the diagnosis of primary hepatic carcinoid was tenable and that the tumor might derive from hepatic stem cells which acquired the additional nature of producing CEA without cytokeratins characteristic of hepatocytes or bile duct cells. Some molecular based approaches have attributed unique biological behavior and histogenesis to this carcinoid tumor.
11927360: !synaptophysin Transgenic mice expressing the human presenilin 1 gene demonstrate enhanced hippocampal reorganization following entorhinal cortex lesions. We have examined the effects of the presence of the mutated human presenilin 1 gene (M146L; hps1*) on lesion-induced sprouting in the hippocampus of the mouse (C57/CBA). The entorhinal cortex was unilaterally lesioned with ibotenic acid in adult, male mice. Four weeks later the subsequent axonal sprouting in the dentate gyrus was analysed, by measuring the density of the synaptophysin immunocytochemical staining in the termination area of the entorhinal cortex axons. The data demonstrate that mice expressing either the human presenilin 1 gene (hps1) or the hps1* gene display a significantly increased density of immunocytochemical staining for synaptophysin, indicative of axonal sprouting, compared to the control mice. No (or a very small) sprouting response is observed in mice expressing the normal mouse ps1 gene. Taken together, these data indicate that the presence of a human ps1 gene, normal or with an Alzheimer's disease mutation, leads to enhanced plasticity in the mouse brain.
11922706: !synaptophysin Microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2) is expressed in low and high grade diffuse astrocytomas. The expression of neuronal antigens in diffuse astrocytomas has not been thoroughly evaluated. We have investigated the expression of microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP-2), synaptophysin and non-phosphorylated epitopes of neurofilament protein (NFP) by immunohistochemistry in 15 low grade diffuse astrocytomas and 15 glioblastomas. MAP-2 was strongly expressed in 97% of cases, using an antibody to both low and high molecular weight isoforms. An antibody specific to high molecular weight isoforms of MAP-2 (hmw-MAP-2) revealed weaker, focal staining in 60% of cases with greater expression in the glioblastomas (P=0.027). NFP was expressed in 50% of cases, but was generally weak and focal. There was little evidence of synaptophysin expression. We conclude that MAP-2 expression in astrocytomas is due predominantly to low molecular weight isoforms, which may be expressed in astrocytes as well as neurons. Focal expression of hmw-MAP-2 and NFP, however, suggest that neuronal antigens may be expressed, particularly in high grade astrocytomas. Immunopositivity for these antigens should not preclude the diagnosis of diffuse astrocytoma.
11920728: !synaptophysin Regulated appearance of NMDA receptor subunits and channel functions during in vitro neuronal differentiation. The schedule of NMDA receptor subunit expression and the appearance of functional NMDA-gated ion channels were investigated during the retinoic acid (RA) induced neuronal differentiation of NE-4C, a p53-deficient mouse neuroectodermal progenitor cell line. NR2A, NR2B, and NR2D subunit transcripts were present in both nondifferentiated and neuronally differentiated cultures, while NR2C subunits were expressed only transiently, during the early period of neural differentiation. Several splice variants of NR1 were detected in noninduced progenitors and in RA-induced cells, except the N1 exon containing transcripts that appeared after the fourth day of induction, when neuronal processes were already formed. NR1 and NR2A subunit proteins were detected both in nondifferentiated progenitor cells and in neurons, while the mature form of NR2B subunit protein appeared only at the time of neuronal process elongation. Despite the early presence of NR1 and NR2A subunits, NMDA-evoked responses could be detected in NE-4C neurons only after the sixth day of induction, coinciding in time with the expression of the mature NR2B subunit. The formation of functional NMDA receptors also coincided with the appearance of synapsin I and synaptophysin. The lag period between the production of the subunits and the onset of channel function suggests that subunits capable of channel formation cannot form functional NMDA receptors until a certain stage of neuronal commitment. Thus, the in vitro neurogenesis by NE-4C cells provides a suitable tool to investigate some inherent regulatory processes involved in the initial maturation of NMDA receptor complexes.
11920724: !synaptophysin Long-term culture of mouse cortical neurons as a model for neuronal development, aging, and death. A long-term cell culture system was used to study maturation, aging, and death of cortical neurons. Mouse cortical neurons were maintained in culture in serum-free medium (Neurobasal supplemented with B27) for 60 days in vitro (DIV). The levels of several proteins were evaluated by immunoblotting to demonstrate that these neurons matured by developing dendrites and synapses and remained continuously healthy for 60 DIV. During their maturation, cortical neurons showed increased or stable protein expression of glycolytic enzyme, synaptophysin, synapsin IIa, alpha and beta synucleins, and glutamate receptors. Synaptogenesis was prominent during the first 15 days and then synaptic markers remained stable through DIV60. Very early during dendritic development at DIV3, beta-synuclein (but not alpha-synuclein) was localized at the base of dendritic growth cones identified by MAP2 and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole (AMPA) receptor GluR1. In mature neurons, alpha and beta synucleins colocalized in presynaptic axon terminals. Expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and AMPA receptors preceded the formation of synapses. Glutamate receptors continued to be expressed strongly through DIV60. Cortical neurons aging in vitro displayed a complex profile of protein damage as identified by protein nitration. During cortical neuron aging, some proteins showed increased nitration, while other proteins showed decreased nitration. After exposure to DNA damaging agent, young (DIV5) and old (DIV60) cortical neurons activated apoptosis mechanisms, including caspase-3 cleavage and poly(ADP)-ribose polymerase inactivation. We show that cultured mouse cortical neurons can be maintained for long term. Cortical neurons display compartmental changes in the localization of synucleins during maturation in vitro. These neurons sustain protein nitration during aging and exhibit age-related variations in the biochemistry of neuronal apoptosis.
11914632: !synaptophysin Carcinoid tumor of the esophagus: a clinicopathologic study of four cases. Several case reports have emphasized that esophageal carcinoid tumors are associated with a poor prognosis. To expand our knowledge about the pathology and biologic behavior of these rare tumors, we reviewed the clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical findings of four cases of primary esophageal carcinoid. The age of the patients ranged from 48 to 82 years (mean 63 years; median 61 years). The lower segment of the esophagus was involved in two cases and the mid segment was involved in one case. The sizes of the tumors ranged from 0.3 cm to 3.5 cm. Two tumors were confined to the lamina propria and two invaded into the muscular wall. Two tumors appeared polypoid, whereas the remaining two were incidental findings and associated with adenocarcinoma arising in a background of Barrett esophagus. The adenocarcinoma was superficially invasive in one case, whereas it penetrated the muscular wall in the other. All four carcinoid tumors were immunoreactive with chromogranin and synaptophysin. There was focal expression of serotonin in two cases, glucagon in one case, and pancreatic polypeptide in one case. Endocrine cell hyperplasia was noted in both the Barrett esophagus and the invasive adenocarcinoma. One patient died secondary to postoperative pneumonia. Three patients are alive and disease free at 1, 6, and 23 years status post therapy. None of the patients had metastatic disease. These findings show that esophageal carcinoids are associated with a favorable prognosis. They arise in two settings: (1) a single large polypoid tumor or (2) an incidental finding and in association with adenocarcinoma arising in the background of Barrett esophagus. The presence of endocrine cell hyperplasia in the Barrett mucosa and the adenocarcinoma supports the hypothesis that these lesions arise from a common stem cell.
11914626: !synaptophysin Immunophenotype of pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma. Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) is an uncommon tumor, often seizure-associated and occurring in the temporal lobe of young adults. Although its cells are considered astrocytic in nature, recent studies suggest the presence of neuronal differentiation and a possible relationship to glioneuronal neoplasms. We immunostained 40 cases of PXA, including two composite PXA-gangliogliomas (PXA-GG), with a panel of glial (glial fibrillary acidic protein, S-100 protein) and neuronal markers (class III beta-tubulin, synaptophysin, neurofilament proteins, MAP2, and chromogranin A). Conventional PXAs demonstrated immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein (100% of cases), S-100 protein (100%), class III beta-tubulin (73%), synaptophysin (38%), NF proteins (18 and 8%), and MAP2 (8%). Chromogranin A stain was absent in all conventional PXA cases. Neoplastic ganglion cells in both PXA-GGs stained with class III beta-tubulin, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A. Ultrastructural studies, performed in nine cases, demonstrated neuronal features including microtubules, dense core granules, and/or clear vesicles largely limited to cell processes (two PXAs) and in the cytoplasm (PXA component of one PXA-GG). Although the essential nature of PXA is clearly and uniformly glial, the significance of the limited neuronal differentiation is unclear, as it is the relationship between conventional PXA and PXA-GG. We found no evidence that the former is a precursor of the latter.
11906788: !synaptophysin 17beta-estradiol enhances cortical cholinergic innervation and preserves synaptic density following excitotoxic lesions to the rat nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Estradiol exerts beneficial effects on neurodegenerative disorders associated with the decline of cognitive performance. The present study was designed to further investigate the effect of 17beta-estradiol on learning and memory, and to evaluate its neuroprotective action on cholinergic cells of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, a neural substrate of cognitive performance. Female rats were ovariectomized at an age of 6 months. Three weeks later they received injections of either a mid-physiological dose of 17beta-estradiol or vehicle (oil), every other day for 2 weeks. The effect of estradiol on cognitive performance was tested in two associative learning paradigms. In the two-way active shock avoidance task estradiol-replaced animals learned significantly faster, while in the passive shock avoidance test no differences were observed between the experimental groups. Subsequent unilateral infusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis resulted in a significant loss of cholinergic neurons concomitant with the loss of their fibers invading the somatosensory cortex. Estradiol treatment did not affect the total number of choline-acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons and their coexpression of the p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor either contralateral or ipsilateral to the lesion. In contrast, cholinergic fiber densities in estradiol-treated animals were greater both in the contralateral and ipsilateral somatosensory cortices as was detected by quantitative choline-acetyltransferase and vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunocytochemistry. However, estradiol treatment did not affect the lesion-induced relative percentage loss of cholinergic fibers. A significant decline of synaptophysin immunoreactivity paralleled the cholinergic damage in the somatosensory cortex of oil-treated animals, whereas an almost complete preservation of synaptic density was determined in estradiol-treated rats. Our results indicate that estradiol treatment enhances the cortical cholinergic innervation but has no rescuing effect on cholinergic nerve cells in the basal forebrain against excitotoxic damage. Nevertheless, estradiol may restore or maintain synaptic density in the cerebral cortex following cholinergic fiber loss. This estradiol effect may outweigh the lack of cellular protection on cholinergic cells at the functional level.
11896149: !synaptophysin Impaired spatial cognition and synaptic potentiation in a murine model of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 encephalitis. Injection of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-infected human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) into the basal ganglia of severe combined immunodeficient mice recapitulates histopathologic features of HIV-1 encephalitis (HIVE). Here, we show that the neural damage in HIVE mice extends beyond the basal ganglia and is associated with cognitive impairment. Morris water maze tests showed impaired spatial learning 8 d after MDM injection. Moreover, impaired synaptic potentiation in the hippocampal CA1 subregion was demonstrated at 8 and 15 d. By day 15, post-tetanic, short-term, and long-term potentiation were reduced by 14.1, 29.5, and 45.3% in HIVE mice compared with sham-injected or control animals. Neurofilament (NF) and synaptophysin (SP) antigens were decreased significantly in the CA2 hippocampal subregion of HIVE mice with limited neuronal apoptosis. By day 15, the CA2 region of HIVE mice expressed 3.8- and 2.6-fold less NF and SP than shams. These findings support the notion that HIV-1-infected and immune-competent brain macrophages can cause neuronal damage at distant anatomic sites. Importantly, the findings demonstrate the value of the model in exploring the physiological basis and therapeutic potential for HIV-1-associated dementia.
11895486: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation and prognosis in breast adenocarcinoma. Neuroendocrine differentiation has been detected, and its prognostic value studied, in a number of common human carcinomas. To date there are few detailed studies examining its relevance in breast carcinoma. In this study we evaluate the frequency and prognostic importance of neuroendocrine differentiation in breast adenocarcinoma.
11893164: !synaptophysin Tetraspan vesicle membrane proteins: synthesis, subcellular localization, and functional properties. Tetraspan vesicle membrane proteins (TVPs) are characterized by four transmembrane regions and cytoplasmically located end domains. They are ubiquitous and abundant components of vesicles in most, if not all, cells of multicellular organisms. TVP-containing vesicles shuttle between various membranous compartments and are localized in biosynthetic and endocytotic pathways. Based on gene organization and amino acid sequence similarities TVPs can be grouped into three distinct families that are referred to as physins, gyrins, and secretory carrier-associated membrane proteins (SCAMPs). In mammals synaptophysin, synaptoporin, pantophysin, and mitsugumin29 constitute the physins, synaptogyrin 1-4 the gyrins, and SCAMP1-5 the SCAMPs. Members of each family are cell-type-specifically synthesized resulting in unique patterns of TVP coexpression and subcellular colocalization. TVP orthologs have been identified in most multicellular organisms, including diverse animal and plant species, but have not been detected in unicellular organisms. They are subject to protein modification, most notably to phosphorylation, and are part of multimeric complexes. Experimental evidence is reviewed showing that TVPs contribute to vesicle trafficking and membrane morphogenesis.
11893039: !synaptophysin Calretinin and inhibin are useful in separating adrenocortical neoplasms from pheochromocytomas. Most adrenocortical neoplasms and pheochromocytomas can be diagnosed by a combination of clinical findings and morphologic features. Occasionally, however, this histologic differential diagnosis requires ancillary tests, such as immunohistochemistry. Both tumors are generally negative for epithelial markers but express synaptophysin. Inhibin and chromogranin are used for the diagnosis of adrenocortical neoplasms and pheochromocytomas, respectively. Both antigens, however, are expressed focally and may be completely negative, particularly in small biopsies. The authors investigated the potential value of adding calretinin to inhibin in the differential diagnosis of these tumors. Fifty-five primary adrenal neoplasms including 33 adrenocortical tumors (21 adenomas and 12 carcinomas), 22 pheochromocytomas, and 7 healthy adrenal glands were examined immunohistochemically for the expression of calretinin and inhibin. Inhibin was demonstrated in 24 (73%) adrenocortical neoplasms. When calretinin was added, the number of tumors staining positively for the two markers alone or in combination increased to 31 (94%). Both antigens showed a focal pattern of distribution in many cases. None of the pheochromocytomas reacted for any of these two markers. Healthy adrenal gland showed a distinct positive and negative pattern of immunoreactivity for both antigens in cortex and medulla, respectively. There were no differences between staining patterns of calretinin and inhibin in healthy adrenal cortex, adrenocortical adenomas, and adrenocortical carcinomas. The authors conclude that the addition of calretinin to inhibin increases the sensitivity of the diagnosis of adrenocortical neoplasms. When used together, they are highly specific and sensitive for the differential diagnosis of these tumors from pheochromocytomas. These markers, however, do not distinguish between benign and malignant adrenocortical neoplasms.
11891191: !synaptophysin Macrophages relate presynaptic and postsynaptic damage in simian immunodeficiency virus encephalitis. Neurodegeneration observed in lentiviral-associated encephalitis has been linked to viral-infected and -activated central nervous system macrophages. We hypothesized that lentivirus, macrophages, or both lentivirus and macrophages within distinct microenvironments mediate synaptic damage. Using the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected macaque model, we assessed the relationship between virus, macrophages, and neurological damage in multiple brain regions using laser confocal microscopy. In SIV-infected macaques with SIV encephalitis (SIVE), brain tissue concentrations of SIV RNA were 5 orders of magnitude greater than that observed in nonencephalitic animals. In SIVE, staining for postsynaptic protein microtubule-associated protein-2 was significantly decreased in the caudate, hippocampus, and frontal cortical gray matter compared to nonencephalitic controls, whereas staining for presynaptic protein synaptophysin was decreased in SIV-infected macaques with and without encephalitis. These data suggest that presynaptic damage occurs independent of pathological changes associated with SIVE, whereas postsynaptic damage is more tightly linked to regional presence of both activated and infected macrophages.
11884350: !synaptophysin Abnormalities of SNARE mechanism proteins in anterior frontal cortex in severe mental illness. A fundamental molecular component of neural connectivity is the SNARE (SNAP receptor) protein complex, which consists of three proteins, syntaxin, SNAP-25 and VAMP. Under appropriate conditions, the SNARE complex can be formed in vitro. To investigate the hypothesis that dysregulation of SNARE proteins or their interactions could be abnormal in severe mental disorders, the three SNARE proteins and the complex were studied in post-mortem anterior frontal cortex homogenates. An ELISA was used to quantify SNARE protein immunoreactivities in cortical homogenates from four groups: patients with schizophrenia who died of causes other than suicide (n = 6), patients with schizophrenia and suicide (n = 7), patients with depression and suicide (n = 11), and controls (n = 11). Differences between groups in patterns of SNARE protein immuno-reactivities were demonstrated [Wilks' Lambda F(9,68) = 3.57, P = 0.001]. Protein-by-protein analyses indicated a significant reduction in SNAP-25 immunoreactivity in the schizophrenia non-suicide group [28% decrease relative to controls, F(3,31) = 6.45, P = 0.002, Student-Newman-Keuls test, P < 0.01]. The intercorrelations between SNARE protein and synaptophysin immunoreactivities were high in controls, but lower in the other groups, further indicating disturbances in relationships between these proteins. The extent of SNARE complex formation in vitro was studied using immuno-blotting. Significant differences related to group membership were observed for the SNARE complexes identified by SNAP-25 [Wilks' Lambda F(3,31) = 4.76, P = 0.008] and by syntaxin immunostaining [Wilks' Lambda F(3,31) = 9.16, P = 0.0002]. In both groups with suicide as a cause of death, relatively more SNAP-25 and syntaxin was present in the heterotrimeric SNARE complex than in other molecular forms. These abnormalities in the SNARE complex could represent a molecular substrate for abnormalities of neural connectivity in severe mental disorders.
11882674: !synaptophysin Ca(2+)-regulated, neurosecretory granule channel involved in release from neurohypophysial terminals. Ion channels from bovine neurohypophysial secretory granules (NSG) were incorporated into artificial lipid bilayers. Specific antibodies against identified synaptic vesicle proteins were tested on such incorporated channel activity and on peptide release from rat permeabilized neurohypophysial terminals. Both the NSG cation channel and Ca(2+)-dependent release were inhibited by only SY-38, a monoclonal antibody directed against the C-terminus of synaptophysin. SY-38 and Ca(2+) altered both the gating and conductance of the NSG cation channel, but in opposite ways. The close correlation between SY-38 effects on Ca(2+)-dependent channel activity and release leads us to conclude that this synaptophysin-like NSG channel is directly involved in peptide secretion from these central nervous system terminals.
11869807: !synaptophysin Age-related changes in the protein expression of subunits of the NMDA receptor. C57Bl/6 mice show decreased expression of the mRNA for the epsilon2 and zeta1 subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in subregions of the cerebral cortex and hippocampus with increased age. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of aging on the protein expression of the three major subunits of the NMDA receptor. Semi-quantitative Western blot techniques were applied with the use of antibodies that recognize either the epsilon1 (NR2A), epsilon2 (NR2B) or zeta1 (NR1) subunits of the NMDA receptor or a synaptic terminal protein, synaptophysin. In the cerebral cortex of 30-month-old mice, the level of protein expression of both the epsilon2 and zeta1 subunits were decreased significantly from levels found in the 3- and 10-month-old mice and the protein expression of the epsilon1 subunit showed a significant decline between 10 and 30 months of age. In the hippocampus, the epsilon2 subunit exhibited a higher protein expression level in the 10-month-old mice as compared to both the young and old mice and the zeta1 subunit showed a significant drop in expression in the old mice from both 3- and 10-month-olds. Synaptophysin showed significant declines in protein expression with increasing age. These results demonstrated that changes in the protein expression of the major subunits of the NMDA receptor occur during the aging process and, in some cases, were greater than changes seen previously in mRNA expression. These subunit alterations may explain some of the changes that are seen in NMDA receptor functions during aging.
11869552: !synaptophysin [A clinicopathologic study on eight cases of cystic and solid tumors of pancreas]. To study the clinicopathologic characteristics, differentiation patterns and histogenesis of cystic and solid tumors of the pancreas (CSTP).
11867570: !synaptophysin Characterization of nitrergic neurons in the porcine and human ciliary nerves. To further characterize a subpopulation of choroidal ganglion cells associated with the ciliary nerves.
11866213: !synaptophysin Brain heterotopia in pharyngeal region. A morphological and immunohistochemical study. Pharyngeal brain heterotopia is a congenital and generally biologically benign lesion. In contrast to brain heterotopia in the nose, the most common site of this lesion, brain heterotopia in the pharynx is very rare. Pharyngeal heterotopic tissue can be composed of various components, i.e., astrocytes, neurons, ependyma or choroid plexus, oligodendrocytes, retina, and, occasionally, neoplastic nodules. In contrast, nasal lesions are often only composed of astrocytes. We report a case of brain heterotopia in the pharyngeal region, diagnosed in a newborn female infant, causing serious respiratory distress. The infant underwent surgical excision of the lesion, and after 1 year of follow-up, she is recurrence-free. The mass, about 3 cm in diameter and showing no connection with encephalic structures, was characterized by numerous papillary structures and areas containing stellate-like or spindle cells focally forming nodules. Moreover, there was inflammatory infiltration, whereas mitoses, hemorrhages, and necroses were absent. Immunohistochemistry revealed a choroid plexus nature of the papillary formations (S-100, cytokeratins, transthyretin and vimentin-positive) and the presence of glial and neuronal cells in the remaining areas (glial fibrillary acidic protein, neuron-specific enolase, neurofilaments, synaptophysin, and S-100 positive). This case report confirms that the presence of choroid plexus is not uncommon and that pharyngeal brain heterotopia is usually benign.
11860455: !synaptophysin Neither major depression nor glucocorticoid treatment affects the cellular integrity of the human hippocampus. In major depression, decreased hippocampal volume has been attributed to hypercortisolemia, a frequent sign of the disorder, because in animals an excess of corticosteroids has led to dendritic atrophy, astrogliosis and loss of neurons in this brain region. The present study is the first to investigate the structural integrity of the human hippocampus in major depression and following glucocorticoid treatment. Post-mortem hippocampal tissue from 15 patients who had had major depression or bipolar affective disorder, 10 patients who had been treated with glucocorticoids and 16 controls was assessed using haematoxylin-eosin, Nissl and Bodian staining. The patterns of reactive astrogliosis (glial fibrillary acidic protein, GFAP), synaptic density (synaptophysin), synaptic reorganization (growth-associated protein B-50) and early signs of Alzheimer's disease (Alz-50) were examined immunocytochemically. Multivariate analysis, with the patients' age, tissue fixation time and postmortem delay as covariates, was performed. There was no evidence of neuronal cell loss or other major morphological alterations in any of the groups, nor was there a significant change in the distribution pattern of synaptophysin or Alz-50. Changes in B-50 and GFAP staining were observed in the steroid-treated and depressed patients in areas CA1 and CA2 only. The human hippocampus in major depression and after glucocorticoid treatment does not reveal any major morphological changes or signs of neuronal cell death, but does show subtle alterations in B-50 and GFAP expression in selected parts of the pyramidal cell layer.
11859201: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal glomus tumors: a clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular genetic study of 32 cases. Glomus tumors usually occur in the peripheral soft tissues, but similar tumors have also been reported in the stomach and occasionally in the intestines. However, the relationship of these tumors to peripheral glomus tumors and gastrointestinal stromal tumors has not been fully clarified because previous series of gastrointestinal glomus tumors predate availability of immunohistochemistry. This clinicopathologic study examined 32 gastrointestinal glomus tumors. All but one of the tumors were located in the stomach and the remaining tumor was from the cecum. The tumors occurred with a strong female predominance (23 females and 9 males) and a median age of 55 years (range 19-90 years). The gastric tumors typically presented with gastrointestinal bleeding or ulcer-like symptoms, and 14 tumors had mucosal ulceration. Five tumors were incidental findings. The tumor sizes varied from 1.1 to 7 cm (median 2 cm), and most were located in the antrum. Histologically, the tumors typically had a solid pattern of sharply demarcated, round glomus cells with prominent, mildly dilated pericytoma-like vessels. Vascular invasion and focal atypia were relatively common (seen in 11 and 13 cases, respectively), and low mitotic activity (1-4 per 50 high power fields), was seen in 10 cases. Immunohistochemically, all tumors were positive for alpha-smooth muscle actin and calponin, and nearly all had a net-like pericellular laminin and collagen type IV positivity. All tumors were negative for desmin and S-100 protein. Three tumors had focal synaptophysin positivity, but none was positive for chromogranin. All tumors lacked KIT expression and the GIST-specific mutations in the c-kit gene. Follow-up revealed one patient death of metastatic disease to liver at 50 months; this tumor had 1 mitosis per 50 high power fields, but had spindle cell foci, mild atypia, and vascular invasion. Thirteen patients were well and alive after long-term follow-up. Gastrointestinal glomus tumors occur almost exclusively in the stomach, and they have a good overall prognosis, but a small, unpredictable potential for malignant behavior exists. These tumors are phenotypically similar to peripheral glomus tumors and differ from epithelioid GISTs.
21315022: !synaptophysin [Study on the specific expressions of p53, bcl-2 and c-myc in non-small cell lung cancer with neuroendocrine differentiation]. To study the specific expression of tumor-related genes (p53, bcl-2 and c-myc) in non small cell lung cancer with neuroendocrine differentiation (NSCLC-NE).
11850544: !synaptophysin Mucinous nonneoplastic cyst of the pancreas: a novel nonneoplastic cystic change? Cystic lesions and neoplasms of the pancreas are uncommon, but they are of special interest because they can usually be cured by resection. During the last decade, the spectrum of these tumors has increased considerably. We present a series of five cystic lesions of the pancreas that differ from all categories described so far. The patients affected by these tumors were three men and two women (mean age, 57 y). Four lesions were unifocal and involved the head of the pancreas; one was multifocal and involved the pancreatic head and tail. Grossly, these tumors presented as unilocular or multilocular thin-walled cysts that contained turbid fluid, or, in two cases, blood, and lacked any communication with the duct system. Microscopically, the cysts were lined by cuboidal to columnar mucin-producing cells, supported by a small band of dense fibrous stroma. Immunocytochemically, the epithelial cells were positive for cytokeratins 7, 8, 18, 19, and 20 (except one), and Ca 19-9 but were negative for trypsin, CEA, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, calretinin, and alpha-inhibin. In four of the five lesions, the epithelial cells expressed MUC5AC, and in one of the five, MUC1. MUC2 and MUC6 were not expressed in any of the lesions. The stromal cells lacked the nuclear progesterone positivity that is typical of mucinous cystic neoplasms. During a mean follow-up period of 2 years, there were no recurrences or cases of malignant transformation after resection. The results suggest that these cystic lesions are distinct from mucinous cystic neoplasms, the most important entity in the differential diagnosis. Because they may represent a nonneoplastic cystic change of the pancreas, we propose the descriptive term mucinous nonneoplastic cyst for these tumors of unknown pathogenesis.
11844054: !synaptophysin Primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the liver: an autopsy case. An autopsy case of primary hepatic neuroendocrine carcinoma is described. A 72-year-old man had a large tumor mass measuring 22 cm in its greatest diameter and localized to the right, left and caudal lobes of the non-cirrhotic liver. Microscopically, the tumor was composed of middle-sized pleomorphic cells organized in ribbons or trabeculae, with scanty intersecting fibrous septae. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for multikeratin C11, chromogranin A and synaptophysin. The patient also had metastases in the bone marrow. No alternative primary source of endocrine tumor was detected. The patient died 4 days after presentation.
11843557: !synaptophysin Fine needle aspiration cytology of metastatic olfactory neuroblastoma: a case report. Olfactory neuroblastoma (ONB) is an uncommon tumor, presenting as a polypoid mass arising from the upper nasal cavity. This tumor has been seldom diagnosed by direct fine needle aspiration (FNA).
11837749: !synaptophysin Fetal ependymoma associated with Down's syndrome. Down's syndrome (DS) is the most common multiple malformation syndrome occurring in humans and is associated with an increased risk of childhood malignancies, in particular leukemias. However, solid tumors seem to be underrepresented in DS patients and brain tumors occurring in association with DS have so far been limited to sporadic case reports, predominantly in children and young adults. We present the first case of an ependymoma associated with DS. This is also the youngest patient with DS suffering from a brain tumor as well as the first case in the English literature of a fetal ependymoma. The tumor was discovered incidentally at autopsy in a female fetus with DS after amniocentesis and termination of pregnancy in the 19th gestational week. Neuropathological examination revealed a tumor of 3x2x1 mm attached to the medulla oblongata rostrally of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Histologically, the ependymoma was moderately cellular and well demarcated with numerous perivascular pseudorosettes. Immunohistochemistry showed strong reactivity for GFAP, in particular of the fibrillary elements of the pseudorosettes, while the neuronal marker synaptophysin was not expressed. The Ki67/MIB-1 proliferation index was 0.5%.
11835315: !synaptophysin Development of excitatory synapses in cultured neurons dissociated from the cortices of rat embryos and rat pups at birth. We studied the development of excitatory synapses in cultured neurons dissociated from the cortices of rat embryos at the 18th day of gestation (E18) and rat pups at birth (P0). Between 7 and 14 days in vitro (DIV), large increases in the amplitudes and frequencies of the spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) of both cultured E18 and P0 neurons were observed. The EPSCs of E18 neurons were mediated primarily by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-iso-xazole-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors at 7 DIV and by both N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and AMPA receptors at 14 DIV. Consistently, immunostaining indicated significant increases in the proportion of the clusters of NR1, an NMDA receptor subunit, which were associated with the accumulation of synaptophysin, a presynaptic marker, in cultured E18 neurons between 7 and 14 DIV. The proportion of NR1 clusters residing in synaptic regions and the proportion of synapses that colocalized with NR1 clusters in 7-day-old P0 neurons were not different statistically from those found in 7-day-old E18 neurons. However, cultured P0 neurons at 7 DIV displayed clear EPSCs mediated by NMDA receptors. Our results suggest that the targeting of NMDA receptors to synaptic regions lag behind the synaptic clustering of AMPA receptors during the in vitro development of cultured rat E18 cortical neurons. The results further suggest that the cortical neurons at P0 differ from those at E19 in certain cellular properties; as a result, the currents mediated by the synaptic NMDA receptors in 7-day-old P0 neurons are larger than those mediated by the synaptic NMDA receptors in 7-day-old E18 neurons.
11830331: !synaptophysin Hepatic stellate cell/myofibroblast subpopulations in fibrotic human and rat livers. Hepatic stellate cells (HSC) are commonly considered the precursor population of septal myofibroblasts (MF) in cirrhosis. We studied the distribution and expression profile of mesenchymal (myo)fibroblast-like populations in fibrotic and cirrhotic liver, in an attempt to elucidate their possible interrelationships.
11826107: !synaptophysin Stability and plasticity of developing synapses in hippocampal neuronal cultures. To explore mechanisms governing the formation, stability, and elimination of synapses during neuronal development, we used FM 1-43 fluorescence imaging to track vesicle turnover at >7000 individually identified developing synapses between embryonic rat hippocampal neurons in culture. The majority of presynaptic boutons were stable in efficacy and position over a period of 1.5 hr. Activity, evoked by burst-patterned field stimulation, decreased presynaptic function across the population of boutons, an effect that required NMDA receptor activation. Decreased FM 1-43 staining correlated with low synapsin-I and synaptophysin immunoreactivities, suggesting that decreased presynaptic function was commensurate with synaptic disassembly. These observations provide new information on the stability of developing presynaptic function and suggest that NMDA receptor activation may regulate the stability of developing synapses.
11826106: !synaptophysin Novel microglomerular structures in the olfactory bulb of mice. The murine olfactory system consists of two primary divisions: (1) a main olfactory system, in which olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) located in the main olfactory epithelium (MOE) send their axons to glomeruli in the main olfactory bulb (MOB); and (2) an accessory olfactory system, in which OSNs located in the vomeronasal organ send their axons to glomeruli in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB). In labeling studies using the lectin Ulex europaeus agglutinin (UEA), we discovered a novel subset of small neuropilar structures in the MOB that are distinct from other glomeruli both in the MOB and AOB. These "microglomeruli" are morphologically similar to MOB glomeruli in many respects: they receive innervation from processes present in the olfactory nerve layer and are isolated from other glomeruli by juxtaglomerular cells; in addition, the compartmental pattern of UEA labeling suggests the presence of UEA (-) processes within their neuropil. Microglomeruli contained processes that express the olfactory marker protein, a marker common to mature OSN axons. However, unlike other glomerular structures, the microglomeruli did not contain neural cell adhesion molecule-labeled processes. Within microglomeruli, UEA(+) processes interdigitated with MAP2(+) dendrites, some of which likely originate from interneurons, as indicated by glutamic acid decarboxylase labeling. Synaptophysin labeling in microglomeruli strongly suggested that synapses occur between UEA(+) processes and dendrites. Anterograde labeling of OSNs, by injection of rhodamine-dextran into one naris, demonstrated that UEA(+) processes in microglomeruli originated in the MOE. The unique morphology, protein expression, and location of microglomeruli have led us to hypothesize that they represent a novel class of glomerular structures in the murine olfactory system.
11825890: !synaptophysin The inhibition of glutamate release by metabotropic glutamate receptor 7 affects both [Ca2+]c and cAMP: evidence for a strong reduction of Ca2+ entry in single nerve terminals. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) from group III reduce glutamate release. Because these receptors reduce cAMP levels, we explored whether this signaling pathway contributes to release inhibition caused by mGluRs with low affinity for L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (L-AP4). In biochemical experiments with the population of cerebrocortical nerve terminals we find that L-AP4 (1 mm) inhibited the Ca(2+)-dependent-evoked release of glutamate by 25%. This inhibitory effect was largely prevented by the pertussis toxin but was insensitive to inhibitors of protein kinase C bisindolylmaleimide and protein kinase A H-89. Furthermore, this inhibition was associated with reduction in N-type Ca(2+) channel activity in the absence of any detectable change in cAMP levels. In the presence of forskolin, however, L-AP4 decreased the levels of cAMP. The activation of this additional signaling pathway was very efficient in counteracting the facilitation of glutamate release induced either by forskolin or the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol. Imaging experiments to measure Ca(2+) dynamics in single nerve terminals showed that L-AP4 strongly reduced the Ca(2+) response in 28% of the nerve terminals. Moreover, immunochemical experiments showed that 25-35% of the nerve terminals that were immunopositive to synaptophysin were also immunoreactive to the low affinity L-AP4-sensitive mGluR7. Then, mGluR7 mediates the inhibition of glutamate release caused by 1 mm L-AP4, primarily by a strong inhibition of Ca(2+) channels, although high cAMP uncovers the receptor ability to decrease cAMP.
11820723: !synaptophysin Evaluation of chromogranin A expression in serum and tissues of breast cancer patients. Human chromogranin A (CgA) is a member of the granin family and is widely distributed in large dense core granules of endocrine and neuroendocrine cells. A variety of non-neuroendocrine carcinomas arising in various tissues show patterns of neuroendocrine differentiation. Expression of CgA has been documented in epithelial cells of normal mammary gland as well as in breast cancers, and elevation of serum CgA has been detected in patients with breast cancer. Our study was undertaken to evaluate the relationship between serum CgA levels and neuroendocrine features in breast cancer. In addition, we evaluated the expression of serum CgA in patients affected by breast cancer compared to controls and the relationship between serum CgA and tumor histology, extent of disease, lymph node status, tumor stage and serum CA 15.3 levels. We enrolled 266 patients with infiltrating ductal or lobular breast carcinoma and a group of 100 age-matched healthy women serving as controls. Serum CgA and CA 15.3 were assayed by specific immunoradiometric methods. The overall sensitivity of CgA and CA 15.3 was 0.06 and 0.34, respectively (chi2 19.1, p<0.0005). No relationship was found between serum levels of CgA and tumor histology, extent of disease, lymph node status or tumor stage while serum levels of CA 15.3 were strongly correlated with all these variables but tumor histology. No relationship was found between serum levels of CgA and CA 15.3. Immunostaining against CgA, CgB, NSE and synaptophysin was performed on primary tumor tissue of 14 serum CgA-positive and 24 serum CgA-negative patients and was negative in all cases. We also evaluated eight cases of pathologically-proven neuroendocrine breast cancer: only four and two of these showed positive CgA immunostaining and increased serum CgA concentration, respectively. In conclusion, serum CgA assay offers no additional information regarding the presence, the extent and the histology of breast cancer compared to the CA 15.3 assay. Moreover, serum CgA was not an accurate marker to identify or exclude the rare neuroendocrine differentiation of breast cancer. We therefore conclude that CgA is not useful as a serum marker in breast cancer.
11820641: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix--an uncommon variant of cervical cancer with neuroendocrine features. Small cell carcinoma (SCC) of the uterine cervix represents an uncommon variant of cervical cancer with an extremely aggressive biologic behavior, minimum survival chances and rapid and fatal clinical course. This retrospective study included 73 cases of patients treated for invasive squamous carcinoma of the uterine cervix at stages Ib and IIa at the Department of Gynecology in the years 1996-2000. Six patients (8%) with SCC were identified among all cases, sharing the clinical features of young age and early failure of appropriate radical treatment in the presence of apparently low stage disease. Neuroendocrine cellular characteristics were assessed by the biotin-streptavidin-peroxidase (LSAB) method using antibodies against neuron-specific enolase (NSE; DAKO), chromogranin A (CGA; DAKO) and synaptophysin (SYN; DAKO). All tumors examined were positive for NSE and/or CGA and/or SYN. Although the presence of neuroendocrine features appears to correlate with decreased survival, the number of patients is not large enough to determine statistical significance. However, the results confirm that SCC of the uterine cervix is one of the most aggressive tumors of the female genital tract.
11820631: !synaptophysin Gastric endocrine cells in rats with uremia and after thyroparathyroidectomy. The decrease in active kidney parenchyma amount causes disorders in hormone secretion processes and their inactivation failure. Experimental thyroparathyroidectomy is connected with an abrupt reduction in endocrine cells and hormones produced by them, which can be a stimulating factor as far as the increase and intensity of endocrine gastric cells activity is concerned. The aim of the study was the histomorphological and immunohistochemical evaluation of these cells in the gastric pylorus. Thyroparathyroidectomy was performed in rats 30 days after nephrectomy. Fragments of gastric pylorus were collected 14 days after the operation. Paraffin sections were stained with H+E and silver method. Immunohistochemical reactions were conducted using antibodies against calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), somatostatin (ST), synaptophysin (SPh), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and chromogranin (CgA). The results showed an increase in number of endocrine cells in stomachs of rats in experimental group as compared to controls. Endocrine cells were larger and contained more secretory granules.
11820630: !synaptophysin Immunoreactivity of neuroendocrine cells in the respiratory tract in rats with experimental uremia after thyroparathyroidectomy. Animals with experimental uremia, which underwent thyroparathyroidectomy, reveal numerous metabolic disorders that can influence morphology and activity of endocrine cells of the scattered neuroendocrine system. The aim of the study was the evaluation of the influence of thyroparathyroidectomy in rats with chronic renal failure on APUD system cells localized in the respiratory tract. The examination was conducted on the group of 20 rats. Thyroparathyroidectomy was performed 30 days after nephrectomy. Fragments of the lungs and trachea were collected 14 days after the operation. Routinely prepared paraffin sections were stained with H+E and with silver method. The immunohistochemical reactions were conducted with the use of antibodies against calcitonin (CT), synaptophysin (SPh), somatostatine (ST), and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) The results were estimated in light microscope on the basis of stain reaction of endocrine cells. Our examination showed that chronic renal failure affects the functioning of endocrine cells. We also observed the increase in APUD system cell number in the trachea and the lungs after thyroparathyroidectomy in uremic rats.
11815869: !synaptophysin Agenesis of the mesencephalon and metencephalon with cerebellar hypoplasia: putative mutation in the EN2 gene--report of 2 cases in early infancy. Congenital absence of the midbrain and upper pons is a rare human malformation. We describe two unrelated infants with this anomaly and cerebellar hypoplasia who were born at term but died in early infancy from lack of central respiratory drive. MRI in both cases disclosed the lesions during life. Neuropathological examination, performed in one, included immunocytochemical studies of NeuN, synaptophysin, vimentin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Autopsy revealed a thin midline cord passing through the clivus, in place of the midbrain; it corresponded to hypoplastic and fused corticospinal tracts with ectopic neural tissue in the surrounding leptomeninges. Some ectopia were immunoreactive for synaptophysin and NeuN and others were nonreactive. The neural surfaces facing the subarachnoid fluid-filled space left by the absent midbrain and upper pons were lined by an abnormal villous ependyma. The architecture of the cerebellar cortex was imperfect but generally normal, and Bergmann glial cells had normal radial processes shown by vimentin and GFAP. Structures of the telencephalon, diencephalon, lower brainstem, and spinal cord were generally well formed, but inferior olivary and dentate nuclei were rudimentary and the spinal central canal was dilated at lumbar levels. The cerebral cortex was normally laminated, but pyramidal neurons of layer 5 were sparse in the frontal lobes. The hippocampus, olfactory system, and corpus callosum were formed. An ectopic lingual thyroid was found and had been associated with hypothyroidism during life. A murine model resembling this dysgenesis is demonstrated by homozygous mutations of the organizer genes Wnt1 or En1, also resulting in cerebellar aplasia, and En2, associated with cerebellar hypoplasia. These genes are essential to the formation of the mesencephalic neuromere and rhombomere 1 (metencephalon or upper pons and cerebellum). Pax8 has binding sites in the promoter for En2 and is essential for thyroid development. We speculate that in the human, the failure to form a mesencephalon and metencephalon, with cerebellar hypoplasia, results from a mutation or deletion in the EN2 (Engrailed-2) gene.
11814407: !synaptophysin Maintained synaptophysin immunoreactivity in Tg2576 transgenic mice during aging: correlations with cognitive impairment. Regional loss of synapses, particularly within the neocortex and hippocampus, is characteristic of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and strongly correlated with extent of cognitive impairment. The Tg2576 transgenic mouse model of AD develops Abeta-containing neuritic plaques by 10-16 months of age and shows cognitive impairment in several tasks. In the present study, synaptophysin immunoreactivity (SYN-IR; a marker for synaptic terminals) was evaluated in the neocortex and hippocampus of behaviorally-tested Tg2576 transgenic (Tg+) mice aged 3, 9, 14, and 19 months of age. In control non-transgenic (Tg-) mice, SYN-IR in both neocortex and hippocampus tended to decrease with age, while SYN-IR in Tg+ mice was maintained with age. Thus, 19M Tg+ mice exhibited significantly greater synaptophysin immunostaining compared to 19M Tg- mice in both inner and outer neocortical regions, as well as in the dentate gyrus' outer molecular layer and polymorphic layer. Over all four age groups collectively, outer cortical SYN-IR was also greater in Tg+ compared to Tg- mice. Multiple factors could be responsible for maintained SYN-IR in aged Tg+ mice, including compensatory changes in synaptic morphology and staining of dystrophic neuritics associated with Abeta deposition. For all animals combined (Tg+ and Tg-), as well as for aged 19M animals alone, hippocampal SYN-IR was correlated with impaired acquisition and spatial reference memory in the Morris water maze task, suggestive that elevated hippocampal SYN-IR is a manifestation of pathophysiologic synaptic processing within the hippocampus. Also for 19M animals alone, hippocampal SYN-IR was highly correlated with impaired visible platform recognition, indicative that elevated SYN-IR is linked to visual agnosia. The results of this study are consistent with the premise that maintained SYN-IR in Tg2576 mice during aging is associated with impaired synaptic function, resulting in cognitive deficits.
11810435: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical study of small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the parotid gland. A case of small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the parotid gland is presented with immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies. Small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma is extremely rare and is often difficult to distinguish from malignant lymphoma, adenoid cystic carcinoma, and undifferentiated carcinoma. Under light microscopy, the tumor cells consisted of solid sheets and nests of small tumor cells. Immunohistochemically, they were positive for KL-1 and EMA, and focally positive for NSE and synaptophysin. Observation using an electron microscope showed membrane-bound neuroendocrine granules in some tumor cells. Histological evaluation indicated that the present case was small cell carcinoma of the parotid gland, showing a neuroendocrine variety.
11810187: !synaptophysin Lipomatous primitive neuroectodermal tumor with a glioblastoma component: a case report. A case of extracerebellar lipomatous primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) areas is reported. A 44-year-old woman who had been on antipsychotic agents for schizophrenia complained of hemiparesis and drowsiness. She deteriorated progressively and died 3 months later. The autopsy revealed a huge, ill-defined tumor located from right basal ganglia to brain stem. Microscopically, the tumor consisted of three distinct components: clusters of small primitive cells consistent with PNET, mature lipoma-like islands, and a GBM-like component. Neuronal differentiation in PNET areas was confirmed by the presence of Homer Wright rosette, synaptophysin-positive fibrillary background, and ultrastructural demonstration of neuritic processes. Lipoma-like areas composed of lipidized cells containing large lipid droplets were intimately intermingled and closely related with PNET areas. Furthermore, GBM areas were, although predominantly located in the brain stem, often blended with the previous two components. This component was characterized by glial fibrillary acid protein immunoreactivity of atypical tumor cells and the presence of necrosis and endothelial proliferation. PNET areas with lipomatous differentiation in the present tumor may suggest the morphological and histogenetic similarity to liponeurocytoma, although the neuronal element in the former was anaplastic. The association with a GBM component makes the present tumor a unique, and, to our knowledge, previously unrecognized lesion.
11810185: !synaptophysin Differential expression between synaptic vesicle proteins and presynaptic plasma membrane proteins in the anterior horn of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This study concerns the immunohistochemical investigation of synaptic proteins in the anterior horn of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Antibodies against synapsin 1 and synaptophysin (i.e. synaptic vesicle proteins), and those against syntaxin and the synaptosomal-associated, 25 kDa protein, SNAP25 (i.e. presynaptic plasma membrane proteins) were used for immunostaining, respectively. Lumbar spinal cords from five ALS and eight control patients were examined. In the controls, all four synaptic proteins exhibited fine granular immunoreactivities, distributed throughout the spinal gray matter almost uniformly. In contrast, in all five ALS patients, two of the synaptic vesicle proteins examined decreased in the anterior horn neuropil diffusely, while in the same lumbar segments of these cases the immunoreactivities of the two presynaptic plasma membrane proteins showed no apparent decrease, or were only mildly diminished in the same gray matter area. These results indicate that, during the presynaptic terminal degeneration in the anterior horn of ALS, synaptic vesicle involvement may precede that of the presynaptic plasma membrane.
11810181: !synaptophysin Lipoastrocytoma: a rare low-grade astrocytoma variant of pediatric age. We report on two children with cerebral gliomas showing extensive lipomatous change of tumor cells. One tumor was a large mass occupying the temporal and occipital lobes of the left hemisphere; the other was a cystic lesion with a mural nodule in the left frontal lobe. Histologically, both tumors were composed of glial cells that contained fat droplets coalescing into a single large droplet, thus resulting in an appearance similar to adipocytes. Immunohistochemistry showed GFAP positivity of tumor cells, which was maintained in the cytoplasmic rim of lipidized cells. Synaptophysin and neurofilaments were negative. Ki-67/Mib1 labeling index was low. Electron microscopy showed intracytoplasmic lipid vacuoles, abundant intermediate filaments and a basal lamina surrounding the cell bodies. Molecular genetic analysis of one tumor revealed no TP53 mutation (exons 4-10), no loss of CDKN2A, and no amplification of EGFR, CDK4 or MDM2. Both patients are alive and well after 3 and 7 years, respectively. However, one of them had to be re-operated on circumscribed local recurrences. Our cases represent a rare variant of low-grade astrocytoma that may be designated as "lipoastrocytoma".
11807837: !synaptophysin Synaptic protein expression by regenerating adult photoreceptors. Regeneration of functionally normal synapses is required for functional recovery after degenerative central nervous system insults and requires proper expression and targeting of presynaptic proteins by regenerating neurons. The reconstitution of presynaptic terminals by regenerating adult neurons is poorly understood, however. We examined the intrinsic ability of regenerating adult retinal photoreceptors to reconstitute properly differentiated presynaptic terminals in the absence of target contact. The expression and localization of vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP), synaptic vesicle protein 2 (SV2), synaptophysin, synapsin I, and synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) was assessed immunocytochemically. Photoreceptor terminals in the intact retina contain VAMP, SV2, synaptophysin, and SNAP-25, but not synapsin I. Isolated, regenerating adult photoreceptors intrinsically expressed the proper complement of synaptic vesicle proteins in the absence of target contact: VAMP, SV2, and synaptophysin were present at all stages of regenerative growth; synapsin I was never expressed. At early stages of regenerative growth, VAMP, SV2, and synaptophysin were diffusely localized in the cell, with prominent VAMP labeling distributed along the plasma membrane. SV2 and synaptophysin rapidly localized to regenerated terminals, but VAMP accumulated much more slowly, indicating that these proteins are trafficked independently. In contrast, labeling for SNAP-25, which is associated with the presynaptic plasma membrane, was undetectable in regenerating photoreceptors, suggesting that SNAP-25 expression is target-regulated. Thus, regenerating photoreceptors can intrinsically regulate the expression of the proper set of synaptic vesicle proteins. Proper expression of other presynaptic proteins, such as SNAP-25, and proper subcellular localization of synaptic proteins such as VAMP, however, may require extrinsic cues such as target contact.
11803275: !synaptophysin The effect of aloe emodin on the proliferation of a new merkel carcinoma cell line. A free-floating cell line has been established from a metastatic lesion of a Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) patient. The cell line was characterized by immunocytochemical reactions with antibodies against the epithelial and neuroendocrine antigens: cytokeratin 20, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, neurofilament protein, synaptophysin, and calcitonin. Karyotype analysis of the MCC cells showed deletion in chromosomes 3 and 7, loss of chromosome 10, and several translocations in other chromosomes. No mutation was detected in the TP53 gene, after analyzing the complete coding region. Growth factors such as basic fibroblast growth factor, transforming growth factor-beta, and nerve and epidermal growth factors had no effect on the proliferation of the cells. The differentiation-inducing agents sodium butyrate and dimethyl sulfoxide, especially the former, markedly inhibited the proliferation of the MCC cells. Aloe emodin, a natural constituent of aloe vera leaves, significantly inhibited the growth of MCC cells. Aloe emodin has been reported to be nontoxic for normal cells but to possess specific toxicity for neuroectodermal tumor cells. Differentiation-inducing agents, and aloe emodin, merit further investigation as potential agents for treating MCC.
11802946: !synaptophysin [Detection of neuroendocrine differentiation in NSCLC and its clinical significance]. To study differentiation of neuroendocrine (NE) in non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) and its effect on the responsiveness to chemotherapy.
11800658: !synaptophysin Bronchial carcinoid tumor with crystalloid cytoplasmic inclusions. We report a bronchial carcinoid tumor with distinctive, cytoplasmic, rod-shaped crystalloid inclusions that were visible by light microscopy. These cytoplasmic structures were immunoreactive with antibodies against chromogranin A and synaptophysin in paraffin-embedded tissue. Ultrastructural studies showed them to be paracrystalline in nature and located within lysosomes. This case highlights an interesting, and potentially confusing, histologic manifestation in an otherwise typical bronchial carcinoid tumor.
11797318: !synaptophysin The effects of panretinal photocoagulation on the primary visual cortex of the adult monkey. To determine the effects of panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) on the levels of cytochrome oxidase (CO), Zif268, synaptophysin, and growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) in the primary visual cortex of adult monkeys.
11792847: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin regulates activity-dependent synapse formation in cultured hippocampal neurons. Synaptophysin is an abundant synaptic vesicle protein without a definite synaptic function. Here, we examined a role for synaptophysin in synapse formation in mixed genotype micro-island cultures of wild-type and synaptophysin-mutant hippocampal neurons. We show that synaptophysin-mutant synapses are poor donors of presynaptic terminals in the presence of competing wild-type inputs. In homogenotypic cultures, however, mutant neurons display no apparent deficits in synapse formation compared with wild-type neurons. The reduced extent of synaptophysin-mutant synapse formation relative to wild-type synapses in mixed genotype cultures is attenuated by blockers of synaptic transmission. Our findings indicate that synaptophysin plays a previously unsuspected role in regulating activity-dependent synapse formation.
11792460: !synaptophysin Bisperoxovanadium complex promotes dopamine exocytosis in PC12 cells. The effects of the peroxovanadium complex potassium bisperoxo(1,10-phenanthroline)-oxovanadate (bpV[phen]) have been studied on dopamine (DA) exocytosis in PC12 cells. Bisperoxo(1,10-phenanthroline)-oxovanadate does not elicit dopamine secretion in PC12 cells. However, treatment of PC12 cells with 30 microM bpV[phen] for 20 min significantly enhances the secretion induced by the Ca(2+)-ionophore A23187. The effects appear to be irreversible, and strikingly different from the transient and suppressing effects of orthovanadate, which, like bpV[phen], is also a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor. Contrastingly, the short-lived peroxovanadates, formed in situ by the addition of hydrogen peroxide and orthovanadate, are relatively ineffective. The Ca(2+) chelating agent EGTA abolishes bpV[phen]-enhanced dopamine release. The extracellular-regulated protein kinases (ERK) and synaptophysin, proteins implicated in exocytosis, are both tyrosine-phosphorylated by bpV[phen] in a dose- and time-dependent manner, with a maximal effect at 30 microM. Pre-treatment of cells with PD98059 significantly reduced dopamine release (P<0.05). These results suggest that this peroxovanadium complex enhances dopamine exocytosis, at least in part, by ERK-mediated signaling pathway and synaptophysin-associated phosphatase(s).
11786535: !synaptophysin Regulation of synaptophysin degradation by mammalian homologues of seven in absentia. Synaptophysin is an integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles characterized by four transmembrane domains with both termini facing the cytoplasm. Although synaptophysin has been implicated in neurotransmitter release, and decreased synaptophysin levels have been associated with several neurodegenerative diseases, the molecular mechanism that regulates the degradation of synaptophysin remains unsolved. Using the cytoplasmic C terminus of synaptophysin as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identified two synaptophysin-binding proteins, Siah-1A and Siah-2, which are rat homologues of Drosophila Seven in Absentia. We demonstrated that Siah-1A and Siah-2 associate with synaptophysin both in vitro and in vivo and defined the binding domains of synaptophysin and Siah that mediate their association. Siah proteins exist in both cytosolic and membrane-associated pools and co-localize with synaptophysin on synaptic vesicles and early endosomes. In addition, Siah proteins interact specifically with the brain-enriched E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UbcH8 and facilitate the ubiquitination of synaptophysin. Furthermore, overexpression of Siah proteins promotes the degradation of synaptophysin via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Our findings indicate that Siah proteins function as E3 ubiquitin-protein ligases to regulate the ubiquitination and degradation of synaptophysin.
11785121: !synaptophysin [Glycogen-rich clear-cell breast carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation features]. Glycogen-rich, clear cell carcinoma of the breast (GCC) is a rare type of breast cancer. Histological features are usually those of ductal carcinoma, but cases featuring lobular, tubular, and mixed ductal-tubular carcinoma have been reported. The presence of "numerous cells with clear cytoplasm" has been reported in some cases of primary neuro-endocrine tumors of the breast. Moreover, no case of GCC of the breast with neuro-endocrine features has been described. We report a case of 33-year-old woman with a palpable lump of the right breast. Fresh tissue obtained from the operating theatre was fixed in 10% formalin and routinely processed to paraffin. Serial sections were stained with haematoxylin and eosin (H&E), periodic acid Schiff (PAS) and PAS following diastase digestion (PASd); other sections were processed for immunohistological detection of chromogranin, synaptophysin, vimentin and smooth muscle actin. For electron microscopy, the tissue was fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde in cacodylate buffer. The samples were post-fixed in osmium, dehydrated in ethanol and embedded in araldite. Thin sections, counterstained in uranyl acetate and lead citrate, were studied under a Philips 400T electron microscope. The lump at histological examination was entirely composed of optically clear, neoplastic cells. The cytoplasm was filled with numerous PAS-positive granules which did not stain after the diastase digestion, leading to a diagnosis of GCC of the breast. Some histological (i.e. pattern of growth, blunt edges of neoplastic glands and numerous vessels) and cytological features (i.e. nuclear monomorphism and fine chromatin) prompted us to investigate the possible neuro-endocrine differentiation of the lesion. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies strongly support such hypothesis. To the best of our knowledge, we report the first case of GCC of the breast with neuro-endocrine features.
11779869: !synaptophysin Ca2+-dependent formation of a dynamin-synaptophysin complex: potential role in synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Synaptophysin is a synaptic vesicle (SV) protein of unknown function. Here we show that a repeated sequence in the cytoplasmic tail of synaptophysin mediates the formation of a protein complex containing the GTPase dynamin. The formation of this complex requires a high Ca(2+) concentration, suggesting that it occurs preferentially at the sites of SV exocytosis. Coimmunoprecipitation of a dynamin-synaptophysin complex from brain extracts is promoted by dissociation of vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 from synaptophysin. This finding suggests that dynamin only associates with synaptophysin in vivo after vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP2) enters the SNARE complex. GTP binding releases dynamin from synaptophysin, possibly serving to regulate dynamin selfassembly during endocytosis. Our results suggest that synaptophysin plays a role in SV recycling by recruiting dynamin to the vesicle membrane.
11762337: !synaptophysin Clinical significance of neuroendocrine phenotype in non-small-cell lung cancer. Non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) describes a histologically heterogeneous group of tumours with variable clinical behaviour. Performance status, tumour stage and histological type have important prognostic implications, but clinical outcomes in individual patients remain unpredictable. A significant minority of NSCLCs (10%-30%) show neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation, and a number of studies have attempted to evaluate the therapeutic and prognostic significance of the expression of NE markers on the basis of the theoretical assumption that NE-differentiated tumours may be associated with an adverse prognosis and greater chemosensitivity. However, the results of these studies are conflicting: some have found that NE differentiation has a negative impact on survival, but others have failed to demonstrate any correlation with prognosis. Similar discrepancies have also been observed in terms of chemosensitivity. Nevertheless, these data are difficult to interpret because there is no gold standard defining NE differentiation, as is shown by the fact that the proportion of NE-differentiated NSCLCs varies according to the technique and marker used, although chromogranin A and synaptophysin show the best correlation with ultrastructural evidence of NE differentiation. In conclusion, there is no doubt that caution is required when interpreting the results of a number of studies questioning the clinical impact of the NE features of NSCLCs.
11762336: !synaptophysin Clinical significance of neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast. Neuroendocrine (NE) carcinomas of the breast are defined by the diffuse expression of NE markers. This definition includes lesions with 'pure' NE phenotype as well as 'variants' which may co-express mucinous and/or apocrine phenotype. In the present work, the clinical significance of pure' NE differentiation in breast carcinoma and of its 'variants' will be analyzed.
11760583: !synaptophysin [Solid cystic papillary tumor of the pancreas]. Solid cystic papillary tumors of the pancreas are rare; they occur most commonly in young women. Despite their characteristic microscopic appearance, their immunophenotype is not specific. Their prognosis is excellent after complete surgical resection. The study aim was to report two cases in female patients who were 15 and 20 years old; the first tumor was discovered fortuitously and the second girl presented with abdominal pain and vomiting. Both tumors were encapsulated and located in the tail of the pancreas. The histological study showed the papillary architecture mixed with solid areas. Immunohistochemical staining was positive only for vimentin in one case and positive for cytokeratin, chromogranin, synaptophysin, neuron specific enolase, vimentin and protein S100 in the second case.
11758781: !synaptophysin Suprasellar monomorphous pilomyxoid neoplasm: an ultastructural analysis. The authors report 3 patients, 2 children and 1 adult, each of whom presented with an unusual myxoid lesion reminiscent of pilocytic astrocytoma but with other features of myxopapillary ependymoma. The magnetic resonance imaging findings in all cases showed a diffusely contrast-enhancing suprasellar mass focally extending into the third ventricle. Involvement of adjacent structures was more extensive in both infants. By light microscopy, all were composed of a monotonous population of cells with delicate piloid-like processes, loosely arranged within a prominent myxoid background. Focally, the neoplastic cells converged upon small blood vessels in pseudorosette-like formations. These histomorphologic features are identical to those of the recently described astrocytoma with monomorphous pilomyxoid features. In addition, the individual tumor cells showed strong cytoplasmic immunoreactivity with antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin, as well as nuclear and cytoplasmic staining with S-100. All stained positive for synaptophysin and negative for chromogranin. By electron microscopy, the tumor cells were bipolar with elongated processes and apical surfaces displaying microvilli, cytoplasmic blebs and rare cilia. Vesicles and coated pits were seen, as were occasional synaptoid complexes. The current study serves to expand our clincopathologic experience with this rare and enigmatic lesion, with particular attention given to the ultrastructural characteristics.
11755789: !synaptophysin Botulinum neurotoxins: from paralysis to recovery of functional neuromuscular transmission. The neuromuscular junction is one of the most accessible mammalian synapses which offers a useful model to study long-term synaptic modifications occurring throughout life. It is also the natural target of botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) causing a selective blockade of the regulated exocytosis of acetylcholine thereby triggering a profound albeit transitory muscular paralysis. The scope of this review is to describe the principal steps implicated in botulinum toxin intoxication from the early events leading to a paralysis to the cellular response implementing an impressive synaptic remodelling culminating in the functional recovery of neuromuscular transmission. BoNT/A treatment promotes extensive sprouting emanating from intoxicated motor nerve terminals and the distal portion of motor axons. The current view is that sprouts have the ability to form functional synapses as they display a number of key proteins required for exocytosis: SNAP-25, VAMP/synaptobrevin, syntaxin-I, synaptotagmin-II, synaptophysin, and voltage-activated Na+, Ca2+ and Ca2+-activated K+ channels. Exo-endocytosis was demonstrated (using the styryl dye FM1-43) to occur only in the sprouts in vivo, at the time of functional recovery emphasising the direct role of nerve terminal outgrowth in implementing the restoration of functional neurotransmitter release (at a time when nerve stimulation again elicited muscle contraction). Interestingly, sprouts are only transitory since a second distinct phase of the rehabilitation process occurs with a return of synaptic activity to the original nerve terminals. This is accompanied by the elimination of the dispensable sprouts. The growth or elimination of these nerve processes appears to be strongly correlated with the level of synaptic activity at the parent terminal. The BoNT/A-induced extension and later removal of "functional" sprouts indicate their fundamental importance in the rehabilitation of paralysed endplates, a finding with ramifications for the vital process of nerve regeneration.
11755264: !synaptophysin Loss of synaptic but not cytoskeletal proteins in the cerebellum of chronic schizophrenics. The pathobiology of schizophrenia is poorly understood, and many neuroanatomical domains have been considered to underlie the pathophysiology of the disease. There is considerable clinical and neuroradiological evidence to support cerebellar involvement in the schizophrenic illness. We have analysed the changes in synaptic and cytoskeletal proteins in the cerebellum associated with schizophrenia. The cerebellar expression of tau and MAP2 proteins is similar in schizophrenia to that detected in age-matched controls, whereas the level of SNAP-25 is significantly depleted in the schizophrenic cerebellum. Other synaptic proteins, such as synaptophysin and syntaxin, are not affected. This provides evidence that alterations of the cerebellar synaptic network occur in schizophrenia. These changes may influence cerebellar-forebrain connections, especially those with the frontal lobes, and give rise to the cognitive dysmetria that is characteristic of the clinical phenotype in schizophrenia.
11755008: !synaptophysin Phenolic anti-inflammatory antioxidant reversal of Abeta-induced cognitive deficits and neuropathology. Both oxidative damage and inflammation have been implicated in age-related neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The yellow curry spice, curcumin, has both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities which confer significant protection against neurotoxic and genotoxic agents. We used 22 month Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats to compare the effects of the conventional NSAID, ibuprofen, and curcumin for their ability to protect against amyloid beta-protein (Abeta)-induced damage. Lipoprotein carrier-mediated, intracerebroventricular infusion of Abeta peptides induced oxidative damage, synaptophysin loss, a microglial response and widespread Abeta deposits. Dietary curcumin (2000 ppm), but not ibuprofen, suppressed oxidative damage (isoprostane levels) and synaptophysin loss. Both ibuprofen and curcumin reduced microgliosis in cortical layers, but curcumin increased microglial labeling within and adjacent to Abeta-ir deposits. In a second group of middle-aged female SD rats, 500 ppm dietary curcumin prevented Abeta-infusion induced spatial memory deficits in the Morris Water Maze and post-synaptic density (PSD)-95 loss and reduced Abeta deposits. Because of its low side-effect profile and long history of safe use, curcumin may find clinical application for AD prevention.
11750075: !synaptophysin Effects of proteasome inhibitors on the synaptic localization of Vesl-1S/Homer-1a proteins. The Vesl-1S/Homer-1a proteins are upregulated during seizure and long-term potentiation, but are rapidly degraded by ubiquitin-proteasome systems under normal conditions. We examined the distribution of Vesl-1S proteins in cultured hippocampal neurons. Application of proteasome inhibitors caused accumulation of Vesl-1S immunoreactivity in the neurons which showed a punctate distribution in the cortical regions of the cells, and these puncta were found to be juxtaposed with synaptophysin, a presynaptic, synapse-specific protein. These results suggest that Vesl-1S protein is synaptically targeted.
11748366: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the ureter with squamous cell and transitional cell carcinomatous components associated with ureteral stone. We report a case of primary small cell carcinoma of the ureter with squamous cell and transitional cell carcinomatous components associated with ureteral stone, which is unique in that the patient has remained free of tumor recurrence for 36 months after the surgery without adjuvant chemotherapy or radiotherapy. A 60-yr-old man presented himself with a right flank pain. Computed tomography revealed an ill-defined mass and a stone in the lower one third of the right ureter, and hydronephroureterosis above the stone-impacted site. The patient underwent right nephroureterectomy and stone removal. Upon gross examination, a 3.8 x 1.8 x 1.2 cm white and partly yellow mass was noted in the anterior part of the ureter, resulting in indentation of the ureteral lumen on the posterior side. Light microscopic examination revealed that the mass was mainly composed of small cell carcinoma, and partly squamous cell and transitional cell carcinomatous components. The overlying ureteral mucosa and renal pelvis also contained multifocal dysplastic transitional epithelium and transitional cell carcinoma in situ. There was no vascular invasion, and the surgical margins were free of tumor. The small cell carcinomatous component was positive for chromogranin, neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin, and pancytokeratin but negative for high molecular-weight cytokeratin (K-903) by immunohistochemistry.
11747231: !synaptophysin Malignant pleural effusions due to small-cell lung carcinoma: a cytologic and immunocytochemical study. Patients with small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) rarely present with pleural effusions. Based on morphology alone, recognition of SCLC in effusion cytology may be challenging because of the resemblance of neoplastic cells to lymphocytes. Immunocytochemistry may be helpful in its diagnosis. The objective of this study was to review the morphology and evaluate the use of immunocytochemistry in diagnosing SCLC in pleural fluids. Patients with SCLC who presented with pleural effusions were identified during a 6-yr period. The cytology and medical records were reviewed. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded cell blocks of fluid specimens were immunostained with neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin A and synatophysin), cytokeratin 20 (CK20), and thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1). The latter is a nuclear transcription protein that is expressed in normal respiratory epithelium and also in more than 90% of SCLCs. Of the 256 patients diagnosed with SCLC during the study period, 8 (2.7%) patients (3 females and 4 males, age range from 56-85 yr) also developed pleural effusions. One patient had 2 fluid specimens during the course of their disease, giving a total of 9 specimens. Four specimens had a positive cytologic diagnosis of SCLC, and 2 were initially diagnosed as suspicious for SCLC. The remaining 3 specimens were negative for SCLS. The specimens with a positive or suspicious diagnosis showed single and aggregates of small to medium-sized single cells with a high nuclear:cytoplasmic (N:C) ratio, round to angulated nuclei, and salt-and-pepper chromatin. Nuclear molding was also noted. Five out of 6 (83%) specimens with a positive or suspicious diagnosis of SCLC were positive for both chromogranin A and TTF-1. Synaptophysin was positive in 3 of 6 (50%) positive or suspicious cases. None of the cases were positive for CK20. All cases with a negative cytologic diagnosis were negative for chromogranin A, synatophysin, CK20, and TTF-1. In conclusion, patients with SCLC rarely present with pleural effusions. The cytology of SCLC is characteristic. The use of immunocytochemistry, particularly with antibodies to chromogranin A, TTF-1, and CK 20, aids in the differential diagnosis.
11746377: !synaptophysin Early formation of mature amyloid-beta protein deposits in a mutant APP transgenic model depends on levels of Abeta(1-42). The main objective of the present study was to develop an alternative singly-transgenic (tg) hAPP model where amyloid deposition will occur at an earlier age. For this purpose, we generated lines of tg mice expressing hAPP751 cDNA containing the London (V717I) and Swedish (K670M/N671L) mutations under the regulatory control of the murine (m)Thy-1 gene (mThy1-hAPP751). In the brains of the highest (line 41) and intermediate (lines 16 and 11) expressers, high levels of hAPP expression were found in neurons in layers 4-5 of the neocortex, hippocampal CA1 and olfactory bulb. As early as 3-4 months of age, line 41 mice developed mature plaques in the frontal cortex, whereas at 5-7 months plaque formation extended to the hippocampus, thalamus and olfactory region. Ultrastructural and double-immunolabeling analysis confirmed that most plaques were mature and contained dystrophic neurites immunoreactive with antibodies against APP, synaptophysin, neurofilament and tau. In addition, a decrease in the number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive terminals was most prominent in the frontal cortex of mice from line 41. Mice from line 11 developed diffuse amyloid deposits at 11 months of age, whereas mice from line 16 did not show evidence of amyloid deposition. Analysis of Abeta by ELISA showed that levels of Abeta(1-40) were higher in mice that did not show any amyloid deposits (line 16), whereas Abeta(1-42) was the predominant species in tg animals from the lines showing plaque formation (lines 41 and 11). Taken together this study indicates that early onset plaque formation depends on levels of Abeta(1-42).
11745625: !synaptophysin P2X(7) receptors in the enteric nervous system of guinea-pig small intestine. The P2X(7) purinergic receptor subtype has been cloned and emphasized as a prototypic P2Z receptor involved in neurotransmission in the central nervous system and ATP-mediated lysis of macrophages in the immune system. Less is known about the neurobiology of P2X(7) receptors in the enteric nervous system (ENS). We studied the distribution of the receptor with indirect immunofluorescence and used selective agonists and antagonists to analyze pharmacologic aspects of its electrophysiologic behavior as determined with intracellular "sharp" microelectrodes and patch-clamp recording methods in neurons identified morphologically by biocytin injection in the ENS. Application of ATP or 2'- (or-3'-) O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl) adenosine 5'-triphosphate (BzBzATP) activated an inward current in myenteric neurons. Brilliant blue G, a selective P2X(7) antagonist, suppressed the responses to both agonists. Potency of the antagonist was greatest (smaller IC(50)) for the current evoked by BzBzATP. The P2X(7) antagonists 1-[N,O-bis (1,5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-N-methyl-l-tyrosyl]-4-piperazine (KN-62) and oxidized ATP also suppressed the BzBzATP-activated current. Micropressure application of BzBzATP evoked rapidly activating depolarizing responses in intracellular studies with "sharp" microelectrodes. Oxidized-ATP suppressed these responses in both myenteric and submucosal neurons. Rapidly activating depolarizing responses evoked by application of nicotinic, serotonergic 5-HT(3), or gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABA(A)) receptor agonists were unaffected by brilliant blue G. Immunoreactivity for the P2X(7) receptor was widely distributed surrounding ganglion cell bodies and associated with nerve fibers in both myenteric and submucous plexuses. P2X(7) immunoreactivity was colocalized with synapsin and synaptophysin and surrounded ganglion cells that contained either calbindin, calretinin, neuropeptide Y, substance P, or nitric oxide synthase. The mucosa, submucosal blood vessels, and the circular muscle coat also showed P2X(7) receptor immunoreactivity.
11745274: !synaptophysin The pigmented "black" neuroendocrine tumor of the pancreas: a question of origin. Pigmented neoplasms are extremely rare in the pancreas, and, when black pigment is identified, it often suggests the diagnosis of metastatic melanoma. The authors describe two patients with pigmented "black" neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas. One patient had an incidental (0.5 cm) finding, and the second patient had a well-demarcated, 4.5-cm mass identified by computerized tomography that was consistent with an islet cell tumor.
11744253: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicle alterations in rod photoreceptors of synaptophysin-deficient mice. The abundance of the integral membrane protein synaptophysin in synaptic vesicles and its multiple possible functional contributions to transmitter exocytosis and synaptic vesicle formation stand in sharp contrast to the observed lack of defects in synaptophysin knockout mice. Assuming that deficiencies are compensated by the often coexpressed synaptophysin isoform synaptoporin, we now show that retinal rod photoreceptors, which do not synthesize synaptoporin either in wild-type or in knockout mice, are affected by the loss of synaptophysin. Multiple pale-appearing photoreceptors, as seen by electron microscopy, possess reduced cytoplasmic electron density, swollen mitochondria, an enlarged cell surface area, and, most importantly, a significantly reduced number of synaptic vesicles with an unusually bright interior. Quantification of the number of synaptic vesicles per unit area, not only in these, but also in all other rod terminals of knockout animals, reveals a considerable reduction in vesicles that is even more pronounced during the dark period, i.e., at times of highest synaptic activity. Moreover, activity-dependent reduction in synaptic vesicle diameter, typically occurring in wild-type mice, is not detected in knockout animals. The large number of clathrin-coated pits and vesicles in dark-adapted synaptophysin knockout mice is taken as an indication of compensatory usage of synaptophysin-independent pathway(s), and, conversely, in view of the overall reduction in the number of synaptic vesicles, as an indication for the presence of another synaptophysin-dependent synaptic vesicle recycling pathway. Our results provide in vivo evidence for the importance of the integral membrane protein synaptophysin for synaptic vesicle recycling and formation.
11742493: !synaptophysin High tumour contamination of leukaphereses in patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung: a comparison of immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR. In small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) tumour cell contamination of leukaphereses is unknown. The present study was performed to define appropriate markers for reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), then to assess the contamination rate of leukaphereses and corresponding bone marrow samples. Immunocytochemistry (ICC) and RT-PCR methods were also compared. Among the 33 patients included, analyses were performed in 16 who had multiple leukaphereses and 17 who had only bone marrow. Leukapheresis products and bone marrow were analysed by ICC using several specific monoclonal antibodies against neural-cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM), epithelial glycoprotein (EGP-40) and cytokeratins (CK). Samples were also analyzed by RT-PCR for expression for N-CAM, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, cytokeratin-18/-19, CEA, EGP-40, apomucin type 1 (MUC-1) and human endothelial cell-specific molecule (ESM-1). Using ICC staining, contaminating tumour cells were detected in 34% of leukaphereses (27% in patients with limited disease and 43% in those with extensive disease). N-CAM was the most reliable marker for detection of contamination. For RT-PCR, CK-19 and CEA were the only appropriate markers. Positive signal rate in leukaphereses increased to 78% (89% for patients with limited disease and 67% for extensive disease). In bone marrow, both techniques were in agreement whereas in leukaphereses, RT-PCR was better than ICC. A high rate of tumour cell contamination was demonstrated not only in bone marrow but also in leukaphereses from SCLC patients. The most appropriate technique was RT-PCR mainly in patients with limited disease.
11740050: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine marker expression in thyroid epithelial tumors. Tissue sections from 50 cases with thyroid tumors, composed of 11 follicular adenomas, 10 follicular carcinomas, 14 papillary carcinomas, 10 anaplastic carcinomas, and 5 medullary carcinomas, were immunohistochemically analyzed for representative neuroendocrine markers. Immunoexpression ratios of these neuroendocrine markers were as follows: Follicular adenomas, neuron-specific enolase (NSE)63.6%, synaptophysin (SynP) 45.5%, Leu7 27.3%, NCAM 45.5%, chromogranin A (CgA) 0%, SNAP25 0%; follicular carcinomas, NSE 90.0%, SynP 80.0%, Leu7 80.0%, NCAM 0%, CgA 0%, SNAP25 0%; papillary carcinomas, NSE 85.7%, SynP 78.6%, Leu7 100%, NCAM 7.0%, CgA 0%, SNAP25.0%; anaplastic carcinomas, NSE 10.0%, SynP 0%, Leu7 0%, NCAM 0%, CgA 0%, SNAP25 0%; medullary carcinomas, NSE 100%, SynP100%, Leu7 80.0%, NCAM 40.0%, CgA 100%, SNAP25 100%. The two follicular carcinomas, which were morphologically characterized by "insular" (or "alveolar") arrangements, showed distinct immunoexpression of NSE and SynP at the same time. By in situ hybridization (ISH), expression of mRNA for NSE was confirmed in cases with marked immunoexpression of NSE. Although no endocrine granules were found, our results suggested that a specific type of follicular carcinoma, i.e., insular variant, may be immaturely neuroendocrine-differentiated.
11738262: !synaptophysin Early expression of glycine and GABA(A) receptors in developing spinal cord neurons. Effects on neurite outgrowth. Using fluorometric and immunocytochemical techniques, we found that high glycine concentrations or blockade of glycine receptors increases neurite outgrowth in developing mouse spinal cord neurons. Glycine- and GABA(A)-activated currents were demonstrated during applications of glycine and GABA (50-100 microM) in 5 days in vitro (DIV) neurons. Long application (> or =10 min) of 100 microM glycine desensitized the membrane response by more than 95%. Application of glutamate in the absence of external Mg(2+), at several membrane potentials, did not produce any detectable membrane response in these cells. Immunocytochemical studies with NR1 and GluR1 antibodies showed a delayed appearance of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors respectively. Spontaneous synaptic activity was readily observed in 5 DIV neurons. The use of various receptor antagonists (strychnine, bicuculline, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate [APV], 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione [CNQX]) revealed that this activity was predominantly glycinergic, and to a smaller extent, GABAergic. In the presence of bicuculline, APV and CNQX, we detected abundant spontaneous depolarizing potentials which often reached the action potential threshold. Further evidence for functional synaptic activity was provided by the detection of co-localization of gephyrin and synaptophysin at 5 DIV using confocal microscopy. Fluorometric studies with Fluo-3, a Ca(2+) indicator, in 5 DIV cultures showed the presence of spontaneous fluctuations associated with tetrodotoxin-sensitive synaptic events. The number of neurons displaying these fluctuations was significantly increased (>100%) when the cells were bathed in a strychnine-containing solution. On the other hand, these synaptically mediated Ca(2+) events were blocked by the co-application of strychnine and bicuculline. This suggests that glycine and GABA(A) receptors provide a fundamental regulation of both neuronal excitability and intracellular Ca(2+) at this early time of development.The neurotrophic effects of agonists and antagonists for glycine, GABA(A) and glutamate receptors were examined in neurons cultured for 2 or 5 DIV. From all the agonists used, only high concentrations of glycine increased neurite outgrowth in 5 DIV neurons. We found that strychnine also increased neurite outgrowth, whereas tetrodotoxin (1 microM), nimodipine (4 microM) and bicuculline (20 microM) completely blocked it. On the other hand, APV (50 microM) and CNQX (20 microM) were unable to affect neurite outgrowth. These data suggest that spinal glycine receptors depress neurite outgrowth by shunting neuronal excitability. Outgrowth induction possibly results from the enhanced activity found after the inhibition of glycinergic activity. We postulate that this resets the intracellular calcium at a concentration that favors neurite outgrowth.
11738130: !synaptophysin The glial glutamate transporter GLT-1 is localized both in the vicinity of and at distance from axon terminals in the rat cerebral cortex. Glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) is responsible for the largest proportion of glutamate transport in the brain and the density of GLT-1 molecules inserted in the plasma membrane is highest in regions of high demand. Previous electron microscopic studies in the hippocampus and cerebellum have shown that GLT-1 is concentrated both in the vicinity of and at considerable distance from the synaptic cleft [Chaudry et al., Neuron 15 (1995) 711-721], but little is known about its distribution in the neocortex. We therefore studied the spatial relationships between elements expressing the presynaptic marker synaptophysin and those containing GLT-1 in the rat cerebral cortex using confocal microscopy. Preliminary studies confirmed that GLT-1 positive puncta were exclusively astrocytic processes; moreover, they showed that in most cases GLT-1 positive processes either completely surrounded asymmetric synapses or had no apparent relationship with synapses; occasionally, they were apposed to terminals containing pleomorphic vesicles. In sections double-labeled for GLT-1 and synaptophysin, codistribution analysis revealed that 61.2% of pixels detecting fluorescent emission for GLT-1 immunoreactivity overlapped with pixels detecting synaptophysin. The percentages of GLT-1/synaptophysin codistribution were significantly different from controls. In sections double-labeled for GLT-1 and the vesicular GABA transporter, codistribution analysis revealed that 27% of pixels detecting GLT-1 overlapped with those revealing the vesicular GABA transporter.The remarkable 'synaptic' localization of GLT-1 provides anatomical support for the hypothesis that in the cerebral cortex GLT-1 contributes to shaping fast, point-to-point, excitatory synaptic transmission. Moreover, the considerable fraction of GLT-1 immunoreactivity localized at sites distant from axon terminals supports the notion that glutamate spillout occurs also in the intact brain and suggests that 'extrasynaptic' GLT-1 regulates the diffusion of glutamate escaped from the cleft.
11737789: !synaptophysin Long-term synaptic alteration in the rat hippocampal CA3 field following an entorhinal cortex lesion. The entorhinal cortex is a key initial relay for cortical input to the hippocampus. To better understand hippocampal dysfunction resulting from early entorhinal cortex involvement in Alzheimer's disease, we stereotaxically injected ibotenic acid to produce unilateral entorhinal cortex lesions in rats. We then serially examined the CA3 hippocampal region by neuronal counts, histochemistry for acetylcholinesterase, and synaptophysin immunohistochemistry. Over 12 months, the neuronal counts did not change. Acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers were persistently but non-progressively beginning at 3 months. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity progressively declined over 12 months. Since much of the entorhinal cortex output proceeds to CA3 via the dentate gyrus, transsynaptic degeneration is suspected.
11737555: !synaptophysin Quantitative evaluation of synaptophysin-like immunoreactive nerve terminals or varicosities in anterior pituitary of normal and adrenalectomized rats. Our previous studies have demonstrated the presence of substantial amounts of peptidergic nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary of monkeys, dogs and rats. The nerve fibres increase in number following adrenalectomy and ovariectomy. Furthermore, typical synapses between nerve fibres and anterior pituitary glandular cells have been demonstrated in the dog and rat, strongly suggesting the existence of some direct neural regulation. However, it is difficult to evaluate the functional importance of synapses or nerve terminals in general, unless quantitative data can be provided. The present study therefore aimed to quantify the number of terminals or varicosities in the anterior pituitary of the rat and its changes following adrenalectomy. Nerve terminals or varicosities were identified by their synaptophysin (SYN)-like immunoreactivity. Under the light microscope, SYN-like immunoreactivity appeared mainly as dots, mostly among glandular cells, and some were found distributed along blood vessels. SYN-like immunoreactive dots were found under the electron microscope to be localized in the nerve terminals or varicosities. Synapse-like contracts between the nerve terminals or varicosities and the glandular cells could be identified. The number of SYN-like immunoreactive nerve terminals or varicosities was then counted under the light microscope. There were as many as 12424.2 +/- 2941.5 and 20700.4 +/- 6128 (mean +/- SD) nerve terminals or varicosities per anterior pituitary of normal and adrenalectomized rats, respectively. The increase in number following adrenalectomy was statistically significant. It is concluded that nerve fibres may play an important role in the regulation of the anterior pituitary.
11737310: !synaptophysin Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma: a light microscopic, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural and immuno-ultrastructural study indicating neuroendocrine differentiation. Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma is a rare low-grade soft-tissue sarcoma with locally aggressive and metastasizing potential. Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma has distinctive clinical, light microscopic, immunophenotypic, cytogenetic and ultrastructural features. Evidence that extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma often shows neuroendocrine features was first provided by Chhieng et al. on the basis of an immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of seven cases. Our study aims to further confirm by immunohistochemistry and ultrastructural studies, including immunoelectron microscopy, that extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma indeed may show neuroendocrine differentiation.
11727266: !synaptophysin Carcinoid tumors of the duodenum and ampulla of vater: a clinicomorphologic, immunohistochemical, and cell kinetic comparison. Carcinoid tumors of the ampulla of Vater (ACs) differ from duodenal carcinoid tumors (DCs). A search for AC and DC was made between 1980 and 2000. The clinicopathologic features and follow-up were assessed. Immunohistochemistry for panneuroendocrine markers, hormone products, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), Ki- 67, p21(cip1), and p27(kip1) were performed. A blind proliferative index counting 500 cells was made. Differences were contrasted using the Fisher exact and 2-sided Student t test. Five ACs and 8 DCs were identified in 9 women and 4 men with median ages of 59 and 64 years and mean tumor diameters of 1.6 and 1.85 cm, respectively. All patients with AC presented jaundice, and most patients with DC were asymptomatic (P = .047). Metastases were present in 4 ACs and 1 DC (P =.03). Tumor cells expressed synaptophysin and chromogranin in 60% of ACs and in 100% and 87% of DCs. Gastrin was expressed in 75% of DCs and 20% of ACs (P < .05). The mean value for PCNA index was 4.0% in ACs and 3.2% in DCs, and mean values for Ki-67 were 12.2% and 10.2%, respectively (P = NS). Expression of p21(cip1) and p27(kip1) was observed in 40% of ACs and 37.5% and 12.5% of DCs. Three of 5 patients with AC died of the disease within an average of 11 months, and none of the patients with DC had died at 103 months of follow-up. The more aggressive behavior of ACs is not associated with higher proliferative indices or with different expression of cell cycle inhibitors.
11727254: !synaptophysin Expression of microtubule-associated protein tau by gastrointestinal stromal tumors. The purpose of this work was to study the expression in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) of various antigens, including the protein tau associated with enteric neuronal differentiation; to compare their expression with that of c-kit, known to be associated with interstitial cell of Cajal differentiation; and to correlate their expression with the observation of ultrastructural features of gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumors. Twenty-six GISTs of the stomach and 16 GISTs of the small bowel were included in the study group. Thirty-five tumors served as controls. Tissue sections were immunostained with vimentin, CD34, desmin, specific smooth muscle actin, S100 protein, neuron-specific enolase, PGP9.5, neurofilament, bcl-2 oncoprotein, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, c-kit, and tau. Twenty-one of these tumors were also analyzed ultrastructurally. Of the 42 GISTs, 28 were predominantly spindled, 7 were predominantly epithelioid, and 7 were a mixture of epithelioid and spindle cells. Ten primary GISTs were classified as benign, 9 as borderline, and 23 as malignant. Metastatic dissemination was present at primary surgery in 1 case and eventually developed in 6 patients. Six disease-related deaths were counted. In normal submucous and myenteric plexuses of stomach and small bowel, ganglion cell bodies and nerve fibers strongly expressed tau. Twenty (76.9%) GISTs of the stomach and 12 (75%) of the small bowel expressed tau. Tau often showed intense, diffuse staining patterns in both spindled and epithelioid tumors. Ten (100%) of the 10 benign GISTs, 7 (77.8%) of the borderline GISTs, and 15 (65.2%) of the 23 frankly malignant GISTs expressed tau. Thirty-six GISTs expressed at least 2 different neuronal markers. A coexpression of the neuronal markers and c-kit was observed in 90% of GISTs. The expression of tau was observed in 12 of the 15 GISTs with dense core granules, considered as the definitive finding for a diagnosis of gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumors. Ten of these also expressed c-kit; 9 were malignant. Tau also immunostained other intra-abdominal tumors, including neuroendocrine carcinomas, paragangliomas and desmoplastic round cell tumors. This immunohistochemical study shows that GISTs are specific tumors of the digestive tract and are nearly always characterized by simultaneous neuronal and interstitial cell of Cajal differentiation. Although the loss of tau expression is observed only in borderline and malignant tumors, its prognostic value is not clear cut.
11727051: !synaptophysin Solid-cystic papillary tumor of the pancreas in children. Solid-cystic papillary tumor (SCPT) of the pancreas is a rare neoplasm in children. The current study attempted to estimate the incidence and possible pathological origin of the tumor. Clinicopathologic features of the children under the age of 16 years with pancreatic tumors managed in a single institution between January 1993 and November 1999 were reviewed. Representative blocks of SCPT specimens were immunostained for neuron-specific enolase (NSE) chromogrannin, synaptophysin, insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and gastrin. There were three SCPTs, two pancreatic endocrine tumors, and one acinar cell carcinoma during the study period. The estimated yearly incidence in the referral area of 2 million population is about 0.01 pediatric SCPT per year per 100,000 population. The children underwent surgical removal of the tumors. Postoperatively, they were followed up for 6 months to 4 years and were well. Immunostaining for NSE, chromogranin, synaptophysin, insulin, somatostatin, and gastrin was negative in all cases. SCPT may thus be the most common pancreatic tumor in the Asian pediatric population. The pathological origin of the tumor remains unclear and requires further investigations.
11726632: !synaptophysin The ability of hyperoxia to limit the effects of experimental detachment in cone-dominated retina. To determine the ability of oxygen supplementation to ameliorate the effects of retinal detachment in a cone-dominated retina.
11720700: !synaptophysin Stress differentially regulates synaptophysin and synaptotagmin expression in hippocampus. In view of the effects of stress on synaptic plasticity, the regulation of synaptophysin and synaptotagmin expression by immobilization was analyzed by in situ hybridization.
11720446: !synaptophysin MRP1 gene expression level regulates the death and differentiation response of neuroblastoma cells. We have previously reported a strong correlation between poor prognosis in childhood neuroblastoma (NB) patients and high-level expression of the transmembrane efflux pump, Multidrug Resistance-associated Protein (MRP1), in NB tumour tissue. In this study, we inhibited the endogenous expression of MRP1 in 2 different NB tumour cell lines by stably transfecting an MRP1 antisense expression vector (MRP-AS). Compared with control cells, MRP-AS transfectant cells demonstrated a higher proportion of dead and morphologically apoptotic cells, spontaneous neuritogenesis, and, increased synaptophysin and neurofilament expression. Bcl-2 protein expression was markedly reduced in MRP-AS cells compared to controls. Conversely, we found that the same NB tumour cell line overexpressing the full-length MRP1 cDNA in sense orientation (MRP-S) demonstrated resistance to the neuritogenic effect of the differentiating agent, all-trans-retinoic acid. Taken together, the results suggest that the level of MRP1 expression in NB tumour cells may influence the capacity of NB cells for spontaneous regression in vivo through cell differentiation and death.
11718847: !synaptophysin Galanin synaptic input to gonadotropin-releasing hormone perikarya in juvenile and adult female mice: implications for sexual maturity. Changes in connectivity of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neuronal system are believed to occur during the transition from juvenile to adulthood in females. Experiments were designed to investigate whether there is any difference in the number of galanin inputs to GnRH cells located in the organum vasculosum of lamina terminalis-rostral preoptic area (OVLT-rPOA) between juvenile (2 weeks old) and adult (10 weeks old) female mice. Triple label immunofluorescence staining of brain sections for galanin, GnRH and the presynaptic vesicle marker synaptophysin coupled with confocal microscopy was employed to identify galanin synapses to GnRH perikarya. The number of galanin synapses to GnRH cells and the proportion of GnRH cells with galanin input were significantly higher in adults than in juvenile mice. In adult mice, the proportions of GnRH cells with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 galanin synapses/cell were comparable to each other whereas in the juveniles the vast majority of them received no galanin synaptic input. A greater number of galanin synapses in adult as compared with juvenile female mice suggests a functional role for galanin in the maturation of the GnRH system.
11716562: !synaptophysin Enrichment of neurons and neural precursors from human embryonic stem cells. Human embryonic stem (hES) cells proliferate and maintain their pluripotency for over a year in vitro (M. Amit, M. K. Carpenter, M. S. Inokuma, C. P. Chiu, C. P., Harris, M. A. Waknitz, J. Itskovitz-Eldor, and J. A. Thomson. 2000. Dev. Biol. 227: 271-278) and may therefore provide a cell source for cell therapies. hES cells were maintained for over 6 months in vitro (over 100 population doublings) before their ability to differentiate into the neural lineage was evaluated. Differentiation was induced by the formation of embryoid bodies that were subsequently plated onto appropriate substrates in defined medium containing mitogens. These populations contained cells that showed positive immunoreactivity to nestin, polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PS-NCAM) and A2B5. After further maturation, these cells expressed additional neuron-specific antigens (such as MAP-2, synaptophysin, and various neurotransmitters). Calcium imaging demonstrated that these cells responded to neurotransmitter application. Electrophysiological analyses showed that cell membranes contained voltage-dependent channels and that action potentials were triggered by current injection. PS-NCAM and A2B5 immunoselection or culture conditions could be used to produce enriched populations (60-90%) which could be further differentiated into mature neurons. The properties of the hES-derived progenitors and neurons were found to be similar to those of cells derived from primary tissue. These data indicate that hES cells could provide a cell source for the neural progenitor cells and mature neurons for therapeutic and toxicological uses.
11713865: !synaptophysin Activity-dependent changes of the presynaptic synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex in adult rat brain. The vesicular protein synaptobrevin contributes to two mutually exclusive complexes in mature synapses. Synaptobrevin tightly interacts with the plasma membrane proteins syntaxin and SNAP 25 forming the SNARE complex as a prerequisite for exocytotic membrane fusion. Alternatively, synaptobrevin binds to the vesicular protein synaptophysin. It is unclear whether SNARE complex formation is diminished or facilitated when synaptobrevin is bound to synaptophysin. Here we show that the synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex is increased in adult rat brain after repeated synaptic hyperactivity in the kindling model of epilepsy. Two days after the last kindling-induced stage V seizure the relative amount of synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex obtained by co-immunoprecipitation from cortical and hippocampal membranes was increased twofold compared to controls. By contrast the relative amounts of various synaptic proteins as well as that of the SNARE complex did not change in membrane preparations from kindled rats compared to controls. The increased amount of synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex in kindled rats supports the idea that this complex represents a reserve pool for synaptobrevin enabling synaptic vesicles to adjust to an increased demand for synaptic efficiency. We conclude that the synaptophysin-synaptobrevin interaction is involved in activity-dependent plastic changes in adult rat brain.
11702019: !synaptophysin Changes in vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2) and synaptophysin in rat Substantia nigra and prefrontal cortex induced by psychotropic drugs. We investigated the regulatory effect of the dopaminergic agent L-dopa, the mood stabilizer lithium and the nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitor phenelzine on brain vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2) expression. Rats were treated chronically (21 days) with the three psychoactive drugs. VMAT2 gene expression at the protein level was assessed in the prefrontal cortex and striatum by autoradiography with high-affinity [(3)H]dihydrotetrabenazine ([(3)H]TBZOH) binding and at the mRNA level in the substantia nigra pars compacta by in situ hybridization. In addition, the effect of various treatments on the synaptophysin mRNA level was determined in the substantia nigra by in situ hybridization. Chronic administration of L-dopa resulted in a significant decrease (28%, p < 0.05) in the density of [(3)H]TBZOH binding in the prefrontal cortex but had no effect on VMAT2 and synaptophysin mRNA levels in the substantia nigra. Lithium treatment increased [(3)H]TBZOH-specific binding in the prefrontal cortex (23%, p < 0.05) but had no effect on VMAT2 and synaptophysin mRNA levels. Phenelzine did not modulate VMAT2 gene expression but reduced the synaptophysin mRNA level (19%, p < 0.05). The modulatory activities of these drugs, although relatively weak, may be relevant to the drug-induced synaptic and neuronal plasticity as well as to the molecular and cellular pathophysiology of monoamine-related neuropsychiatric disorders.
11699935: !synaptophysin Morphological and functional alterations of the myenteric plexus in rats with TNBS-induced colitis. The 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced model of experimental colitis was used to investigate the time-course of alterations in enteric neurotransmission and/or smooth muscle function that occur in chronic inflammation. Myenteric plexus morphology (immunocytochemical markers), functional integrity of cholinergic neurons (3H-choline uptake, acetylcholine release and contractile response to electrical field stimulation) and smooth muscle integrity (contractile response to exogenous acetylcholine) were determined 2, 7, 15, and 30 days after TNBS treatment. In TNBS-treated rats extensive ulcerations of the mucosa and/or the submucosa and increase in colonic weights were accompanied by significant reduction in 3H-choline uptake, acetylcholine release and contractile response to stimulation of enteric nerves. These changes were maximal 7 and 15 days after TNBS treatment. Immunocytochemical marker (PGP 9.5, SNAP 25, synaptophysin and S100 protein) expression was absent in necrotic areas of colons removed 7 days post-injury and partially reduced in colons removed 15 days after TNBS treatment. By contrast, the contractile response to exogenous acetylcholine was significantly increased after 7 days in both inflamed and uninflamed regions and returned to control values by day 30. Likewise, an almost complete recovery of neural cholinergic function and of myenteric plexus morphology was observed 30 days after TNBS treatment. These data suggest that TNBS-induced colitis is associated with progressive and selective alterations in myenteric plexus structure and function, with consequent reduction of cholinergic neurotransmission and abnormality in colonic contractility. The reversibility of myenteric plexus disruption is a clear indication of neuronal plasticity within enteric nervous system as an adaptative mechanism against inflammatory challenges.
11699565: !synaptophysin Juvenile neuroaxonal dystrophy in a Rottweiler: accumulation of synaptic proteins in dystrophic axons. Dystrophic axons in a 2-year-old male Rottweiler with neuroaxonal dystrophy have shown synaptophysin, synapsin-I, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), Rab 3a, and alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity. Similar findings have been observed in isolated dystrophic axons in the nuclei gracillis and cunneatus in five dogs aged between 14 and 18 years. Abnormal expression of integral synaptic vesicle, synaptic vesicle-associated presynaptic plasma membrane and cytosolic proteins, which participate in the trafficking, docking and fusion of the synaptic vesicle to the plasma membrane, suggest severe disruption of axonal transport in dystrophic axons in canine neuroaxonal dystrophy.
11692814: !synaptophysin [Paraganglioma of the cauda equina with papillary pattern and cytokeratin expression: 2 potential sources of diagnostic error. Report of a case and review of the literature]. Paragangliomas are unusual neuroendocrine tumours, rare in the cauda equina and filum terminale. Due to their low frequency, no classical patterns and dual immunophenotype, may be misinterpreted as others neoplasms more frequent in this site. It is our aim to report a case of paraganglioma of the cauda equina and filum terminale (PGCCFT), standing out it's histological-immunohistochemical pattern, differential diagnosis, prognostic and treatment. We reviewed the clinical presentation, NMR features and morphological aspect of one PGCCFT, diagnosed in the ABC Medical Center's Surgical Pathology Department of Mexico City. Report of the case: 26 years old man, who had been suffering a low lumbar pain for one year before he came to our hospital. The NRM showed heterointense lesion in the level of first and second vertebra, suggesting ependymoma. The tumor was totally resected. Histologically it was papillary, the chief cells have stained with chromogranin, synaptophysin, and cytokeratin. The few sustentaculars cells were S100 positive. The patient have haven a favorable course.
11688471: !synaptophysin Clear cell carcinoid tumor of the gallbladder: another distinctive manifestation of von Hippel-Lindau disease. We describe a morphologically distinctive carcinoid tumor of the gallbladder that occurred in a 38-year-old man with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease. The carcinoid tumor was composed predominantly of lipid-containing clear cells arranged in nests and tubules with pagetoid spread into the biliary epithelium and was interpreted as metastatic renal cell carcinoma. The neoplastic cells showed diffuse immunoreactivity for chromogranin, synaptophysin, cytokeratins (cytokeratin 7 and AE1/AE3) and, unexpectedly, for inhibin, but were negative for monoclonal carcinoembryonic antigen, serotonin and a variety of peptide hormones. This clear cell carcinoid tumor of the gallbladder was histologically similar to the recently described clear cell endocrine pancreatic tumor associated with VHL. Four cases of the latter tumor, which were also inhibin positive showed, in addition, focal and variable reactivity for the pancreatic hormones. Two classical carcinoid tumors of the gallbladder, two renal cell carcinomas associated with VHL and 11 of 13 sporadic endocrine pancreatic tumors (not associated with VHL) did not show immunoreactivity for inhibin. Inhibin appears to be an immunohistochemical marker for gallbladder clear cell carcinoid and clear cell endocrine pancreatic tumors associated with VHL and is a useful tool to distinguish these tumors from metastatic renal cell carcinoma. However, the basis for the inhibin positivity in these endocrine tumors is unknown.
11688459: !synaptophysin Extraventricular neurocytomas: pathologic features and clinical outcome. Neurocytic neoplasms usually arise within the lateral ventricles, generally as circumscribed, slowly growing masses curable by total resection. Both subtotal resection and histologic atypia are associated with an increased risk of recurrence. In contrast, neurocytic neoplasms situated within brain parenchyma, so-called "extraventricular neurocytomas" (EVNs), are not as well characterized. The relationships between histologic features and extent of resection versus clinical behavior have not been defined. We evaluated pathologic features, clinical data, and neuroimaging of 35 examples. The tumors occurred in 18 males and 17 females, age 5-76 years (median 34 years). All tumors involved the cerebrum. On imaging, EVNs were solitary, variably contrast-enhancing, and often (57%) cystic. Tumor cells were arranged in sheets, clusters, ribbons, or rosettes, in association with fine neuropil dispersed in broad zones that separated cell aggregates. Ganglion cell differentiation was seen in 66%. All tumors showed strong synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Despite the lack of apparent astrocytes in hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections, focal glial fibrillary acidic protein reactivity was seen in 46%. Eleven EVNs were designated "atypical" based on the presence of necrosis, vascular proliferation, or elevated mitotic activity (> or = 3 mitoses/10 high power fields). Nineteen tumors were subtotally resected or biopsied, whereas 14 were totally resected grossly. Seventeen patients underwent radiotherapy (mean 55 Gy). In 30 cases with follow-up, 10 tumors recurred, 3 causing death at 6, 14, and 43 months. All 10 recurrences followed subtotal resection. No totally resected tumors recurred. Thus, the majority of EVNs are well differentiated and appear unlikely to recur after gross total resection. Subtotal resection, atypical histologic features, and high cell proliferation rates correlate with recurrence.
11681838: !synaptophysin Characterization of human cleaved N-CAM and association with schizophrenia. The neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) is a cell recognition molecule involved in cellular migration, synaptic plasticity, and CNS development. A 105- to 115-kDa isoform of N-CAM (cleaved N-CAM or cN-CAM) is increased in schizophrenia in hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, and CSF. We purified and partially characterized cN-CAM, a putative novel isoform, and confirmed that the first 9 amino acids were identical to exon 1 of N-CAM, without the signal sequence. Analysis of trypsin-digested cN-CAM fragments by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization on a time-of-flight mass spectrometer (MALDI-TOF) yielded peptides that could be identified as being derived from the first 548 amino acid residues of the expected N-CAM amino acid sequence. Immunological identification with four specific N-CAM antisera directed toward cytoplasmic, secreted, variable alternative spliced exon, or GPI epitopes failed to indicate other known splice variants. Neuraminidase treatment of cN-CAM produced a minor alteration resulting in a faster migrating immunoreactive band, indicating partial glycosylation of cN-CAM. Membranous particles from cytosolic brain extract containing cN-CAM were obtained by ultracentrifugation; however, CSF contained few such particles. cN-CAM and synaptophysin were colocalized on these particles. Both cN-CAM and N-CAM 180 were present in synaptosomal preparations of human brain. Following incubation of synaptosomes or brain tissue without protease inhibitors, N-CAM 180 was degraded and cN-CAM was increased. A cN-CAM-like band was present in human fetal neuronal cultures, but not in fetal astrocyte cultures. Thus, cN-CAM represents a protease- and neuraminidase-susceptible fragment possibly derived by proteolytic cleavage of N-CAM 180. An enlargement in ventricular volume in a group of adult patients with schizophrenia over a 2-year interval was found to be correlated with CSF cN-CAM levels as measured at the time of the initial MRI scan (r = 0.53, P = 0.01). cN-CAM is associated with ventricular enlargement; thus, the release of N-CAM fragments may be part of the pathogenic mechanism of schizophrenia in vulnerable brain regions such as the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Alternatively, the increases in cN-CAM in schizophrenia may be a reflection of a more general abnormality in the regulation of proteolysis or of extracellular matrix stability.
11680889: !synaptophysin Proteome studies of human cerebrospinal fluid and brain tissue using a preparative two-dimensional electrophoresis approach prior to mass spectrometry. A preparative proteomic approach, involving liquid phase isoelectric focusing (IEF) in combination with one-dimensional electrophoresis and electroelution followed by mass spectrometry and database searches, was found to be an important tool for identifying low-abundant proteins (microgram/L) in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and membrane proteins in human frontal cortex. Several neuron-related proteins, such as amyloid precursor-like protein, chromogranins A and B, glial fibrillary acid protein, beta-trace, transthyretin, ubiquitin, and cystatin C, were identified in CSF. Several types of proteins were also characterized from a detergent-solubilized human frontal cortex homogenate including membrane proteins such as synaptophysin, syntaxin and Na+/K+ ATPase. One-third of the identified proteins have not previously been identified in human CSF or human frontal cortex using proteomic techniques. The absence of these proteins in two-dimensional electrophoresis maps might be due to insufficient amounts or low solubility. The advantages of using preparative liquid phase electrophoretic separations for identifying proteins from complex biological mixtures are speed of analysis, high loadability in the IEF separation, nondiscrimination of membrane proteins or low abundance proteins, yielding sufficient amounts for characterization by mass spectrometry. The use of this strategy in proteome studies of CSF/brain tissue is expected to offer new perspectives in studies of the pathology of neurodegenerative diseases, and reveal new potential markers for brain disorders.
11679947: !synaptophysin Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma: a clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 18 cases. Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma (EMCS) is an uncommon clinicopathologically well-defined tumor, but its pathogenesis and biologic behavior are poorly understood. We reviewed 18 cases of EMCS to verify clinicopathologic features and immunohistochemical profiles together with molecular detection of the tumor-specific fusion genes. The tumors were located mainly in the proximal extremities and limb girdles (72%). Two tumors arose at unusual anatomic sites: the finger and the hip joint. Nine of the 17 followed-up patients were alive and disease free, 4 were alive with recurrences and/or metastases, and 4 died of the tumor. Fifteen tumors showed typical features of EMCS, and 3 had hypercellular areas in addition to conventional EMCS areas. The tumors were variably immunoreactive for S-100 protein (50%), NSE (89%), peripherin (60%), and synaptophysin (22%). Chromogranin A and some epithelial markers (AE1/AE3, CAM5.2, and epithelial membrane antigen) were entirely negative. Frequent expressions of the neural/neuroendocrine markers suggest possible neural/neuroendocrine differentiation in at least some EMCSs, in addition to chondroid differentiation. In a reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay using paraffin-embedded specimens, EWS-CHN or TAF2N-CHN fusion gene transcripts characteristic of EMCS could be detected in 15 (83%) of the 18 cases: EWS-CHN type 1 in 11 cases, EWS-CHN type 2 in 1, and TAF2N-CHN in 3. Three fusion-negative cases included 2 conventional EMCSs and 1 considered a "cellular" variant of the tumor. None of 30 other soft tissue and bone tumors with myxoid or chondroid morphology that we examined contained these fusion genes. Thus, RT-PCR detection of EWS-CHN or TAF2N-CHN fusion gene using archival paraffin-embedded tissue is a feasible and useful ancillary technique for the diagnosis of EMCS.
11672609: !synaptophysin The development of inhibitory synaptic specializations in the mouse deep cerebellar nuclei. Using confocal laser scanning microscopy and immunohistochemistry, this study shows the complete morphological development of GABAergic synaptic contacts between Purkinje cells and neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei of the mouse. Firstly, presynaptic varicosities visualized with antibodies against synaptophysin, synapsin or glutamic acid decarboxylase, were detected when the postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors were not yet aggregated in the membrane but had a diffuse cytoplasmic distribution, which indicated a lead in maturation of presynaptic terminals over target cells. Secondly, receptor aggregates developed suddenly after an initial week of diffuse expression and these clusters matured into more numerous and larger synaptic aggregates. During this postsynaptic maturation, the presynaptic varicosities develop into numerous and well-defined spots. As soon as both pre- and postsynaptic clusters were detectable, these sites are always colocalized. We therefore consider the aggregation of postsynaptic receptor during development as a landmark of synapse formation. Our observations are consistent with a developmental model in which the presynaptic neuron differentiates its axon before the target neuron expresses the mature form of its receptors on the membrane. The presynaptic neuron can therefore instruct the target neuron about the distribution and aggregation of the postsynaptic receptors at the synapse.
11668250: !synaptophysin A case of endocrine ductal carcinoma of the breast. A case of endocrine ductal carcinoma of the breast is presented. A 65-year-old woman was admitted with complaints of left breast mass and pain. Physical examination, mammography, ultrasonography, and computed tomography showed a mass 5 cm in diameter in the left breast suggestive of breast cancer, and incisional biopsy confirmed ductal carcinoma. Auchincloss's mastectomy was performed. The tumor, 4.0 x 3.8 cm in size, consisted of a relatively uniform proliferation of tumor cells with round nuclei and abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm. Immunohistochemically, tumors cells were positive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase. Endocrine ductal carcinoma with invasion was diagnosed. No lymph node metastasis was observed, and estrogen and progesterone receptors were positive.
11666019: !synaptophysin Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor within the spinal epidural space. A case of an epidural spinal peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pPNET) in a 13-year-old girl is presented. The tumor was disseminated at the moment of diagnosis, thus only diagnostic oligobiopsy of the epidural mass was performed. Histologically the tumor was composed of small round blue cells. The neoplastic cells expressed MIC2 and features of neural differentiation on immunohistochemical staining (neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and NCAM positivity). Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis was performed for the final diagnosis and the translocation t(11;22)(q24;q12) was detected. The present case emphasizes the usefulness of FISH in differential diagnosis of tumors, especially when only routinely fixed material is available.
11641465: !synaptophysin Rapid increase in clusters of presynaptic proteins at onset of long-lasting potentiation. A change in the efficiency of synaptic communication between neurons is thought to underlie learning. Consistent with recent studies of such changes, we find that long-lasting potentiation of synaptic transmission between cultured hippocampal neurons is accompanied by an increase in the number of clusters of postsynaptic glutamate receptors containing the subunit GluR1. In addition, potentiation is accompanied by a rapid and long-lasting increase in the number of clusters of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin and the number of sites at which synaptophysin and GluR1 are colocalized. These results suggest that potentiation involves rapid coordinate changes in the distribution of proteins in the presynaptic neuron as well as the postsynaptic neuron.
11606074: !synaptophysin Predictors of outcome in small cell carcinoma of the cervix--a case series. The objective of this study was to determine whether clinicopathologic findings or the immunohistochemical presence of molecular markers are predictive of clinical outcome in patients with small cell carcinoma of the cervix (SCCC).
11602329: !synaptophysin Kainate receptors in primary afferents to the rat gracile nucleus. In a previous work, we demonstrated that under weak paraformaldehyde fixation, kainate receptors (KR) (GluR5/6/7) are expressed in primary afferent terminals in superficial dorsal horn. We extended our study to primary afferents to the gracile nucleus; immunostaining for GluR5/6/7 in weakly fixed sections was in puncta of variable size. In double-stained sections, the majority of immunostained puncta colocalized with synaptophysin. Because of their large size and relations with smaller puncta, single-stained for synaptophysin, these terminals were presumed to be of dorsal column primary afferents. This was confirmed by anterograde labeling with cholera toxin B and with electron microscopy, which showed that GluR5/6/7 was present in terminals with morphology of primary afferents. These observations demonstrate that expression of presynaptic KR is a general feature of primary afferents with different functional properties.
11598856: !synaptophysin Malignant teratoma of the thyroid with primitive neuroepithelial and mesenchymal sarcomatous components. A 15-year-old black girl had a near total resection of a malignant thyroid teratoma with bilateral nodal involvement and mediastinal extension. A predominant neuroepithelial pattern had ependymal rosettes and mitoses, stained for neuron-specific enolase, neuron-specific B tubulin, and synaptophysin. A malignant spindle cell component stained for smooth-muscle actin, muscle actin, and to a lesser extent S-100. Loose myxoid tissue resembled primitive cartilage. Epithelial membrane antigen and cytokeratin identified epithelial foci. Chromogranin A, MIC2, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and thyroid stimulating hormone receptor stains were negative. There was focal anaplasia. DNA ploidy by laser scanning cytometry was 1.2. The tumor from the left and right thyroid lobes exhibited trisomy 8, the right also had hyperdiploid cell lines. She was treated with aggressive combination chemotherapy and radiation. Presently there is no residual disease 16 months after diagnosis. Malignant thyroid teratoma is an aggressive tumor, with 15 of 27 reported patients dying 2 weeks to 3 years after diagnosis. Survivors have been treated with total or subtotal resection, combination chemotherapy with agents effective in the treatment of germ cell tumors as well as sarcomas, and radiation for either recurrent or residual disease. The heterologous elements, lacking MIC2 staining and t(11;22), support the diagnosis of malignant teratoma rather than a neuroepithelial tumor. Trisomy 8 is the first cytogenetic abnormality described in malignant thyroid teratoma. Therapy should be tailored to the management of all transformed histologies.
11598168: !synaptophysin Clinicopathologic and DNA cytometric analysis of carcinoid tumors of the thymus. Twelve cases of carcinoid tumors of the thymus were reviewed in terms of clinicopathologic, histochemical, and immunohistochemical features and DNA ploidy patterns. The collective consisted of nine male and three female patients, aged 34 to 74 years, of whom five (42%) had symptoms. Eleven patients underwent surgical resection, and one with systemic metastases was autopsied. In the 11 resected patients, tumors had invaded surrounding structures in four cases, and mediastinal lymph node metastases were detected in six. Recurrence occurred in two of the resected patients (18%), and the 5-year survival rate was 82%. Histologically, all tumors showed an organoid growth pattern with delicate fibrovascular stroma. In addition, three tumors had unusual morphologic features such as combined features of carcinoid tumor and thymoma and solid growth pattern with occasional large tumor cells. Mitotic counts ranged from 1 to 14 per 10 high-power fields with a mean count of 4.9. Central necrosis within solid nests was observed in nine tumors. Classification of this series using the WHO histologic classification system resulted in categorization of all 12 tumors as atypical carcinoids. All tumors were positive for Grimelius staining and for cytokeratin. Immunohistochemical staining documented the presence of moderately to strongly positive neuroendocrine markers such as neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neural cell adhesion molecule. No correlation between proliferative activity based on the Ki67 labeling index and prognosis or lymph node metastasis was found. Concerning DNA ploidy patterns, only one tumor with multiple lymph node metastases was considered to be aneuploid. In conclusion, although all of our cases were histologically classified as atypical carcinoid tumors of the thymus, most were diploid, and the patients enjoyed a relatively good prognosis.
11596484: !synaptophysin [Neuropathology of longstanding subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy (SMON): an autopsy case of SMON with duration of 28 years]. The present case, 78-years-old female, had been troubled with SMON during 28 years, and was suddenly died from cerebral hemorrhage. The neuropathology characteristic for SMON could not be revealed in the spinal cord on routine histological preparations. There were decreasing number of immunopositive granules in the nucleus gracilis of medulla oblongata for synaptophysin, and in the marginal zone of the lumbar dorsal horn for substance P. These findings showed the presence of tractus gracilis degeneration and the disappearance of nociceptive fibers from the dorsal roots, respectively. To elucidate the histopathological changes of the spinal cord in long standing cases with SMON, the 11 cases reported were reviewed. The mean duration from the onset to death was 22.8 years(16 to 33 years). The mean age was 76.3 years old(54 to 92), and the 10 cases were female. All cases showed sensory impairment of the lower extremities, while deep tendon reflex exaggerated was seen in 7 cases. There were nine cases involving dorsal funiculi degeneration of the spinal cord, in contrast the lateral funiculi alternation were noticed in only two cases. It was considered that the corticospinal tract alteration becomes undiscernible during the long course, although the dorsal funiculi degeneration remained.
11592854: !synaptophysin Potential role of endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor in long-term neuronal reorganization of the superior colliculus after bilateral visual deprivation. The role of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), the BDNF receptor (TrkB), and the glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) after neonatal, bilateral nerve deafferentiation during postnatal development was investigated in the rat superior colliculus (SC). BDNF and GAD67 mRNA expression were significantly increased in optic (Op) and intermediate gray (InG) layers at 5, 8, 15, and 21 days after birth, but not in adult animals. However, TrkB mRNA expression was not modified at any time tested. At 15 days, where changes in BDNF and GAD67 mRNAs were more evident, an upregulation of the NMDAR(1A) mRNA glutamate receptor in the Op and InG, a modification in the pattern of synaptic zinc in the superficial layers of SC, and an increased synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the Op was found. This indicates the existence of a synergic mechanism between BDNF and NMDA to determine refinement of connections after the loss of visual input in SC.
11590076: !synaptophysin Cellular neurothekeoma of the oral mucosa. Cellular neurothekeoma is an unusual benign neoplasm which, despite its name, is of uncertain origin. This report describes a cellular neurothekeoma of the cheek mucosa, the first at this site. The tumour presented in a 29-year-old man as a discrete mucosal thickening. Histology showed a generally well circumscribed, but unencapsulated, solid tumour which replaced the entire lamina propria and permeated between minor salivary glands and bundles of striated muscle in the submucosa. There was a sub-epithelial Grenz zone. The tumour was composed of nodules of pale, epithelioid cells separated by fascicles of spindle cells, with smaller strands and nests superficially. The nuclei were vesicular and, though mainly bland, occasionally atypical. The stroma was moderately infiltrated by mixed chronic inflammatory cells. Prominent nerves and blood vessels were seen at the periphery of the lesion, and neoplastic cells were noted within intact striated muscle fascicles. With immunohistochemistry, all the neoplastic cells strongly expressed NKI/C3, synaptophysin, neurone-specific enolase and vimentin, some expressed smooth muscle actin and PGP 9.5, but all were negative for S100, factor XIIIa, CD34, CD56, CD57, CD68, chromogranin A, desmin, epithelial membrane antigen and von Willebrand factor. The origin of the lesion is thus speculative. It was, however, completely excised and in 12 months there has been no recurrence.
11589423: !synaptophysin Synaptic pathology in prefrontal cortex is present only with severe dementia in Alzheimer disease. Synaptic pathology is proposed to be integral to the clinical expression of Alzheimer disease (AD). Most studies have assessed only the vesicle protein synaptophysin as a measure of synaptic integrity. The interrelationships of synaptophysin, other presynaptic proteins, the cholinergic system, and severity of dementia in AD remain unclear. We studied the presynaptic proteins synaptophysin, syntaxin and SNAP-25, along with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in prefrontal cortex (BA 46) samples from 18 subjects with AD and 16 controls. Mean values of presynaptic protein immunoreactivities were significantly reduced, by 21%-28%, and ChAT activity was reduced by 41% in the AD groups. Synaptic protein immunoreactivity and ChAT activity were correlated with Mini-Mental State Examination scores obtained 1 yr prior to death. When AD cases were subgrouped into mild/moderate and severe illness at time of death, all differences in presynaptic proteins and ChAT activity were significant between controls and severe cases. However, no significant differences were detected in BA 46 between controls and mild/moderate cases. Considerable synaptic reserve or plasticity remains in BA 46 until the late stages of AD. Synaptophysin and ChAT appear to be more vulnerable in severe AD than are syntaxin or SNAP-25.
11576753: !synaptophysin Synaptic pathology in the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia and mood disorders. A review and a Western blot study of synaptophysin, GAP-43 and the complexins. There are several reports of ultrastructural and protein changes affecting synapses in the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia. Altered cytoarchitecture has also been described in this region in schizophrenia as well as in mood disorders. In this paper we review the literature and present a new study investigating synaptic abnormalities in the anterior cingulate cortex (area 24) in the Stanley Foundation brain series. We used Western blotting to assess four synaptic proteins: synaptophysin, growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43), complexin I and complexin II, which inform about somewhat different aspects of the synaptic circuitry. Synaptophysin, complexin II and GAP-43 were reduced in bipolar disorder. The decreases correlated with the duration of illness and tended to be greater in subjects without a family history. Complexin II was also reduced in major depression. Complexin I and the housekeeping protein beta-actin did not differ between groups. None of the proteins changed significantly in schizophrenia. The results indicate the presence of a synaptic pathology in the anterior cingulate cortex in mood disorders, especially bipolar disorder. The abnormalities may contribute to the dysfunction of cingulate neural circuits. The loss of synaptophysin is suggestive of decreased synaptic density whilst the decrease in GAP-43 may denote impaired synaptic plasticity and the reduction of complexin II but not complexin I implies that the alterations particularly affect excitatory connections. The reductions may be progressive.
11567053: !synaptophysin Delayed inner ear maturation and neuronal loss in postnatal Igf-1-deficient mice. Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) has been shown to play a key role during embryonic and postnatal development of the CNS, but its effect on a sensory organ has not been studied in vivo. Therefore, we examined cochlear growth, differentiation, and maturation in Igf-1 gene knock-out mice at postnatal days 5 (P5), P8, and P20 by using stereological methods and immunohistochemistry. Mutant mice showed reduction in size of the cochlea and cochlear ganglion. An immature tectorial membrane and a significant decrease in the number and size of auditory neurons were also evident at P20. IGF-1-deficient cochlear neurons showed increased caspase-3-mediated apoptosis, along with aberrant expression of the early neural markers nestin and Islet 1/2. Cochlear ganglion and fibers innervating the sensory cells of the organ of Corti presented decreased levels of neurofilament and myelin P(0) in P20 mouse mutants. In addition, an abnormal synaptophysin expression in the somata of cochlear ganglion neurons and sensory hair cells suggested the persistence of an immature pattern of synapses distribution in the organ of Corti of these animals. These results demonstrate that lack of IGF-1 in mice severely affects postnatal survival, differentiation, and maturation of the cochlear ganglion cells and causes abnormal innervation of the sensory cells in the organ of Corti.
11557784: !synaptophysin Microtubule-associated protein-2: a new sensitive and specific marker for pulmonary carcinoid tumor and small cell carcinoma. Microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) are a major component of cytoskeleton family proteins associated with microtubule assembly. MAP-2 has been shown to be specifically expressed in neuronally differentiated cells. Pulmonary neuroendocrine carcinomas such as carcinoid tumors and small cell carcinomas are derived from neuroendocrine cells. We hypothesize that neuroendocrine cells may also express MAP-2, and therefore, MAP-2 may be used as a marker for pulmonary carcinomas of neuroendocrine differentiation. To investigate the utility of using MAP-2 expression to separate pulmonary neuroendocrine from non-neuroendocrine tumors, we examined the expression of MAP-2 immunohistochemically in 100 cases of pulmonary carcinomas. The immunoperoxidase method with antigen retrieval was used to characterize the expression of MAP-2, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase in 25 small cell carcinomas, 25 carcinoid tumors, 25 adenocarcinomas, and 25 squamous cell carcinomas. All tumors were lung primaries. All 25 cases of carcinoid tumors (100%) as well as 23 of 25 cases (92%) of small cell carcinomas were positive for MAP-2. Four of 25 cases (16%) of adenocarcinomas were positive for MAP-2 and synaptophysin. Among the 25 squamous carcinomas, 4 cases (16%) were positive for MAP-2, 2 cases (8%) were positive for synaptophysin, 11 cases (44%) were positive for neuron-specific enolase, and none was positive for chromogranin. In conclusion, MAP-2 is a new sensitive and specific marker for the pulmonary tumors of neuroendocrine differentiation. We recommend that MAP-2 be added to immunohistochemical panels to separate non-neuroendocrine from neuroendocrine lung tumors.
11551406: !synaptophysin Use of neuroendocrine markers, p53, and HER2 to predict response to chemotherapy in patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer: a Cancer and Leukemia Group B study. Several studies have suggested that non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients whose tumors have neuroendocrine (NE) features may be more responsive to chemotherapy. In addition, increased expression of p53 and HER2 may confer relative chemotherapy resistance and shortened survival. The Cancer and Leukemia Group B performed a series of studies involving sequential chemotherapy followed by radiation for patients with unresectable stage III NSCLC. The objectives of this study were to analyze pathological specimens using immunohistochemistry for NE markers, p53 and HER2 to determine if there was a correlation between marker expression and response or survival. Of 160 eligible patients, 28 (18%) were not evaluable because of inadequate material. The percentage of specimens positive for markers was as follows: neuron-specific enolase 38%, Leu-7 2%, chromogranin A 0%, synaptophysin 5%, > or =2+NE markers 3%, p53 61%, and HER2 65%. There was no statistically significant correlation between any individual marker and response to induction chemotherapy or response to combined chemotherapy/radiation except for synaptophysin. Six of 6 (100%) synaptophysin positive tumors responded by the completion of all therapy compared with 69/125 (55%) synaptophysin negative tumors (P=0.04). None of the individual markers had a significant effect on survival in univariate analysis. Neuron-specific enolase was marginally significant in multivariate analysis (P=0.08). In conclusion, this study did not demonstrate that expression of NE markers, p53 and HER2 were predictive of response to chemotherapy, combined chemotherapy/radiation or for survival in this group of patients with stage III NSCLC. Future studies must employ either different markers or be performed on more adequate surgical specimens.
11545718: !synaptophysin Visualizing postendocytic traffic of synaptic vesicles at hippocampal synapses. We have investigated mechanisms in postendocytic processing of synaptic vesicles at hippocampal synapses, using synaptobrevin/vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) tagged with variants of the green fluorescent protein. Following exocytosis, VAMP is retrieved at synaptic and adjoining axonal regions. Retrieved VAMP-containing vesicles return to synaptic vesicle clusters at a rate slower than endocytosis. Vesicles containing a different protein, synaptophysin, recluster at a similar rate, suggesting common vesicular intermediates for the two proteins. Activity prolongs the time taken by endocytosed vesicles to return to synapses. Exogenous calcium buffers slow endocytosis but have no additional effect on the time course of reclustering. In contrast, the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine does not affect endocytosis but slows reclustering. Finally, since VAMP can move freely on surface membranes, sustained synaptic activity leads to mixing of this vesicular component between adjacent synapses.
11536440: !synaptophysin Aspiration cytopathology of middle-ear neuroendocrine carcinoma. Primary neuroendocrine carcinoma (carcinoid tumor) is among the rarest of middle-ear (ME) neoplasms, with only a rare case of metastatic disease having been reported. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) was performed in a 51-yr-old male with a two-decade history of multiple local recurrences from a right middle-ear neoplasm, with the most recent surgical excision 2 yr ago. He currently presented with an enlarged right parotid gland, and a right infratemporal mass. Aspirate smears showed a monotonous population of cytologically bland cells with a small to moderate amount of pale granular cytoplasm, round to oval nuclei, inconspicuous nucleoli, and finely granular chromatin. Rare, isolated large cells were occasionally seen. Immunohistochemical staining of the cell block made from the aspirated material showed strong cytoplasmic positivity for chromogranin, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), serotonin, and cytokeratin cocktail, and negative staining for S100 protein. Review of tissue slides from the patient's prior middle-ear tumor showed an identical immunoprofile and morphology, and led to a revision of the original diagnosis of paraganglioma. Middle-ear neuroendocrine carcinoma has a low but definite metastatic potential, which can be diagnosed using FNAB if ancillary immunohistochemical studies are available.
11535297: !synaptophysin Increase in number of functional release sites by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in cultured neurons isolated from hippocampal dentate gyrus. The enhancement of synaptic exocytosis is one form of long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission. As possible mechanisms underlying this enhancement, increases in the release probability and/or the number of release sites are suggested. To obtain direct evidence for the increase in the number of functional release sites induced by protein kinase A (PKA) cascade, we attempted to visualize functional release sites using styryl dyes, FM4-64 and FM1-43, and investigated the effects of PKA on the release sites. A PKA activator FSK increased the number of active release sites by approximately 20-30%. A direct PKA activator, Sp-cAMPS, showed the same effect, which was blocked by a PKA inhibitor, KT5720, suggesting that this effect was mediated by PKA. This PKA-dependent increase in the number of release sites requires Ca(2+) in the bath solution, and Sr(2+) can not be a substitute for Ca(2+). Since the number of functional release sites is approximately half the total number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive sites, the PKA dependent activation of silent release sites of DG neuron terminals is suggested.
11493163: !synaptophysin Contribution of asymmetric synapse loss to lateralizing clinical deficits in frontotemporal dementias. Synapse loss has been found to be the major correlate of cognitive decline in Alzheimer disease (AD), and prefrontal synapse loss has been found in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD).
11524474: !synaptophysin Cognitive impairment in sporadic ALS: a pathologic continuum underlying a multisystem disorder. Traditionally considered a motor neuron-selective disorder, the clinical manifestations of ALS can include a frontotemporal dementia. Although the pathologic substrate of cognitive impairment remains to be defined, the presence of ubiquitin-immunoreactive (Ub+) intraneuronal inclusions in cortical regions has been suggested to constitute a pathologic marker of this process.
11517975: !synaptophysin A case of undifferentiated glioma in a 70-year-old woman. The present case involved a 70-year-old woman who was diagnosed with a right cerebral hemorrhage. Excisional surgery of the hematoma was performed. Grossly, a whitish, solid tumor (1 x 1 x 0.8 cm in size) was recognized in the hematoma. Histologically, the tumor was composed of large, polygonal cells and small undifferentiated cells in a jumbled architectural arrangement with a cartilage component. The large, polygonal cell component was conspicuous and somewhat rhabdoid in appearance and appeared to be an astrocytic tumor showing glial differentiation. The small, undifferentiated cell component resembled tumor cells of a primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET). Clinical follow-up of the patient for 2 months after the first operation revealed recurrence with rapid growth. A second operation was performed, but the patient died 8 months after the first operation (2 months after the second). Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells suggesting glial differentiation were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S-100, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and vimentin. PNET-like components in the primary tumor were positive for NSE, GFAP, and S-100, and weakly positive for vimentin and synaptophysin. Each tumor cell was negative for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), keratin, desmin, actin, myoglobin, neurofilament (NF), and MIC2 protein. The recurrent tumor revealed predominantly PNET-like components; however, only a few tumor cells were positive for GFAP. This appearance suggested that this brain tumor might originate from a common multipotential stem cell. Considering its histopathological and immunohistochemical characteristics, the primary tumor was finally regarded as an undifferentiated glioma with dedifferentiation of the glial component in the recurrent tumor.
11517248: !synaptophysin Chronic blockade of glutamate receptors enhances presynaptic release and downregulates the interaction between synaptophysin-synaptobrevin-vesicle-associated membrane protein 2. During development of neuronal circuits, presynaptic and postsynaptic functions are adjusted in concert, to optimize interneuronal signaling. We have investigated whether activation of glutamate receptors affects presynaptic function during synapse formation, when constitutive synaptic vesicle recycling is downregulated. Using primary cultures of hippocampal neurons as a model system, we have found that chronic exposure to both NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptor blockers during synaptogenesis produces an increase in miniature EPSC (mEPSC) frequency, with no significant changes in mEPSC amplitude or in the number of synapses. Enhanced synaptic vesicle recycling, selectively in glutamatergic nerve terminals, was confirmed by the increased uptake of antibodies directed against the lumenal domain of synaptotagmin. No increased uptake was detected in neuronal cultures grown in the chronic presence of TTX, speaking against an indirect effect caused by decreased electrical activity. Enhanced mEPSC frequency correlated with a reduction of synaptophysin-synaptobrevin-vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP2) complexes detectable by immunoprecipitation. Intracellular perfusion with a peptide that inhibits the binding of synaptophysin to synaptobrevin-VAMP2 induced a remarkable increase of mEPSC frequency in control but not in glutamate receptor blocker-treated neurons. These findings suggest that activation of glutamate receptors plays a role in the downregulation of the basal rate of synaptic vesicle recycling that accompanies synapse formation. They also suggest that one of the mechanisms through which this downregulation is achieved is an increased interaction of synaptophysin with synaptobrevin-VAMP2.
11515747: !synaptophysin Chronic elevation of amyloid precursor protein in the neocortex or hippocampus of marmosets with selective cholinergic lesions. In vitro studies have consistently demonstrated a link between cholinergic neurotransmission and amyloid precursor protein metabolism, although few studies have examined such a relationship in vivo and none have been conducted in primate species. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that a reduction in cholinergic activity in neocortical and hippocampal areas consequent upon destruction of ascending cholinergic projections may lead to long-term changes in levels of amyloid precursor protein in these target areas in a primate species. The status of three synaptic proteins associated with neurotransmitter release, synaptophysin, syntaxin and SNAP-25, was also been examined. Selective immunolesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic projections led to increases in amyloid precursor protein-like immunoreactivity in hippocampus and cortex, measured 8 months postlesion. Furthermore, reductions in cortical and hippocampal SNAP-25, but not syntaxin or synaptophysin, immunoreactivity were observed. These results imply that the reduced cholinergic activity characteristic of Alzheimer's disease may contribute to the continuing emergence of neuropathology in addition to the well-known association with cognitive dysfunction.
11510007: !synaptophysin Combined large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma and spindle cell carcinoma of the lung. We report a unique case of a combined pulmonary large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma and spindle-cell carcinoma. The patient was a 54-year-old female smoker who presented with a 4-month history of increased left-sided chest pain and exertional dyspnea. The left upper lobectomy specimen revealed an 8.0-cm mass with central necrosis. Microscopically, the epithelial areas were composed of well-defined nests of large cells with peripheral palisading expressing low-molecular-weight keratin, synaptophysin, chromogranin, and neuron-specific enolase. The spindle-cell component consisted of pleomorphic cells arranged in fibrosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma-like patterns. These spindle cells were positive for low-molecular-weight keratin and vimentin with focal expression of CD68 and muscle-specific actin. Electron microscopy in the spindle-cell areas showed cell junctions and numerous tonofilaments, indicative of epithelial differentiation. The tumor behaved aggressively and the patient died with extensive metastases 4 months after surgery. The combination of neuroendocrine malignancies and spindle-cell carcinomas appears to be uncommon in the lung. Previous reports have described this association in single case reports of anaplastic small-cell carcinoma and atypical carcinoid, but not in large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma.
11508360: !synaptophysin The development of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the human sympathetic ganglia. Using an indirect immunohistochemical method, synaptophysin immunoreactivity (SYN-IR) has been studied in cryostat sections of stellate and thoracic ganglia in human fetuses, neonates, infants and adults. In the course of development, a progressive increase in SYN-IR in axonal terminals and around nerve cells was demonstrated. In contrast, large clusters of small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells and paraganglionic cells increased in number in fetuses and premature neonates at 24-25 weeks. Such SIF cell clusters varied in form and often occurred at pole or subcapsular areas of sympathetic ganglia close to blood vessels or paraganglia. With increasing gestational age and during infancy, a decrease in sizes of SIF cell groups and paraganglionic cells as well as changes in their distribution were found. The results show that the amount and distribution of SYN-IR is temporally related to the maturation and functional activity of human sympathetic ganglia neurons. It was suggested that numerous SIF cells and paraganglia in human prenatal sympathetic ganglia were both indicative of incomplete cell migration and an important source of regulation of ganglionic microcirculation under the conditions of relative hypoxia and immature nervous regulation.
11505281: !synaptophysin High survival rate of 6 cases of pulmonary large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma formerly classified as small cell carcinoma. In the revised WHO classification of lung cancer, published in 1999, large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) was employed as a new histological entity. LCNEC is generally considered a high-grade malignant lung cancer, and appropriate treatment remains to be determined. Before its new classification, LCNEC had long been classified into several entities. Advancing the review of previous cases in Nippon Medical School Hospital, we noticed that some LCNEC patients were formally diagnosed as having small cell lung cancer (SCLC), and they showed long-term survival.
11500791: !synaptophysin Breast cancer with choriocarcinomatous and neuroendocrine features. Breast cancer may express the presence of b-human chorionic gonadotrophin in 12% to 18% of cases, using immunohistochemical reactions. Usually the tumors will show positivity in a few scattered cells. Breast cancer with choriocarcinomatous features, as reported by Saigo and Rosen, is a distinct variant of breast cancer. We report a case of breast cancer with choriocarcinomatous and neuroendocrine features.
11494358: !synaptophysin Movement of endoplasmic reticulum in the living axon is distinct from other membranous vesicles in its rate, form, and sensitivity to microtubule inhibitors. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the major membranous component present throughout the axon. Although other membranous structures such as synaptic vesicles are known to move via fast axonal transport, the dynamics of ER in the axon still remains unknown. To study the dynamics of ER in the axon, we have directly visualized the movement of two ER-specific membrane proteins, the sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum calcium-ATPase and the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor, both of which were tagged with green fluorescence protein (GFP) and expressed in cultured chick dorsal root ganglion neurons. In contrast to GFP-tagged synaptophysin that moved as vesicles at 1 microm/sec predominantly in the anterograde direction in the typical style of fast axonal transport, the two ER proteins did not move in a discrete vesicular form. Their movement determined by the fluorescence recovery after photobleaching technique was bi-directional, 10-fold slower (approximately 0.1 microm/sec), and temperature-sensitive. The rate of movement of ER was also sensitive to low doses of vinblastine and nocodazole that did not affect the rate of synaptophysin-GFP, further suggesting that it is also distinct from the well-documented movement of membranous vesicles in its relation with microtubules.
11494018: !synaptophysin Vaginal Leiomyoma with Heterologous Paragangliomatous Elements. A vaginal leiomyoma with heterologous paragangliomatous elements is reported. The patient was a 62-year-old woman who presented with uterovaginal prolapse and an asymptomatic vaginal mass that had been present for many years. Histology of the excised mass showed a leiomyoma in a submucosal location, with irregularly shaped islands of chief cells scattered throughout the lesion. These cells were arranged in nests and were surrounded by S100 protein-positive sustentacular cells. The chief cells showed immunoreactivity with chromogranin, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase. Although various heterologous elements are commonly encountered within uterine leiomyomata, such elements have not been described within vaginal leiomyomata. Furthermore, the occurrence of paragangliomatous tissue within leiomyomata has not been reported to date. Int J Surg Pathol 8(4):359-365, 2000
11494009: !synaptophysin Hyalinized Uterine Mesenchymal Neoplasms with HMB-45-Positive Epithelioid Cells: Epithelioid Leiomyomas or Angiomyolipomas? Report of Four Cases. We present 4 cases of uterine mesenchymal tumors that were located mostly in the myometrium in middle-aged women. Grossly the tumors vaguely resembled conventional leiomyomas. All tumors were extremely hyalinized. The tumor cells were remarkable because of their large size and epithelioid shape. They occurred singly or more often in variously sized clusters with pericellular clear spaces looking like a halo. The extracellular matrix often formed lacunae around the neoplastic cells. The lacunar type of growth was somewhat reminiscent of immature cartilage. In some places the cells lined up in vague cord-like structures. The epithelioid cells often grew within vessel walls and subendothelially, simulating angioinvasion. In 2 cases there were periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)-positive, needle-shaped crystalloids in the cytoplasm of the tumor cells. No atypias and no mitoses were found in any of the 4 tumors. Mucicarmine stain was negative in all cases. Immunohistochemically the tumor cells were negative for cytokeratins, synaptophysin, chromogranin, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) S-100 protein, and inhibin. They were instead strongly positive for smooth muscle actin, desmin and HMB-45. All patients are disease free after a 1-4-year follow-up. Int J Surg Pathol 8(4):323-328, 2000
11493965: !synaptophysin Epithelial Phenotype in Ewing's Sarcoma/Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor. Neural differentiation is an integral component of Ewing's sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET), which exhibits a continuous spectrum from minimal to prominent neural phenotype. Differentiation of Ewing's sarcomas/PNETs along other lineages or the expression of an epithelial phenotype is less common and-if present-may cause diagnostic difficulties. In this study we evaluated the frequency of epithelial differentiation in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissues of 33 (22 primary and 11 metastatic) Ewing's sarcomas/PNETs by using an immunohistochemical assay with several antikeratin antibodies. Focal positivity for low- or high-molecular-weight keratins was documented in 18% of the cases, and diffuse coexpression of low- and high-molecular-weight keratins was observed in two cases. Expression of the MIC-2 gene product was documented in 94% of the tumors. The primitive neural phenotype as revealed by expression of either neuron-specific enolase or synaptophysin was observed in 30% of the cases, but coexpression of both neural markers was present in only 15% of the tumors. This study documents that, in addition to primitive neural differentiation, Ewing's sarcomas/PNETs frequently exhibit focal positivity for keratins, with rare strong diffuse coexpression of both low- and high-molecular-weight keratins. The findings indicate that the expression of an epithelial phenotype, at least in a focal fashion, is a relatively frequent finding in otherwise typical Ewing's sarcomas/PNETs. Int J Surg Pathol 8(1):59-65, 2000
11493026: !synaptophysin Impaired neuronal plasticity in transgenic mice expressing human apolipoprotein E4 compared to E3 in a model of entorhinal cortex lesion. The apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon 4 allele is a major risk factor for late-onset familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is associated with a poor outcome after brain injury. Each apoE isoform is suggested to have differential effects on neuronal repair mechanisms within the CNS. In the present study, APOE genotype influence on the immediate response to injury and subsequent repair process was examined in a line of transgenic APOE mice possessing human APOE gene insertions (epsilon 3 and epsilon 4). Quantification of synaptophysin and GAP-43 immunoreactivity was used to measure the extent of degeneration and regeneration after entorhinal cortex lesion (ECL). Progressive neurodegenerative decline occurred in the ipsilateral dentate gyrus until day 28 post-ECL which was more severe in APOE epsilon 3 mice compared to APOE epsilon 4 mice. By day 90 post-ECL compensatory sprouting and reactive synaptogenesis had taken place in the dentate gyrus of APOE epsilon 3 mice such that GAP-43 and synaptophysin immunoreactivity had returned to prelesion levels. In contrast, APOE epsilon 4 mice displayed significant deficits in synaptophysin and GAP-43 immunostaining compared to the APOE epsilon 3 mice (P < 0.05). Expansion of the inner molecular layer (IML) was used as a measure of the sprouting index from the commissural-associational pathway and by day 90 post-ECL the IML width in APOE epsilon 3 mice had increased by 45% but only 20% in APOE epsilon 4 mice (P < 0.0001). ApoE immunoreactivity was increased within the neuropil and glia to the same extent in APOE epsilon 3 and APOE epsilon 4 mice post-ECL. There was no significant difference in the deposition and clearance of degeneration products between APOE epsilon 3 and epsilon 4 mice post-ECL. These results indicate that neuronal plasticity is impaired in transgenic mice possessing human APOE epsilon 4 alleles compared to APOE epsilon 3. These isoform-specific differences in plasticity may relate to the severity of AD and poor, long-term recovery after head injury in APOE epsilon 4 individuals.
11487635: !synaptophysin Regulation of dendritic spine motility in cultured hippocampal neurons. Regulation of dendritic spine motility was studied in dissociated cultures of the rat and mouse hippocampus, using green fluorescent protein-labeled neurons or neurons loaded with the calcium-sensitive dye Oregon Green-1. Cells were time-lapse-photographed on a confocal laser-scanning microscope at high resolution to detect movements as well as spontaneous fluctuations of intracellular calcium concentrations in their dendritic spines. Active presynaptic terminals attached to the spines were labeled with FM4-64, which marks a subset of synaptophysin-labeled terminals. Dendritic spines were highly motile in young, 4- to 7-d-old cells. At this age, neurons had little spontaneous calcium fluctuation or FM4-64 labeling. Within 2-3 weeks in culture, dendritic spines were much less motile, they were associated with active presynaptic terminals, and they expressed high rates of spontaneous calcium fluctuations. Irrespective of age, and even on the same dendrite, there was an inverse relationship between spine motility and presence of FM4-64-labeled terminals in contact with the imaged spines. Spine motility was blocked by latrunculin, which prevents actin polymerization, and was disinhibited by blockade of action potential discharges with tetrodotoxin. It is proposed that an active presynaptic terminal restricts motility of dendritic spines.
11487634: !synaptophysin Spine formation and correlated assembly of presynaptic and postsynaptic molecules. Hippocampal pyramidal neurons in culture showed a developmental shift in synapse distribution from dendritic shafts to spines. Using dual wavelength time-lapse fluorescence microscopy, we analyzed the morphogenesis of three synaptic components: dendritic spines, postsynaptic densities (PSDs), and presynaptic vesicles. Local assembly of a major PSD protein, PSD-95, was spatially and temporally correlated with spine morphogenesis. Clustering of postsynaptic PSD-95 and that of a predominant synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, were also correlated. In contrast, pre-existing PSD-95 clusters in dendritic shafts were preferentially eliminated without promoting spine formation. The local and stepwise assembly of synaptic components at the contact sites between dendritic protrusions and axons explains the developmental remodeling of excitatory synapses.
11484825: !synaptophysin Rosetted glioneuronal tumor: a case with proliferating neuronal nodules. Glioneuronal tumors with neuropil-like islands (rosetted glioneuronal tumors) were recently reported as a novel brain tumor entity with characteristic clinicopathological features (Am J Surg Pathol 23: 502, 1999). Here we describe the clinical, histological and genetic features of another case arising in the parietal lobe of a 43-year-old man suffering from focal motor epilepsy. Histologically, nodules of small neuronal tumor cells immunoreactive for synaptophysin and NeuN were embedded within a diffuse astrocytoma. Remarkably, highest proliferative activity was observed within the neuronal nodules. Comparative genomic hybridization revealed a gain of chromosome 7q and a loss on chromosome 9p.
11483592: !synaptophysin Protein synthesis-dependent and -independent regulation of hippocampal synapses by brain-derived neurotrophic factor. A fundamental difference between short-term and long-term forms of synaptic plasticity is the dependence on transcription and translation of new genes. Using organotypic cultures of hippocampal slices, we have investigated whether the modulation of synapses by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) also requires protein synthesis. Long-term treatment of hippocampal slice cultures with BDNF increased the number of docked vesicles, but not that of reserve pool vesicles, at CA1 excitatory synapses. BDNF also increased the levels of the vesicle proteins synaptophysin, synaptobrevin, and synaptotagmin, without affecting the presynaptic membrane proteins syntaxin and SNAP-25, or the vesicle-binding protein synapsin-I. The increase in synaptophysin and synaptobrevin expression was moderate (2-fold) and occurred within 6 h after BDNF application. In contrast, synaptotagmin expression took 24 h to reach maximum levels (5-fold). The delayed increase in synaptotagmin was blocked by protein synthesis inhibitors, while the early increase in synaptophysin and synaptobrevin was not. Moreover, the BDNF-induced increase of synaptotagmin was blocked by inhibiting the cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) pathway. However, BDNF did not activate PKA, and application of a PKA activator did not mimic the BDNF effect. Taken together, these results suggest a novel, protein synthesis-dependent form of BDNF modulation that requires cAMP gating.
11483314: !synaptophysin Cerebellar synaptic protein expression in schizophrenia. A cortico-subcortico-cerebellar neural circuit has been postulated to be important in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. This study investigated whether there are synaptic changes in the cerebellum to accompany its putative involvement in the disorder. We measured the expression of three synaptic proteins (synaptophysin, complexin I and complexin II) in the cerebellar cortex of 16 subjects with schizophrenia and 16 controls using in situ hybridisation histochemistry and immunoautoradiography. Complexin I and II are expressed predominantly by inhibitory and excitatory neurones respectively. In schizophrenia, synaptophysin mRNA was decreased, as was complexin II and its mRNA. Complexin I mRNA and protein levels were unaltered. Expression of the mRNAs in the rat cerebellum was unaffected by 2 weeks administration of antipsychotic drugs (haloperidol, chlorpromazine, risperidone, olanzapine or clozapine). We conclude that there is synaptic pathology in the cerebellum in schizophrenia. By disrupting neural circuits, the alterations may contribute to the cerebellar dysfunction thought to occur in the disorder.
11481524: !synaptophysin Median raphe cyst of the penis: a report of two cases with immunohistochemical investigation. Penile median raphe cysts are uncommon benign lesions occurring predominantly in the ventral aspect of the glans penis of young men. We observed two cases: those of a 67-year-old patient and a 22-year-old patient. The epithelial lining of the cysts was composed of pluristratified small cells that focally showed rows of columnar cells above the inner surface as well as a monolayered mucinous columnar epithelium. A columnar cell lining predominated in the younger patient. The cytokeratin (CK) immunostaining pattern of the two cysts (CK7(+++), CK13(+++), CK20(-), CAM 5.2(+)) supports the interpretation of a columnar mucinous epithelium undergoing immature urothelial metaplasia. Carcinoembryonic antigen immunostaining positivity of the columnar cells is probably related to the dysembryogenetic cloacal nature of the cysts. Neuroendocrine differentiation of sparse cells interspersed in the pluristratified epithelium was documented by immunohistochemical staining for chromogranin and synaptophysin. Cilia were not identified in the columnar cells by light microscopy or by antidynein immunohistochemistry.
11472886: !synaptophysin Evidence for targeted vesicular glutamate exocytosis in osteoblasts. Regulated intercellular signaling is essential for the maintenance of bone mass. In recent work we described how osteoblasts and osteoclasts express functional receptors for the excitatory amino acid, glutamate, indicating that a signaling pathway analogous to synaptic neurotransmission exists in bone. Here, we show that osteoblasts also express the essential molecular framework for regulated glutamate exocytosis to occur as is present in presynaptic neurons. A combination of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and northern and western blotting is used to show expression of the target membrane-SNARE (soluble NSF attachment protein receptor), proteins SNAP-25 and syntaxin 4 and the vesicular-SNARE protein VAMP (synaptobrevin), the minimum molecular requirements for core exocytotic complex formation. Immunofluorescent localizations reveal peripheral SNAP-25 expression on osteoblastic cells, particularly at intercellular contact sites, colocalizing with immunoreactive glutamate and the synaptic vesicle-specific protein, synapsin I. We also identify multiple accessory proteins associated with vesicle trafficking, including munc18, rSec8, DOC2, syntaxin 6, and synaptophysin, which have varied roles in regulated glutamate exocytosis. mRNA for the putative Ca(2+)-dependent regulators of vesicle recycling activity, synaptotagmin I (specialized for fast Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis as seen in synaptic neurotransmission), and the GTP-binding protein Rab3A are also identified by northern blot analysis. Finally, we demonstrate that osteoblastic cells actively release glutamate in a differentiation-dependent manner. These data provide compelling evidence that osteoblasts are able to direct glutamate release by regulated vesicular exocytosis, mimicking presynaptic glutamatergic neurons, showing that a process with striking similarity to synaptic neurotransmission occurs in bone.
11470382: !synaptophysin Synaptic development in semi-dissociated cultures of rat retina. Cultured neurons provide a simpler and more accessible environment to study the synaptic physiology. However, it is not clear if development of synapses in culture is similar to that in the in vivo condition. We studied the developmental sequence and morphological differentiation of chemical synapses in semi-dissociated rat retinal cultures that consisted of dissociated neurons as well as undissociated retinal aggregates. Synapses were quantified by synaptophysin immunoreactive puncta. During second week of in vitro development the average number of chemical synapses on the cell body decreased while that on the neurites increased significantly. Conventional synapses appeared both in aggregate and in dissociated neurons, with the developmental profile similar to that reported for in vivo retina. In contrast, the development of ribbon synapses was adversely affected by the in vitro microenvironment as suggested by following observations. The ribbon synapses were more frequently found in aggregate than in dissociated neurons, and were not associated with dyadic or triadic synaptic arrangement. The photoreceptor ribbons did not contact a postsynaptic process while bipolar ribbons made single (monadic) synapses. Further, photoreceptor ribbons in dissociated neurons were late to form and took more time to mature as compared to those in the aggregate cultures. Most of the rod bipolar cells, identified by their immunoreactivity to protein kinase C (PKC), had three or more neurites. Unlike in the in vivo retina, the dissociated rod bipolar cells did not show any PKC immunoreactive varicosities, suggesting that they failed to develop a well-differentiated synaptic terminal. Interestingly, we did not find any parvalbumin positive AII amacrine cells that are normally postsynaptic to rod bipolar cells. These results show that the conventional synapses of retina, which are similar to chemical synapses in other parts of the brain, develop normally both in aggregate and dissociated neurons. However, the highly specialized ribbon synapses have more stringent developmental requirements, and their normal development may require the presence of postsynaptic neurons in their close vicinity.
11467486: !synaptophysin Spontaneous complex pheochromocytoma in a Fischer 344 rat. A spontaneous complex pheochromocytoma was diagnosed in the adrenal gland of an aged female Fischer 344 rat. This expansile neoplasm consisted of pheochromocytoma and areas of ganglioneuroma. The supporting stroma of both neoplastic components contained spindle-shaped cells, which also formed large fascicles. Immunohistochemically, pheochromocytoma cells stained for synaptophysin and chromogranin, scattered ganglioneuroma cells stained for neurofilament protein, and the spindle-shaped stromal cells were positive for S-100 protein. Special stains demonstrated Nissl substance in the ganglioneuroma cells and nerve fibers in the fascicles.
11467480: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical evaluation of a malignant phecochromocytoma in a wolfdog. A malignant pheochromocytoma with multiple metastases was diagnosed in a 7-year-old male wolfdog that resulted from a cross between an eastern timber wolf (Canis lupus lycaon) and an Alaskan malamute. A yellowish white neoplastic mass approximately 10 cm diameter was found in the right adrenal gland. The neoplasm penetrated through the wall of the caudal vena cava. A diagnosis of pheochromocytoma was established by histopathologic and immunohistochemical procedures. Immunohistochemically, the neoplastic cells expressed chromogranin A, substance P, synaptophysin, Leu-7, protein gene product 9.5, methionine-enkephalin, S100 protein, and galanin. Multiple metastatic tumors were found in the kidneys, spleen, lungs, heart, and liver.
11465477: !synaptophysin Spindle cell carcinoids of the lung with paraganglioid features: a reappraisal of their histogenetic origin from paraganglia using immunohistochemical and electronmicroscopic techniques. Five cases of spindle cell carcinoids of the lung were analyzed by immunohistochemical and ultrastructural technique. They were found to be biphasic tumors composed of the major component of neuroendocrine cells (chief cells) and a minor component of dendritic cells (supporting cells). The chief cells displayed positivity for neuroendocrine phenotypic antigenic markers: neuron specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin A, and synaptophysin. They contained varying numbers of dense-core granules by electron microscopy. In addition, the chief cells expressed cytoplasmic positivity for cytokeratins. The supporting cells were dendritic in appearance and displayed strong positivity for S-100 protein in all cases. Glial fibrillary acidic protein was positive in two cases. On electron microscopy, the supporting cells were agranular and found along the external lamina surrounding the nests of tumor cells. In two cases, rare ganglion cell-like cells were present. The histomorphologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features were contrastingly different from the classical pulmonary carcinoid and rather resembled gangliocytic paragangliomas arising from small intestine and spine. It is proposed that pulmonary carcinoids with biphasic features are better designated as gangliocytic paragangliomas of the lung rather than paraganglioid carcinoids.
11456404: !synaptophysin A case of hemorrhagic gallbladder paraganglioma causing acute cholecystitis. Gallbladder paraganglioma is a very rare tumor and so far only a few cases have been reported. Most of these were asymptomatic and were found incidentally during operation. Recently, we experienced a gallbladder paraganglioma that gave rise to hemorrhage, which in turn caused acute cholecystitis. Our case involved a 45 year-old female patient complaining of an intermittent right upper abdominal pain. After a preoperative evaluation, cholecystectomy and lymphadenectomy were performed under the impression of gallbladder cancer with acute cholecystitis. Postoperative pathologic examination revealed a hemorrhagic gallbladder paraganglioma accompanied by acute cholecystitis. Immunohistochemical staining of the chief cells for neuron specific enolase, chromogranin and synaptophysin were positive. Sustentacular cells also stained positively for S100 protein.
11455720: !synaptophysin Large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the uterine cervix--a clinicopathological study of five cases. The present study describes 5 cases of large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) of the uterine cervix, evaluating their clinical features and pathological profiles.
11455006: !synaptophysin Mixed conventional and desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma: an autopsied case with 6-year follow-up. We describe a case of desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma (DIG) arising in the ventral diencephalon of a 3-1/2-month-old boy. On biopsy, the tumor featured a desmoplastic, S-100 protein and GFAP immunoreactive stromal element, as well as a variable spectrum of ganglion cells. Electron microscopy demonstrated astrocytes, and morphologically fibroblasts, as well as neurons containing 120-nm dense core granules. In addition, tubular structures composed of tightly apposed cells with features of astrocytes and of Schwann-like cells were also noted. Devoid of fibroblasts, the tubular structures were surrounded by a single basal lamina. At autopsy 6 years later, the multinodular, cystic mass had replaced the diencephalon, extended into both temporal lobes as well as the optic nerves, and showed marked leptomeningeal involvement. Microscopically, superficial portions of the tumor consisted of typical DIG, whereas deep, nondesmoplastic portions exhibited pattern variation ranging from pilocytic astrocytoma to ganglioglioma and gangliocytoma. There was also a minor element of small, 'primitive-appearing' neuroepithelial cells. Dysplastic ganglion cells variously reactive for neurofilament protein and synaptophysin were present throughout the tumor. Our study not only confirms DIG as a variant of ganglioglioma, one capable of slow growth, infiltration, and fatal progression but suggests that its differentiating potential includes elements of both the central and peripheral nervous systems. If so, their derivation may be from multipotential cells of the neural plate.
11454997: !synaptophysin Proximal-type epithelioid sarcoma: a clinicopathologic study of 20 cases. We studied the clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical features of 20 cases of proximal-type epithelioid sarcoma to identify prognostic factors. The 20 patients ranged in age from 13 to 80 years (mean, 40 y); 12 patients were male and 8 were female. The tumors presented as deep soft-tissue or subcutaneous masses on the inguinal region in five, the thigh in four, the vulva in three, the axilla in three, and one each in the flank, chest wall, back, hip and perineum. The tumors ranged from 2 to 16 cm at their greatest diameter (mean: 7.8 cm). Histologically, 12 tumors (60%) were classified as the large-cell subtype, characterized by sheets of large cells with prominent nucleoli resembling poorly differentiated carcinoma, and a frequent rhabdoid phenotype, six (30%) were classified as the conventional subtype, and two (10%) as the angiomatoid subtype. The numbers of tumors exhibiting immunoreactivity for various markers were: vimentin (20 cytokeratin (20 [100%]); epithelial membrane antigen (17 [85%]); CD34 (9 [45%]); CD99 (5 [25%]); muscle markers, either desmin or alpha-smooth muscle actin (3 [15%]), other markers such as S-100 protein, neurofilament, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and CD56 (12 [60%]); and p53 (16 [80%]). Fourteen lesions (70%) exhibited an MIB-1 index of 30% or more and, by a system of histologic grading using the MIB-1 score, 16 tumors (80%) were classified as high-grade (Grade 3). Thirteen patients (65%) developed local recurrence and 15 (75%) had metastases, primarily to the lymph nodes. At the last follow-up, 13 patients (65%) had died of their disease. A large tumor size and early metastasis were independently associated with a poor outcome. We conclude that proximal-type epithelioid sarcomas are rare, undifferentiated soft-tissue sarcomas of adults, with epithelioid features and a frequent rhabdoid phenotype. These tumors, when arising in proximal locations, have a much worse prognosis than those arising in distal locations.
11453963: !synaptophysin Growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) and GHRH receptor (GHRH-R) isoform expression in ectopic acromegaly. Bronchial endocrine neoplasms causing acromegaly due to ectopic production of growth hormone (GH)-releasing hormone (GHRH) have been reported. We describe the case of a 39-year-old man with clinical and biochemical acromegaly. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an enlarged pituitary, which was confirmed histologically to harbour somatotroph hyperplasia. Further investigations identified a circumscribed central mass in the right lung which was surgically resected and histologically confirmed to be an endocrine tumour with strong immunopositivity for GHRH, synaptophysin and chromogranin; the lesion also exhibited mild positivity for peptide YY, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-1, corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH), tyrosine hydroxylase, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and enkephalin. S100 protein was identified in stellate cells surrounding nests of epithelial tumour cells. The MIB-1 antibody labelled about 10% of the tumour cells. We established that the tumour not only produced GHRH but the GHRH-receptor (GHRH-R) as well. GHRH and GHRH-R mRNA were identified and the latter was characterized as two variants, a full-length transcript and a truncated splice variant that has been described in human pituitary somatotroph adenomas. We suggest that GHRH expression by this tumour and the presence of its receptor may be responsible for enhanced growth. The expression of a truncated splice variant that is unable to transduce GHRH signalling may be implicated in the less aggressive behaviour of well-differentiated endocrine tumours that produce GHRH compared with small-cell lung carcinomas that are very responsive to GHRH growth stimulation.
11451203: !synaptophysin Intense p53 staining is a valuable prognostic indicator for poor prognosis in medulloblastoma/central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumors. Intense p53 immunostaining may predict for a poor prognosis in central nervous system primitive neuroectodermal tumor of childhood.
11449891: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical analysis of diethylstilbestrol-induced renal tumors in adult male Syrian hamsters: evidence for relationship to peripheral nerve sheath tumors. Estrogen-induced Syrian hamster kidney tumors (SHKT) are widely used as experimental models for the study of hormonal and renal carcinogenesis. In order to characterize the direction of differentiation of SHKT, kidney sections of diethylstilbestrol (DES)-treated hamsters (1-11 months) were analyzed by immunohistochemistry using a panel of lineage-specific markers. The first tumorous buds found in animals exposed to DES for 4-6 months exhibited prominent S100, Leu-7, and vimentin immunoreactivities. Immunopositivities for neuron-specific enolase, PGP 9.5, desmin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein were mostly detected in medium-sized and large tumors after prolonged exposure to DES (> 6 months). All neoplasms, irrespective of the size and the duration of treatment, appeared negative for cytokeratin, neurofilaments, synaptophysin, and CD99 antibodies. Western blotting confirmed to a large extent the immunohistochemical observations. The systematic analysis of serial kidney sections by confocal microscopy after double immunostaining for S100 and neurofilaments revealed that early neoplastic buds could stem from S100-positive cells associated with nerves bundles. Altogether, these observations suggest that DES-induced SHKT could be related to malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor and originate from a yet unidentified precursor cell present in the sheath of peripheral nerves.
11442022: !synaptophysin Metastasizing neuroblastomas from taste buds in rats transgenic for the Simian virus 40 large T antigen under control of the probasin gene promoter. During establishment of a prostate cancer model in rats transgenic for the Simian virus 40 large T antigen, under control of the probasin gene promoter, with protein expression specific to the prostate, tongue, and spinal cord, undifferentiated small round cell tumors were frequently observed. Extensive examination of tongues of the transgenic rats, despite a macroscopically normal appearance, revealed the tumors to have come from taste buds of the papilla circumvallata and papilla foliata. The lesions were positive for the SV40 T antigen, PGP9.5 (ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase), and synaptophysin, neuron and neuroendocrine markers. Morphologically and immunohistochemically, the tumors were diagnosed as neuroblastomas, considering the neuroepithelial origin. Histologically identical tumor cells in the spinal cord and lung were observed only in the rats with deeply invading tongue tumors, suggesting that metastasis from the tongue tumors had occurred. Castration or supplementation with testosterone propionate did not alter tumor development, indicating the tumors to be androgen-independent. These results clearly show that taste buds can give rise to metastasizing neuroblastomas.
11440196: !synaptophysin Subcellular localization of fragile X mental retardation protein with the I304N mutation in the RNA-binding domain in cultured hippocampal neurons. 1. Fragile X syndrome, the most common form of inherited mental retardation, is caused by the lack or dysfunction of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). The 1304N mutation in the RNA-binding domain of FMRP results in an exceptionally severe form of mental retardation. 2. We have investigated the subcellular localization of FMRP and its 1304N-mutated form in cultured hippocampal neurons and PC12 cells, using immunofluorescence microscopy. In PC12 cells, FMRP was predominantly localized to the cytoplasm and also to the processes after differentiation by NGF. 3. In cultured hippocampal neurons, granular labeling was detected along the neuronal processes. 4. Double-labeling with synaptophysin antibody revealed FMRP at synaptic sites in neurons. 5. The 1304N mutation did not appear to affect the transport of FMRP to dendrites or its localization at synaptic sites. Thus, FMRP is a synaptic protein and the severe phenotype observed in the patient with the 1304N mutation is not produced by alterations in dendritic transport.
11438930: !synaptophysin Presynaptic kainate receptors in primary afferents to the superficial laminae of the rat spinal cord. Subunits of glutamate receptors participate in the regulation of sensory transmission at primary afferent synapses in the superficial laminae of dorsal horn (DH). We report here on the distribution of kainate receptors (GluR5/6/7) in these laminae by using light microscope (LM) and electron microscope (EM) immunocytochemistry. Standard (4%) paraformaldehyde fixation resulted in immunostaining for GluR5/6/7 in perikarya and fine processes in lamina II, especially its inner part (IIi). Preembedding EM revealed immunostaining of dendrites, perikarya, and occasional terminals, presumed to be from primary afferent fibers, at the center of glomerular arrangements. In rats perfused with 0.5% paraformaldehyde, LM showed a more punctate staining, mainly in the ventral part of lamina IIi and lamina III, than in material fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde. Approximately two-thirds of GluR5/6/7 puncta were also immunostained with synaptophysin, suggesting that in material fixed with 0.5% paraformaldehyde, a large fraction of these are synaptic terminals. Double immunostained puncta disappear 4 days after dorsal rhizotomy, suggesting that most of GluR5/6/7-immunopositive terminals are from primary afferent fibers. EM material fixed with 0.5% paraformaldehyde confirmed the expression of GluR5/6/7 in numerous synaptic endings with morphology of primary afferents. To determine the type of primary afferent terminals that express GluR5/6/7, two neuroanatomic tracers were injected in the sciatic nerves. The lectin from Bandeiraea simplicifolia (IB4) is selectively taken up by unmyelinated primary afferent fibers that terminate in the outer part of lamina II (IIo) and dorsal part of lamina IIi, whereas the B subunit of the cholera toxin (CTB) is selectively taken up by a broader class of primary afferents which, in superficial DH, terminate mainly in laminae I, ventral part of IIi, and III. Approximately 20% of GluR5/6/7-immunoreactive puncta colocalized with IB4, whereas approximately 40% of GluR5/6/7-immunoreactive puncta colocalized with CTB. The present study shows that (1) GluR5/6/7 does not have a clear and consistent spatial relation with postsynaptic sites, (2) a large number of primary afferents express GluR5/6/7, and (3) these are not limited to one functional class. Thus, modulation by glutamate of primary afferent terminals by means of kainate receptors in the superficial laminae of DH may predominantly involve presynaptic mechanisms.
11438925: !synaptophysin Palladin is expressed preferentially in excitatory terminals in the rat central nervous system. Palladin is a recently described intracellular protein associated with the actin cytoskeleton and cell adhesion in fibroblasts. In Western and Northern blot analyses, palladin expression is ubiquitous in embryonic mice, but it is down-regulated dramatically in most adult tissues. Significant amounts of palladin persist in the brain of adult rodents, as assessed by Western blot analysis. With this work, we extend preliminary observations and determine the overall distribution and subcellular location of palladin throughout the rat brain. In sagittal and coronal sections of the central nervous system, immunostain for palladin is present throughout the brain and spinal cord, but not uniformly. The densest regions of immunostain include the olfactory bulb, cerebral and cerebellar cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, superior colliculus, and superficial laminae of the spinal dorsal horn. Because immunostain characteristically is punctate, we performed double staining for palladin and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin. Confocal microscopy showed that palladin-immunopositive puncta are also immunopositive for synaptophysin; the proportion of synaptophysin-immunopositive puncta that also stained for palladin ranged from 100% of mossy fiber terminals in field CA3 of the hippocampus and in the cerebellar cortex to 60--70% of terminals in the cerebral cortex, striatum, and spinal dorsal horn. The presence of palladin in synaptic terminals was confirmed by electron microscopy. Because immunostained terminals commonly establish asymmetric synapses, the selectivity of palladin expression in synaptic terminals was tested by double staining for palladin and gamma-aminobutyric acid. The modest level of colocalization in this material at both the light microscopic and electron microscopic levels suggests a selectivity of palladin for terminals that release excitatory neurotransmitters. As concomitant work in cell cultures has shown that palladin participates in axonal development and migration, the present results suggest that palladin persists at excitatory synapses of the adult nervous system.
11438592: !synaptophysin Stages of synapse development defined by dependence on F-actin. It has been widely speculated that actin plays a central role in CNS synapse assembly, but such a requirement for actin filaments (F-actin) has not yet been demonstrated experimentally. We used hippocampal neurons grown in culture and the actin depolymerizing agent, latrunculin A, to examine directly the relationship between F-actin and synapse formation and maturation. During the first week in culture, actin depolymerization results in a near complete loss of synapses defined by synaptophysin-labeled vesicle clusters, synaptic vesicle recycling, and ultrastructure. Over the second week in culture, F-actin becomes increasingly stable, but actin depolymerization no longer disrupts basic synaptic structure. There is, however, a reduction in the number and size of synaptophysin-labeled clusters and in the size of vesicle clusters undergoing FM4-64 recycling, suggesting that synaptic vesicle anchoring remains partially dependent on F-actin. By 18 d in culture, synaptophysin clusters and synaptic vesicle recycling are largely resistant to F-actin depolymerization. The decrease in synapse dependence on F-actin correlates well with the acquisition and retention of presynaptic scaffolding proteins such as Bassoon and postsynaptic scaffolding proteins such as those of the postsynaptic density-95 family. Increased activity stabilizes F-actin and its associated proteins at synaptic sites, suggesting a correlation between active synapses, actin stability, and synapse stability. Our findings demonstrate that F-actin is essential for the development and maintenance of young synapses. Because F-actin is also highly regulatable, we propose that F-actin may be a principal target for stabilizing or destabilizing signals that ultimately result in synapse maintenance or elimination.
11437990: !synaptophysin Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-L1 (PGP9.5) expression in human neural cell lines following induction of neuronal differentiation and exposure to cytokines, neurotrophic factors or heat stress. Dysfunction of the ubiquitin-dependent proteolytic pathway contributes to progressive accumulation of ubiquitinated protein inclusions in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1), alternatively designated protein gene product 9.5 (PGP9.5), is a neural deubiquitinating enzyme which is identified as a principal constituent of Lewy bodies. To clarify the regulatory mechanism of UCH-L1 expression in human neural cells, we studied the constitutive, cytokine/neurotrophic factor-regulated, and heat stress-induced expression of UCH-L1 in cultured human neural cell lines by Western blot analysis. The constitutive expression of UCH-L1 was identified in SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells, IMR-32 neuroblastoma cells, U-373MG astrocytoma cells, and NTera2 teratocarcinoma-derived differentiated neurones (NTera2-N). The levels of UCH-L1 expression were unaltered in these cell lines following treatment with TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, BDNF, GDNF, dibutyryl cyclic AMP, or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, and remained unchanged by exposure to heat stress. In contrast, its levels were elevated substantially in NTera2 teratocarcinoma cells following retinoic acid-induced neuronal differentiation, accompanied with an increased expression of alpha-synuclein and synaptophysin. These results indicate that UCH-L1 is expressed constitutively in human neual cell lines, where it is upregulated following induction of neuronal differentiation, but unaffected by exposure to heat stress, cytokines, or growth/differentiation factors which are supposed to be invloved in the nigral neuronal death and survival in PD.
11434980: !synaptophysin Synaptosomal and vesicular accumulation of L-glutamate, L-aspartate and D-aspartate. We examined the vesicular accumulation of the excitatory amino-acid (EAA) neurotransmitters, L-glutamate and L-aspartate, together with the non-metabolisable EAA analogue D-aspartate. Synaptosomes derived from whole brain were incubated in various concentrations of [3H]-amino acids under conditions to facilitate vesicular turnover. Synaptosomes were then lysed in hypotonic medium and vesicles immunoprecipitated with monoclonal anti-synaptophysin antibodies coupled to sepharose beads. Using this method, saturable vesicular accumulation was observed for [3H]-L-glutamate, [3H]-L-aspartate, and [3H]-D-aspartate but not for the excitatory amino acid receptor ligands [3H]-AMPA or [3H]-kainate. Vesicular accumulation (t(1/2)=7.45 min) was markedly slower than synaptosomal accumulation (t(1/2)=1.03 min) and was substantially reduced at 4 degrees C. Maximal accumulation of [3H]-L-glutamate, [3H]-L-aspartate, and [3H]-D-aspartate was estimated to be 98, 68, and 112 pmol/mg of synaptosomal protein, respectively, and uptake affinities 1.6, 3.4, and 2.1 mM, respectively. Maximal accumulation of [3H]-L-glutamate was non-competitively inhibited by both 100 microM unlabeled L-aspartate and 100 microM D-aspartate, suggesting that all are accumulated into a common vesicular pool by different transporters.
11433616: !synaptophysin [Combined neoplasia of the lung: description of a case of adenocarcinoma mixed with typical carcinoid]. To report about a lung tumor that was a combination of typical carcinoid and adenocarcinoma.
11433614: !synaptophysin [Endocrine differentiation in basocellular carcinoma]. Three (propositus) cases of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) showing endocrine differentiation at the immunohistochemical level were studied using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to determine the presence of mRNA of chromogranin A. Moreover, 20 (consecutive) cases of BCC were studied with immunohistochemistry alone using chromogranin A, synaptophysin, S100 protein, cytokeratin 20, and neuron-specific enolase antibodies (NSE). The three propositus cases of BCC showed positive results when RT-PCR for mRNA of chromogranin A was performed. Eleven out of 20 consecutive cases of BCC were focally positive for chromogranin A antibody. These results confirm the presence of endocrine differentiation in BCC, demonstrated both with immunohistochemistry and with RT-PCR.
11431460: !synaptophysin Distribution of transcript and protein isoforms of the synaptic glycoprotein neuroplastin in rat retina. To examine the expression and localization of the neuroplastins (np), two synapse-enriched members of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily of cell-adhesion molecules, in the developing and adult retina and optic nerve.
11431345: !synaptophysin A virus-directed enzyme prodrug therapy approach to purging neuroblastoma cells from hematopoietic cells using adenovirus encoding rabbit carboxylesterase and CPT-11. Tumor cells that contaminate hematopoietic cell preparations contribute to the relapse of neuroblastoma patients who receive autologous stem cell rescue as a component of therapy. Therefore, effective purging methods are needed. This study details in vitro experiments to develop a viral-directed enzyme prodrug purging method that specifically targets neuroblastoma cells. The approach uses an adenovirus to deliver the cDNA encoding a rabbit liver carboxylesterase that efficiently activates the prodrug irinotecan,7-ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxycamptothecin (CPT-11). The data show that an adenoviral multiplicity of infection of 50 transduces 100% of cultured neuroblastoma cells and primary tumor cells, irrespective of the level of tumor cell line contamination. Exposure of neuroblastoma cell lines or of mixtures of these cell lines with CD34(+) cells at a ratio of 10:90 to replication-deficient AdRSVrCE for 24 h and subsequent exposure of cells to 1-5 microM CPT-11 for 4 h increased the toxicity of CPT-11 to three neuroblastoma cell lines (SJNB-1, NB-1691, and SK-N-SH) from approximately 20-50-fold and eradicated their clonogenic potential. Also, after "purging," RNA for neuroblastoma cell markers (tyrosine hydroxylase, synaptophysin, and N-MYC) was undetectable by reverse transcription-PCR. In contrast, the purging protocol did not affect the number or type of colonies formed by CD34(+) cells in an in vitro progenitor cell assay. No bystander effect on CD34(+) cells was observed. The method described is being investigated for its potential clinical utility, particularly its efficacy for use with patients having relatively high tumor burdens, because no published methods have been shown to be efficacious when the tumor burden exceeds 1%.
11430801: !synaptophysin Treatment with a copper-zinc chelator markedly and rapidly inhibits beta-amyloid accumulation in Alzheimer's disease transgenic mice. Inhibition of neocortical beta-amyloid (Abeta) accumulation may be essential in an effective therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Cu and Zn are enriched in Abeta deposits in AD, which are solubilized by Cu/Zn-selective chelators in vitro. Here we report a 49% decrease in brain Abeta deposition (-375 microg/g wet weight, p = 0.0001) in a blinded study of APP2576 transgenic mice treated orally for 9 weeks with clioquinol, an antibiotic and bioavailable Cu/Zn chelator. This was accompanied by a modest increase in soluble Abeta (1.45% of total cerebral Abeta); APP, synaptophysin, and GFAP levels were unaffected. General health and body weight parameters were significantly more stable in the treated animals. These results support targeting the interactions of Cu and Zn with Abeta as a novel therapy for the prevention and treatment of AD.
11429285: !synaptophysin Differentiation of embryonic stem cell-derived dopaminergic neurons is enhanced by survival-promoting factors. Here, we describe the generation of viable and dopamine-producing neurons derived from pluripotent mouse embryonic stem cells. Neurotrophic factors in combination with survival-promoting factors, such as interleukin-1beta, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, neurturin, transforming growth factor-beta(3) and dibutyryl-cyclic AMP, significantly enhanced Nurr1 and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA levels, whereas En-1, mash-1 and dopamine-2-receptor mRNA levels were not upregulated. In parallel, mRNA levels of the anti-apoptotic gene bcl-2 were found to be upregulated at terminal stages. Double immunofluorescence analysis revealed increased numbers of TH- and dopamine transporter-, but not gamma-aminobutyric acid- and serotonin-positive neurons in relation to synaptophysin-labeled cells by survival-promoting factors. Moreover, high-performance liquid chromatography analysis showed detectable levels of intracellular dopamine. We conclude that survival-promoting factors enhance differentiation, survival and maintenance of dopaminergic neurons derived from embryonic stem cells.
11428406: !synaptophysin Glucagonoma in a jaguar (Panthera onca). An obese adult jaguar (Panthera onca) was euthanized because of progressive lameness. Two 3-cm-diameter pancreatic nodules were identified as islet cell tumors, which were positive with immunohistochemical stains for glucagon, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin. The jaguar did not present clinical evidence of hyperglucagonemia.
11426959: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine cervical carcinoma: a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. The aim of this study was to analyze diagnostic criteria, response to chemotherapy, rate and site of relapse, and overall survival (OS) in neuroendocrine cervical carcinoma.
11426054: !synaptophysin Differential expression of syntaxin-1 and synaptophysin in the developing and adult human retina. Synaptophysin and syntaxin-1 are membrane proteins that associate with synaptic vesicles and presynaptic active zones at nerve endings, respectively. The former is known to be a good marker of synaptogenesis; this aspect, however, is not clear with syntaxin-1. In this study, the expression of both proteins was examined in the developing human retina and compared with their distribution in postnatal to adult retinas, by immunohistochemistry. In the inner plexiform layer, both were expressed simultaneously at 11-12 weeks of gestation, when synaptogenesis reportedly begins in the central retina. In the outer plexiform layer, however, the immunoreactivities were prominent by 16 weeks of gestation. Their expression in both plexiform layers followed a centre-to-periphery gradient. The immunoreactivities for both proteins were found in the immature photoreceptor, amacrine and ganglion cells; however, synaptophysin was differentially localized in bipolar cells and their axons, and syntaxin was present in some horizontal cells. In postnatal-to-adult retinas, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was prominent in photo-receptor terminals lying in the outer plexiform layer; on the contrary, syntaxin-1 was present in a thin immunoreactive band in this layer. In the inner plexiform layer, however, both were homogeneously distributed. Our study suggests that (i) syntaxin-1 appears in parallel with synapse formation; (ii) synaptogenesis in the human retina might follow a centre-to-periphery gradient; (iii) syntaxin-1 is likely to be absent from ribbon synapses of the outer plexiform layer, but may occur at presynaptic terminals of photoreceptor and horizontal cells, as is apparent from its localization in these cells, which is hitherto unreported for any vertebrate retina.
11422807: !synaptophysin Prognostic significance of neuroendocrine differentiation, proliferation activity and androgen receptor expression in prostate cancer. Androgen, acting via the androgen receptor (AR), is associated with the development and progression of prostate cancer. Anti-androgen therapy is widely used to manage prostate cancer. However, the conversion of the tumor from a hormone-sensitive to a hormone-insensitive status causes such therapy to fail. Several mechanisms have now been put forward for this conversion, including neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation of the tumor cells. In this study, we evaluated the prognostic significance of tumor-cell proliferation activity, NE differentiation and AR expression. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections were prepared from 42 patients with adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Using antibodies to AR, the Ki-67 antigen (MIB-1), chromogranin A and synaptophysin, immunohistochemical expression of AR, tumor proliferation activity and NE differentiation were analyzed. Our study revealed that AR expression was significantly lower in adenocarcinoma (52.2 +/- 27.1%) than in non-tumorous prostate tissue (68.3 +/- 18.3%; P < 0.001). NE differentiation was found in 50% of the tumors, which was correlated with the Gleason score (P < 0.05). An univariate analysis revealed a significant correlation between progression-free survival with both AR expression (P < 0.01) and proliferation activity (P < 0.001). NE differentiation was not a prognostic factor in this study.
11420463: !synaptophysin Adult neuroblastoma of the retroperitoneum and abdomen: clinicopathologic distinction from primitive neuroectodermal tumor. Adult neuroblastoma (ANB) is a rare and poorly recognized entity among a histologically defined group of small, round-cell tumors arising in the retroperitoneum and abdomen. Eight cases of ANB were compared with seven cases of primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) in these locations to identify clinicopathologic features that could be used to distinguish between the two lesions. The ANB study group included four men and four women 22-74 years of age (mean 38 years). Five patients with ANB presented with inflammatory symptoms or elevated levels of catecholamines and their metabolites. Five of the ANB tumors were classified as undifferentiated and three as poorly differentiated with a background of neuropil. These cases often showed immunoreactivity for multiple neural markers such as CD56, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, neurofilament, and neuron-specific enolase, but were negative for CD99, cytokeratins, desmin, myogenin, smooth muscle actin, muscle-specific actin, CD34, S-100 protein, and CD45. In contrast, all of the PNETs were positive for CD99, and four (57%) were also positive for cytokeratins. Two cases of ANB of the undifferentiated subtype had ultrastructural features characteristic of neuroblastoma and lacked a chimeric transcript (EWS-FLI1or ERG), which is specific for PNET. All five patients with the undifferentiated subtype of ANB and six of the seven patients with PNET died of their disease within 3 years of discovery of the lesion. Our results show that ANB, although rare, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with small, round-cell tumors in the retroperitoneum and abdomen. Appropriate immunohistochemical studies and laboratory examination enable pathologists to distinguish ANB from other differential diagnoses, especially PNET.
11417996: !synaptophysin Heterogeneity of so-called neuroendocrine lung tumors. The diagnosis of neuroendocrine (NE) lung tumor is dependent on a number of observations: organoid structure, dense core granules, and various molecular components, including chromogranin A, neurosecretory enolase, synaptophysin, neural cell adhesion molecules, and others. None of these is specific for lung tumors. The Kulchitsky cell, which has these characteristics, forms a carcinoid, which exemplifies the NE tumor. It is euploid, has few mitoses, no necrosis and a 5- to 10-year survival of over 90%. When carcinoids show malignant characteristics, i.e., increased mitoses and necrosis, they have been labeled atypical and have a survival of 50%. Because all other non-small cell lung tumors, especially large cell tumors, may show one or more of these things because of the inherent heterogeneity of lung tumors, the term NE has been applied to them without real evidence that this affects survival with or without chemotherapy. This is expensive and without clinical significance.
11407527: !synaptophysin Duodenal periampullary gangliocytic paraganglioma: report of two cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. We report two cases of Gangliocytic Paraganglioma (GP) of the ampulla of Vater occurring in a 63-year-old and a 34-year-old individual. The patients were both admitted for a long history of intermittent gastrointestinal bleeding and abdominal discomfort, with no other symptoms. At endoscopy, the GP appeared as a polypoid, ulcerated mass in the ampullar region, measuring 2.5x1.8 and 2 cm, respectively. Microscopically, the tumors showed similar features and were composed of epithelial cells (more than 50%), spindle cells, and ganglion-like cells. The epithelial cells showed clear cytoplasm and formed nests (zellballen or paraganglioma-like groups), and less frequently, cords (carcinoid-like), extending to mucosa and submucosa. Ganglion cells were sparse, constantly associated with the spindle cells. Both epithelial and ganglion cells were synaptophysin, chromogranin A, and anti-neurofilament immunoreactive. The spindle cells were all S-100 positive. Ultrastructural studies revealed dark and light cells, rare elongated cellular processes, secretory granules, and fine fibrils resembling neurofilaments. The histogenesis of GP is still a matter of debate, however its neoplastic nature is supported by the occasionally reported malignant evolution.
11397864: !synaptophysin Adrenocortical-pituitary hybrid tumor causing Cushing's syndrome. We describe the first case of an adrenocortical-pituitary hybrid tumor causing Cushing's syndrome in a 17-yr-old boy. Adrenal vein sampling confirmed elevated secretion of both cortisol and ACTH precursors from a right adrenal mass, whereas pituitary ACTH levels, as determined by bilateral inferior petrosal sinus samples (IPSS), were unresponsive to CRH and equal to peripheral levels. There was no biochemical or histological evidence for a pheochromocytoma, but, rather, the tumor demonstrated lipid-rich clear cells characteristic of an adrenocortical adenoma. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed ACTH immunoreactivity and synaptophysin proteins in the tumor. Isolation of tumor cells by the novel technique of laser capture microdissection and subsequent RT-PCR showed expression of POMC messenger ribonucleic acid and cytochrome p450 enzyme messenger ribonucleic acid within the same cells. Finally, ultrastructural analysis provided ultimate proof for adrenocortical-pituitary hybrid cells exhibiting the characteristic vesicular mitochondria and abundant smooth endoplasmic reticulum of steroid cells and the typical secretory granules of corticotrophs within the cytoplasm of the same cells. The adrenocortical tumor expressed the pituitary transcription factor pituitary homeobox factor 1 and the steroidogenic factor 1. The intermingling of the centrally located ectodermally derived pituitary tissue with the mesodermally derived adrenocortical tissue in this adenoma suggests a hitherto unrecognized genetic and phenotypic plasticity within the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
11396600: !synaptophysin Computer-assisted quantification of axo-somatic boutons at the cell membrane of motoneurons. This paper presents a system for computer-assisted quantification of axo-somatic boutons at motoneuron cell-surface membranes. Different immunohistochemical stains can be used to prepare tissue of the spinal cord. Based on micrographs displaying single neurons, a finite element balloon model has been applied to determine the exact location of the cell membrane. A synaptic profile is extracted next to the cell membrane and normalized with reference to the intracellular brightness. Furthermore, a manually selected reference cell is used to normalize settings of the microscope as well as variations in histochemical processing for each stain. Thereafter, staining, homogeneity, and allocation of boutons are determined automatically from the synaptic profiles. The system is evaluated by applying the coefficient of variation (Cv) to repeated measurements of a quantity. Based on 1856 motoneuronal images acquired from four animals with three stains, 93% of the images are analyzed correctly. The others were rejected, based on process protocols. Using only rabbit anti-synaptophysin as primary antibody, the correctness increases above 96%. Cv values are below 3%, 5%, and 6% for all measures with respect to stochastic optimization, cell positioning, and a large range of microscope settings, respectively. A sample size of about 100 is required to validate a significant reduction of staining in motoneurons below a hemi-section (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, alpha = 0.05, beta = 0.9). Our system yields statistically robust results from light micrographs. In future, it is hoped that this system will substitute for the expensive and time-consuming analysis of spinal cord injury at the ultra-structural level, such as by manual interpretation of nonoverlapping electron micrographs.
11391487: !synaptophysin [An atypical rhabdoid/teratoid tumor. A presentation of three cases and review of the literature]. The atypical rhabdoid/teratoid tumor of the central nervous system (CNS) has emerged from a variant of medulloblastoma to become a distinctive clinico-pathological condition over the past ten years. This is more than simply nosological importance, since the five year survival expected in medulloblastomas is considerably better than the 11 months (average) seen in rhabdoid/teratoid tumors.
11386795: !synaptophysin Nerve cell tumours of the cerebrum: variable clinical and pathological manifestations. Nerve cell tumours of the cerebrum tend to display a high degree of morphological variability from case to case, and this leads to poor understanding of these tumours. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and patho-anatomic features of 16 primary nerve cell tumours of the cerebrum (M:9; F:7; average age at onset: 10.2 years). Intraventricular tumours were not included. In 13 patients epileptic seizures were the only symptoms, while three had headache or hemiparesis. Seven tumours were located in the frontal lobe, four in the parietal lobe, two in the temporal lobe and one each in the fronto-parietal lobes, occipital lobe and the midbrain. Tumours were histologically classified into three groups. In the first group, six tumours had the morphological features of classic gangliocytoma or ganglioglioma. In the second group six cerebral and midbrain tumours were composed of small cells, which showed apparent neuronal differentiation including positive immunoreactivity for synaptophysin and the presence of synaptic structures. These tumours usually involved both the cortex and white matter. In the third group, three tumours were composed of small nerve cells and ganglioid cells. All tumours were relatively well circumscribed, and thus eight tumours were totally removed, five subtotally and three partially. Following surgery, three patients, except one, are alive with stable imaging findings for 4 months - 19.3 years (average 11.6 years) after treatment. While small nerve cell tumours are found throughout the cerebrum and its identification broadens the spectrum of neuronal and mixed neuro-glial tumours, most of these tumours are biologically indolent.
11384619: !synaptophysin Effects of soft-diet feeding on synaptic density in the hippocampus and parietal cortex of senescence-accelerated mice. Some investigators have proposed that extracting of the teeth of rats or mice impairs their acquisition of spatial memory, implying that alterations of the neural networks in the brain result from a reduction of masticatory work. To evaluate numerical alterations of synapses in the cerebral cortex caused by reduced masticatory movements, two strains of the senescence-accelerated mouse, SAMR1 and SAMP8, were fed either a pelleted (hard-diet groups, R1-H and P8-H) or a powdered diet (soft-diet groups, R1-S and P8-S) after weaning. Radioimmunoassay using a monoclonal anti-synaptophysin antibody (SY38) revealed that the synaptophysin content in the whole cortex was significantly lower in P8-H compared with R1-H from 3 months to 12 months of age. The soft-diet feeding reduced the synaptophysin content in the cerebral cortex of both strains after 3 months of age. Immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy on the hippocampal formation and parietal cortex of 6-month-old mice showed that synaptic formation was significantly decreased in these areas in both R1-S and P8-S. The reduction rate of synaptic density due to soft-diet feeding was larger in the hippocampus than in the parietal cortex. The working memory of the four groups was tested at 6 months of age on an eight-arm radial maze. Performance significantly differed between R1-H and P8-H, between R1-H and R1-S, and between P8-H and P8-S. The results indicated that soft-diet feeding after weaning period reduces synaptic formation in the cerebral cortex and impairs the ability of spatial learning in adulthood.
11382392: !synaptophysin Changes in presynaptic proteins, SNAP-25 and synaptophysin, in the hippocampal CA1 area in ischemic gerbils. A general consensus exists that the presynaptic terminals in the hippocampal CA1 area are resistant to ischemic stress in spite of the loss of their target cells (CA1 pyramidal neurons). We have verified this by immunostaining and Western immunoblotting using the antibodies for presynaptic proteins, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) and synaptophysin in gerbils after bilateral carotid artery ligature. In the immunohistochemical analysis, decreases in SNAP-25 and synaptophysin immunoreactivities in the strata radiatum and oriens, especially around the apical dendrite of CA1 neurons, and disappearance of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity in the alveus were observed on day 2 after ischemia. On days 7 and 14, SNAP-25-positive granular materials were expressed in the CA1 area, and intense synaptophysin immunoreactivity around surviving CA1 neurons was observed. Western immunoblot analysis revealed significant decreases of SNAP-25 and synaptophysin (about 60% of control levels) on day 2, and then increase of their proteins (130--140% of control levels) on day 14. These results indicate that presynaptic degeneration occurs in the hippocampal CA1 area after ischemia, and it precedes the delayed neuronal death of CA1 neurons. The presynaptic terminal damage may be responsible for some pathological changes in ischemic brains.
11379821: !synaptophysin Apoptosis, neuronal maturation, and neurotrophin expression within medulloblastoma nodules. Nodular/desmoplastic medulloblastomas are a well-established histopathological subtype containing reticulin-free nodules or "pale islands' that are comprised of cells with round "neurocytic" nuclei and abundant cytoplasm. Significant neuronal maturation occurs within nodules. We used immunohistochemistry to evaluate neuronal differentiation in the nodules of 6 of these tumors. The neuronal markers NeuN, synaptophysin, and MAP-2 were identified in the "pale islands" of all 6 nodular medulloblastomas examined, and high and medium molecular weight nonphosphorylated neurofilaments were detected in 2 of the 6 cases. We also observed collections of apoptotic cells within nodules. Given the known role of neurotrophin signaling in neuronal maturation and apoptosis, we analyzed immunohistochemically the distribution of neurotrophin receptors TrkA and TrkC and their primary ligands NGF and NT3 in 14 nodular medulloblastomas. TrkA and TrkC were detected in 13 and 10 cases, respectively, and were predominantly localized within nodules. NGF and NT3 were distributed diffusely with some nodular accentuation. The localized expression of Trk receptors within nodules of desmoplastic medulloblastomas suggests neurotrophin signaling is involved in the apoptosis and neuronal differentiation in medulloblastomas. We also examined expression of p53 and BCL-2 in these tumors; both were prominent in internodular regions but only weakly expressed within nodules. Trk receptors, p53, and BCL-2 are all expressed during development of the normal cerebellum. Interestingly, the immunohistochemical expression profile of these proteins in the differentiating nodules of medulloblastomas is in many ways similar to their expression in the developing cerebellum. Thus similar signaling pathways may be operational in cerebellar development and medulloblastoma tumor differentiation.
11379819: !synaptophysin O-Glycosylation in sprouting neurons in Alzheimer disease, indicating reactive plasticity. Reactive plasticity, including axonal and dendritic sprouting and reactive synaptogenesis, has been proposed to contribute to the pathogenesis of several neurological disorders. This work was aimed at identifying the possible role of protein glycosylation in the brain from patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), using lectin histochemistry, as determinants of reactive plasticity. Results indicate an increase in the production of cryptic O-glycosidically linked proteins (NeuAcalpha2,6 Galbeta1,3GalNAcalpha1,0 Ser/Thr or sialyl-T-antigen) in neuritic sprouting in AD brains as determined by positive labeling with Amaranthus leucocarpus (ALL, T-antigen-specific) and Macrobrachium rosenbergii (MRL, specific for NeuAc5,9Ac2) lectins. Immunohistochemistry indicated that lectin staining was specific for the synaptic sprouting process (meganeurites) in AD. These results were confirmed using anti-synaptophysin and anti-GAP 43 antibodies, which recognized meganeurites and dystrophic neurites around amyloid-beta deposits. In normal control brains, labeling with the aforementioned lectins was restricted to microvessels. Control experiments with neuraminidase-treated brain samples revealed positivity to the lectin from Arachis hypogaea (PNA), which is specific for galactose. Our results suggest specific O-glycosylation patterns of proteins closely related to neuronal plasticity in AD.
11379815: !synaptophysin Cortical synapse loss in progressive supranuclear palsy. Cortical synapse loss, the probable substrate of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer disease (AD), has not previously been evaluated in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Hypothesizing that synapse loss would be greater in demented than non-demented PSP patients, we examined synaptophysin concentrations in 8 cases of PSP (5 demented and 3 nondemented cases). We found a decrease in mean synaptophysin concentration in these 8 cases in frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes, and in cerebellum, compared to the means in corresponding lobes of 16 controls. The decreases were similar to those in 28 cases of AD, but not as great. We determined synaptophysin concentration from motor cortex in only 4 of our PSP cases, 2 demented and 2 non-demented. The average concentrations in these 4 cases were lower than in AD motor cortex; both were lower than controls. When demented and non-demented PSP cases were compared, neocortical synaptophysin concentrations in non-demented PSP cases were lower than in demented cases. There appears to be a link between AD and PSP, in that synapse loss is found in both. However, the basis and significance of the prominent neocortical synapse loss in PSP, especially in non-demented subjects, remain to be explored.
11377846: !synaptophysin Postnatal alterations of GABA receptor profiles in the rat superior colliculus. Midbrain sections taken from Sprague-Dawley rats of varying ages within the first four postnatal weeks were used to determine, immunocytochemically, putative changes of GABA(A) receptor beta2/3 subunits, GABA(B) receptor (R1a and R1b splice variants), and GABA(C) receptor rho1 subunit expression and distribution in the superficial, visual layers of the superior colliculus. Immunoreactivity for the GABA(A) receptor beta2/3 subunits was found in the superficial grey layer from birth. The labelling changed with age, with an overall continuous reduction in the number of cells labelled and a significant increase in the labelling intensity distribution (neuropil vs soma). Further analysis revealed an initial increase in the labelling intensity between postnatal days 0 and 7 in parallel with an overall reduction of labelled neurones. This was followed by a significant decrease in labelling intensity distribution between postnatal days 7 and 16, and a subsequent increase in intensity between postnatal days 16 and 28. The labelling profiles for GABA(B) receptors (R1a and R1b splice variants) and GABA(C) receptors (rho1 subunit) showed similar patterns. Both receptors could be found in the superficial layers of the superior colliculus from birth, and the intensity and distribution of labelling remained constant during the first postnatal month. However, the cell body count showed a significant decrease between postnatal days 7 and 16. These changes may be related to the time-point of eye opening, which occurred approximately two weeks after birth. For all three receptor types, the cell body count remained constant after postnatal day 16. By four weeks of age, there was no significant difference between the cell numbers obtained for the different receptors. Both GABA itself and neurofilament labelling were also obtained in the superficial superior colliculus at birth. Neurofilament, although found at birth, showed very little ordered arrangement until 16days after birth. When slices were double labelled for GABA(C) receptors and neurofilament, some overlap was observed. Double labelling for the presynaptic protein synaptophysin and GABA(C) receptors showed proximity in some places, indicative of a partly synaptic location of GABA(C) receptors. When GABA(C) and GABA(A) receptors were labelled simultaneously, some but not all neurones showed immunoreactivity for both receptor types. In conclusion, all three GABA receptor types were found to be present in the superior colliculus from birth, and all show some form of postnatal modification, with GABA(A) receptors demonstrating the most dramatic changes. However, GABA(B) and GABA(C) receptors are modified significantly around the onset of input-specific activity. Together, this points towards a contribution of the GABAergic system to processes of postnatal maturation in the superficial superior colliculus.
11377835: !synaptophysin beta-amyloid deposits in transgenic mice expressing human beta-amyloid precursor protein have the same characteristics as those in Alzheimer's disease. A transgenic mouse expressing the human beta-amyloid precursor protein with the "Swedish" mutation, Tg2576, was used to investigate the mechanism of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) deposition. We characterized Abeta deposits in the cerebral cortex biochemically and pathologically. A surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization affinity mass spectrometric study using the 6E10 monoclonal antibody demonstrated that the major species of Abeta in a formic acid-extracted fraction of the cortex were Abeta(1-38), Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42). Immunohistochemistry using antibodies to the carboxy-terminal epitopes of Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42), as well as 6E10, showed that plaques containing Abeta(1-42) were more numerous than those containing Abeta(1-40) throughout the cortex. Laser confocal analysis of the immunoreactivities in the plaques demonstrated that Abeta(1-40) was preferentially located in the central part of the Abeta(1-42) positive plaques. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay measurements of Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42) showed that Abeta(1-40) was several-fold more abundant than Abeta(1-42). From these data we suggest that Abeta(1-42) deposition may precede Abeta(1-40) deposition, while Abeta(1-40) begins to deposit in the central part of the plaques and accumulates there. Furthermore, localization of Abeta(1-40) corresponded almost exactly to congophilic structures, which were associated with aberrant swollen synapses detected with antibodies to synaptophysin and alpha-synuclein. Thus, Abeta deposits in Tg2576 mice have similar characteristics to those in Alzheimer's disease.
11374828: !synaptophysin Preliminary evaluation of gastric endocrine cells in rats with experimental uremia. Chronic renal failure can be the cause of various disturbances in hormonal and electrolyte metabolism, including calcium and phosphate metabolism. The aim of this study was the evaluation of pyloric endocrine cells in Wistar rats with experimental uremia. Fragments of gastric pylorus were collected 30 days after nephrectomy. Paraffin embedded sections were stained with H+E and by silver impregnation. We also performed immunohistochemical reactions with the use of specific antibodies against calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), synaptophysin (SY), somatostatin (ST), and neuronal specific enolase (NSE). The rats with experimental uremia showed an increase in the number of endocrine cells and in intensity of all the examined reactions.
11374827: !synaptophysin Preliminary evaluation of neuroendocrine cells in the respiratory tract in rats with experimental uremia. The goal of this study was to investigate the influence of experimetally induced chronic renal failure on endocrine cells in the respiratory tract in rats. After 30 days of uremia, the fragments of rat lungs were collected. Paraffin sections were stained using H+E, silver impregnation and immunohistochemistry with specific antibodies against calcitonin (CT), synaptophysin (SY), somatostatin (ST), and neuron-specific enolase (NSE). A large number of endocrine cells with a strong calcitonin immunoreactivity were observed in the respiratory tract of rats with experimental uremia, as compared with the control group. Other immunoreactions were weakened.
11374826: !synaptophysin Preliminary evaluation of thyroid C cells in rats with chronic renal failure. Numerous water-electrolyte and hormonal disturbances, including secondary hyperparathyroidism, occur in the course of chronic renal failure. It is assumed that chronic renal failure should affect the activity of C cells in the thyroid gland. Thus, the aim of the study was to evaluate immunohistochemically thyroid C cells in rats with experimental uremia. 30 days after nephrectomy, thyroid fragments were collected from experimental rats. Paraffin embedded sections were stained with H+E and by silver impregnation. Calcitonin (CT), synaptophysin (SY), somatostatin (ST), and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) were detected immunohistochemically in the C cells. A very distinct increase in C cell number in the thyroid and the weakening of majority of examined reactions were observed in rats with experimental uremia.
11374821: !synaptophysin Preliminary evaluation of endocrine cells in the rat respiratory tract after thyroid and parathyroid gland removal. The complete thyroid and parathyroid gland removal leads to the abrupt reduction of calcitonin, which can be a factor stimulating growth and intensified activity of APUD system cells in the respiratory tract. Thus, neuroendocrine cells in the lungs and trachea in rats after thyroid and parathyroid removal were evaluated. Paraffin specimens of the examined organs were stained with H+E and impregnated with silver. Calcitonin, synaptophysin, somatostatin, and neuronal-specific enolase were detected immunohistochemically by the use of rabbit specific antibodies. Antibodies used in the study immunostained neuroendocrine cells of the examined organs. Rats with removed thyroid and parathyroid glands presented weakened reaction compared to the control group.
11374820: !synaptophysin Preliminary immunohistochemical study of C cells of the thyroid and endocrine cells of the parathyroid glands in rats after prolonged exposure to cadmium. The effect of cadmium (Cd) on the thyroid and parathyroid glands was examined following a 12-week exposure of rats to 5 or 50 mg Cd/dm3. Immunohistochemical methods were used to determine calcitonin (CT), calcitonin-gene related peptide (GGRP), parathormone (PTH), somatostatin (ST), synaptophysin (SPh) and neuron-specific enolase (NSE). Calcium and cadmium concentrations in the femoral bone were assayed. The animals exposed to cadmium showed attenuation of all reactions, which was most distinct after 50 mg Cd/dm3. Exposure-dependent cadmium accumulation and a decrease in calcium concentration in the femoral bone were noted.
11374819: !synaptophysin Preliminary immunohistochemical investigations of human thyroid C cells in the simple and hyperactive nodular goitre. The aim of this study was to carry out histomorphological and immunohistochemical analysis of thyroid C cells in 30 patients with simple goitre and hyperactive goitre including Graves-Basedow (G-B) disease, treated surgically. Four tissue samples were always taken from the same internal parts of the gland where the number of C cells in physiological conditions was the highest. C cells were detected in paraffin sections after impregnation with silver salt (Grimelius method) or immunohistochemically, with antibodies against calcitonin, synaptophysin, chromogranin A and neuron-specific enolase. Distinctly less numerous C cells were found in simple and hyperactive goitre than in normal thyroid parenchyma. The majority of C cells showed weak intensity of the examined immunohistochemical reactions. C cells were not observed at all in the texture of nodules well separated by the connective tissue. Proliferative changes concerned only follicular cells.
11374818: !synaptophysin Preliminary evaluation of influence of gemcitabine (Gemzar) on proliferation and neuroendocrine activity of human TT cell line: immunocytochemical investigations. The choice treatment of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) is total thyroidectomy. It is difficult to evaluate effectiveness of chemotherapy due to the rare incidence of MTC. Gemcitabine is a new drug of antimetabolite nucleoside group used in treatment of cancers since 1996. The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of gemcitabine on proliferation and neuroendocrine activity of human TT cell line derived from MTC. The cells were exposed to gemcitabine in the concentration of 10, 25 and 50 microg/ml for 24 hours. Immunocytochemical examinations were carried out by the method of avidin-biotin peroxidase complex (ABC) according to Hsu et al. to detect calcitonin, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase in TT cells. A concentration-dependent inhibitory influence of gemcitabine on proliferative activity of TT cells was observed. It was also shown that the immunostaining was reduced, especially in case of neuron-specific enolase. Only the reaction detecting calcitonin was enhanced in persistin
11374802: !synaptophysin Correlation between chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin expression, and some clinico-pathological features of colorectal cancer. Several studies employing various techniques have demonstrated the occurrence of neuroendocrine cells in colorectal cancers. Chromogranin A (CGA), neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and synaptophysin (SYN) are general markers of neuroendocrine cells. The aims of the present study were to evaluate the possible correlations between CGA and/or NSE and/or SYN expression in colorectal cancer and some of its clinico-pathological features. The study was conducted on 48 patients with colorectal cancer treated with surgery only at the Department of Surgical Gastroenterology, Medical Academy and District Oncology Center, Białystok. There were no statistically significant relationships between colorectal cancer CGA and/or NSE and/or SYN expression and tumor site, histopathological type, grading, lymph node metastases, age and sex of patients. However, high ratio of lymph node metastases in colorectal cancers with neuroendocrine cells suggests their more agressive clinical course.
11372374: !synaptophysin [The experimental study on material basis of motor skill plasticity after acute cerebral infarction]. To investigate the structure basis of motor skill plasticity and the recovery mechanism after acute cerebral infarction.
11368965: !synaptophysin Differential changes in synaptic terminal protein expression between nucleus accumbens core and shell in the amphetamine-sensitized rat. Repeated, intermittent administration of psychostimulant drugs such as D-amphetamine (AMPH) produces a state of behavioral sensitization to the drug that can last up to weeks to months. The molecular basis of this enhanced sensitivity to AMPH is poorly understood; however, adaptive changes in the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system has been postulated to be of primary importance. In the present investigation we used Western blotting to examine the expression of candidate presynaptic proteins involved in regulating neurotransmitter release and synaptic plasticity. Specifically, syntaxin 1, synaptophysin and synapsin I protein levels were examined in the nucleus accumbens (Nacc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) of Sprague-Dawley rats following AMPH-sensitization. Animals received five repeated administrations of AMPH (1.5 mg/kg, i.p. on alternate days) followed by 14 days of withdrawal. Levels of syntaxin 1 and synaptophysin were found to be significantly reduced in the Nacc core of sensitized animals compared to saline-treated and untreated controls. However, syntaxin 1 expression was significantly increased in the Nacc shell subregion of sensitized animals. No significant difference in the level of synapsin I was noted in any of the brain regions. Further, expression of none of the synaptic proteins was significantly altered in the VTA of sensitized animals. Given the importance of syntaxin and synaptophysin in learning and memory processes and in the regulation of neurotransmitter release, changes in these proteins suggest their involvement in the associative learning aspects of sensitization and differential neurotransmitter release in the Nacc subregions.
11358444: !synaptophysin Alterations in ApoE and ApoJ in relation to degeneration and regeneration in a mouse model of entorhinal cortex lesion. Apolipoproteins are primarily involved in the transport of lipid and cholesterol within the central nervous system (CNS) and are thought to play a role in synaptic remodeling, repair, and regeneration after brain injury. In the present study, alterations in apolipoproteins E (apoE) and J (apoJ) were examined in the molecular layers of the dentate gyrus after unilateral chemical lesioning of the entorhinal cortex (ECL), at days 0, 1, 3, 7, 28, and 90 days following injury. Alterations in immunostaining for these proteins were assessed in relation to accumulation of silver-labeled degeneration products and alterations in synaptophysin and GAP-43 immunoreactivity. Quantitative analysis of synaptophysin and GAP-43 immunostaining highlighted synaptic loss and fiber degeneration initially (3-7 days post-ECL), with subsequent terminal sprouting and reactive synaptogenesis occurring at longer survival periods (28-90 days post-ECL). Increased apoE and apoJ immunoreactivity was evident first within the neuropil (*P < 0.05 and **P < 0.01) followed by intense glial staining by day 7 post-ECL. By day 28 apoE and apoJ immunostaining had returned almost to baseline levels. However, at day 90 post-ECL, neuropil apoE and apoJ immunoreactivity was dramatically increased compared to contralateral levels (**P < 0.01 and ***P < 0.0001, respectively). Silver-labeled degeneration products were found to be in abundance at day 3 postlesion; however, by day 7 this was reduced leaving only a thin band of material within the MML and at day 90 post-ECL, dentate silver staining was similar to that of controls. The results indicate that apoE and apoJ are upregulated after injury and parallel clearance of cholesterol and lipid debris from the site of injury. This coordinated alteration in apolipoproteins may redistribute lipid material to sprouting fibers to promote neurite extension and may play an important role in long-term plasticity changes following injury.
11357530: !synaptophysin [Merkel cell carcinoma: a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge]. Merkel cell carcinoma (cutaneous neuroendocrine carcinoma) is a highly malignant, neuroendocrine skin tumor. It mostly occurs in elderly patients in the sun-exposed skin of the head and neck and the extremities. Merkel cell carcinomas develop as fast-growing dermal tumors. They are characterized by a high frequency of lymph-node metastases (50%) and local recurrences (25-77%). The 5-year survival rate is 30-74%. Histology reveals uniform, round cells with a small cytoplasmic rim expressing cytokeratin 20, neurofilament, synaptophysin, chromogranin, and neuron-specific enolase. Ultrastructurally, 100-200 nm electron dense granules are typical findings. Wide surgical excision, followed by radiotherapy, is the treatment of choice. Regional lymph-node metastases should be treated by radical lymph-node excision and radiotherapy. In advanced metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, a remission can be achieved by different chemotherapy schedules or the somatostatin analogue octreotide. However, the prognosis remains poor. The current knowledge about this disease and guidelines for effective diagnosis and treatment are given.
11355666: !synaptophysin Symptomatic granular cell tumor involving the pituitary gland in a dog: a case report and review of the literature. A granular cell tumor involving the pituitary gland, optic chiasm and ventral pyriform lobes was discovered in a 12-year-old Labrador Retriever. Clinical signs included acute blindness, seizures, ataxia, weakness, and behavioral changes. The diagnosis was established by histopathologic and ultrastructural examination of neoplastic tissues collected at necropsy. Granular cell tumors involving the central nervous system are well documented in humans but rarely have been described in dogs. The location of the neoplasm and the clinical symptoms seen in this dog closely parallel those of a rare syndrome in humans commonly described as symptomatic parasellar or pituitary granular cell tumors. The cell of origin for these tumors is still highly debated, and attempts to characterize human granular cell tumors through immunohistochemistry have produced conflicting results. An immunohistochemical profile of this neoplasm revealed focal positive staining for vimentin with a lack of staining for neuron-specific enolase, glial fibrillary acidic protein, S-100, and synaptophysin. All neoplastic cells were strongly positive with the periodic acid-Schiff reaction.
11355306: !synaptophysin Neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity in the spinal cord in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We investigated the spinal cords of 15 patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) immunohistochemically using an anti-human neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) antibody to examine whether there is increased nNOS immunoreactivity in anterior horn neurons. Specimens from 16 patients without any neurological disease served as controls. In the controls, nNOS immunoreactivity of large anterior horn neurons was detected in 10 out of 16 cases. However, there were few nNOS-positive neurons, and most of large anterior horn neurons were spared. In the ALS patients, the mean number of nNOS-positive anterior horn neurons per transverse section of L4 and L5 was significantly larger (16.2 +/- 10.9) than that in the controls (7.0 +/- 9.2) (P < 0.0001). Moreover, 41.4% of large anterior horn neurons in ALS showed nNOS immunoreactivity in remarkable contrast to 7.6% in the controls. All ALS patients, whether showing mild, moderate or severe depletion of anterior horn neurons, displayed a higher percentage of nNOS-positive anterior horn neurons than the control patients showing nNOS immunoreactivity (P < 0.01). Most of the remaining anterior horn neurons in ALS showed more intense nNOS immunoreactivity on the surface of the neurons and their neuronal processes compared with the controls. Degenerated anterior horn neurons frequently demonstrated more intense nNOS immunoreactivity on the surface of the neurons than normal-appearing neurons. Some anterior horn cells displayed nNOS immunoreactivity in the somata. Dot-like nNOS deposits on anterior horn neurons were also positively immunoreactive with anti-synaptophysin antibody. Thus, increased nNOS expression is located mainly at the synaptic sites on the anterior horn neurons in sporadic ALS, which may be related to the degeneration of anterior horn neurons in this disease. Further studies are needed to determine whether the increased nNOS immunoreactivity plays a neuroprotective or neurotoxic role in the anterior horn neurons, and to show nitric oxide production in ALS.
11354411: !synaptophysin Protective effect of nimodipine on behavior and white matter of rats with hydrocephalus. Hydrocephalus, a pathological dilation of the ventricles of the brain, causes damage to periventricular white matter, at least in part, through chronic ischemia. The authors tested the hypothesis that treatment with nimodipine, an L-type calcium channel-blocking agent with demonstrated efficacy in a range of cerebral ischemic disorders, would ameliorate the adverse effects of experimental hydrocephalus.
11353063: !synaptophysin Primary mesenteric malignant mixed mesodermal (müllerian) tumor with neuroendocrine differentiation. Extragenital malignant mixed mesodermal (müllerian) tumors (MMMT) are rare neoplasms, with but 24 well documented cases in the literature. Neuroendocrine differentiation in mixed müllerian neoplasms has been mentioned only anecdotally. We report on the clinical, pathological, and immunohistochemical features of a hitherto-undescribed extragenital MMMT with prominent neuroendocrine differentiation arising from the jejunal mesentery. This lesion was composed of a poorly differentiated epithelial component and a spindle cell component with heterologous (rhabdomyoblastic) differentiation. The bulk of the tumor consisted of small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, which exhibited strong immunoreactivity for NSE, LEU-7, chromogranin A and synaptophysin. Electronmicroscopy confirmed the presence of neurosecretory dense-core granules. The primary mesenteric origin of the tumor was established at autopsy. Along with a brief review of previously reported extragenital MMMT some histogenetic concepts relevant to this case are discussed.
11349881: !synaptophysin Intracranial Ewing sarcoma/'peripheral' primitive neuroectodermal tumor of dural origin with molecular genetic confirmation. Ewing sarcoma/'peripheral' primitive neuroectodermal tumor (ES/pPNET) is the designation given to a family of small cell neoplasms that typically arise in bone or soft tissue and are unified by their common expression of the MIC2 antigen and specific translocations involving a gene on chromosome 22q12 [the most common being t(11;22)(q24;q12)]. ES/pPNET of intracranial origin is extraordinary. We report the case of a 6-year-old boy with a large left frontal region mass that adhered to dura and was extracerebral at surgery. Histologic study revealed a high-grade, undifferentiated-appearing neoplasm of small cell type that was negative on immunostudy for glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin, desmin, leukocyte common antigen, smooth muscle actin and epithelial membrane antigen, but positive for vimentin and neuron-specific enolase and diffusely labeled by antibody O13 (which recognizes the MIC2 gene product). RNA-based polymerase chain reaction assay confirmed the diagnosis of ES/pPNET by demonstrating fusion transcripts indicative of t(11;22) translocation. Bone scan, computerized tomography of the chest and bone marrow examination revealed no systemic tumor. The limited observations published to date suggest that primary intracranial ES/pPNET is most likely to present in childhood as a circumscribed, contrast-enhancing and dural-based extracerebral mass. It must be distinguished from a variety of small cell neoplasms, particularly PNETs of central neuroepithelial origin.
11349471: !synaptophysin Skin metastasis of neuroendocrine carcinoma derived from the mediastinum. We report a 46-year-old Japanese man with a metastatic skin tumor on his left palmar region. He underwent resection for a mediastinal neuroendocrine carcinoma in February of 1998. After the operation, he immediately noticed an elevated tumor on his left palm. In September 1999, a brain tumor was discovered. The skin and brain tumors were subsequently removed surgically. Neuron specific enolase (NSE) in the serum was elevated to 25 ng/ml. A skin biopsy specimen from the left palmar site revealed multiple tumor nests which showed the same histological features as the primary mediastinal tumor. Immunostaining was positive for chromogranin, synaptophysin, and NSE but negative for S-100 protein and CD57. To our knowledge, this is the first report of cutaneous metastasis of a neuroendocrine tumor derived from the mediastinum.
11343868: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin and GAP-43 mRNA levels in the hippocampus of subjects with schizophrenia. Synaptophysin and growth associated protein-43 (GAP-43) are synaptic proteins colocalized to the presynaptic terminal, and involved in regulating transmitter release and synaptic plasticity. Recent studies have proposed an alteration in the number of synapses in the brains of individuals with schizophrenia. As a corollary, we hypothesized that there may be an alteration in the level of mRNAs that code for synaptic proteins in brains of patients with schizophrenia. Using in situ hybridization, we investigated the levels of synaptophysin and GAP-43 mRNA in the medial temporal lobe of 10 normal subjects, 11 subjects with schizophrenia and 10 psychiatric control subjects. Synaptophysin mRNA levels were significantly reduced in several hippocampal subfields in both the schizophrenic and psychiatric control groups. GAP-43 mRNA levels were not significantly reduced in either group. The implications of these findings are discussed in relation to neuroleptic treatment and the pathophysiology of mental illness.
11343290: !synaptophysin Plasticity of neurohypophysial terminals with increased hormonal release during dehydration: ultrastructural and biochemical analyses. Arginine vasopressin- (AVP) and oxytocin- (OXT) secreting magnocellular neurons undergo gross structural changes with chronic physiological stimulation. Here, we investigated subcellular aspects of plasticity in rat neurohypophysial terminals during dehydration. Ultrastructural analyses demonstrated that chronic dehydration by 2% NaCl drinking for 7 days significantly decreased the numbers of neurosecretory granules and microvesicles but not the numbers of mitochondria. Moreover, in dehydrated rats, terminals making neurovascular contacts enlarged, whereas terminals in apposition to astrocytes, i.e., neuroglial contacts, became smaller. Western blot analyses demonstrated significant decreases in the levels of F3 and Thy-1 together with those of AVP- and OXT-neurophysin, but the levels of synaptophysin, SNAP-25, and GAP-43 were unchanged. Both F3 and Thy-1 were recovered in the buffer-insoluble pellet, and phosphatidyl inositol-specific phospholipase C treatment released both molecules from the crude membrane fraction, indicating that they are attached to terminal membranes by glycosylphosphatidyl inositol anchors. Confocal microscopic observations demonstrated that F3 colocalized with Thy-1 in the same terminals of magnocellular neurons. In contrast, the level of calretinin, a Ca(2+) binding protein was significantly increased with chronic dehydration. Thus, the present results suggest that enhancement of neurovascular contacts results from rearrangement of terminal-astrocyte and terminal-vessel contacts rather than enlargement or sprouting of magnocellular terminals themselves. The down-regulation of F3 and Thy-1 may contribute to enhancement of neurovascular contacts that accompany increased peptide release during dehydration.
11343178: !synaptophysin Surgery and prognostic factors for gastric stromal tumor. Morphologic studies of gastric stromal tumors (GSTs) indicate that mitotic counts (MCs) and tumor size are major discriminants predictive of biologic behavior. The purpose of this study is to improve the understanding of GST behavior, including the prognostic factors and surgical treatment of GSTs. A retrospective analysis (1990--1997) of the clinical course for 116 patients with GSTs was completed, with a median follow-up of 43 months. Tumors were categorized as malignant GSTs (n = 17) when the MC was > 5/50 high-power fields (HPF) and the size > 5 cm or as benign GSTs (n = 99) when the MC was < or = 5/50 HPF and the size < or = 5 cm, MC < or = 5/50 HPF and size > 5 cm, or MC > 5/50 HPF and size < or = 5 cm. None of 99 benign tumors recurred or metastasized, whereas 7 of 17 malignant tumors recurred. MCs had a close correlation with tumor size. Immunohistochemical studies using CD34, smooth muscle actin, S-100 protein, and synaptophysin have shown positive rates of 61%, 33%, 14%, and 3%, respectively. Smooth muscle actin reactivity was more common in the benign tumors (p = 0.046) and synaptophysin reactivity in the malignant tumors (p = 0.010). Univariate analysis showed that the following clinicopathologic factors were potentially related to poor survival of patients: (1) MC > 5/50 HPF (p = 0.0001); (2) severe pleomorphism (p = 0.0062); (3) necrosis (p = 0.0173); (4) marked cellularity (p = 0.0112); (5) presence of ulceration of overlying gastric mucosa (p = 0.0091); (6) tumor size > 5 cm (p = 0.0195); and (7) exogastric growth pattern (p = 0.0344). Tumors with MC > 5/50 HPF and size > 5 cm were found to be strong indicators of an unfavorable prognosis. The type of surgery and tumor site did not affect the prognosis of the patients.
11342785: !synaptophysin Pulmonary gangliocytic paraganglioma: case report and comparative immunohistochemical study of related neuroendocrine neoplasms. The authors report a case of gangliocytic paraganglioma of the lung, which has not yet been described in a pulmonary neoplasm. A 75-year-old man underwent right middle and lower lobe lobectomy. A slightly yellowish mass was located at the bifurcation between the lower and middle lobe bronchus, protruding into the truncus intermedius. The neoplastic cells were composed of three cellular elements: uniform endocrine cells in a Zellballen arrangement, large ganglion-like cells within the nests of endocrine cells, and spindle-shaped cells arranged in streams to surround the nests. Each component exhibited the characteristic immunohistochemical properties, which were similar to those of the corresponding neuroendocrine neoplasms: Endocrine cells were positive for CAM 5.2, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin, like carcinoid tumor; ganglion-like cells were positive only for neurofilament, like ganglioneuroma; and spindle-shaped cells were positive for neurofilament and S-100 protein, like paraganglioma. These results agreed with those in gangliocytic paraganglioma of the duodenum. Pulmonary gangliocytic paraganglioma is similar to that in the duodenum, and is a hamartomatous proliferation of epithelial endocrine and neuronal cells of the bronchus.
11342771: !synaptophysin Clear cell endocrine pancreatic tumor mimicking renal cell carcinoma: a distinctive neoplasm of von Hippel-Lindau disease. The dominantly inherited von Hippel-Lindau disease is characterized by clear cell neoplasms in various organs including the kidney and pancreas. Determination of primary versus metastatic lesion in this setting can be a diagnostic dilemma. The authors present five cases of clear cell endocrine pancreatic tumor (EPT) closely mimicking renal cell carcinomas in five patients with a family history or histologic evidence of von Hippel-Lindau disease. In fact, two of these tumors were confused with metastatic renal cell carcinoma by fine-needle aspiration. All five tumors had a component of clear cells arranged in nests, cords, and tubules with central hemorrhage separated by thin-wall vessels resembling renal cell carcinoma. However, these tumors also exhibited cords and festoons and a gyriform pattern suggestive of an endocrine neoplasm, and expressed chromogranin and synaptophysin. Vascular invasion was identified in four tumors, one of which metastasized. The concurrent primary renal cell carcinomas and the multicentric microcystic adenomas found in three patients did not show reactivity for the neuroendocrine markers. Focal clear cell change was noted in only one of 29 endocrine pancreatic tumors arising in patients without von Hippel-Lindau disease. Eleven metastatic renal cell carcinomas in the pancreas did not show immunoreactivity with the endocrine markers. Clear cell EPTs closely mimicking renal cell carcinoma are distinctive neoplasms of von Hippel-Lindau disease. In contrast to clear cell EPT, metastatic renal cell carcinoma does not express neuroendocrine markers and lacks neurosecretory granules by electron microscopy. Von Hippel-Lindau disease should be strongly suspected in patients with renal cell carcinoma, clear cell EPT, and multifocal microcystic serous adenomas.
11342769: !synaptophysin Dendritic cell neurofibroma with pseudorosettes: a report of 18 cases of a distinct and hitherto unrecognized neurofibroma variant. The authors present 18 cases of a hitherto unrecognized variant of cutaneous neurofibroma. The tumors presented in adults (10 occurred in men and eight occurred in women) as a solitary, well-circumscribed, superficial lesion located in the dermis measuring 3 to 17 mm (mean size, 6.2 mm). The tumors formed oval-shaped masses that ran perpendicular to the epidermis. In the deep part of the tumor there was multinodular arrangement with two types of cells: Type I cells were small, dark, lymphocyte-like cells with a slightly irregular nucleus and inconspicuous cytoplasm. Type II cells were larger, with pale-staining vesicular nuclei, with frequent invaginations and intranuclear inclusions, and had copious clear eosinophilic cytoplasm that formed a stellate growth pattern, which was poorly visible on hematoxylin and eosin staining. Type I cells were grouped concentrically around type II cells and formed pseudorosettes. Most of the type I and type II cells were S-100 protein and CD57 positive, and various proportions of both cell types were CD56 and PGP9.5 positive. All cells were chromogranin A, synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, cytokeratins, CD1a, CD21, CD31, alpha-smooth muscle actin, muscle-specific actin, desmin, and HMB-45 negative. CD34 stained intralesional fibroblasts. Antibody to epithelial membrane antigen stained only the perineurium around the tumor masses, suggesting that the tumors arose inside the nerve sheath. No signs of neurosecretory granules were present at ultrastructural level. None of the lesions recurred and none metastasized over a mean follow-up of 8.1 years.
11341965: !synaptophysin Establishment of variant PC12 subclones deficient in stimulation-secretion coupling. Clonal rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells have been widely used to study the molecular mechanism of exocytosis. We have isolated variant PC12 subclones with deficiencies in stimulation-secretion coupling, by a single cell recloning, and investigated the defects. PC12-1G2 hardly released dopamine following high-K(+)-induced depolarization, but normal release was evoked by the Ca(2+)-ionophore, ionomycin. Fura-2 fluorometry indicated that a nicardipine-sensitive component of Ca(2+) influx was missing, suggesting that PC12-1G2 has defects in L-type Ca(2+) channel function. PC12-2B3 was not responsive to high-K(+)-induced depolarization and ionomycin, and voltage-dependent Ca(2+) entry was identical to that of the normal clone. Electron microscopy revealed that the number of vesicles adjacent or directly attached to the plasma membrane was decreased in PC12-2B3. The expression of presynaptic proteins was analyzed by immunoblotting using a panel of antibodies. Syntaxin 1, VAMP-2, SNAP-25, Munc18, Rab3C and Sec-6 were decreased compared to the control clone and that of synaptophysin was extremely low. PC12-D60 synthesized and released dopamine normally, but had almost lost its catecholamine-uptake activity. These results show that multiple PC12 cells variants are spontaneously generated, and that recloning can select PC12 subclones useful for the study of the molecular mechanisms of neurotransmitter release.
11338071: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation is a relevant prognostic factor in stage III-IV colorectal cancer. To determine the prognostic relevance of neuroendocrine differentiation in colorectal cancer.
11334403: !synaptophysin Ca2+-dependent exocytosis of L-glutamate by alphaTC6, clonal mouse pancreatic alpha-cells. Pancreatic islet cells express receptors and transporters for L-glutamate and are thus believed to use L-glutamate as an intercellular signaling molecule. However, the mechanism by which L-glutamate appears in the islets is unknown. In the present study, we investigated whether L-glutamate is secreted through exocytosis by alphaTC6 cells (clonal mouse pancreatic alpha-cells). An appreciable amount of L-glutamate was released from cultured cells after the addition of KCl or A23187 in the presence of Ca2+ and 10 mmol/l glucose in the medium. The KCl-induced glutamate release was significantly reduced when assayed in the absence of Ca2+ or when the cells were pretreated with EGTA-AM. The KCl-induced Ca2+-dependent glutamate release was inhibited approximately 40% by voltage-gated Ca2+ channel blockers, such as nifedipine at 20 micromol/l. The degree of KCl-induced Ca2+-dependent glutamate release was correlated with an increase in intracellular [Ca2+], as monitored by fura-2 fluorescence. Botulinum neurotoxin type E inhibited 55% of the KCl-induced Ca2+-dependent glutamate release, followed by specific cleavage of 25 kDa synaptosomal-associated protein. Furthermore, bafilomycin A1, a specific inhibitor of vacuolar H+-ATPase, inhibited 40% of the KCl-induced Ca2+-dependent glutamate release. Immunoelectronmicroscopy with antibodies against synaptophysin, a marker for neuronal synaptic vesicles and endocrine synaptic-like microvesicles, revealed a large number of synaptophysin-positive clear vesicles in cells. Digitonin-permeabilized cells took up L-glutamate only in the presence of MgATP, which is sensitive to bafilomycin A1 or 3,5-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroxybenzylidene-malononitrile (a proton conductor) but insensitive to either oligomycin or vanadate. From these results, it was concluded that alphaTC6 cells accumulate L-glutamate in the synaptophysin-containing vesicles in an ATP-dependent manner and secrete it through a Ca2+-dependent exocytic mechanism. The Ca2+-dependent glutamate release was also triggered when cells were transferred in the medium containing 1 mmol/l glucose, suggesting that low glucose treatment stimulates the release of glutamate. Our results are consistent with the idea that L-glutamate is secreted by alpha-cells through Ca2+-dependent regulated exocytosis.
11333256: !synaptophysin D-Aspartate is stored in secretory granules and released through a Ca(2+)-dependent pathway in a subset of rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. D-Aspartate in mammalian neuronal and neuroendocrine cells is suggested to play a regulatory role(s) in the neuroendocrine function. Although D-aspartate is known to be released from neuroendocrine cells, the mechanism underlying the release is less understood. Rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells contain an appreciable amount of D-aspartate (257 +/- 31 pmol/10(7) cells). Indirect immunofluorescence microscopy with specific antibodies against d-aspartate indicated that the amino acid is present within a particulate structure, which is co-localized with dopamine and chromogranin A, markers for secretory granules, but not with synaptophysin, a marker for synaptic-like microvesicles. After sucrose density gradient centrifugation of the postnuclear particulate fraction, about 80% of the d-aspartate was recovered in the secretory granule fraction. Upon the addition of KCl, an appreciable amount of D-aspartate (about 40 pmol/10(7) cells at 10 min) was released from cultured cells on incubation in the presence of Ca(2+) in the medium. The addition of also triggered d-aspartate release. Botulinum neurotoxin type E inhibited about 40% of KCl- and Ca(2+)-dependent d-aspartate release followed by specific cleavage of 25-kDa synaptosomal-associated protein. alpha-Latrotoxin increased the intracellular [Ca(2+)] and caused the Ca(2+)-dependent d-aspartate release. Bafilomycin A1 dissipated the intracellular acidic regions and inhibited 40% of the Ca(2+)-dependent D-aspartate release. These properties are similar to those of the exocytosis of dopamine. Furthermore, digitonin-permeabilized cells took up radiolabeled d-aspartate depending on MgATP, which is sensitive to bafilomycin A1 or 3,5-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroxybenzylidene-malononitrile. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that d-aspartate is stored in secretory granules and then secreted through a Ca(2+)-dependent exocytotic mechanism. Exocytosis of D-aspartate further supports the role(s) of D-aspartate as a chemical transmitter in neuroendocrine cells.
11330862: !synaptophysin Lithium influences differentiation and tissue-specific gene expression of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells in vitro. The effects of lithium chloride (LiCl) on differentiation of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells were investigated in order to evaluate the ES cell test (EST) used in a European Union validation study for screening of embryotoxic agents in vitro. We show that LiCl inhibited concentration-dependently the differentiation of ES cells into cardiac and myogenic cells. Whereas the inhibition of cardiac differentiation by high concentrations of LiCl was obvious at day 5 + 5, decreased skeletal muscle cell differentiation was observed only at day 5 + 8. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analyses revealed significantly lower levels of mRNA encoding cardiac-specific alpha-myosin heavy chain and skeletal muscle-specific myoD. By morphological investigation, an influence of lithium on neuronal differentiation was not evident. However, mRNA levels of genes encoding synaptophysin and the 160 kDa neurofilament protein were increased by high LiCl concentrations, whereas mRNA levels of mash-1 and Engrailed-1 were decreased, suggesting a specific influence of lithium on neuronal differentiation. Furthermore, LiCl treatment resulted in a slight, but non-significant increase of beta-catenin levels in ES cell-derived embryoid bodies. Our results demonstrate that the ES cell test, EST may be suitable to detect inhibitory effects of test compounds especially on cardiac differentiation, whereas effects on neuronal cells would not be detected. Therefore, we propose that morphological analyses of cardiac differentiation alone are insufficient to detect embryotoxic effects. The assay of other cell lineages at different developmental stages, and expression analyses of tissue-specific genes should also be employed.
11328529: !synaptophysin Distribution of peripheral nerve terminals in the small and large intestine of congenital aganglionosis rats (Hirschsprung's disease rats). The congenital aganglionosis rat is considered to be an animal model of Hirschsprung's disease. The mutants had a long constricted segment (from distal ileum to rectum) below the dilated distal ileum. In the dilated region, synaptophysin-immunoreactivity (IR) was almost preserved in all layers of the intestinal wall. In the constricted distal ileum and oral proximal colon, synaptophysin-IR was scarce in all layers, including the circular and longitudinal muscle layers. In the anal proximal and distal colon, synaptophysin-IR was almost scarce in the circular muscle layer (CML). An ultrastructural study confirmed that almost no terminals were found in the CML of any regions of constricted intestine. Therefore, the CML in any region of a constricted segment, is presumed to be poor innervation. However, a few synaptophysin-IR were found in the longitudinal muscle layer (LML) of an anal part of a constricted segment. An ultrastructural study also confirmed that some terminals were observed in the LML of this segment. The present study suggested that denervated CML is related to the production of constricted segment, irrespective of the presence or absence of terminals in the LML.
11327301: !synaptophysin Dysplastic glioneuronal lesion arising in the cerebellum: a clinicopathological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. We describe a case of dysplastic glioneuronal lesion in the right cerebellar hemisphere. A 13-year-old boy presented with headache since 1998. He had no neurological deficits. The computerized tomograph (CT) scan showed prominent calcification, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a non-enhancing mass of 15 x 15 x 5 cm in the right cerebellar hemisphere. The mass had low intensity in T1- and high intensity in T2-weighted images. Histologically, the lesion was composed of poorly defined small to intermediate sized cells arranged in fibrillar background. Although few neuronal cells having large nuclei with small nucleoli were present, no ganglion cells could be seen. Immunohistochemically, these poorly defined cells were non-reactive to various glial and neuronal markers. However, GFAP, synaptophysin, neurofilament and vimentin-reactive intercellular matrix and few nonneoplastic GFAP-positive glial cells and neurofilament-positive neuronal cells were seen. A very low MIB-1-labelling index of less than 0.1% was noted. Ultrastructurally, two different populations of the cells were seen. A few neuronal cells were larger and had an oval nucleus with small nucleolus and cytoplasm containing various cytoplasmic organelles, Golgi apparatus, mitochondria, ribosomes, lipofuscin, rough endoplasmic reticulum, microtubules and neurofilaments. Many other cells had a scant cytoplasm and thus poorly defined. Cytoplasmic processes with axono-dendritic synapses and foci of bundles of intermediate filaments were present in the intercellular areas of the lesion. Based on these radiological, histological and ultrastructural findings of the lesion of low proliferative potential, we considered it dysplastic in nature.
11320664: !synaptophysin Development, characterization and therapy of a disseminated model of childhood neuroblastoma in SCID mice. To develop a highly reproducible model of disseminated childhood neuroblastoma in mice to allow secondary evaluation of therapeutics against microscopic disseminated disease.
11319762: !synaptophysin Growth and characterization of a cell line from a human primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin (Merkel cell carcinoma) in culture and as xenograft. The primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin or Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a skin tumor with aggressive biological behaviour. Experimental models for investigating the biological properties of the tumor are prerequisite for developing new therapeutic approaches. In this study, we report the establishment and characterisation of a cell line derived from the lymph-node metastasis of a patient with highly aggressive MCC. Merkel carcinoma cells (MCC-1) grew as floating aggregates in suspension cultures for more than two years and over 70 subcultures. The proliferation rate in suspension cultures was rather moderate with a population doubling time of 69 h. The immunocytochemical pattern of the cultured MCC-1 was similar to that of the original tumor with expression of cytokeratin 18, neuron-specific enolase, neurofilaments, and synaptophysin. In addition, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed presence of chromogranin A mRNA in the MCC-1 cell line. Furthermore, electron microscopy yielded the rare finding of neuroendocrine granules in the cytoplasm of the cultured cells. The cell line MCC-1 was able to form colonies in soft agar. Nude mice developed solid tumors with similar histology to the original tumor after subcutaneous and intravenous injections of cultured MCC-1, and malignant ascites was seen after intraperitoneal injection. Also, two MCC-1 sublines were established by reculturing cells from the xenografts grown in vivo and immunocytochemistry confirmed their neuroendocrine origin. The MCC-1 line may thus serve as a model for studying the biology and the metastatic potential of Merkel cell carcinoma.
11318897: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural examination is essential for diagnosis of papillary meningioma. Papillary meningioma is a rare meningeal tumour. To date only a few cases have been reported and their immunohistochemical features have not been fully documented.
11311972: !synaptophysin Biochemical evidence for localization of AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunits in the dendritic raft. A low density Triton-insoluble fraction with characteristic lipid composition was prepared from synaptic plasma membrane from the rat forebrain. The fraction was named dendritic raft based on its absence of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin, the presence of postsynaptic Glutamate receptor (GluR) subunits, and its resemblance to raft, caveolae-like structure. We found a differential distribution of NMDA-type and AMPA-type GluR subunits in the dendritic raft and postsynaptic density (PSD) fractions; the latter type GluR subunits were localized to the dendritic raft as well as PSD fraction, whereas the former type was mostly localized to the PSD fraction. We also found the differential distribution of the components of ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway to the dendritic raft and PSD fractions. Dendritic raft and PSD may possibly interact at the postsynaptic sites for efficient signal processing that is required for expression of synaptic plasticity.
11311807: !synaptophysin Treatment of the neuromuscular junction with 4-aminopyridine results in improved reinnervation following nerve injury in neonatal rats. During early postnatal development, nerve injury results in the death of a large proportion of motoneurones and poor recovery of muscle function. Our previous results have shown that premature enhancement of transmitter release from nerve terminals prevents the death of motoneurones following neonatal nerve injury. Whether this increase in motoneurone survival is reflected in an improvement in the reinnervation of muscle was studied here. The muscles in one hindlimb of newborn rats were treated with 4-aminopyridine. Three days later, the sciatic nerve was crushed in the treated leg. When the animals were seven, 14 and 21days of age, the soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles were removed and processed for GAP-43 (a 43-kDa growth-associated protein) and synaptophysin immunocytochemistry. Both GAP-43 and synaptophysin were expressed in normal soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles at seven days. Synaptophysin was still expressed at 14 days, but GAP-43 expression had declined. Following nerve injury at three days of age, there was no GAP-43 or synaptophysin immunoreactivity in nerve terminals at seven days. By 21 days, there were 17.3+/-2.1 GAP-43-positive terminals per section in the soleus and 17.7+/-1.4 in the extensor digitorum longus, with mean terminal areas of 47.5+/-3.3 and 49.8+/-2.6 microm(2), respectively. In animals in which nerve crush was preceded by 4-aminopyridine treatment, at 21 days there were 32.9+/-2.6 GAP-43-immunoreactive terminals in the soleus and 44.9+/-2.3 in the extensor digitorum longus, with a mean area of 122.7+/-6.6 microm(2) in the soleus and 136.2+/-9.7 microm(2) in the extensor digitorum longus. These results indicate that in muscles pretreated with 4-aminopyridine, prior to nerve crush at three days, there are significantly more terminals, which occupy a larger area than in untreated muscles. Thus, increasing transmitter release prior to nerve injury significantly improved the ability of axons to reinnervate muscle.
11304800: !synaptophysin A new rapid immunohistochemical staining technique using the EnVision antibody complex. Rapid immunohistochemical investigation, in addition to staining with hematoxylin and eosin, would be useful during intraoperative frozen section diagnosis in some cases. This study was undertaken to investigate whether the recently described EnVision system, a highly sensitive two-step immunohistochemical technique, could be modified for rapid immunostaining of frozen sections. Forty-five primary antibodies were tested on frozen sections from various different tissues. After fixation in acetone for 1 min and air-drying, the sections were incubated for 3 min each with the primary antibody, the EnVision complex (a large number of secondary antibodies and horseradish peroxidase coupled to a dextran backbone), and the chromogen (3,3'diaminobenzidine or 3-amino-9-ethylcarbazole). All reactions were carried out at 37C. Specific staining was seen with 38 antibodies (including HMB-45 and antibodies against keratin, vimentin, leukocyte common antigen, smooth muscle actin, synaptophysin, CD34, CD3, CD20, and prostate-specific antigen). A modification of the EnVision method allows the detection of a broad spectrum of antigens in frozen sections in less than 13 min. This method could be a useful new tool in frozen section diagnosis and research. (J Histochem Cytochem 49:623-630, 2001)
11303745: !synaptophysin Increased expression of synaptophysin and stathmin mRNAs after methamphetamine administration in rat brain. The rearrangement of neural networks associated with the behavioral sensitization induced by psychostimulants is poorly understood. We have investigated the effect of methamphetamine (METH) administration on the mRNA levels of three different classes of plasticity-related genes in the rat brain. The expression of synaptophysin mRNA increased 20-40% in the nucleus accumbens, prefrontal and temporal cortices, 1-24 h after acute METH administration, and that of stathmin mRNA increased about 20% in the prefrontal cortex 1 h later. They did not change after subchronic administration. The level of alpha-tubulin mRNA was constant. Therefore, synaptophysin and stathmin play an important role in the neural plastic changes involved in the early induction process of METH-induced sensitization, but not in the later maintenance process.
11301213: !synaptophysin Long-term changes in the distribution of galanin in dorsal root ganglia after sciatic or spinal nerve transection in rats. The neuropeptide galanin is upregulated in primary afferent and sympathetic neurones and might be involved in the development of sympathetic perineuronal baskets ("rings") following nerve injury. Galanin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and tyrosine hydroxylase have been examined immunohistochemically in dorsal root ganglia and associated roots at times up to one year after transection of either sciatic or L5 spinal nerves in adult rats. Small diameter somata containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (with or without galanin) were reduced in number, whereas galanin (and, at later times, calcitonin gene-related peptide) appeared in medium to large diameter cells after both types of lesion. Galanin also appeared in axons in grey rami and somata in lumbar paravertebral ganglia. Within dorsal root ganglia, galanin-positive axons formed perineuronal rings of two types: (i) smooth coiled axons surrounded small (< 30 microm diameter) somata from which they probably arose; these were rare after 12 weeks, particularly after a spinal nerve lesion; and (ii) varicose terminals encircled medium to large galanin-positive somata; some arose from brightly immunofluorescent somata nearby and took nearly a year to disappear. About 30% of varicose galanin-positive rings had associated calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive terminals (partly colocalized) whereas nearly 45% had associated tyrosine hydroxylase-positive terminals (partly colocalized). Synaptophysin was present in swollen axons and in some varicosities of all types. We conclude that, after peripheral nerve lesions, varicose perineuronal rings around large diameter dorsal root ganglion cells may be formed by axotomized primary afferent neurones (some containing calcitonin gene-related peptide) and sympathetic neurones, both of which contain upregulated galanin. Exocytosis from the varicosities may modify the excitability of mechanosensitive somata. Small galanin-positive somata disappear over several months after both lesions as calcitonin gene-related peptide reappears in medium to large neurones.
11300931: !synaptophysin Aberrant localization of the neuronal class III beta-tubulin in astrocytomas. The class III beta-tubulin isotype (betaIII) is widely regarded as a neuronal marker in development and neoplasia. In previous work, we have shown that the expression of betaIII in neuronal/neuroblastic tumors is differentiation dependent. In contrast, the aberrant localization of this isotype in certain nonneuronal neoplasms, such as epithelial neuroendocrine lung tumors, is associated with anaplastic potential.
11297321: !synaptophysin Cerebellar liponeurocytoma: immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of a case. The clinical, histopathological, and ultrastructural features of a cerebellar liponeurocytoma are reported. The tumor, a 3-cm mass localized in the right cerebellar hemisphere, was resected from a 61-year-old man clinically presenting with symptoms of intracranial hypertension. The lesion was composed of small, in some areas closely packed, medulloblastoma-like cells with prominent areas of lipidization phenomena. Moreover, mitoses, cellular atypia, and numerous vascular structures were focally observed. Glial and neuronal differentiation was immunohistochemically noted (glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin, neurofilaments, and neuron-specific enolase positivity). The p53 oncoprotein was detected in the majority of neoplastic cells and a moderate proliferation activity, evaluated by Mib-1 antibody, was focally appreciated. Ultrastructural study did not show evident neuritic processes, synapses, or dense core neuroendocrine granules. This cerebellar tumor previously called lipidized medulloblastoma and recently renamed cerebellar liponeurocytoma is considered an adult neoplasm with excellent prognosis histologically presenting prominent lipidized areas and, at the immunohistochemical and ultrastructural level, both glial and neuronal differentiation. The present study provides the first description of a less differentiated and histologically more aggressive form of this unusual tumor.
11295115: !synaptophysin The biochemical analysis of neurotransmitters in central neurocytomas. Central neurocytomas are rare benign intraventricular tumours composed of small round synaptophysin-positive cells, suggesting a neuronal origin of these tumour cells. Although past electron microscopic studies demonstrated synaptic vesicles in the synapse of central neurocytomas, the kinds of neurotransmitters in central neurocytomas have never been identified. In this study we analyzed neurotransmitters in an attempt to clarify the tumorigenesis of central neurocytomas. We studied frozen central neurocytoma specimens from four patients. The tissue levels of glutamate and GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) in the tumours were determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) using a selected ion monitoring method. The tissue levels of acetylcholine, choline, catecholamines and metabolites of catecholamines in the tumours were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography combined with electrochemical detection. Choline was found in extremely high concentration in all central neurocytomas when compared with levels in controls. In one central neurocytoma, GABA was found in extremely high concentration compared with controls. In all central neurocytomas, glutamate was found in lower or identical concentrations compared with controls. In all central neurocytomas and controls, dopamine and catecholamine concentrations were extremely low. These results indicated that the histogenesis of central neurocytomas begins with the subependymal stem cells, which have the potential to differentiate into cholinergic or GABA neurons.
11289203: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry of ultimobranchial thyroid carcinomas in seven slaughtered cows and one bull. Eight thyroid gland epithelial tumors were found in 7 cows and 1 bull in a retrospective study of thyroid gland lesions in slaughtered cattle. All tumors were classified as ultimobranchial thyroid carcinomas based on morphology and immunohistochemistry. All tumors consisted of solid sheets and nests of polygonal to oval epithelial cells, with more sparsely dispersed colloid-filled follicles. Connective tissue separating nests of epithelial cells varied from delicate fibrovascular stroma to dense collagenous stroma. Fusiform epithelial cells with rare neural fibers and ganglion cells were present in 1 tumor. Cells within solid areas of these tumors were immunoreactive for calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin. Colloid and follicle cells were immunoreactive for thyroglobulin. Few follicle cells also were reactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide. Neoplastic cells invaded the fibrous capsules in all 8 cattle. These tumors represented proliferation of a mixed population of undifferentiated cells, C cells, and thyroid follicular epithelial cells, presumably derived from the thyroid ultimobranchial bodies. These ultimobranchial carcinomas in slaughtered cattle are comparable to ultimobranchial tumors described in dairy bulls and the intermediate type of thyroid gland carcinomas (mixed thyroid medullary carcinomas) described in human beings.
11288145: !synaptophysin Adenosine triphosphate and diadenosine pentaphosphate induce [Ca(2+)](i) increase in rat basal ganglia aminergic terminals. Synaptosomal preparations from rat midbrain exhibit specific responses to both ATP and Ap(5)A, which stimulate a [Ca(2+)](i) increase in the presynaptic terminals via specific ionotropic receptors, termed P2X, and diadenosine polyphosphate receptors. Aminergic terminals from rat brain basal ganglia were characterized by immunocolocalization of synaptophysin and the vesicular monoamine transporter VMAT2 and represent 29% of the total. These aminergic terminals respond to ATP and/or Ap(5)A with an increase in the intrasynaptosomal calcium concentration as measured by a microfluorimetric technique. This technique, which allows single synaptic terminals to be studied, showed that roughly 8.2% +/- 1.6% of the aminergic terminals respond to ATP, 16.9% +/- 1.3% respond to Ap(5)A, 32.6% +/- 0.8% to both, and 42.3% +/- 1.5% of them have no response. Immunological studies performed with antibodies against ionotropic ATP receptor subunits showed positive labelling with anti-P2X(3) antibodies in 39% of the terminals. However, colocalization studies of VMAT and P2X(3) receptor subunit indicate that only 25% of the aminergic terminals also contain this receptor subtype. These results demonstrate that the aminergic terminals from the rat brain basal ganglia are to a large extent under the modulation of presynaptic nucleotide and dinucleotide receptors.
11279599: !synaptophysin Sensitive detection of rare cancer cells in sputum and peripheral blood samples of patients with lung cancer by preproGRP-specific RT-PCR. RT-PCR-based amplification of transcripts expressed in cancer but not in normal non-neoplastic cells is increasingly used for the sensitive detection of rare disseminated or exfoliated cancer cells to improve cancer staging and early detection protocols. However, these assays are frequently hampered by false-positive test results due to low-level transcription of the marker genes in normal cells. To overcome these limitations, target transcripts have to be identified that are tightly suppressed in normal non-neoplastic tissues, whereas they should be actively transcribed in the respective cancer cells. Here, we tested RT-PCR assays for 7 neuroendocrine marker transcripts including NCAM, PGP 9.5, gastrin, gastrin receptor, synaptophysin, preprogastrin-releasing peptide (preproGRP) and GRP-receptor to detect rare exfoliated tumor cells in peripheral venous blood and sputum samples from patients with lung cancer. Among these preproGRP RT-PCR was the only assay with which illegitimate transcription in blood or sputum samples from healthy donors or patients with unrelated diseases did not interfere. However, it reproducibly detected up to 10 small-cell lung cancer cells diluted in either 10 ml blood or 5 ml sputum samples. Single blood and sputum samples were collected directly before diagnostic bronchoscopy from 175 patients suspected to have lung cancer. Twenty-six of these had small-cell lung cancer (SCLC). Thereof, 13 patients (50%) tested positive in the blood sample and 5 of 23 patients (22%) tested positive in the sputum sample. Moreover, among 92 patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 25 patients (27%) had disseminated cancer cells in peripheral blood. Amplification of preproGRP transcripts from clinical samples is a sensitive and specific assay to detect disseminated or exfoliated lung cancer cells either in peripheral blood or sputum samples.
11280386: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the equine cecum. Ten cecal tumors were identified during the postmortem examination of seven horse carcasses at slaughter (one horse had three tumors). The multinodular and hemorrhagic tumors ranged from 1 to 10 cm in diameter and consisted of spindle cells arranged in thin, interconnected trabeculae that were often separated by sinuses filled with mucinous fluid, erythrocytes, and siderophages. Spindle cells of all tumors were immunopositive for vimentin, neuron-specific enolase, and c-kit protein but lacked reactivity with antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein, S100 protein, and desmin. In one tumor, spindle cells diffusely bound antibodies to synaptophysin. Most tumors contained focal reactivity to smooth muscle actin antibodies; one tumor reacted diffusely. Ultrastructurally, tumor cells were connected by desmosome-like structures and exhibited extended cell processes; some contained dense core neurosecretory granules. These equine stromal tumors appeared to share some characteristics with human gastrointestinal stromal tumors.
11279365: !synaptophysin Ipsilateral, ventral corticospinal tract of the adult rat: ultrastructure, myelination and synaptic connections. The corticospinal tract (CST) of the rat is a widely used model system in developmental, physiological, and regeneration studies. The CST of the rat consists of a main tract, that runs in the dorsomedial funiculus and several minor components. We have shown earlier that one of the minor components, the ipsilateral, ventral CST, projects all the way down the spinal cord in the adult rat and single fibers form large terminal arbors in their spinal target areas. Here we investigated its ultrastructure and compared it to that of CST fibers of the main tract. By the use of anterograde axonal tracing with biotin dextran-amine (BDA) and pre-embedding avidin-peroxidase histochemistry we investigated axon diameters and myelination using electron microscopy. Ipsilateral, ventral CST fibers were found to run in the ventral funiculus close to the midline. They were intermingled with heavily myelinated large diameter axons, presumably reticulospinal, vestibulospinal, or tectospinal fibers. Ipsilateral, ventral CST fibers were of small diameter (0.68 microm, +/-0.04) and about [frac34] of them were moderately myelinated (9.64 +/- 0.7 layers of myelin). Co-localization of a rhodamine-dextrane anterograde tracer with the presynaptic marker synaptophysin using confocal microscopy and electron microscopy revealed varicosities on terminal arborisations to be presynaptic boutons and clearly demonstrated contacts to neurons in intermediate laminae of the spinal cord at lumbar spinal levels. This study extends our earlier work indicating that the ipsilateral, ventral CST component of the adult rat is a morphologically complete CST component and may perform similar functions to the main CST component.
11279267: !synaptophysin Enrichment of N-methyl-D-aspartate NR1 splice variants and synaptic proteins in rat postsynaptic densities. Previous studies have suggested that the localization of the NMDA receptor NR1 subunit may be determined by the splice variant form of NR1 present. Functional studies have also supported selective targeting of NR2A and NR2B to synaptic and extrasynaptic populations, respectively. We set out to determine whether rat cortical and cerebellar NR1 splice variants and NR2 subunits are differentially localized to the postsynaptic density. Using western blot techniques, we measured the percentage of NR1 containing each cassette and the enrichment of the different cassettes and other proteins in the preparations. The results indicate that: (1) no single cassette of NR1 is differentially enriched in the postsynaptic densities and (2) the NR2A and NR2B subunits are similarly enriched at the synapse. The enrichment profiles of postsynaptic density-associated proteins demonstrated similar enrichment levels for postsynaptic density (PSD)-95, the NMDA receptor subunits, chapsyn-110, and the CaMKII alpha subunit. However, synaptophysin, SAP-102, and the GABA(A) receptor beta subunit exhibited lower enrichment levels compared to PSD-95. Additionally, cerebellar but not cortical PSDs exhibited significantly lower enrichment of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) GluR1. Thus, although postsynaptic densities are highly enriched in synaptic proteins, there appears to be no selective incorporation of specific NR1 splice variants or NR2 subunits into this structure.
11277572: !synaptophysin The distribution of neuronal calcium sensor-1 protein in the developing and adult rat retina. We have examined the distribution of the neuronal calcium-binding protein, neuronal calcium sensor 1 (NCS-1) in the developing and adult rat retina using subcellular fractionation of the rat retina and immunohistochemistry. NCS-1 immunoreactivity was situated primarily in the ganglion cells, a class of amacrine cells, and in the inner plexiform layer (IPL). During development, NCS-1 protein expression closely followed that of the synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, increasing dramatically in the IPL at postnatal day 3, the time when conventional synapses are formed in the retina. These findings suggest that NCS-1 plays a role in synaptogenesis in the retina and in synaptic transmission at conventional synapses but not ribbon synapses in the adult rat retina.
11268458: !synaptophysin Nerve contact with muscle component in neuromuscular hamartoma. Neuromuscular hamartoma is a very rare soft tissue tumor, of which only 20 cases have been reported previously. None of these reports has described the relation between hamartomatous skeletal muscle and nerve fibers in the tumor. We experienced a patient with neuromuscular hamartoma arising at the brachial plexus. In this tumor, the localization of synaptophysin (SYP), S-100 protein (SP), neuron-specific enolase (NSE) neurofilament protein (NFP) and myoglobin (MG) was immunohistochemically detected. The results showed that SYP and MG were diffusely localized in the hamartomatous muscle fibers, SP in the schwann cells, and NSE and NFP in the axons of the hamartomatous nerve. Therefore, it is suggested that in the neuromuscular hamartoma, the structure of the neuromuscular junction may be similar to that in the motor end-plate of the normal muscle, but it may not be functional, because the hamartomatous muscles could not contract by nerve stimulation.
11261817: !synaptophysin Small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the thymus complicated by Cushing's syndrome. Report of a 58-year-old woman with a 3-year history of hypertension. A 58-year-old woman with a history of Cushing's syndrome for three years presented with a mediastinal mass and received the diagnosis of small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the thymus invading the pericardium. On immunohistochemical study, the neoplastic cells reacted with antibodies against cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and ACTH. Clinicopathologic findings of this rare case of ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) syndrome are discussed with a literature review.
11261815: !synaptophysin Primary pulmonary primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET). A case report. We describe a rare case of a primary primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) in the lung of a 17-year-old girl. Grossly, the tumor, located in the right lower lobe, was relatively well-circumscribed and whitish to yellowish in color with scattered hemorrhagic necrosis. Microscopically, the tumor was composed of ovoid to polygonal cells with a high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio and relatively scant cytoplasm, arranged in solid sheets with intervening fine fibrovascular stroma. Immunohistochemically, the tumor was positive for the MIC2 gene product, whereas AE1/AE3, CAM5.2, and a variety of neuroendocrine markers such as chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and ProGRP, were negative. Three months after the lobectomy, recurrent tumors were noted in the mediastinum and right thoracic wall, and she died despite combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy. In this case cytogenetic analysis showed a hypertriploid karyotype with multiple numerical and structural chromosomal aberrations, but failed to disclose distinct evidence of translocation between chromosome 11 and 22. However, the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) demonstrated EWS/FLI-1 fusion transcripts, confirming the histopathologic diagnosis of PNET. This case indicates that the primary pulmonary PNET is a highly aggressive neoplasm occurring at a young age, and should prompt combined systemic chemotherapy, even though it is organ-confined.
11259122: !synaptophysin Differential expression and distribution of alpha-, beta-, and gamma-synuclein in the developing human substantia nigra. Although the functions of alpha-, beta-, and gamma-synuclein (alphaS, betaS, gammaS, respectively) are unknown, these synaptic proteins are implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) and related disorders. For example, alphaS forms Lewy bodies (LBs) in substantia nigra (SN) neurons of PD. However, since it is not known how these hallmark PD lesions contribute to the degeneration of SN neurons or what the normal function of alphaS is in SN neurons, we studied the developing human SN from 11 weeks gestational age (GA) to 16 years of age using immunohistochemistry and antibodies to alphaS, betaS, gammaS, other synaptic proteins, and tyrosine hydoxylase (TH). SN neurons expressed TH at 11 weeks GA and alphaS, betaS, and gammaS appeared initially at 15, 17, and 18 weeks GA, respectively. These synucleins first appeared in perikarya of SN neurons after synaptophysin, but about the same time as synaptotagmin and synaptobrevin. Redistribution of alphaS from perikarya to processes of SN neurons occurred by 18 weeks GA in parallel with synaptophysin, while betaS and synaptotagmin were redistributed similarly between 20 and 28 weeks GA and this also occurred with gammaS and synaptobrevin between 33 weeks GA and 9 months postnatal. These data suggest that alphaS, betaS, and gammaS may play a functional role in the development and maturation of SN neurons, but it remains to be determined how sequestration of alphaS as LBs in PD contributes to the degeneration of SN neurons.
11253140: !synaptophysin Solid and papillary epithelial neoplasm arising in heterotopic pancreatic tissue of the mesocolon. Solid and papillary epithelial neoplasm (SPEN) is an uncommon pancreatic tumour. Very rarely it has also been described outside the pancreas, usually arising from heterotopic pancreatic tissue. This report summarises all the published extrapancreatic SPENs and documents the sixth such case arising from heterotopic pancreatic tissue of the transverse mesocolon in a 15 year old girl.
11244960: !synaptophysin [A pathological study on the autotransplantation of monkey's cervical sympathetic ganglion into brain for the treatment of Parkinson's disease]. In order to find out evidences in explicating whether the transplanted ganglion cells can be kept surviving longer in the brain and to find out an ideal transplantation way for the surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease.
11244295: !synaptophysin A confocal microscopic study of synaptic inputs to gonadotropin-releasing hormone cells in mouse brain: regional differences and enhancement by estrogen. Even though the cells producing gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) are scattered in the basal forebrain, a large proportion of them is present in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT) and in the preoptic area. The present studies were undertaken to investigate whether there is any difference in the number of synaptic inputs between GnRH cells located in the OVLT and those located at more anterior levels of the brain. Immunohistochemical staining for the synaptic marker synaptophysin coupled with confocal microscopy was employed to analyze synaptic inputs to GnRH cells located at the two levels examined. The results indicate that GnRH cells in the OVLT region receive a greater number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive appositions as compared with those located in the anterior septum. This supports the existence of subsets among the GnRH cells located in the basal forebrain. The effect of estradiol on the number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive appositions onto GnRH cells was also studied. Treatment of ovariectomized mice with estradiol significantly enhanced the number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive appositions to GnRH cells located at both levels examined. Thus the effect of estrogen on GnRH cells may be mediated in part by changes in the number of synaptic contacts.
11241586: !synaptophysin Ginsenoside Rb1 and Rg1 improve spatial learning and increase hippocampal synaptophysin level in mice. We investigated the cognition enhancing effects of ginsenoside Rb1 and Rg1. Mice were trained in a Morris water maze following injection (i.p.) of Rb1 (1 mg/kg) or Rg1 (1 mg/kg) for 4 days. Both Rb1- and Rg1-injected mice showed enhanced spatial learning compared to control animals. The hippocampus, but not the frontal cortex, of treated mice contained higher density of a synaptic marker protein, synaptophysin, compared to control mice. Electrophysiological recordings in hippocampal slices revealed that Rb1 or Rg1 injection did not change the magnitude of paired-pulse facilitation or long-term potentiation. Our results suggest that Rb1 and Rg1 enhance spatial learning ability by increasing hippocampal synaptic density without changing plasticity of individual synapses.
11233297: !synaptophysin [Advanced findings on the molecular mechanisms for behavioral sensitization to psychostimulants]. Repeated administration of psychostimulants like methamphetamine and cocaine induce behavioral sensitization, which is recognized as an animal model for dependence and psychoses. Many previous studies have proved two major cascades play a crucial roles for molecular mechanisms underling sensitization. The first one is activation of D1 dopamine receptors by robust increase of dopamine release, followed by activation of adenylyl cyclase, increase of cyclic AMP, activation of protein kinase A (PKA) and phosphorylation of proteins by PKA. The second one is activation of NMDA receptor by enhanced release of glutamine, followed by increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration, formation of Ca2+/calmodulin complex, and phosphorylation of several proteins such as calcineurin, CaM-K II and nitric oxide synthase. Recent advanced findings on sensitization mechanisms were reviewed from three different aspects: 1) Studies using knockout mice offered quite amazing findings that D1DA-receptor-lacking mice or dopamine-transporter-lacking mice can develop sensitization and dependence, which were not consistent with the previously established hypotheses based on behavioral pharmacology. In addition, those data showed the important roles of vesicular monoamine transporter 2, 5HT1B receptors and delta FosB. 2) Research on neural-plasticity-related sensitization revealed the involvement of several molecules such as tissue plasminogen activator, arc (activity-regulated, cytoskeleton-associated), synaptophysin and stathmin. Increased expression of these genes may participate in the rearrangement of neural networks with synaptogenesis and expansion of dendrites 3) Trials to discover novel-genes-involved sensitization phenomenon using differential display or subtraction cloning found some candidate genes, mrt-1, NAC-1 and CART. Although in these areas are still in progress, accumulating findings will elucidate the details of the molecular mechanism of behavioral sensitization and dependence.
11231488: !synaptophysin Goblet cell carcinoids of the appendix: immunophenotype and ultrastructural study. Goblet cell carcinoids of the appendix are rare neoplasms with uncertain biological behavior.
11231287: !synaptophysin Resistance to induced apoptosis in the human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-SH in relation to neuronal differentiation. Role of Bcl-2 protein family. Much evidence suggests that apoptosis plays a crucial role in cell population homeostasis that depends on the expression of various genes implicated in the control of cell life and death. The sensitivity of human neuroblastoma cells SK-N-SH to undergo apoptosis induced by thapsigargin was examined. SK-N-SH were previously differentiated into neuronal cells by treatments with retinoic acid (RA), 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) which increases protein kinase C (PKC) activity, and staurosporine which decreases PKC activity. Neuronal differentiation was evaluated by gamma-enolase, microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2) and synaptophysin immunocytochemistry. The sensitivity of the cells to thapsigargin-induced apoptosis was evaluated by cell viability and nuclear fragmentation (Hoechst 33258) and compared with pro-(Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L)) and anti-apoptotic (Bax, Bak) protein expression of the Bcl-2 family. Cells treated with RA and PMA were more resistant to apoptosis than controls. Conversely, the cells treated with staurosporine were more susceptible to apoptosis. In parallel with morphological modifications, the expression of inhibitors and activators of apoptosis was directly dependent upon the differentiating agent used. Bcl-2 expression was strongly increased by PMA and drastically decreased by staurosporine as was Bcl-x(L) expression. Bax and Bak expression were not significantly modified. These results demonstrate that drugs that modulate PKC activity may induce a modification of Bcl-2 expression as well as resistance to the apoptotic process. Furthermore, the expression of Bcl-2 was reduced by toxin B from Clostridium difficile and, to a lesser extent, by wortmannin suggesting a role of small G-protein RhoA and PtdIns3 kinase in the control of Bcl-2 expression. Our data demonstrate a relationship between the continuous activation of PKC, the expression of Bcl-2 protein family and the resistance of differentiated SK-N-SH to apoptosis.
11223566: !synaptophysin [Congenital fetal neuroblastoma]. Neuroblastoma are pediatric tumors of neural crest origin, most often localized in adrenal glands and infrequently congenital. We report two fetal cases found at autopsy, performed at 24 and 28 weeks of gestation, respectively. The 24 week old fetus did not show any malformation; systematic histological analysis found neuroblastoma cells in both the adrenal glands and the retroperitoneal fat tissue. The 28 week old fetus was hydropic and exhibited a nodule (3 cm) in the posterior mediastinum, next to the thoracic spinal cord. This tumor responded to a neuroblastoma associated with small metastatic foci in the adrenal glands, the liver and the frontal brain cortex. The placenta was abnormally heavy and showed hemorrhagic and necrotic areas. Microscopically plugged clumps of neuroblastoma cells were found inside fetal vessels. Immunohistochemistry was employed in both cases and the cells showed immunoreactivity for NSE, NB 84, chromogranin, synaptophysin and neurofilaments, while desmin, MIC 2, and protein S-100 were negative. Congenital neuroblastomas are rare and, to our knowledge this is the thirteenth report of congenital neuroblastoma associated with placental metastasis.
11222996: !synaptophysin Dorsal horn lesion resulting from spinal root avulsion leads to the accumulation of stress-responsive proteins. The aim of this study was to demonstrate acute to subacute molecular episodes in the dorsal horn following root avulsion using immunohistochemical methods with the markers for synapses, astrocytes and such stress-responsive molecules as heat shock proteins (Hsps) and p38 MAP kinase (p38). Among them, Hsp27 was accumulated selectively in the injured substantia gelatinosa 24 h after avulsion injury. The localization of Hsp27 in astrocytes within the substantia gelatinosa was confirmed by the double immunofluorescence method using anti-Hsp27 antibody and either anti-synaptophysin antibody or anti-glutamine synthetase antibody and by immunoelectron microscopy for Hsp27. The pattern of Hsp27 expression subsequently changed from glial pattern to punctate pattern by 7 days. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed that the punctate pattern in the subacute stage corresponded to distal parts of the astrocytic processes. Hsp27 immunoreaction was decreased 21 days after root avulsion. In the distal axotomy model, Hsp27 was accumulated later in the ipsilateral dorsal horn in a punctate pattern from 7 days after the axotomy. Phosphorylation of p38 was detected in microglia in the dorsal horn following both avulsion and axotomy. Substance P was slightly decreased in the injured substantia gelatinosa in both the avulsion and axotomy models around 14-21 days. We conclude that Hsp27 is a useful marker for demonstrating dorsal horn lesions following avulsion injury and that avulsion injury may induce Hsp27 in the dorsal horn more rapidly than distal axotomy.
11215873: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry for intestinal ganglion cells and nerve fibers: aid in the diagnosis of Hirschsprung's disease. Hirschsprung's disease is a disease of congenital abnormalities characterized by absence of the enteric ganglion cell of the colon. To make a definite diagnosis, biopsy of the aganglionic zones of colon is required. A specimen from submucosal biopsy of the colon is very small and difficult to identify submucosal ganglion cells. Our study reports an immunohistochemical technique to detect submucosal ganglion cells. Six antineural markers, peripherin, cathepsin D, PGP 9.5, synaptophysin, chromogranin and S-100 protein, were used. The best antibody for the detection of submucosal ganglion cells in our study was peripherin. The additional measurement of nerve fiber caliber using S-100 protein staining is a valuable aid in the diagnosis of Hirschsprung's disease. It can be applied to the suction submucosal biopsy in a patient suspected of having Hirschsprung's disease, therefore, the complicated full thickness colonic and rectal biopsy can be avoided.
11213840: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical analysis of the proliferative activity of neuroendocrine tumors from various organs. Are there indications for a neuroendocrine tumor-carcinoma sequence? Small-cell neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs) of the prostate are believed not to derive from benign orthotopic NE epithelial cells. Instead, an origin from a putative stem cell is actually the most favored concept. Whether this concept can also be applied to neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) of other organs, especially whether there are indications for well-differentiated NET-NEC sequence, is subject of the present study. A double-labeling technique for the proliferation marker MIB-1 and the NE markers chromogranin A (ChrA) and synaptophysin (SNP) was used for the immunohistochemical analysis of 45 well-differentiated NETs, 16 well-differentiated (low-grade) NECs, and 63 high-grade NECs of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, appendix, colon, lung, prostate, and urinary bladder. The lowest proliferative activity was found in NETs (0.85% of tumor cells), and the highest activity was found in high-grade NECs (72.5%). The expression of ChrA was highest in NETs and lowest in high-grade NECs. None of the NETs and only sporadic cells in low-grade NECs showed double labeling (up to 0.05%). Up to 50% of the tumor cells in high-grade NECs were positive for MIB-1 and SNP. The percentage of double-labeled cells ranged between 0.9 and 39.6 (mean 9.7). No double-labeled cells were found in the normal epithelium adjacent to the tumors. Transitions from NET to NEC could not be observed. NETs and low-grade NECs differ in their proliferative activity from high-grade NECs, suggesting that they may arise from different precursor cell populations.
11208927: !synaptophysin Oxidative post-translational modifications of alpha-synuclein in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease. Structural and functional alterations of alpha-synuclein is a presumed culprit in the demise of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD). Alpha-synuclein mutations are found in familial but not in sporadic PD, raising the hypothesis that effects similar to those of familial PD-linked alpha-synuclein mutations may be achieved by oxidative post-translational modifications. Here, we show that wild-type alpha-synuclein is a selective target for nitration following peroxynitrite exposure of stably transfected HEK293 cells. Nitration of alpha-synuclein also occurs in the mouse striatum and ventral midbrain following administration of the parkinsonian neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Conversely, beta-synuclein and synaptophysin were not nitrated in MPTP-intoxicated mice. Our data demonstrate that alpha-synuclein is a target for tyrosine nitration, which, by disrupting its biophysical properties, may be relevant to the putative role of alpha-synuclein in the neurodegeneration associated with MPTP toxicity and with PD.
11208428: !synaptophysin Dendritic and cancer cells in the breast tumors--an immunohistochemical study: short communication. Normal and dysplastic mammary glands express immunocompetent S-100 protein positive dendritic cells (DCs), which are located in a regular pattern, in the suprabasal cell layer of the ducts and alveolar nodules. The epithelial cells, however, are S-100 protein negative. Since some breast cancers also express the S-100 protein, our aim was to check the diagnostic and prognostic value of the S-100 protein distribution combined with the tumor grade and expression of synaptophysin (Syn), chromogranin A (Chg A), c-erbB-2 oncoprotein and p53 protein in infiltrating and metastatic breast tumors. Applying immunohistochemical methods, we show in paraffin- or frozen breast tissue sections that in some cases of the infiltrating breast carcinomas, S-100 protein positive cells do not appear, whereas in other cases, either S-100 protein positive DCs are closely associated with cancer cells, or the cancer cells themselves stain positive to S-100 protein. However, we found no correlation between the S-100 protein expression and other investigated parameters.
11207941: !synaptophysin Increased synaptic input to gonadotropin releasing hormone cells in preoptic area grafts that support reproductive development in female hypogonadal mice. Ultrastructural studies have established that gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neuronal cell bodies receive sparse synaptic input compared to other neuronal cell types. In the present studies, immunocytochemistry for the presynaptic marker synaptophysin, coupled with confocal microscopy, was employed to evaluate whether there was a difference in synaptic input to GnRH cells within preoptic area grafts (hypogonadal, HPG; preoptic area, POA) in hypogonadal female mice that did or did not show ovarian development. GnRH cells in HPG/POA mice with ovarian development exhibited significantly higher numbers of synaptophysin immunoreactive (syn-IR) appositions as compared with HPG/POA mice without ovarian development. This suggests that synaptic input to the grafted GnRH cells is important for the correction of reproductive functions in HPG/POA mice. Following mating, Fos immunoreactivity was present in several GnRH cells in HPG mice with successful POA grafts, indicating the establishment of neuronal projections conveying somatosensory information to the GnRH cells in these mice. The presence of a higher number of syn-IR appositions to GnRH cells in the successful grafts supports this hypothesis.
11205744: !synaptophysin Differences in early and late responses between neurotrophin-stimulated trkA- and trkC-transfected SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Despite their sympathetic neuroblast origin, highly malignant neuroblastoma tumors and derived cell lines have no or low expression of the neurotrophin receptor genes, trkA and trkC. Expression of exogenous trkA in neuroblastoma cells restores their ability to differentiate in response to nerve growth factor (NGF). Here we show that stable expression of trkC in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells resulted in morphological and biochemical differentiation upon treatment with neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). To some extent, trkA- and trkC-transfected SH-SY5Y (SH-SY5Y/trkA and SH-SY5Y/trkC) cells resembled one another in terms of early signaling events and neuronal marker gene expression, but important differences were observed. Although induced Erk 1/2 and Akt/PKB phosphorylation was stronger in NT-3-stimulated SH-Y5Y/trkC cells, activation of the immediate-early genes tested was more prominent in NGF-treated SH-SY5Y/ trkA cells. In particular, c-fos was not induced in the SH-SY5Y/trkC cells. There were also phenotypic differences. The concentrations of norepinephrine, the major sympathetic neurotransmitter, and growth cone-located synaptophysin, a neurosecretory granule protein, were increased in NGF-treated SH-SY5Y/trkA but not in NT-3-treated SH-SY5Y/trkC cells. Our data suggest that NT-3/p145trkC and NGF/p140trkA signaling differ in some aspects in neuroblasoma cells, and that this may explain the phenotypic differences seen in the long-term neurotrophin-treated cells.
11202610: !synaptophysin Effects of S-nitroso-cysteine on proteins that regulate exocytosis in PC12 cells: inhibitory effects on translocation of synaptophysin and ADP-ribosylation of GTP-binding proteins. S-Nitroso-cysteine (SNC) inhibits Ca2+-induced noradrenaline (NA) release from PC12 cells. Since SNC stimulated Ca2+ mobilization from intracellular Ca2+ pools and SNC-induced inhibition of NA release was not washed-out, SNC may modify exocytosis-related proteins that overcome Ca2+ mobilization. In the present study, we investigated the effects of SNC on exocytosis-related proteins in PC12 cells. Ionomycin stimulated NA release and increased the immunoreactivity of synaptophysin in the cytosol fraction. A 25-kDa synaptosome-associated protein (SNAP-25), which localizes to plasma membranes and vesicles, increased in the cytosol fraction after stimulation. The increases in these proteins by ionomycin were inhibited in PC12 cells treated with 0.6 mM SNC. Synaptobrevin and synapsin-1 in the cytosol fraction, and syntaxin and 43 kDa growth-associated protein in the membrane fraction were not affected by ionomycin or SNC. Incubation of each protein with SNC did not affect antibody immunoreactivity. [32P]ADP-ribosylation of GTP-binding proteins (Gi/Go) by pertussis toxin, but not Gs by cholera toxin, was inhibited in SNC-treated PC12 cells and by co-addition of SNC to the assay mixture. These findings suggest that 1) SNC inhibits translocation of vesicles containing synaptophysin and SNAP-25, and 2) SNC reacts with cysteine residues in Gi/Go, causing inhibition of ADP-ribosylation by pertussis toxin.
11195091: !synaptophysin A primary culture system of rat olfactory bulb forming many synapses similar to intact ones and spontaneously generating synchronous intracellular calcium oscillations. Previously, several studies attempting to analyze olfactory functions using dissociated culture systems of the olfactory bulb (OB) have been reported. Reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses between secondary neurons (mitral/tufted cells) and interneurons (periglomerular/granule cells) are considered to play the most important role in signal processing in the OB. However, it is unclear whether these reciprocal synapses are formed in vitro in the same way as they are in the intact OB. Thus, we synaptologically investigated the nature of cultured OB neurons. These neurons from embryonic rats were classified into four groups based on the size of their somata and their glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) immunoreactivity. At 14 days in vitro, most of the neurons synchronously showed spontaneous intracellular Ca2+ oscillations that were reversibly inhibited by application of D-APV and CNQX. Moreover, the frequency of the oscillations decreased and their amplitude became larger following application of bicuculline. These results suggest functional glutamatergic synaptic coupling and inhibitory GABAergic synaptic modulation. Immunocytochemical staining revealed many dot-like products (puncta) that were immunoreactive to GAD as well as to synaptophysin surrounding the cultured neurons. These results strongly indicate the presence of GABAergic synapses. The existence of synaptic contacts in OB neuron cultures was also confirmed by electron microscopy. Two types of synapses, symmetrical and asymmetrical, were morphologically recognizable. Moreover, we could also identify peculiar synapses resembling the in vivo reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses. The use of these primary culture systems will facilitate the elucidation of mechanisms underlying olfactory functions.
11194941: !synaptophysin Prion protein expression in senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease. Prion protein (PrPC) is a glycolipid-anchored cell membrane sialoglycoprotein that localises in presynaptic membranes. Since synapses are vulnerable to Alzheimer's disease (AD), the present study examines PrPC expression in senile plaques, one of the major structural abnormalities in AD, by single- and double-labelling immunohistochemistry. Punctate PrPC immunoreactivity is found in diffuse plaques, whereas isolated large coarse PrPC-positive granules reminiscent of dystrophic neurites are observed in neuritic plaques. Finally, PrPC deposition also occurs as dense filamentous and amorphous precipitates in amyloid cores of senile plaques, but not in the walls of blood vessels with amyloid angiopathy. In contrast to PrPC, betaA4-amyloid immunoreactivity is preserved and even enhanced following incubation of the tissue sections with proteinase K prior to immunohistochemistry, thus indicating no PrPC and betaA4-amyloid cross-reactivity in dense amyloid cores of senile plaques. Punctate PrPC deposition in diffuse plaques is similar to that of synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle-associated protein, as already reported in other studies. Immunoprecipitation, electrophoresis and Western blot studies have shown that synaptophysin, amyloid precursor protein (APP) and betaA4 do not co-precipitate with PrP. These results suggest that synaptophysin, APP and betaA4 are likely not bound to PrP. PrPC accumulation in betaA4-amyloid dense cores may be the consequence of the release of PrP into the extracellular space. Whether PrPC accumulation in the extracellular space is the result of impaired endocytosis and subsequent hydrolysis in the endosomal compartment, in contrast to normal degradation of PrPC, resulting from or occurring in parallel to abnormal APP degradation, deserves further study.
11193481: !synaptophysin Primary neuroendocrine carcinoma with ganglion cell differentiation in a crural lymph node. A primary neuroendocrine carcinoma with ganglion cell differentiation is described in a crural lymph node. The patient, a 48-year-old woman, presented a palpable lymph node of the crural region in March 1994. Histologically, the lesion was composed mostly of small cells immunoreactive for cytokeratins, neuron specific enolase and synaptophysin. The small cells merged gradually with areas containing ganglion cells immersed in a fibrillar matrix resembling neuropil. Ganglion cells expressed neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, neurofilament proteins and S-100 protein. Moreover, a minority of them featured cytokeratin expression. Electron microscopy was performed in the small cell component. These cells featured attenuated desmosomes and electron dense granules with an average size of 120 nm within bundles of intermediate filaments. Clinically, no tumour was found elsewhere despite extensive work-up over the 76-month follow-up period. Although similarities with previous cases of primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of lymph node, ganglion cell differentiation has never been described.
11182086: !synaptophysin Assembling the presynaptic active zone: a characterization of an active one precursor vesicle. The active zone is a specialized region of the presynaptic plasma membrane where synaptic vesicles dock and fuse. In this study, we have investigated the cellular mechanism underlying the transport and recruitment of the active zone protein Piccolo into nascent synapses. Our results show that Piccolo is transported to nascent synapses on an approximately 80 nm dense core granulated vesicle together with other constituents of the active zone, including Bassoon, Syntaxin, SNAP-25, and N-cadherin, as well as chromogranin B. Components of synaptic vesicles, such as VAMP 2/synaptobrevin II, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, or proteins of the perisynaptic plasma membrane such as GABA transporter 1 (GAT1), were not present. These studies demonstrate that the presynaptic active zone is formed in part by the fusion of an active zone precursor vesicle with the presynaptic plasma membrane.
11181730: !synaptophysin A novel procedure for pre-embedding double immunogold-silver labeling at the ultrastructural level. Pre-embedding double immunogold-silver labeling using two ultrasmall gold conjugates has not been attempted previously because a means of distinguishing labels by conjugates of identical sizes was lacking. This study investigated the feasibility of creating a particle size segregation between two ultrasmall gold conjugates through sequential immunogold incubations and silver enhancements. Two primary antibodies, mouse anti-synaptophysin and rabbit anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), were used in the model system. Differentiation of the double labeling was achieved by incubating with one ultrasmall gold conjugate, followed by silver enhancement, and then incubating with the second ultrasmall gold conjugate, followed by additional silver enhancement. This resulted in two groups of silver-enhanced particles: smaller particles enhanced once and larger particles enhanced twice. Electron microscopic examination revealed two readily distinguished populations of gold-silver particles within the appropriate structures, with very little size overlap. The quality of the ultrastructure permitted identification of most subcellular organelles. This procedure provides for the first time a pre-embedding immunogold-silver labeling protocol that allows the precise subcellular co-localization of multiple antigens.
11181546: !synaptophysin Novel target sites for estrogen action in the dorsal hippocampus: an examination of synaptic proteins. Structural studies have shown that estrogens increase dendritic spine number in the dorsal CA1 field of rat hippocampus using Golgi impregnation as well as the number of dorsal CA1 synapses visualized via electron microscopy. The present study was carried out to further these findings by examining changes in the levels of pre- and postsynaptic proteins using radioimmunocytochemistry (RICC). In this study, 2 days of estradiol-benzoate treatment produced significant and comparable increases in synaptophysin, syntaxin, and spinophilin immunoreactivity (IR) in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus of ovariectomized female rats. For spinophilin, IR was also increased in the hilar region of the dentate gyrus as well as CA3. In all cases, the nonsteroidal estrogen antagonist CI628, which has been previously shown to block spine formation, inhibited the effects of estrogen. However, these protein differences were not detected in whole hippocampus using Western blots. These findings add to a growing body of evidence that estrogens increase synapses in the CA1 region of hippocampus along with changes in previously unidentified sites. These results also suggest that RICC is a rapid and sensitive method for examining molecular changes in synaptic profiles in anatomically distinct brain regions.
11176070: !synaptophysin Bilateral diffuse uveal melanocytic proliferation associated with extraocular cancers: review of a process particularly associated with gynecologic cancers. We reviewed cases of a paraneoplastic syndrome in which uveal melanocytes proliferated and led to blindness. Eighteen cases were derived from the literature, and two were taken from our institution. The average patient age at the time of the diagnosis was 63 years (range, 34-89 years). There were 13 women and 7 men. In approximately half of the cases, the ocular symptoms antedated those of the inciting tumor. Most of the inciting tumors were poorly differentiated carcinomas. The most common tumors were from the female genital tract (ovary and uterus) among the women patients and from the lung among the men. Tumors from the breast were rare (one possible case), and tumors of the prostate were conspicuously absent. All five inciting tumors whose histopathology was reviewed expressed neuron-specific enolase, but none prominently expressed antigens more specific for neuroendocrine carcinomas such as chromogranin or synaptophysin. It is our experience that many general pathologists are not aware of this unique paraneoplastic syndrome. Our report is the first to document a statistically significant association between this syndrome and gynecologic cancers.
11176064: !synaptophysin Sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma: immunohistochemical profile and lack of EBV association. The role of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in the development of sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma (SNUC) remains unresolved. Reports of EBV-positivity in SNUC may reflect inclusion of lymphoepithelioma-like carcinomas within this group. In addition, SNUC have been incompletely characterized immunohistochemically, and their undifferentiated appearance often requires such ancillary studies to aid in their distinction from other high-grade neoplasms. To address these two issues, 25 cases of SNUC diagnosed between the years 1983 and 1999 were selected from our files. EBER in situ hybridization (ISH) was performed on the paraffin-embedded tissue by using 3H-labeled EBER-1 RNA probes. Neoplasms with sufficient tissue (22 of 25) were evaluated immunohistochemically for Ki-67, p53, chromogranin, synaptophysin, placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP), CD99, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and latent membrane protein-1 (LMP-1). The median patient age was 58 years (range, 20-81 years), with a male-to-female ratio of approximately 3:1. The most common tumor location was the nasal cavity (18 cases), followed by the ethmoid and maxillary sinuses. Median survival was 18 months. All 25 tumors were negative for EBER-I by ISH. Ki-67 was negative in one case, 1+ in nine, 2+ in six, 3+ in five, and 4+ in one. P53 was negative in nine, 1+ in five, 2+ in two, 3+ in none, and 4+ in six. CD99 expression was strongly positive in 3 of 22 (14%) and completely negative in the remainder. Variably intense focal staining for EMA was present in 4 of 22 (18%). NSE faintly stained 4 of 22 (18%). Chromogranin, synaptophysin, PLAP, CEA, and LMP-1 were negative (0 of 22). Our results suggest that EBV does not play a role in the development of SNUC. Strict histologic criteria are necessary to avoid confusion with lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma or other high-grade malignancies in this region. The finding of occasional CD99-positive cases adds SNUC to the growing list of CD99-positive neoplasms.
11175337: !synaptophysin Tumorigenesis in transgenic mice in which the SV40 T antigen is driven by the brain-specific FGF1 promoter. Gene expression can be manipulated by the introduction of a hybrid gene formed by linking a highly tissue-specific regulatory element to a gene whose expression might be expected to alter cellular function. Previously, we have shown that the human FGF1 gene contains four distinct tissue-specific promoters. In an effort to perturb the programming of proliferation and differentiation in a subset of neural cells, we have produced transgenic mice bearing the brain-specific promoter of the human FGF1 gene joined to the SV40 immediate early gene, which encodes the large T antigen. The resulting mice, and offspring from four individual lines, developed brain tumors that originated in the pontine gray, just rostral to the fourth ventricle. Tumors were moderately vascularized, as demonstrated by staining with both hematoxylin and eosin and antibodies to three different endothelial cell markers, but vessels were histologically normal. Scattered tumor foci were present as early as postnatal day 26; and affected animals died between 5 - 8 months of age. In mature animals, tumors lacked terminal differentiation markers for astrocytes (glial fibrillary acidic protein) or neurons (synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase). However, they expressed high levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and vimentin, markers for proliferating cells. This immunophenotype is consistent with the tumor being at an early stage of differentiation. Therefore, these mice may provide a valuable tool for the study of tumorigenesis, replenishment and differentiation of neural stem cells.
11165366: !synaptophysin Characterization of a transformed rat retinal ganglion cell line. The purpose of the present study was to establish a rat retinal ganglion cell line by transformation of rat retinal cells. For this investigation, retinal cells were isolated from postnatal day 1 (PN1) rats and transformed with the psi2 E1A virus. In order to isolate retinal ganglion cells (RGC), single cell clones were chosen at random from the transformed cells. Expression of Thy-1 (a marker for RGC), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP, a positive marker for Muller cells), HPC-1/syntaxin (a marker for amacrine cells), 8A1 (a marker for horizontal and ganglion cells) and neurotrophins was studied using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry. One of the retinal cell clones, designated RGC-5, was positive for Thy-1, Brn-3C, Neuritin, NMDA receptor, GABA-B receptor, and synaptophysin expression and negative for GFAP, HPC-1, and 8A1, suggesting that it represented a putative RGC clone. The results of RT-PCR analysis were confirmed by immunocytochemistry for Thy-1 and GFAP. Upon further characterization by immunoblotting, the RGC-5 clone was positive for Thy-1, negative for GFAP, 8A1 and syntaxin. RGC 5 cells were also positive for the expression of neurotrophins and their cognate receptors. To establish the physiological relevance of RGC-5, the effects of serum/trophic factor deprivation and glutamate toxicity were analyzed to determine if these cells would undergo apoptosis. The protective effects of neurotrophins on RGC-5 after serum deprivation was also investigated. Apoptosis was studied by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated fluoresceinated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL). Serum deprivation resulted in apoptosis and supplementation with both BDNF and NT-4 in the growth media, protected the RGC-5 cells from undergoing apoptosis. On differentiation with succinyl concanavalin A (sConA), RGC-5 cells became sensitive to glutamate toxicity, which could be reversed by inclusion of ciplizone (MK801). In conclusion, a transformed rat retinal cell line, RGC-5, has certain characteristics of retinal ganglion cells based on Thy-1 and Brn-3C expression and its sensitivity to glutamate excitotoxicity and neurotrophin withdrawal. These cells may be valuable in understanding of retinal ganglion cell biology and physiology including in vitro manipulations in experimental models of glaucoma.
11164825: !synaptophysin Postganglionic, direct axo-axonal contacts on the splenic nerve. The splenic nerve is made up almost exclusively of adrenergic fibers. Consequently it was used as a model system in the study of autonomic sympathetic neurotransmission. The splenic nerve regulates the vasoconstriction and volume reduction of the spleen. Brain-immune interactions via modulation of the splenic nerve activity may regulate peripheral cellular immunity. An inhibition of noradrenaline release by alpha(2)-adrenoceptor activation has been reported. As we were interested in a structurally detailed distribution of synaptophysin, immunocytochemical methods were applied to splenic nerve axons. In 1 microm plastic sections a network of synaptophysin-positive varicosities could be observed all along the splenic nerve. They were also positive for dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and cytochrome b561. At the ultrastructural level the varicosities were seen to establish direct contact with the splenic axons. In normal morphology the varicosities revealed small synaptic vesicles and several dense granules. It is demonstrated that a network of direct symmetric contacts of adrenergic nature is present all along the nerve. These terminals may have an inhibitory effect on the splenic nerve activity via axonal receptors. This finding opens new perspectives for the study of the splenic nerve in general and more particularly for its role in the regulation of peripheral cellular immunity.
11164261: !synaptophysin Immunochemical assessment of neural visinin-like calcium-binding protein 3 expression in rat brain. Expression of neural visinin-like calcium-binding protein 3 (NVP3) was assessed by immunoblot and immunohistochemical analyses in rat brain. NVP3 was markedly expressed in the cerebellum, at a concentration of 9.5microM. On SDS-PAGE, native NVP3 migrated at 23kDa, identical to the recombinant myristoyl-form, but somewhat faster than the non-myristoyl-form. Both forms bound 3 moles of calcium. The myristoyl-form exhibited a cooperativity in binding calcium and calcium-dependent membrane-binding, but the non-myristoyl-form did not. At 3 months, NVP3 was primarily localized in the Purkinje cells, with intense staining in the cell bodies, dendrites and axons. The cerebellar granule cells and basal nuclear neurons were faintly stained. During development of the cerebellum, NVP3-positive Purkinje cells first appeared on post-natal day 14 (P14). The staining intensity then increased and plateaued on P28. Labeling showed a tendency to accumulate in the dendrites and nerve terminals in a fine granular pattern. During aging process, NVP3 levels decreased by 43% at 12 months and 68% at 24 months, while the levels of NVP1, synaptophysin and drebrin were preferentially preserved. These results suggest that NVP3 is involved in dendritic arborization and postsynaptic function in cerebellar Purkinje cells and that presynaptic nerve terminals are another functional site of the protein.
11163774: !synaptophysin Antipsychotic treatment induces alterations in dendrite- and spine-associated proteins in dopamine-rich areas of the primate cerebral cortex. Mounting evidence indicates that long-term treatment with antipsychotic medications can alter the morphology and connectivity of cellular processes in the cerebral cortex. The cytoskeleton plays an essential role in the maintenance of cellular morphology and is subject to regulation by intracellular pathways associated with neurotransmitter receptors targeted by antipsychotic drugs.
11162623: !synaptophysin Globular tail of myosin-V is bound to vamp/synaptobrevin. VAMP/synaptobrevin is one of a number of v-SNAREs involved in vesicular fusion events in neurons. In a previous report, VAMP was shown to form a complex with synaptophysin and myosin V, a motor protein based on the F-actin, and that myosin V was then released from the complex in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Here, we found that VAMP alone is bound to myosin V in a Ca(2+)-independent manner, and determined that the globular tail domain of myosin V is its binding site. The syntaxin-VAMP-myosin V formed in the presence of Ca(2+)/calmodulin (CaM). In the absence of CaM, only syntaxin-VAMP, or VAMP-myosin V complex was formed. Our results suggest that VAMP acts as a myosin V receptor on the vesicles and regulates formation of the complex.
11161615: !synaptophysin Long-term deficits following cerebral hypoxia-ischemia in four-week-old rats: correspondence between behavioral, histological, and magnetic resonance imaging assessments. We examined whether following a hypoxic-ischemic insult in young animals there are long-lasting functional deficits that correlate either to histological tissue damage or to potential compensatory plasticity changes. Four-week-old rats were subjected to an episode of cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (right carotid artery occlusion + 30 min of hypoxia) or a sham operation. In hypoxic-ischemic animals there were gross neurological deficits 1, 24, and 48 h postinsult with recovery by 1 week. Behavioral deficits were observed in both the acquisition and the performance of a response duration differentiation test and a fine motor control test (staircase test) 3 months after the hypoxia-ischemia. Functional magnetic resonance imaging studies demonstrated less activation in the sensory-motor cortex of hypoxic-ischemic animals in response to left vs right forepaw stimulation 4 months postinsult. Histological assessment delineated striatal, cortical, and hippocampal damage in the hypoxic-ischemic hemisphere and a reduction in cortical thickness, bilaterally. GFAP immunoreactivity was increased in injured striatum and cortex. Neurofilament heavy chain (NF200) immunoreactivity was normally most intense in white matter and decreased in areas of ipsilateral cortical damage. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was reduced around areas of infarction and somewhat increased in adjacent undamaged striatum and in layer IV of parietal cortex. The histological damage or chronic degenerative changes could account for much of the variance in functional outcome detected with sensitive behavioral tests so that overall the compensatory or plasticity changes evident within the juvenile brain are rather modest.
11160429: !synaptophysin Differential cellular and subcellular localization of ampa receptor-binding protein and glutamate receptor-interacting protein. Excitatory synaptic currents in the mammalian brain are typically mediated by the neurotransmitter glutamate, acting at AMPA receptors. We used immunocytochemistry to investigate the distribution of AMPA receptor-binding protein (ABP) in the cerebral neocortex. ABP was most prominent in pyramidal neurons, although it was also present (at lower levels) in interneurons. ABP and its putative binding partners, the GluR2/3 subunits of the AMPA receptor, exhibited prominent cellular colocalization. Under appropriate processing conditions, colocalization could also be documented in puncta, many of which could be recognized as dendritic spines. However, a sizable minority of GluR2/3-positive puncta were immunonegative for ABP. Because glutamate receptor-interacting protein (GRIP) may also anchor GluR2, we studied the relative distribution of ABP and GRIP. There was extensive colocalization of these two antigens at the cellular level, although GRIP, unlike ABP, was strongest in nonpyramidal neurons. Different parts of a single dendrite could stain selectively for ABP or GRIP. To further characterize this heterogeneity, we investigated punctate staining of neuropil using synaptophysin and the membrane tracer DiA to identify probable synapses. Some puncta were comparably positive for both ABP and GRIP, but the majority were strongly positive for one antigen and only weakly positive or immunonegative for the other. This heterogeneity could be seen even within adjacent spines of a single dendrite. These data suggest that ABP may act as a scaffold for AMPA receptors either in concert with or independently from GRIP.
11158248: !synaptophysin An antisense oligodeoxynucleotide targeted to chromaffin cell scinderin gene decreased scinderin levels and inhibited depolarization-induced cortical F-actin disassembly and exocytosis. Chromaffin cell secretion requires cortical F-actin disassembly and it has been suggested that scinderin, a Ca2+ dependent F-actin severing protein, controls cortical actin dynamics. An antisense oligodeoxynucleotide targeting the scinderin gene was used to decrease the expression of the protein and access its role in secretion. Treatment with 2 microM scinderin antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for 4 days produced a significant decrease in scinderin expression and its mRNA levels. The expression of gelsolin, another F-actin severing protein, was not affected. Scinderin decrease was accompanied by concomitant and parallel decreases in depolarization-evoked cortical F-actin disassembly and exocytosis. Similar treatment with a mismatched oligodeoxynucleotide produced no effects. Scinderin antisense oligodeoxynucleotide treatment was also a very effective inhibitor of exocytosis in digitonin-permeabilized cells stimulated with increasing concentrations of Ca2+. This ruled out scinderin antisense interference with stimulation-induced depolarization or Ca2+ channel activation. Scinderin antisense treatment decreased the maximum (B(max)) secretory response to Ca2+ without modifying the affinity (K(m)) of the cation for the exocytotic machinery. Moreover, the antisense treatment did not affect norepinephrine uptake or the expression of dopamine ss-hydroxylase, suggesting that the number and function of chromaffin vesicles was not modified. In addition, scinderin antisense treatment did not alter the expression of proteins involved in vesicle-plasma membrane fusion, such as synaptophysin, synaptotagmin or syntaxin, indicating a lack of effects on the fusion machinery components. These observations strongly suggest that scinderin is a key player in the events involved in the secretory process.
10755070: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin gene expression in schizophrenia. Investigation of synaptic pathology in the cerebral cortex. Decreased expression of proteins such as synaptophysin in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia is suggestive of synaptic pathology. However, the overall profile of changes is unclear.
10753308: !synaptophysin Immunolocalization of the cocaine- and antidepressant-sensitive l-norepinephrine transporter. Norepinephrine (NE) transporters (NETs) constitute the primary mechanism for inactivation of synaptically released NE, are targets for multiple antidepressants and psychostimulants, and have been reported to be deficient in affective and autonomic disorders. Although the regional distribution of NETs has been defined through synaptosomal transport and autoradiographic approaches, NET protein expression has yet to be characterized fully in the central nervous system (CNS). We identified a cytoplasmic NET epitope (amino acids 585-602) and corresponding antibody (43411) that permits cellular localization of endogenous NET expression in the CNS and periphery. In the adult rat brain, NET labeling was confined to noradrenergic neuronal somata, axons, and dendrites, including extensive arborizations within the hippocampus and cortex, but was absent from epinephrine- and dopamine-containing neurons. Intracerebroventricular anti-dopamine beta-hydroxylase/saporin, a treatment that destroys a majority of noradrenergic neurons and their projections, validated the specificity of the 43411 antibody. At the level of light microscopy, 43411 labeling colocalized with the axonal markers syntaxin, synaptophysin, and SNAP-25. Indirect immunofluorescence revealed a nonuniform pattern of NET expression along axons, particularly evident within sympathetic fibers of the vas deferens, reflecting a high degree of spatial organization of NE clearance. NET labeling in somata was intracellular and absent from plasma membranes. Among nonneuronal cells, glial cells lacked NET immunoreactivity, whereas CNS ependymal cells were an unexpected site of labeling. NET immunoreactivity was also evident in a subset of adrenal chromaffin cells where labeling appeared to be predominantly associated with intracellular vesicles. Initial ultrastructural evaluation via preembedding immunogold techniques also revealed substantial cytoplasmic NET immunoreactivity in axon terminals within the prelimbic prefrontal cortex, consistent with postulates of regulated trafficking controlling neurotransmitter clearance. NET visualization should be of significant benefit in evaluating neuronal injury resulting from chronic drug exposure and in disease states.
11153665: !synaptophysin Early brain injury in the SIV-macaque model of AIDS. To specify the type and severity of cellular damage in the central nervous system soon after infection and at later stages of disease in the SIV-macaque model of AIDS.
11148570: !synaptophysin Central neurocytomas express photoreceptor differentiation. Central neurocytomas are composed of mature neuronal elements, frequently arranged in rosettes similar to those present in pineocytomas. This suggests the possibility of similar patterns of differentiation, including photoreceptor differentiation. The authors analyzed the immunoreactivity of central neurocytomas for retinal S-antigen, neuronal, glial, and neuroendocrine markers.
11148351: !synaptophysin Histopathological variants of central neurocytoma: Report of 10 cases. Central neurocytoma is a rare neuronal tumor affecting young adults and usually located in the lateral ventricles. Post-operative prognosis is generally good. Histologically, central neurocytoma is composed of isomorphous small round or ovoid cells alternating with irregularly shaped patches of fibrillary matrix similar to the neuropile. In a series of 10 cases, two central neurocytomas were histologically "atypical" at first examination. One was intra-ventricular, and the second had an intra-parenchymatous juxta-ventricular location. Both were highly cellular with mitotic activity, and tumor necrosis was seen in one. Neuronal differentiation was assessed by synaptophysin immunoreactivity in all 10 cases and by ultrastructural examination in four, including the two "atypical" forms. Neuronal differentiation was less marked in these "atypical" forms, one also presenting focal GFAP immunoreactivity. The proliferative potential was determined by MIB-1 labeling index and compared with clinical outcome. The eight classical central neurocytomas had a MIB-1 labeling index < 2.3%, whereas the two "atypical" forms had a MIB-1 labeling index > 5.2% and both recurred. We think that there is a spectrum of small-cell neuronal tumors. The two extremes could be the central neurocytoma and the primary cerebral neuroblastoma, while the intermediate forms might be qualified as "atypical neurocytoma". In our series, the histological and immunohistochemical criteria of biological aggressiveness appeared to be high mitotic activity, tumor necrosis, loss of neuronal differentiation and high MIB-1 labelling index.
11148253: !synaptophysin Altered expression of synaptic proteins occurs early during progression of Alzheimer's disease. The expression levels of three synaptic proteins (synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and growth-associated protein 43 [GAP43]) in AD cases clinically classified by Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) score were analyzed. Compared with control subjects (CDR = 0), mild (early) AD (CDR = 0.5 to 1) cases had a 25% loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Levels of synaptotagmin and GAP43 were unchanged in mild AD, but cases with CDR of >1 had a progressive decrement in these synaptic proteins. Thus, synaptic injury in frontal cortex is an early event in AD.
11147593: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine-like differentiation in patients with pancreatic carcinoma. The accurate estimation of the rate and the clinicopathologic significance of neuroendocrine-like differentiation (NED) in patients with pancreatic carcinoma have not been studied in detail.
11142340: !synaptophysin New method for imaging innervation of the renal preglomerular vasculature. Alterations in hypertensive rats. To develop a new method for viewing adrenergic innervation along renal preglomerular vessels; to assess nerve densities and vascular lesions along arcuate arteries (ArcA), arcuate arterial branches (ArcB), and interlobular arteries (ILA) in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and in angiotensin II (AngII) and in N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) hypertensive rats.
11138979: !synaptophysin Isolation, maintenance, and characterization of human pancreatic islet tumor cells expressing vasoactive intestinal peptide. Tissue from a vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-secreting human tumor has been used to establish and characterize human neuroendocrine primary cell cultures from which permanent, clone-derived cell lines have been established. Viable cells were obtained by enzymatic and mechanical dissociation of freshly resected pancreatic islet tumor and hepatic metastatic tumor tissues. Aliquots of tumor cells were established ex vivo under culture conditions including porous substrata coated with type IV collagen and laminin and a low serum, hormonally defined culture medium. The small (<10 microm) rounded, grape-like cells had a very slow growth rate of doubling times estimated at several weeks or more. After several passages, morphologically uniform cells were derived that strongly expressed neuroendocrine markers of synaptophysin and synaptobrevin. Although chromogranin A and VIP had somewhat weaker expression, both demonstrated phorbol ester-stimulated secretion. The morphologic and secretory properties were maintained by the cells for nearly 2 years in culture. The establishment of this novel VIP-secreting human neuroendocrine cell line (HuNET) makes available a culture model with which to study a transformed version of this pancreatic islet cell type and offers approaches by which to establish islet tumor cell lines.
11137749: !synaptophysin Antenatal betamethasone treatment reduces synaptophysin immunoreactivity in presynaptic terminals in the fetal sheep brain. Knowledge of morphofunctional effects on the fetal brain induced by exogenous glucocorticoids is limited. Recently, we reported alterations of both the neuronal cytoskeleton and electrocortical function in the ovine fetal brain after antenatal betamethasone treatment in doses used in perinatal medicine. In the present study we examined whether these changes are accompanied by morphological alterations of synapses. Chronically instrumented fetal sheep at 0.87 of gestation were treated either with isotonic saline (n=7) or 10 microg/h betamethasone (n=7) over 48 h administered directly to the fetal jugular vein. Paraffin sections of the frontal neocortex, caudate putamen and hippocampus were stained with a monoclonal antibody against synaptophysin, a specific membrane protein of presynaptic vesicles and quantified morphometrically. Synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity (synaptophysin-LI) showed a widespread granular pattern in the neuropil. Betamethasone exposure reduced synaptophysin-LI in the frontal neocortex, caudate putamen and hippocampus by 46.9, 41.0 and 55.4%, respectively, (P<0.05) that was not accompanied by irreversible neuronal damage. These results suggest that clinical doses of betamethasone have acute effects on presynaptic terminals in the fetal sheep brain that could contribute to the altered complexity of electrocortical function that we have shown previously to occur following fetal exposure to betamethasone.
11135471: !synaptophysin Large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung: proposed criteria for cytologic diagnosis. The category of large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) of the lung, proposed to expand the traditional scheme of typical carcinoid, atypical carcinoid (AC), and small-cell carcinoma (SCC), based on histologic features, has not been defined in cytology. We attempt to describe LCNEC cytologically. Cytologic features in 16 histologically confirmed LCNECs in fine-needle aspiration biopsies, cell blocks, bronchial brushes, washes, and sputum specimens stained with Diff-Quik, Papanicolaou, hematoxylin-eosin, chromogranin, and synaptophysin were analyzed. Three poorly differentiated nonsmall-cell carcinomas, 4 SCCs, and 2 atypical carcinoids were studied similarly. Twenty specimens from 16 histologically confirmed cases of LCNEC with original cytologic diagnoses including high-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma, large-cell carcinoma, nonsmall-cell carcinoma, poorly differentiated carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, and SCC, were examined. Features included flattened three-dimensional clusters with peripheral palisading, moderate to large single cells with scant (alcohol-fixed) or moderate (air-dried) cytoplasm; and large, oval, or polygonal nuclei with irregular contours, thickened nuclear membranes, and finely or coarsely granular chromatin, showing some molding and crush artifact. Nucleoli were generally present, and occasionally prominent. Mitosis and necrosis were apparent. Neuroendocrine stains were applied to all specimens, with at least one marker, commonly synaptophysin, positive in 18/20 specimens. LCNEC can be diagnosed in cytologic material, using morphology confirmed by immunocytochemistry. Treatment can be offered on the basis of cytologic examination.
11131128: !synaptophysin Calbindin28kDa is specifically associated with extranuclear constituents of the dense particulate fraction. Recent attempts to understand the function of calbindin28kDa, a widely expressed calcium-binding protein, are confounded by uncertainties over its subcellular location. Using immunoblot analysis of rat brain subregions, we found that the proportion of particulate calbindin28kDa (24-43% of total) was independent of expression level and location. The association of calbindin28kDa with particulate structures appeared to be specific, since it persisted when soluble calbindin28kDa was sequestered by antibodies added before tissue disruption. Moreover, when exogenous calbindin28kDa was added during homogenisation of brain from calbindin28kDa-nullmutant mice, only 10% partitioned to the particulate fraction compared with 33% of endogenous calbindin28kDa in wildtype controls. Confocal microscopy showed that calbindin28kDa was predominantly extranuclear in all tissues analysed (i.e. various brain regions, isolated neurons, and dental enamel epithelium). Dual-label microscopy of neural dense particulate fractions confirmed the extranuclear location of calbindin28kDa and also showed that it partly colocalised with synaptosome and microtubule markers. Using sucrose step gradients, calbindin28kDa was separated from nuclei in parallel with synaptosome and endoplasmic reticulum markers. However, no association with the marker proteins (synaptophysin, ERp29, alpha/beta-tubulin) was detected by calbindin28kDa-immunoprecipitation analysis. Together these findings provide the first consistent picture that calbindin28kDa is located predominantly outside of the nucleus, irrespective of tissue type (neuronal vs. non-neuronal) and experimental approach (biochemical vs morphological). The evidence of a substantial, strong and specific association with insoluble cellular structures challenges the widely held view of calbindin28kDa as a mobile calcium buffer, and supports the existence of important alternative roles that involve target proteins.
11127734: !synaptophysin Cerebral primitive neuroectodermal tumor in an adult male. A case report. Primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) are very rare. Malignant tumors of the cerebrum in young individuals are composed predominantly of undifferentiated cells, with moderate differentiation along either neuronal or glial lines. To our knowledge, cerebral PNETs in adults are extraordinarily rare and have been reported in only 11 cases, with little cytologic documentation in the literature. The cytopathologic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features of cerebral PNET arising in an adult male are presented.
11127287: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural characteristics and synaptophysin immunohistochemistry of regenerating nerve growth cones following traumatic injury to rat peripheral nerve. Growth cones of regenerating nerves, following crush injury to the rat peripheral nerve system, were studied by electron microscopy and synaptophysin. Localization in the growth cones was revealed by immunohistochemistry at the ultrastructural level. Many regenerating growth cones grew along the Schwann-cell basal laminae tubes at the crushed site. These cones revealed an abundance of organelles, such as heterogenous vesicles and many mitochondria, and a scarcity of cytoskeletons, including microtubules and neurofilaments in the cytoplasm. The periphery of the growth cones (corresponding to the lamellipodia or filopodia of cultured neurons) contained rich electron-dense filamentous materials. Cellular protrusions, such as filopodia, were rarely seen. These growth cones exhibited intense immunoreactivity for synaptophysin by light microscopy. Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that immunoreactivity was distributed diffusely in the cytoplasm.
11126451: !synaptophysin Desmoplastic non-infantile ganglioglioma. Case report. Desmoplastic gangliogliomas are rare mixed glial and neuronal cerebral tumors, especially described in infants below 4 years of age but exceptional cases have been reported in young adults. These tumors are generally localised in parietal or temporal lobes, present as a large cystic lesion with peripheral contrast enhancement. They also have characteristic histological features: extensive desmoplasia and tumoral cells of variable size exhibiting immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features of glial and neuronal differentiation. Total surgical removal is sufficient for the treatment of these tumors and no radiotherapy or chemotherapy are indicated if complete resection is achieved. We report a case of desmoplastic ganglioglioma in a 19-year-old male. This tumor presented as a large parieto- temporal cystic lesion with rimmed contrast enhancement. At histological examination, this tumor exhibited extensive desmoplasia and comprised 2 types of tumoral cells: small cells with round nuclei, positive for NSE, neurofilaments and synaptophysin and sometimes presenting typical morphological features of neuronal differentiation, and large cells with abundant eosinophilic strongly staining for GFAP. This observation emphazises on the fact that desmoplastic ganglioglioma can no more be considered as a specific entity of infancy and must be well recognised even in young adults because it may be misdiagnosed as malignant glioma.
11112223: !synaptophysin Glioneuronal tumor with neuropil-like islands. Mixed glioneuronal neoplasms are relatively uncommon tumors in the central nervous system. Recently, an unusual glioneuronal tumor arising in adults marked histologically by neuropil-like islands was described. We present a similar case arising in a 23-year-old woman who presented with headaches and seizures and on imaging studies was noted to have a frontal-temporal lobe mass. The patient underwent partial resection of the tumor, which histologically resembled anaplastic astrocytoma, and received a course of radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Increasing seizure frequency and expanding size on neuroimaging prompted a re-excision of the tumor. The second resection was marked by islands of tissue resembling gray matter with slightly atypical neuronal and glial cells situated in the white matter. These islands stained positively with synaptophysin and did not stain with glial fibrillary acid protein. Mild vascular proliferation and moderate nuclear pleomorphism also characterized the tumor. Areas of necrosis were not noted. A MIB-1 labeling index of 18.1% was noted. P53 immunoreactivity was observed in approximately 40% of tumor cell nuclei. This lesion is felt to represent a clinically aggressive glioneuronal neoplasm with an unusual and distinctive histologic phenotype. HUM PATHOL 31:1435-1438.
11107168: !synaptophysin Isolation and characterization of substance P-containing dense core vesicles from rabbit optic nerve and termini. In neurons, neuropeptides and other synaptic components are transported down the axon to the synapse in vesicles using molecular motors of the kinesin family. In the synapse, these neuropeptides are found in dense core vesicles (DCVs), and, following calcium-mediated exocytosis, they interact with receptors on the target cell. We have developed a rapid, large-scale technique for purifying peptide-containing DCVs from specific nuclei in the central nervous system. By using differential velocity gradient and equilibrium gradient centrifugation, neuropeptide-containing DCVs can be separated by size and density from optic nerve (ON) and its termini, the lateral geniculate nuclei and the superior colliculi. Isolated DCVs contain neuropeptides (substance P and brain-derived neurotrophic factor), synaptic vesicle (SV) membrane proteins (SV2, synaptotagmins, synaptophysin, Rab3 and synaptobrevin), SV-associated proteins (alpha-synuclein), secretory markers for DCVs previously isolated (secretogranin II), and beta-amyloid precursor protein. By using electron microscopic techniques, DCV were also visualized and shown to be immunoreactive for neuropeptides, neurotrophins, and SV membrane proteins. Because of the interesting group of physiological and potentially pathophysiological proteins associated with these vesicles; this isolation procedure, applicable to other CNS nuclei, should represent an important research tool.
11106573: !synaptophysin Astroglial expression of human alpha(1)-antichymotrypsin enhances alzheimer-like pathology in amyloid protein precursor transgenic mice. Proteases and their inhibitors play key roles in physiological and pathological processes. Cerebral amyloid plaques are a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). They contain amyloid-ss (Ass) peptides in tight association with the serine protease inhibitor alpha(1)-antichymotrypsin.(1,2) However, it is unknown whether the increased expression of alpha(1)-antichymotrypsin found in AD brains counteracts or contributes to the disease. We used regulatory sequences of the glial fibrillary acidic protein gene(3) to express human alpha(1)-antichymotrypsin (hACT) in astrocytes of transgenic mice. These mice were crossed with transgenic mice that produce human amyloid protein precursors (hAPP) and Ass in neurons.(4,5) No amyloid plaques were found in transgenic mice expressing hACT alone, whereas hAPP transgenic mice and hAPP/hACT doubly transgenic mice developed typical AD-like amyloid plaques in the hippocampus and neocortex around 6 to 8 months of age. Co-expression of hAPP and hACT significantly increased the plaque burden at 7 to 8, 14, and 20 months. Both hAPP and hAPP/hACT mice showed significant decreases in synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals in the dentate gyrus, compared with nontransgenic littermates. Our results demonstrate that hACT acts as an amyloidogenic co-factor in vivo and suggest that the role of hACT in AD is pathogenic.
11100813: !synaptophysin Cutaneous epithelioid malignant nerve sheath tumor with rhabdoid features: a histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study of three cases. Malignant rhabdoid tumors are morphologically defined as sheets of loosely cohesive cells with eccentric nuclei and hyaline, paranuclear inclusions. Although originally described as a distinctive renal neoplasm of childhood, these tumors have since been described in all age groups and in a variety of extrarenal sites. In the latter setting, it is thought that the rhabdoid phenotype is comprised of histogenetically unrelated tumors, that regardless of histogenesis, pursue a biologically aggressive behavior.
11100065: !synaptophysin Papillary glioneuronal tumor. Tumors of mixed glioneuronal type are well recognized in the central nervous system. The most common examples of these lesions include gangliogliomas and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors. Recently, unusual examples of these lesions have been described, including the papillary glioneuronal tumor. This report describes a histologically similar-appearing lesion arising in the left parieto-occipital lobe of an 18-year-old man who presented with headaches and difficulties with vision. Imaging studies noted a large cystic neoplasm marked by a peripheral rim of enhancement. The patient underwent gross total resection of the tumor, which histologically was marked by a mixture of glial (glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive) and neural (synaptophysin-positive) components. Architecturally, the tumor was notable for a focal pseudopapillary pattern. Papillae were lined by predominantly glial cells, with intervening areas occupied by neurally differentiated cells. Mitotic activity, vascular proliferation, and necrosis were not noted. A MIB-1 labeling index of 1.1% was seen. p53 immunoreactivity was not observed. This report adds further evidence supporting the existence of this unusual mixed glioneuronal tumor of the central nervous system.
11087768: !synaptophysin The decline in synapses and cholinergic activity is asynchronous in Alzheimer's disease. To determine the timing of cholinergic loss and reduction of synapses in AD.
11086998: !synaptophysin Increasing numbers of synaptic puncta during late-phase LTP: N-cadherin is synthesized, recruited to synaptic sites, and required for potentiation. It is an open question whether new synapses form during hippocampal LTP. Here, we show that late-phase LTP (L-LTP) is associated with a significant increase in numbers of synaptic puncta identified by synaptophysin and N-cadherin, an adhesion protein involved in synapse formation during development. During potentiation, protein levels of N-cadherin are significantly elevated and N-cadherin dimerization is enhanced. The increases in synaptic number and N-cadherin levels are dependent on cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and protein synthesis, both of which are also required for L-LTP. Blocking N-cadherin adhesion prevents the induction of L-LTP, but not the early-phase of LTP (E-LTP). Our data suggest that N-cadherin is synthesized during the induction of L-LTP and recruited to newly forming synapses. N-cadherin may play a critical role in L-LTP by holding nascent pre-and postsynaptic membranes in apposition, enabling incipient synapses to acquire function and contribute to potentiation.
11084315: !synaptophysin Lipids, lipid modification and lipid-protein interaction in membrane budding and fission--insights from the roles of endophilin A1 and synaptophysin in synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Studies on the endocytosis of synaptic vesicles have provided two novel insights into the mechanism of vesicle formation from donor membranes, both of which concern lipids. One is the essential role of endophilin, a cytosolic protein converting lysophosphatidic acid by addition of the fatty acid arachidonate into phosphatidic acid. The other is the essential role of membrane cholesterol, which specifically interacts with synaptophysin, the major transmembrane protein of synaptic vesicles. These findings reveal novel modes of membrane lipid modification and lipid-protein interaction in vesicle biogenesis.
11083081: !synaptophysin So-called malignant and extra-ventricular neurocytomas: reality or wrong diagnosis? A critical review about two overdiagnosed cases. Central neurocytoma (CN) is described as a rare intra-ventricular benign neuronal tumor of the brain. Two primary tumors first diagnosed as malignant and extra-ventricular neurocytomas are reported here. Histologically, the tumor of the first patient, a forty-one-year-old man, consisted of monotonous cells with round nuclei, but no fibrillar background. The second tumor, in a nineteen-year-old girl, showed areas of moderately pleomorphic round cells, with numerous rosettes and ganglion cell differentiation, in an abundant fibrillary network. Both presented calcifications. Mitoses were more frequent in recurrences and spinal locations than in the primaries. All tumors stained strongly for synaptophysin, and GFAP was partly positive in the first case only. Patients received post-surgical radiotherapy and were still alive eight and six years, respectively, after initial surgery. The interpretation of atypical cases, such as ours is not easy: the diagnoses finally retained were oligodendroglioma in the first case and ganglioneuroblastoma in the second case. Furthermore, neurocytomas atypical either by their unusual topographical or histological presentation or by their poor prognosis, have been frequently entitled in this way on synaptophysin positivity. So, we were prompted to reassess the entity of CN, seventeen years after the first description, to re-appreciate the reality of anatomo-clinical variants and to discuss the value of synaptophysin positivity in these tumors. In conclusion, it seems preferable to individualize true classical CN, which has a favorable outcome, from so-called extra-ventricular, atypical and anaplastic, clinically malignant neurocytomas for which complementary treatment is required.
11081258: !synaptophysin Normal preoperative calcitonin levels do not always exclude medullary thyroid carcinoma in patients with large palpable thyroid masses. Medullary thyroid carcinoma (MCT) is a sporadic or familial tumor of the parafollicular or C-cells that secretes calcitonin. The sporadic form usually presents with a palpable thyroid nodule or cervical adenopathy, by which time basal calcitonin levels are almost always elevated. Without special stains, fine-needle biopsy may fail to detect MCT. Recently, several investigators have recommended routine measurement of serum calcitonin in patients with nodular thyroid diseases for the preoperative diagnosis of MCT. A 31-year-old woman had a large palpable MCT with normal calcitonin and carcinoembryonic antigen levels before surgery. Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) demonstrated atypical cells but was not diagnostic of MCT. Pathology revealed a 3 x 4.5 x 2.3 cm MCT. Immunochemical stains showed immunoreactivity for calcitonin and synaptophysin, but no immunoreactivity to thyroglobulin. Postoperative basal and pentagastrin-stimulated calcitonin levels have remained undetectable without evidence of recurrent cancer. We have evaluated six other patients with MCT that were palpable. They had preoperative calcitonin levels ranging from 322-50,032 pmol/L. This unique case of a woman with a 4.5-cm MCT and normal preoperative calcitonin levels, emphasizes the need for careful clinical evaluation and FNA biopsy in managing patients with nodular thyroid disease.
11080216: !synaptophysin Lithium ions Up-regulate mRNAs encoding dense-core vesicle proteins in nerve growth factor-differentiated PC12 cells. We recently reported that lithium ions induced an up-regulation of cysteine string protein (CSP) gene expression in nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells but not in undifferentiated cells. Concomitantly, expression of two other proteins of regulated secretory pathways, synaptophysin (SY) and SNAP-25, was unaffected by lithium. To assess further the specificity of this effect of lithium, we used cDNA arrays. Our data indicate that lithium ions increase the level of mRNA for proteins such as secretogranin II and vesicular monoamine transporter 1 that are preferentially associated with large densecore secretory vesicles (LDCVs) without affecting mRNAs for proteins predominantly affiliated with small synaptic-like vesicles, including the vesicular acetylcholine transporter and SY. This action of lithium is detected in NGF-differentiated PC12 cells but not in undifferentiated cells. These observations suggest that lithium ions modulate the turnover of LDCVs, and this may play a role in mediating the therapeutic action of lithium in manic-depressive illness.
11078024: !synaptophysin Oxidative stress and hypoxia-like injury cause Alzheimer-type molecular abnormalities in central nervous system neurons. Neuronal loss and neuritic/cytoskeletal lesions (synaptic disconnection and proliferation of dystrophic neurites) represent major dementia-associated abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study examined the role of oxidative stress as a factor contributing to both the cell death and neuritic degeneration cascades in AD. Primary neuron cultures were treated with H2O2 (9-90 microM) or desferrioxamine (2-25 microM) for 24 h and then analyzed for viability, mitochondrial mass, mitochondrial function, and pro-apoptosis and sprouting gene expression. H2O2 treatment causes free-radical injury and desferrioxamine causes hypoxia-type injury without free radical generation. The H2O2-treated cells exhibited sustained viability but neurite retraction, impaired mitochondrial function, increased levels of the pro-apoptosis gene product CD95/Fas, reduced expression of N2J1-immunoreactive neuronal thread protein and synaptophysin, and reduced distribution of mitochondria in neuritic processes. Desferrioxamine treatment resulted in dose-dependent neuronal loss associated with impaired mitochondrial function, proliferation of neurites, and reduced expression of GAP-43, which has a role in path-finding during neurite outgrowth. The results suggest that oxidative stress can cause neurodegeneration associated with enhanced susceptibility to apoptosis due to activation of pro-apoptosis genes, neurite retraction (synaptic disconnection), and impaired transport of mitochondria to cell processes where they are likely required for synaptic function. In contrast, hypoxia-type injury causes neuronal loss with proliferation of neurites (sprouting), impaired mitochondrial function, and reduced expression of molecules required to form and maintain synaptic connections. Since similar abnormalities occur in AD, both oxidative stress and hypoxic injury can contribute to AD neurodegeneration.
11077193: !synaptophysin Distribution of frequenin in the mouse inner ear during development, comparison with other calcium-binding proteins and synaptophysin. Frequenin is a calcium-binding protein previously implicated in the regulation of neurotransmission. We report its immunocytochemical detection in the mouse inner ear, in the adult, and during embryonic (E) and postnatal (P) development. The distribution of frequenin was compared with those of other calcium-binding proteins (calbindin, calretinin, parvalbumin) and synaptophysin. In the adult mouse inner ear, frequenin immunostaining was observed in the afferent neuronal systems (vestibular and cochlear neurons, their processes and endings) and in the vestibular and cochlear efferent nerve terminals. Frequenin colocalized with synaptophysin in well characterized presynaptic compartments, such as the vestibular and cochlear efferent endings, and in putative presynaptic compartments, such as the apical part of the vestibular calyces. Frequenin was not found in vestibular hair cells and in cochlear inner and outer hair cells. During development, frequenin immunoreactivity was first detected on E11 in the neurons of the statoacoustic ganglion. On E14, frequenin was detected in the afferent neurites innervating the vestibular sensory epithelium, along with synaptophysin. On E16, frequenin was detected in the afferent neurites below the inner hair cells in the organ of Corti. The timing of frequenin detection in vestibular and cochlear afferent neurites was consistent with their sequences of maturation, and was earlier than synaptogenesis. Thus in the inner ear, frequenin is a very early marker of differentiated and growing neurons and is present in presynaptic and postsynaptic compartments.
11075859: !synaptophysin Adrenal oncocytic pheochromocytoma. We report a case of adrenal oncoctyic pheochromocytoma in a 37-year-old woman. The patient presented with a 2-year history of an increase in abdominal girth. Computed tomographic studies revealed a large left adrenal mass, which was subsequently excised. Grossly, the tumor measured 17 x 14 x 8.5 cm, weighed 1,150 g, and had a solid, brown cut surface. Histologically, it consisted of large polygonal tumor cells containing eosinophilic granular cytoplasm and arranged in nesting, alveolar, and trabecular patterns. Electron microscopy revealed closely packed mitochondria and dense-core membrane-bound granules in almost all tumor cells. The latter were immunohistochemically positive for chromogranin, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament, serotonin, bombesin, ACTH, vimentin, desmin, S-100 protein, and cytokeratins, including AE1/3, CAM 5.2, cytokeratin 7, and cytokeratin 20. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of adrenal oncocytic pheochromocytoma confirmed by ultrastructural study. The immunoreactivity of this tumor adds several unusual features to the wide immunohistochemical spectrum of pheochromocytoma.
11075855: !synaptophysin Pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma consistently expresses thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1): a new clue to its histogenesis. The histogenesis of pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma has remained controversial despite extensive studies by many investigators. The availability of an antibody to thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1), which is expressed in type II pneumocytes and Clara cells, has prompted us to readdress this issue. Sixteen cases were immunostained with a panel of antibodies including TTF-1. The patients were predominantly women with an age range of 30 to 73 years (mean, 52 yrs). All tumors were solitary. The single male patient showed regional lymph node metastases, an unusual occurrence reported only once in the literature. All cases exhibited the classic histologic features, with variegated patterns. TTF-1 expression was observed in both the surface lining cells and the pale polygonal cells. The surface lining cells were epithelial membrane antigen (EMA)+ cytokeratin+ surfactant apoprotein A+, whereas the polygonal cells were EMA+ cytokeratin- surfactant apoprotein A-. The neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and chromogranin were both negative. The metastatic deposits in the lymph nodes comprised only polygonal cells and exhibited an EMA+ cytokeratin- surfactant apoprotein A- TTF- 1+ immunophenotype. These results suggest that pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma is an epithelial neoplasm derived from primitive respiratory epithelium or incompletely differentiated type II pneumocyte or Clara cell.
11075851: !synaptophysin Carcinoid tumors of the extrahepatic bile ducts: a study of seven cases. The authors report seven patients with carcinoid tumors of the extrahepatic bile ducts (EHBDs). All patients were women, with an average age at diagnosis of 49.8 years (range, 37-67 yrs). The most common presenting symptom was painless jaundice with or without pruritus. Although one patient had peptic ulcer disease before the onset of obstructive jaundice, none had systemic endocrine manifestations. These neoplasms were most often located in the common bile duct. Grossly, the carcinoid tumors were usually nodular and poorly demarcated, and ranged from 1.1 to 2.7 cm in size. Only one of the neoplasms was polypoid. Microscopically, the tumors had a trabecular or nesting pattern with occasional tubule formation, and were composed of relatively small cells with granular chromatin. All of the neoplasms expressed chromogranin and two expressed synaptophysin. Three expressed serotonin and two of the three were also immunoreactive for pancreatic polypeptide or somatostatin. Two tumors were focally positive for gastrin and one of these two tumors was also positive for serotonin and pancreatic polypeptide. All seven carcinoid tumors showed no immunoreactivity for p53, and assays for p53 loss of heterozygosity analysis were negative in two, suggesting that p53 mutations do not play a role in the pathogenesis of EHBD carcinoids. A mutation in codon 12 of K-ras was found in one carcinoid tumor whereas two of two showed immunoreactivity for Dpc4 protein. In view of the small number of carcinoids studied, the importance of these findings in the pathogenesis of these tumors is unclear. Ultrastructural examination of three of the tumors revealed numerous membrane-bound, round neurosecretory granules. Clinically, these lesions had an indolent course. Even in the presence of lymph node metastases (noted in two patients), all of the patients remained disease free 2 to 11 years (average follow up, 6.6 yrs) after segmental resection or pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple's procedure). Because carcinoid tumors of the EHBD are of low malignant potential, they should be separated from the more common adenocarcinomas in this location.
11074169: !synaptophysin Three-dimensional characterization of interior structures of exocytotic apertures of nerve cells using atomic force microscopy. We examined the interior structure of exocytotic apertures in synaptic vesicles of neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells using atomic force microscopy. The atomic force microscopy detected apertures of 50-100nm in diameter at various depths within the varicosities of these cells. We were also able to image a regular radial pattern on the wall and lump-like structures at the bottom of these apertures. In contrast, scanning electron microscopy could only detect the apertures but not the fine details of their interior. The cells examined here exhibited the same electrophysiological properties and expression of synaptophysin and syntaxin 1 as presynaptic terminals, as studied by various electrophysiological and imaging techniques. Our results indicate that atomic force microscopy allows three-dimensional viewing of the fine structures located inside exocytotic apertures in nerve cells.
11073944: !synaptophysin Borna disease virus persistent infection activates mitogen-activated protein kinase and blocks neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells. Persistence of Borna disease virus (BDV) in the central nervous system causes damage to specific neuronal populations. BDV is noncytopathic, and the mechanisms underlying neuronal pathology are not well understood. One hypothesis is that infection affects the response of neurons to factors that are crucial for their proliferation, differentiation, or survival. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the response of PC12 cells persistently infected with BDV to the neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF). PC12 is a neural crest-derived cell line that exhibits features of neuronal differentiation in response to NGF. We report that persistence of BDV led to a progressive change of phenotype of PC12 cells and blocked neurite outgrowth in response to NGF. Infection down-regulated the expression of synaptophysin and growth-associated protein-43, two molecules involved in neuronal plasticity, as well as the expression of the chromaffin-specific gene tyrosine hydroxylase. We showed that the block in response to NGF was due in part to the down-regulation of NGF receptors. Moreover, although BDV caused constitutive activation of the ERK1/2 pathway, activated ERKs were not translocated to the nucleus efficiently. These observations may account for the absence of neuronal differentiation of persistently infected PC12 cells treated with NGF.
11073810: !synaptophysin Prominent axonopathy and disruption of axonal transport in transgenic mice expressing human apolipoprotein E4 in neurons of brain and spinal cord. The epsilon 4 allele of the human apolipoprotein E gene (ApoE4) constitutes an important genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Recent experimental evidence suggests that human ApoE is expressed in neurons, in addition to being synthesized in glial cells. Moreover, brain regions in which neurons express ApoE seem to be most vulnerable to neurofibrillary pathology. The hypothesis that the expression pattern of human ApoE might be important for the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease was tested by generating transgenic mice that express human ApoE4 in neurons or in astrocytes of the central nervous system. Transgenic mice expressing human ApoE4 in neurons developed axonal degeneration and gliosis in brain and in spinal cord, resulting in reduced sensorimotor capacities. In these mice, axonal dilatations with accumulation of synaptophysin, neurofilaments, mitochondria, and vesicles were documented, suggesting impairment of axonal transport. In contrast, transgenic mice expressing human ApoE4 in astrocytes remained normal throughout life. These results suggest that expression of human ApoE in neurons of the central nervous system could contribute to impaired axonal transport and axonal degeneration. The possible contribution of hyperphosphorylation of protein Tau to the resulting phenotype is discussed.
11062365: !synaptophysin Difficulties in interpreting specimens after neoadjuvant hormonal therapy and radiation with illustration of neuroendocrine differentiation. Pattern and cellular changes attributable to neoadjuvant hormonal therapy (NHT) might cause the unwary pathologist to overgrade or fail to recognize a treated prostatic cancer. Overdiagnosis and overgrading of surgical resections and biopsies can be avoided if an appropriate history of therapy is conveyed with the surgical specimen and if the pathologist is aware of the altered morphology of prostatic cancer treated by NHT alone or NHT plus radiation. Study of three prostatectomy specimens with post-NHT predominance of neuroendocrine cells showed positive staining for prostate specific antigen (PSA) and prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP), as well as staining for chromogranin and synaptophysin in Paneth-like and small neuroendocrine cells. Difficult-to-interpret needle biopsies and transurethral resection (TUR) biopsies of prostate, where the urologic pathologist's suspicion of a radiation effect was confirmed by additional history, showed absence of the basal cell layer with 34 beta E12 keratin immunostaining in prostatic cancer glands, while basal cells were present in the nonneoplastic glands with radiation-induced atypia. Postradiation salvage prostatectomy specimens showed greater apoptosis after combined NHT and radiation than after radiation without NHT. Changes attributable to radiation and radiation plus NHT are illustrated.
11059802: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicle proteins and neuronal plasticity in adrenergic neurons. The neurons in the superior cervical ganglion are active in plasticity and re-modelling in order to adapt to requirements. However, so far, only a few studies dealing with synaptic vesicle related proteins during adaptive processes have been published. In the present paper, changes in content and expression of the synaptic vesicle related proteins in the neurons after decentralization (cutting the cervical sympathetic trunk) or axotomy (cutting the internal and external carotid nerves) were studied. Immunofluorescence studies were carried out using antibodies and antisera against integral membrane proteins, vesicle associated proteins, NPY, and the enzymes TH and PNMT. For colocalization studies, the sections were simultaneously double labelled. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was used for colocalization studies as well as for semi-quantification analysis, using the computer software. Westen blot analysis, in situ 3'-end DNA labelling, and in situ hybridization were also employed. After decentralization of the ganglia several of the synaptic vesicle proteins (synaptotagmin I, synaptophysin, SNAP-25, CLC and GAP-43) were increased in the iris nerve terminal network, but with different time patterns, while TH-immunoreactivity had clearly decreased. In the ganglia, these proteins had decreased at 1 day after decentralization, probably due to degeneration of the pre-ganglionic nerve fibres and terminals. At later intervals, these proteins, except SNAP-25, had increased in the nerve fibre bundles and re-appeared in nerve fibres outlining the principal neurons.
11056204: !synaptophysin Schwann cell-induced loss of synapses in the central nervous system. Synaptophysin immunostaining of areas of spinal gray matter occupied by radiation-induced intraspinal Schwann cells revealed a loss of immunoreactivity from the neuropil. In contrast, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was preserved on the somata and proximal dendrites of motor neurons. The present study extended these observations to the ultrastructural level and confirmed the absence not only of synapses but also of astrocytes and small- and medium-sized dendrites. These neural elements were abundant and appropriately organized in contiguous areas of irradiated neuropil not occupied by Schwann cells.
11054724: !synaptophysin Growth of nerve fibres into murine peritoneal adhesions. Adhesions in the peritoneal cavity have been implicated in the cause of intestinal obstruction and infertility, but their role in the aetiology of chronic pelvic pain is unclear. Nerves have been demonstrated in human pelvic adhesions, but the presence of pain-conducting fibres has not been established. The purpose of this study was to use an animal model to examine the growth of nerves during adhesion formation at various times following injury and to characterize the types of fibres present. Adhesions were generated in mice by injuring the surface of the caecum and adjacent abdominal wall, with apposition. At 1-8 weeks post-surgery, adhesions were processed and nerve fibres characterized histologically, immunohistochemically, and ultrastructurally. Peritoneal adhesions had consistently formed by 1 week after surgery and from 2 weeks onwards, all adhesions contained some nerve fibres which were synaptophysin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and substance P-immunoreactive, and were seen to originate from the caecum. By 4 weeks post-surgery, nerve fibres were found to originate from both the caecum and the abdominal wall, and as demonstrated by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, many traversed the entire adhesion. Ultrastructural analysis showed both myelinated and non-myelinated nerve fibres within the adhesion. This study provides the first direct evidence for the growth of sensory nerve fibres within abdominal visceral adhesions in a murine model and suggests that there may be nerve fibres involved in the conduction of pain stimuli.
11054686: !synaptophysin Synaptic proteins in rat taste bud cells: appearance in the Golgi apparatus and relationship to alpha-gustducin and the Lewis(b) and A antigens. Taste receptor cells are continuously replaced during the life of the animal, but many of their sensory axons respond primarily to stimuli belonging to a single taste quality. This suggests that a newly arising taste cell must form a synapse with an appropriate sensory axon, requiring cell recognition that is likely to be mediated by surface markers. As an approach to studying this process, we attempted to locate synapses by immunolabeling taste buds of rats for proteins involved in neurotransmitter release. In taste bud cells of vallate papillae and nasoincisor ducts, double-labeling experiments showed that syntaxin-1, SNAP-25, synaptobrevin, and synaptophysin colocalized with the Golgi marker beta COP in elongated cytoplasmic compartments that extended from the perinuclear region into apical and basal processes of the cells. Labeled cells were spindle-shaped, identifying them as light cells. Syntaxin-1 appeared only in taste cells, but SNAP-25, synaptobrevin, and synaptophysin were also seen in nerve fibers. The synaptic vesicle glycoprotein SV2 appeared only in nerve fibers. Taste cells of fungiform papillae did not show immunoreactivity for presynaptic proteins or Golgi markers, but axonal labeling was similar to that in other regions. Taste cells with alpha-gustducin could express either presynaptic proteins or the carbohydrate blood group antigen Lewis(b), but not both. Therefore, Lewis(b) and presynaptic proteins are not expressed during the same period in the life of a taste bud cell. Most taste cells expressing syntaxin-1 (82%) also expressed the A blood group antigen, whether or not they expressed alpha-gustducin.
11050112: !synaptophysin Developmental changes in synaptic AMPA and NMDA receptor distribution and AMPA receptor subunit composition in living hippocampal neurons. AMPA and NMDA receptors mediate most excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS. We have developed antibodies that recognize all AMPA or all NMDA receptor variants on the surface of living neurons. AMPA receptor variants were identified with a polyclonal antibody recognizing the conserved extracellular loop region of all four AMPA receptor subunits (GluR1-4, both flip and flop), whereas NMDA receptors were immunolabeled with a polyclonal antibody that binds to an extracellular N-terminal epitope of the NR1 subunit, common to all splice variants. In non-fixed brain sections these antibodies gave labeling patterns similar to autoradiographic distributions with particularly high levels in the hippocampus. Using these antibodies, in conjunction with GluR2-specific and synaptophysin antibodies, we have directly localized and quantified surface-expressed native AMPA and NMDA receptors on cultured living hippocampal neurons during development. Using a quantitative cell ELISA, a dramatic increase was observed in the surface expression of AMPA receptors, but not NMDA receptors, between 3 and 10 d in culture. Immunocytochemical analysis of hippocampal neurons between 3 and 20 d in vitro shows no change in the proportion of synapses expressing NMDA receptors (approximately 60%) but a dramatic increase (approximately 50%) in the proportion of them that also express AMPA receptors. Furthermore, over this period the proportion of AMPA receptor-positive synapses expressing the GluR2 subunit increased from approximately 67 to approximately 96%. These changes will dramatically alter the functional properties of hippocampal synapses.
11045681: !synaptophysin Spinal cord glioneuronal tumor with "rosetted" neuropil islands and meningeal dissemination: a case report. Distinctive glioneuronal tumors arising within the cerebrum and displaying neuropil-like islands and tumor cells immunoreactive for neuronal and glial antigens have recently been described. We report a similar tumor in the cervico-thoracic region of the spinal cord in a 44-year-old woman that recurred 1 year later with dissemination to the lumbar dura and cauda equina. The tumor was composed of "rosetted" neuropil islands displaying immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, whereas the intervening tumor cells were more fibrillar and immunoreactive for GFAP. The tumor cell nuclei immediately surrounding these neuropil islands were immunoreactive to the newly characterized neuronal marker, anti-Hu. While several cases of neurocytomas have been described in the spinal cord, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first example of a glioneuronal tumor with "rosetted" neuropil islands to be reported in the spinal cord.
11045570: !synaptophysin Attenuation of pulmonary neuroendocrine differentiation in mice lacking Clara cell secretory protein. During development and injury, pulmonary neuroendocrine (NE) cells may transiently express Clara cell 10 kD protein (CC10), a major product of the nonciliated progenitor cells for normal and neoplastic airway epithelia suggesting a close relationship between the cells. To assess the role of CC10 during NE differentiation, we studied CC10-deficient mouse lungs by immunohistochemistry and digital imaging. The knockout model revealed a lack of the disrupted gene product in the lung. Because NE cells, which occur as solitary cells or in neuroepithelial bodies (NEBS), comprise less than 1% of airway epithelia, we counted foci positive for each of the three NE markers--synaptophysin, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and protein gene product (PGP) 9.5--and developed a method to analyze numerous airways in serial sections. Digitized images of slides were segmented with Photoshop imaging software. The length of airway epithelium and total section areas were then measured using MetaMorph image analysis software. A comparable range of NE foci was observed regardless of CC10 expression patterns with all three markers, suggesting that CC10 is not critical for NE ontogenesis. However, discrimination according to size revealed that wild-type lungs harbored 30% to 40% greater synaptophysin- and CGRP-containing NEBs relative to CC10 deficient lungs. We posit that an attenuation of pulmonary NE differentiation afflicts the CC10-deficient state. Our imaging application greatly facilitates the acquisition and analysis of complex structures such as the lung and promises to be a widely applicable technique for assessments of tissue sections.
11045350: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the orbit in a 5-year-old girl with microphthalmia. To report an orbital, intraconal, primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) in a 5-year-old child with microphthalmia since birth.
11044753: !synaptophysin Alpha and beta nicotinic acetylcholine receptors subunits and synaptophysin in putamen from Parkinson's disease. It is well established that nicotinic receptors in the mammalian striatum are involved in modulation of the release of several neurotransmitters, including dopamine. In addition, nicotinic receptors with high affinity for agonists have generally been found to be reduced in the striatum in Parkinson's disease. In the present study antibodies have been used to examine which subunits contribute to the striatal nicotinic receptor loss in Parkinson's disease, and whether the reduction in [(3)H]nicotine binding correlates with synaptic loss. Autopsy tissue from the putamen of 12 Parkinson's disease cases and 12 age-matched control subjects was analysed by immunoblotting using antibodies against recombinant peptides specific for alpha3, alpha4, alpha7, beta2 and beta4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits and the synaptic marker synaptophysin, in conjunction with assessment of [(3)H]nicotine binding by autoradiography. The data indicate that there is no loss of alpha3, alpha4, alpha7 and beta2 immunoreactivity in the putamen in Parkinson's disease, despite a highly significant reduction in [(3)H]nicotine binding. An intense signal of beta4 immunoreactivity was found in human dorsal root ganglia, but not in temporal cortex or putamen samples. Synaptophysin immunoreactivities were also similar in Parkinson's disease and control cases. These results suggest that the loss of nicotine binding in the putamen in Parkinson's disease may involve an nAChR subunit (e.g., alpha5 and/or alpha6) other than those investigated. Alternatively, the results could reflect impaired subunit assembly at the plasma membrane.
11043973: !synaptophysin Intrasellar neuronal hamartoma associated with pituitary adenoma. Case report. 46-year-old acromegalic women presenting high level of growth hormone (32 ng/ml) in the serum underwent surgery. The intrasellar tumor, 16 mm in diameter, has been removed. The biopsy material consisted of two types of closely adjacent and intermingled tissues, one of which was growth hormone positive acidophilic adenoma, the second component were haphazardly oriented ganglion cells of various size and shape, also multinuclear, with bundles of unmyelinated fibers. The cytoplasm and processes of ganglion cells were immunopositive for neurofilaments and for synaptophysin on cellular membranes and processes. There were none glial fibrillary acidic protein positive cellular elements. The authors discuss commonly used name of choristoma for this type of tumor and the problem of possible neurosecretory stimulation of pituitary adenoma by neuronal hamartoma.
11043906: !synaptophysin Changes in mint1, a novel synaptic protein, after transient global ischemia in mouse hippocampus. Mints (munc18-interacting proteins) are novel multimodular adapter proteins in membrane transport and organization. Mint1, a neuronal isoform, is involved in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Its potential effects on development of ischemic damage to neurons have not yet been evaluated. The authors examined changes in mint1 and other synaptic proteins by immunohistochemistry after transient global ischemia in mouse hippocampus. In sham-ischemic mice, immunoreactivity for mint1 was rich in fibers projecting from the entorhinal cortex to the hippocampus and in the mossy fibers linking the granule cells of the dentate gyrus to CA3 pyramidal neurons. Munc18-1, a binding partner of mint1, was distributed uniformly throughout the hippocampus, and synaptophysin 2, a synaptic vesicle protein, was localized mainly in mossy fibers. After transient global ischemia, mint1 immunoreactivity in mossy fibers was dramatically decreased at 1 day of reperfusion but actually showed enhancement at 3 days. However, munc18-1 and synaptophysin 2 were substantially expressed in the same region throughout the reperfusion period. These findings suggest that mint1 participates in neuronal transmission along the excitatory pathway linking the entorhinal cortex to CA3 in the hippocampus. Because mint1 was transiently decreased in the mossy fiber projection after ischemia, functional impairment of neuronal transmission in the projection from the dentate gyrus to CA3 pyramidal neurons might be involved in delayed neuronal death.
11038663: !synaptophysin [Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma with neuroendocrine differentiation]. We describe a case of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma with neuroendocrine differentiation. The tumor occurred in subcutaneous tissue of the right popliteal region in a 50-year-old man. It measured 5 cm in diameter, was well circumscribed, lobular and gelatinous, and lacked any necrosis or hemorrhage. Histologically, the tumor structure was a typical of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma. The lesion was lobulated and contained small to medium-sized chondroblast-like cells with ovoid hyperchromatic nuclei and without prominent nucleoli. The cells created cords and nests and showed focally a perivascular rosette-like arrangement. A few of the tumor cells were spindle shaped. The myxoid matrix was stained with alcian blue and this reaction was resistant to prior treatment with hyaluronidase. PAS-positive glycogen was found in the cytoplasm of some tumor cells. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were diffusely positive for neuron specific enolase, monoclonal synaptophysin and vimentin. Following antibodies gave negative results: desmin, actins, S-100 protein, pancytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, chromogranin A, neurofilament protein, myelinic basic protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein. The patient is well four years after the wide excision of tumor and radiotherapy. Neuroendocrine differentiation in extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma was described at first by Chhieng et al. in 1998 (1). Our observation confirms this interesting finding.
11035570: !synaptophysin Neuronal hypertrophy in acute appendicitis. The pathogenesis of appendicitis remains poorly understood. However, there is increasing evidence of involvement of the enteric nervous system in immune regulation and in inflammatory responses. This study was set up to characterize the status of the enteric nervous system in normal and in inflamed appendixes.
11030210: !synaptophysin Two cases of atypical carcinoid of the thymus. We describe two cases of atypical carcinoid of the thymus. One was an 82-year-old woman with complaints of nonproductive cough and back pain, and the other a 64-year-old woman with no symptoms. Computed tomography scans of the chest in both cases revealed a large mass in the anterior mediastinum. Multiple metastases to bone and liver were also noted in the former case. Histological examination of their tumors revealed that the tumor cells were arranged in a nested, trabecular, or pseudorosette pattern, with increased numbers of mitoses, nuclear pleomorphism, and presence of necrosis. In addition, immunohistochemically, the cells stained for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and chromogranin A. Combination chemotherapy consisting of carboplatin and etoposide was performed as initial chemotherapy in the former case and as adjuvant therapy in the latter. The former patient achieved a short-term partial response. It is important to differentiate atypical carcinoid from other thymic tumors, since such tumors including thymoma have a much better prognosis than does atypical carcinoid.
11029789: !synaptophysin A case of breast cancer with endocrine features. Cancer with endocrine features rarely occurs in the breast. We report a case of breast cancer with endocrine features in an 80-year-old woman. The tumors were treated by wide excision and a postoperative histopathologic diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast with endocrine features was made. Immunostaining was positive for chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, but weakly argyrophilic. Widespread metastases occurred two months postoperatively, and the patient died of breast cancer 6 months after the first treatment
11029621: !synaptophysin Developmental regulation of neurogenesis in the pluripotent human embryonal carcinoma cell line NTERA-2. Embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells provide a caricature of pluripotent embryonic stem (ES) cells and may be used as surrogates for investigating the mechanisms that regulate cell differentiation during embryonic development. NTERA-2 is a human EC cell line that differentiates in response to retinoic acid yielding cells that include terminally differentiated neurons. The expression of genes known to be involved in the formation of the vertebrate nervous system was examined during retinoic acid-induced NTERA-2 differentiation. Differentiation of these human EC cells into neurons could be divided into three sequential phases. During phase 1, in the first week of differentiation, hath1 mRNA showed a small transient increase that correlated with the rapid accumulation of nestin message, a marker of neuroprogenitors. Transcripts of nestin were quickly downregulated during phase 2 as expression of neuroD1, characteristic of neuroprogenitors exiting the cell cycle, was induced. A neural cell surface antigen, detected by the monoclonal antibody A2B5, was expressed by cells exiting the cell cycle, correlating with the expression of neuroD1 as the cells became post-mitotic. Markers of mature neural cells (e.g. synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase) were subsequently increased during phase 3 and were maintained. This regulated pattern of gene expression and commitment to the neural lineage indicates that differentiation of NTERA-2 neurons in vitro follows a similar pathway to that observed by neural ectodermal precursors during vertebrate neurogenesis in vivo.
11027400: !synaptophysin Improved immunohistochemical detection of postsynaptically located PSD-95/SAP90 protein family by protease section pretreatment: a study in the adult mouse brain. Postsynaptic density (PSD)-95, SAP102, and Chapsyn-110 are members of the PSD-95/SAP90 protein family, which interact with the C-terminus of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and shaker-type potassium channel subunits. Here we report that appropriate section pretreatment with pepsin has led to qualitative and quantitative changes in light microscopic immunohistochemical detection of the protein family. First, pepsin pretreatment lowered the concentration of affinity-purified primary antibodies, while it greatly increased the intensity of immunoreactions. Second, the resulting overall distributions of PSD-95, SAP102, and Chapsyn-110 in the adult mouse brain were consistent with their mRNA distributions. Third, instead of the reported patterns of somatodendritic labeling, tiny punctate staining in the neuropil became overwhelming. Fourth, many PSD-95-immunopositive puncta were apposed closely to synaptophysin-positive nerve terminals and overlapped with NMDA receptor subunits. By postembedding immunogold, the PSD-95 antibody was shown to label exclusively the postsynaptic density at asymmetrical synapses. Based on these results, we conclude that antibody access and binding to the postsynaptically located PSD-95/SAP90 protein family are hindered when conventional immunohistochemistry is adopted, and that pepsin pretreatment effectively unmasks the postsynaptic epitopes. On the other hand, PSD-95 in axon terminals of cerebellar basket cells, where high levels of potassium channels are present, was detectable irrespective of pepsin pretreatment, suggesting that PSD-95 antibody is readily accessible to the presynaptic epitopes. Consequently, the present immunohistochemical results have provided light microscopic evidence supporting the prevailing notion that the PSD-95/SAP90 protein family interacts with NMDA receptor subunits and potassium channel subunits.
11023097: !synaptophysin Solid-pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas: immunohistochemical localization of neuroendocrine markers and CD10. To clarify the neuroendocrine differentiation and CD10 expression in solid-pseudopapillary tumors (SPTs) of the pancreas, we performed immunohistochemical analysis in 19 such tumors, including one solid-pseudopapillary carcinoma (SPC), along with 20 pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNTs), six acinar cell carcinomas (ACCs), and one pancreatoblastoma (PB). We used antisera directed against CD56, synaptophysin, protein gene product 9.5, the alpha-subunit of Go protein, chromogranin A, CD10, trypsin, chymotrypsin, various cytokeratins (CKs), CA19-9, vimentin, and alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT). All SPTs exhibited immunoreactivity for CD56 and CD10, and 15 expressed other neuroendocrine markers focally with the exception of chromogranin A. Frequent clustering of synaptophysin-positive cells was noted. Two cases contained a peculiar nodule that cytomorphologically and immunohistochemically resembled PNT. CD10-positive cells were scarce in one SPC. PNTs were CD56-positive, but often with faint intensity, and staining for other neuroendocrine markers, including chromogranin A, was diffusely positive. CD10 was detected, mostly in a focal pattern, in five PNTs. Pan-CK, CK8, CK18, and CK19 were more frequently demonstrated in PNT than SPT. Vimentin and AAT were often identified in PNT as well and were not specific for SPT. ACCs were CD56-negative, with the exception of one case designated as a mixed acinar-endocrine carcinoma. PB was focally positive for CD56 at the periphery of the tumor nests. Four ACCs and one PB exhibited focal CD10 reactivity. This study demonstrated the unique immunohistochemical features of SPT. Our results also suggest that SPT exhibits, at least focally, neuroendocrine differentiation, and that these neuroendocrine markers and CD10 are diagnostically useful.
11021834: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicle protein 2, A new neuroendocrine cell marker. Synaptic vesicle protein 2 (SV2) is a glycoprotein identified in the nervous system of several species, including man, but its occurrence in the human neuroendocrine (NE) cell system has not been investigated. By using a monoclonal antibody to SV2, immunoreactivities were demonstrated in NE cell types in human gastrointestinal tract, pancreas, anterior pituitary gland, thyroid, parathyroid, and adrenal medulla, and also in chief cells of gastric oxyntic mucosa. Immunoelectron microscopy of pancreatic islets revealed SV2 immunoreactivity in secretory granules. Comparison of SV2, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A immunoreactivity showed more SV2- and synaptophysin- than chromogranin A-immunoreactive cells in the antrum and pancreas. In the other gastrointestinal regions and in the other endocrine organs more SV2- than synaptophysin-immunoreactive cells were seen. More chromogranin A- than SV2-immunoreactive cells were observed in duodenum, colon, and parathyroid. Various NE tumors were examined and all contained SV2-immunoreactive cells. The staining patterns with the three markers agreed well, except in hindgut carcinoids, which showed strong SV2 immunoreactivity, weak synaptophysin but no chromogranin A immunostaining. In pituitary adenomas more cells were immunoreactive to SV2 than to the other two antibodies. In conclusion, SV2 is recognized as a further broad marker for NE cells and widens the arsenal of diagnostic tools for NE tumors. It is of special importance for identifying hindgut carcinoids.
11018222: !synaptophysin Neuropathology of bipolar disorder. The literature on the neuropathology of bipolar disorder (BD) is reviewed. Postmortem findings in the areas of pathomorphology, signal transduction, neuropeptides, neurotransmitters, cell adhesion molecules, and synaptic proteins are considered. Decreased glial numbers and density in both BD and major depressive disorder (MDD) have been reported, whereas cortical neuron counts were not different in BD (in Brodmann's areas [BAs] 9 and 24). In contrast, MDD patients showed reductions in neuronal size and density (BA 9, BA 47). There are a number of findings of alterations in neuropeptides and monoamines in BD brains. Norepinephrine turnover was increased in several cortical regions and thalamus, whereas the serotonin metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, and the serotonin transporter were reduced in the cortex. Several reports further implicated both cyclic adenosine monophosphate and phosphatidylinositol (PI) cascade abnormalities. G protein concentrations and activity increases were found in the occipital, prefrontal, and temporal cortices in BD. In the PI signal cascade, alterations in PKC activity were found in the prefrontal cortex. In the occipital cortex, PI hydrolysis was decreased. Two isoforms of the neural cell adhesion molecules were increased in the hippocampus of BD, whereas the synaptic protein marker, synaptophysin, was not changed. The findings of glial reduction, excess signal activity, neuropeptide abnormalities, and monoamine alterations suggest distinct imbalances in neurochemical regulation. Possible alterations in pathways involving ascending projections from the brain stem are considered. Larger numbers of BD brains are needed to further refine the conceptual models that have been proposed, and to develop coherent models of the pathophysiology of BD.
11016544: !synaptophysin Nicotinic receptor losses in dementia with Lewy bodies: comparisons with Alzheimer's disease. We sought to delineate differences between alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) levels in Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and age matched controls, as well as the correlations between alpha7 or non-alpha7 nAChR levels and synaptophysin (Syn) or choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in DLB. Mean bungarotoxin (Bgt) binding was 2.7 - 1.1 for controls, 2.4 +/- 1.0 for AD and 1.4 +/- 0.5 for DLB. There were significant decreases in Bgt binding for the DLB group compared to either controls or AD. Mean epibatidine (Epi) binding was 14.8 +/- 3.2 for controls, 6.3 +/- 3.2 for AD and 7.1 +/- 2.4 fmoles/mg protein for DLB. Epi binding in both the AD and DLB groups was significantly lower than in the controls. Although Syn loss correlated with the decrease in Epi binding in both diseases, declining ChAT levels correlated with Epi binding only in DLB. These data demonstrate a different pattern of nAChR loss in AD and DLB that may, in part, explain some of the differences in the two phenotypes.
11012987: !synaptophysin Angiomatoid (malignant) fibrous histiocytoma: a peculiar low-grade tumor showing immunophenotypic heterogeneity and ultrastructural variations. To clarify the cellular differentiation features and facilitate diagnosis of angiomatoid (malignant) fibrous histiocytoma (AFH), four cases of AFH were examined by clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural analyses. The age of the patients ranged from 10 to 24 years (mean, 17 years) and the sex distribution was equal. All cases were of subcutaneous origin: three arose in the trunk and one in the upper extremity. All patients presented with systemic symptoms, including inflammatory signs and anemia. After a mean follow up of 11 years 3 months, all patients were alive and well, although one patient twice developed local recurrence after surgery. All cases presented as multinodular, cystic and hemorrhagic tumors ranging in size from 4 to 11 cm (mean, 8 cm) and were characterized by sheets of bland spindle or round cells with oval nuclei within a circumscribed nodule often surrounded by a lymphocytic cuff. One tumor showed predominantly round cell morphology similar to Ewing's sarcoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor. All cases (100%) exhibited immunoreactivity for vimentin, desmin, CD68 and CD57 (Leu-7). Three cases (75%) were positive for synaptophysin, and reactivity for alpha-smooth muscle actin, epithelial membrane antigen, neuron-specific enolase and CD99 (O-13) was present in two cases (50%) each. The three cases examined by electron microscopy had a mixture of fibrohistiocytic, myofibroblastic and undifferentiated cells containing cytoplasmic processes and dense-core granules. It is important for accurate diagnosis of this peculiar soft-tissue tumor to recognize that it has a variety of immunophenotypes, such as histiocytic, myofibroblastic, epithelial and neural, and may occasionally have a predominantly round cell morphology.
11008200: !synaptophysin C-MYC expression in medulloblastoma and its prognostic value. To identify prognostic factors in medulloblastoma, a common malignant brain tumor of childhood, expression of the oncogene c-myc was examined at the mRNA level by in situ hybridization. c-myc mRNA expression was observed in 30 of 72 tumors (42%). The c-myc gene copy number was determined by quantitative PCR from genomic DNA of paraffin-embedded tumors. c-myc gene amplification was present in 5 of 62 cases (8.3%). Therefore, c-myc amplification was obviously not the cause of c-myc mRNA expression in most samples. Kaplan-Meier estimation revealed a significant correlation between c-myc mRNA expression and survival (total mean follow-up 4.6 +/- 3.6 years, log-rank p = 0.02). Multivariate logistic regression analysis including sex, age, histological type, degree of surgical resection and expression of synaptophysin, GFAP and c-myc, was carried out on 54 patients who received both radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The analysis identified expression of c-myc as an independent predictive factor of death from disease.
11000334: !synaptophysin Familial Wilms' tumor with neural elements: characterization by histology, immunohistochemistry, and genetic analysis. Wilms' tumor (WT) is the most common renal malignancy of children. While most occur sporadically, a small percentage are familial or occur as part of a developmental syndrome. Classic WTs exhibit a triphasic histologic pattern composed of blastema, epithelium, and stroma. Occasionally, heterologous elements may also be observed. In this study we investigated a series of four WTs that occurred within a single familial aggregate and contained focal areas of neural differentiation. The tumors were evaluated histologically for the presence of neural elements and immunohistochemically for expression of neural-related markers. Genetic linkage analysis was performed on 3 of the 4 WTs. In addition to the classic triphasic histology, the WTs contained tumor rosettes (4/4), ganglion cells (2/4), foci of ganglioneuromatous differentiation (2/4), and anaplasia (1/4). Staining for chromogranin, S-100, synaptophysin, vimentin, and neuron-specific enolase was positive in all 4 tumors within the areas of neural differentiation whereas staining for CD99 (013) and glial fibrillary acidic protein was negative. Linkage analysis studies suggest that the familial predisposition gene segregating in this family is at 19q13.4. To our knowledge, this is the first reported series of WTs with neural differentiation that occurred within a single family aggregate. Genetic linkage analysis of this family is consistent with linkage to the FWT2 WT predisposition gene at 19q13.4. We propose that these tumors may represent a unique manifestation of tumor susceptibility in this family.
10995547: !synaptophysin Neuronal differentiation and morphological integration of hippocampal progenitor cells transplanted to the retina of immature and mature dystrophic rats. Attempts to repopulate the retina with grafted neurons have been unsuccessful, in large part because donor cells prefer not to integrate with those of the host. Here we describe the first use of neural progenitor cells in the diseased adult retina. Adult rat hippocampal progenitor cells were injected into the eyes of rats with a genetic retinal degeneration. After survival times up to 16 weeks, the retinae of 1-, 4-, and 10-week-old recipients exhibited widespread incorporation of green fluorescent protein-expressing (GFP+) donor cells into the host retina. The 18-week-old recipients showed a similar pattern, but with fewer cells. Grafted cells expressed the mature neuronal markers NF-200, MAP-5, and calbindin. GFP+ cells extended numerous neurites into the host plexiform layers and these processes were intimately associated with synaptophysin+ profiles. GFP+ neurites also extended into the host optic nerve head. These results demonstrate the differentiation of substantial numbers of new neurons within the mature dystrophic retina.
10987262: !synaptophysin Primary primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the cauda equina. Primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) are aggressive neoplasms composed predominantly of undifferentiated cells that show evidence of neural differentiation. Although their classification has been controversial, PNETs are well recognized primary tumors of both central and peripheral nervous systems. PNETs must be distinguished from other round-cell tumors, including Ewing's sarcoma, lymphoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and small cell carcinoma. Intraspinal PNETs are rare neoplasms that are usually metastatic in origin. We describe the eighth reported primary PNET of the cauda equina that developed in a 52-year-old man with no significant medical history. The tumor was characterized by Homer-Wright rosettes and immunoreactivity for CD99, glial fibrillary acidic protein, neuron-specific enolase S100, and synaptophysin. The anatomic location of primary intrathecal PNETs is important as those arising in the spinal cord develop in the central nervous system, whereas those arising in the cauda equina develop in the peripheral nervous system. The histogenesis of intrathecal PNETs may be multifactorial.
10987260: !synaptophysin Immunoreactivity for epithelial and neuroendocrine antibodies are useful in the differential diagnosis of lung carcinomas. The histologic classification of pulmonary neoplasms can have important implications regarding appropriate management of patients. Although the histologic classification of lung tumors is predominantly based on morphology, ancillary studies such as immunohistochemistry can be used in difficult cases, and the diagnosis of large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma requires confirmation of neuroendocrine differentiation by immunohistochemistry or electron microscopy. We immunostained 142 lung tumors for B72.3, keratin 34betaE12, keratin 7, keratin 14, keratin 17, synaptophysin, and chromogranin to determine the utility of neuroendocrine markers and epithelial markers in the differential diagnosis. Among neuroendocrine carcinomas (small cell carcinoma and large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma), 84% (37 of 44) were chromogranin positive, 64% (21 of 36 small cell, 6 of 6 large cell neuroendocrine) were synaptophysin positive, 5% (2 of 43) were keratin 34betaE12 positive, 9% (4 of 44) were keratin 7 positive, and 5% (2 of 37) of small cell carcinomas and 50% (3 of 6) of large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas were B72.3 positive. Among non-neuroendocrine carcinomas, 5% (5 of 98) were chromogranin positive, 3% (3 of 96) were synaptophysin positive, and 97% (95 of 98) were positive for either keratin 34betaE12 or keratin 7 and 99% (97 of 98) were positive for either keratin 34betaE12, keratin 7 or B72.3. An antibody panel consisting of keratin 7, keratin 34betaE12, chromogranin, and synaptophysin separated 132 of 141 tumors (94%) into distinct groups. We conclude that immunostaining with both neuroendocrine markers and epithelial markers can be useful in the differential diagnosis of lung neoplasms.
10982465: !synaptophysin Factors regulating AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunit changes induced by sciatic nerve injury in rats. Excitatory glutamatergic neurotransmission at Ia afferent-motoneuron synapses is enhanced shortly after physically severing or blocking impulse propagation of the afferent and/or motoneuron axons. We considered the possibility that these synaptic changes occur because of alterations in the number or properties of motoneuron alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) receptors. Therefore, we quantitatively analyzed glutamate receptor (GluR)1, GluR2/3, and GluR4 AMPA subunit immunoreactivity (ir) in motoneurons 3, 7, or 14 days after axotomy or continuous tetrodotoxin (TTX) block of the sciatic nerve. GluR1-ir remained low in experimental and control motoneurons with either treatment and at any date. However, there was a large reduction of GluR2/3-ir (peak at 7 days >60% reduced) and a smaller, but statistically significant, reduction of GluR4-ir (around 10% reduction at days 3, 7, and 14) in axotomized motoneurons. TTX sciatic blockade did not affect AMPA subunit immunostainings. Axonal injury or interruption of the trophic interaction between muscle and spinal cord, but not activity disruption, appears therefore more likely responsible for altering AMPA subunit immunoreactivity in motoneurons. These findings also suggest that synaptic plasticity induced by axotomy or TTX block, although similar in the first week, could be related to different mechanisms. The effects of axotomy or TTX block on motoneuron expression of the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR1a were also studied. mGluR1a-ir was also strongly decreased after axotomy but not after TTX treatment. The time course of the known stripping of synapses from the cell somas of axotomized motoneurons was studied by using synaptophysin antibodies and compared with AMPA and mGluR1a receptor changes. Coverage by synaptophysin-ir boutons was only clearly decreased 14 days post axotomy and not at shorter intervals or after TTX block.
10981878: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical performance of antibodies on previously frozen tissue. Immunohistochemical stains are occasionally performed on paraffin-embedded, fixed material that was previously frozen, most frequently for an intraoperative frozen section diagnosis. A retrospective study comparing immunohistochemistry on previously frozen then fixed tissue with freshly fixed tissue was designed. Of 43 cases identified during the period 1994-1996 in which immunohistochemistry was performed on frozen section blocks, 19 met criteria for inclusion. Immunohistochemistry using antibodies to S-100, HMB-45, synaptophysin, chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), neurofilament, glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin, and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) was compared. Staining for cytokeratins was unchanged. Staining for S-100, HMB-45, synaptophysin, and NSE were negative in frozen/fixed tissue and positive in comparable fresh/fixed tissue in at least one case each. Chromogranin and CEA exhibited a significant decrease in the frozen/ fixed tissue. We conclude that caution must be exercised in interpreting immunohistochemical results using tissue that was frozen for intraoperative consultation before formalin fixation and paraffin embedding.
10981872: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry in the differential diagnosis of acinar and endocrine pancreatic neoplasms. Histologic differential diagnosis of acinar cell carcinoma (ACC), mixed acinar-endocrine cell carcinoma (MAEC), and pancreatic endocrine tumors (PET) can be difficult but is important because of differences in their clinical behavior. This study investigates the utility of immunohistochemistry (IHC) in this differential diagnosis using immunohistochemical stains that are available in most laboratories. IHC was performed on paraffin-embedded tissue in ACC (n = 6), MAEC (n = 2), and PET (n = 13), using synaptophysin (SYN), chromogranin (CHR), chymotrypsin (CHY), and alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT). Electron microscopy (EM) was performed in all cases to confirm the diagnosis. Long-term follow-up and death of disease (DOD) was known in all patients. The ACCs stained as follows: CHY (4/6), AAT (3/6), SYN (4/6); CHR was negative in all cases. Both cases of MAEC stained with CHY, AAT, and SYN (2/2); CHR was negative. PET stained as follows: SYN (13/13), CHR (8/13), CHY (4/13), AAT (5/13). In the ACC/ MAEC group, six of eight patients were DOD at mean follow-up of 11 months. Among the PET, two of 16 patients were DOD at mean follow-up of 37 months. Considerable immunophenotypic overlap exists between ACC, MAEC, and PET. Consequently, one can neither confirm nor rule out a diagnosis of ACC or MAEC using generally available immunohistochemical stains alone. These findings support a role for EM in the evaluation of exocrine and endocrine pancreatic neoplasms.
10978722: !synaptophysin Normal cellular levels of synaptophysin mRNA expression in the prefrontal cortex of subjects with schizophrenia. Previous studies have reported that the 38-kd synaptic vesicle-associated protein, synaptophysin, is decreased in the prefrontal cortex of subjects with schizophrenia.
10978619: !synaptophysin Fatal outcome in a case of pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2. Pontocerebellar hypoplasia (PCH) is a very rare congenital (autosomal recessive) condition with fetal onset. Only a few cases have been published on the basis of both clinical data (symptoms/neuroradiological imaging) and autopsy results. This paper reports on such a case involving a 1.5-year-old male infant. The child suffered from severe psychomotor delay, extrapyramidal dyskinesia and epileptic seizures, but did not exhibit signs of spinal muscular atrophy as related to PCH type 1. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at the age of 6 months demonstrated olivo-pontine and bilateral cerebellar hypoplasia. The boy was unexpectedly found dead. Autopsy disclosed a severe aspiration of gastric contents as the final cause of death. The neuropathological examination confirmed PCH type 2 (according to Barth [Brain Dev., 15 (1993) 411-422]) with marked microcephaly and olivopontocerebellar hypoplasia. Histologically, decreased density of olivo-pontine neurons, reduction of granular and Purkinje's cell layers of the cerebellum, slight astroglial proliferation and fragmented appearance of the dentate nuclei were observed. The immunohistochemical expression pattern was determined using antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin and neurofilament protein. Summarizing, typical features of PCH type 2 were present and proved by clinical course, MRI and autopsy. Despite severe symptoms due to a natural disease this rare neurogenetic entity can become of forensic interest, when sudden unexpected death occurs.
10976697: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the breast: a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of nine patients. Small cell carcinoma of the breast is an uncommon neoplasm that has been reported rarely in the literature. The aim of this study was to characterize better the pathologic and immunohistochemical features of this neoplasm. Nine examples of mammary small cell carcinoma were retrieved from the authors' consultation files and reviewed. The patients ranged in age from 43 to 70 years. Two patients had a previous history of cutaneous malignant melanoma and one had prior lobular carcinoma in situ and atypical duct hyperplasia in the same breast as the small cell carcinoma. Eight patients presented with a mass in the breast; one patient had an axillary tumor. Tumor size ranged from 1.3 to 5.0 cm (mean, 2.6 cm). Histologically, the nine tumors had characteristics of small cell carcinoma with high mitotic activity and necrosis. A dimorphic histologic appearance was observed in four tumors. In one instance, this consisted of small cell carcinoma merging with invasive lobular carcinoma. In three cases, small cell carcinoma was present together with invasive, poorly differentiated duct carcinoma; invasive carcinoma with "lobular and gland-forming elements"; and focal squamous differentiation, respectively. Lymphatic tumor emboli were identified in four instances. An in situ component was seen in seven tumors; five were of the small cell type in ducts and two were of the ductal type with high nuclear grade. Immunohistochemical analysis showed consistent staining for cytokeratin markers but variable staining with neuroendocrine markers. Sixty-six percent of the tumors (six of nine) were reactive for chromogranin, synaptophysin, or peptide hormones, including four positive for chromogranin and synaptophysin, one positive for synaptophysin and calcitonin, and one positive for calcitonin alone. One tumor that was reactive for chromogranin and synaptophysin also contained calcitonin immunoreactive cells, whereas gastrin-releasing peptide was present in two other tumors that were also positive for chromogranin. Leu 7 was positive in three cases that were reactive for either chromogranin or synaptophysin. Five tumors were estrogen and progesterone receptor-positive. All tumors were positive for bcl-2 and negative for HER2/neu. Patients were treated by mastectomy (n = 3) or lumpectomy (n = 6). Eight underwent an axillary dissection that revealed metastatic carcinoma in four patients. Seven patients received adjuvant chemotherapy and four patients received radiation. Two patients also received tamoxifen treatment. Metastases developed in two patients (22%) with a follow-up period of 11 and 32 months. All patients were alive at last follow up 3 to 35 months after treatment. When compared with published reports of mammary small cell carcinoma, our results show that the prognosis in these patients may not be as poor as previously suggested.
10974931: !synaptophysin Immunomorphological studies and cytometric DNA ploidy in diagnostics of pheochromocytoma. The aim of the study was to define features indicating malignancy in pheochromocytoma through analysis of clinical data, immunomorphological and nuclear DNA ploidy patterns with flow cytometry. The studied group consisted of 33 patients with hypertension and adrenal gland tumor. In all patients 24 hr measurements of adrenaline, noradrenaline, dopamine and their metabolites were taken and the content of these substances in the tumor tissue was measured. Morphologically most pheochromocytomas displayed alveolar pattern with polyhedral cells with clear cytoplasm. Nuclear pleomorphism was infrequent and mitotic figures were rare. In 5 tumors areas of ganglioneuromatous differentiation were present with neurofilament expression. Morphological features indicating malignancy were noted--vascular emboli of tumor cells, capsular infiltration and foci of necrosis. However, in the patient with metastases evident during operation, none of those features was found in the tumor sample. All pheochromocytomas expressed neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin A, synaptophysin and NSE) and most also vimentin. Reactivity of other markers was negligible. In DNA ploidy studies in 22/33 cases there was DNA diploid (normal) pattern. The patient with metastases belonged to this group. In 3 cases there were aneuploid tumor cells on histograms and in 8 increased number of tetraploid cells. The follow-up period of our patients was 1-43 months.
10972938: !synaptophysin Synapse formation during neuron differentiation: an in situ study of the myenteric plexus during murine embryonic life. Ultrastructural steps characterizing synapse formation in vivo and appearance in neuroblasts of properties suggestive of synaptic function acquisition have scarcely been studied. Synapse formation and proteosynthetic apparatus organization were thus studied under transmission electron microscope in mouse myenteric neurons from embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5) until birth. Expression of Ret and p75(NTR), markers of neural crest cells, as well as that of neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin (SY), and synaptosomal-associated protein (SNAP), markers of synaptic function acquisition, were immunohistochemically evaluated. At E12.5 many cells were Ret- and p75(NTR)-immunoreactive (IR), whereas a few were NSE-IR and had neuronal ultrastructural characteristics. Two types of contacts between poorly or nondifferentiated cells and axons of presumed extrinsic (synapse-like contacts) or local (immature synapses) origin were identified, along with SY-IR elements. By E16. 5, many cells had developed a proteosynthetic apparatus, synapse-like contacts were no longer present, and immature synapses were gradually differentiating. Concurrently, there was an increase in NSE-IR cells, some of which were also SNAP-IR, and in SY-IR varicosities. At E18.5, ultrastructurally mature neurons and synapses had increased in number as had NSE-IR and SNAP-IR cells and SY-IR varicosities. These data indicate that 1) one type of contact (synapse-like) is present at E12.5 between very immature cells and presumed vagal fibers, with a possible transient role for the onset of the differentiative process of these cells; and 2) another type of contact (typical synapses) lasts until E18.5, with a similar but long-lasting role that progressively shifts to the classical function (neurotransmission) as the synapse matures and the embryo reaches the day of birth.
10968706: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry in the diagnosis of neoplasms of the central nervous system. The diagnosis and evaluation of neoplasms of the central nervous system frequently involves the use of immunohistochemical stains. This article reviews some of the more commonly used markers including glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, S-100 protein, epithelial membrane antigen, and cytokeratin markers. The focus of the discussion is on the use of these markers including their utility in resolving differential diagnostic issues. We also review the use of p53 and a variety of cell proliferation markers including proliferating cell nuclear antigen, Ki-67, MIB-1 and their potential role as adjuncts in the grading of tumors and their potential role in predicting tumor behavior.
10968705: !synaptophysin Immunohistology of neuroendocrine and neuroectodermal tumors. Neuroendocrine and neuroectodermal tumors are interrelated, and comprise a neoplastic family including lesions formerly termed "carcinoid," "atypical carcinoid," "small cell undifferentiated carcinoma," "primitive neuroepithelioma," "chemodectoma," and "neuroblastoma," to name but a few entities. The nosology of these neoplasms has been simplified recently, in part as a result of a better understanding of their immunophenotypes and molecular biological attributes. This review considers those immunohistochemical markers that are now generally available for diagnostic evaluation of neuroendocrine and neuroectodermal differentiation, and provides information on the relative sensitivity and specificity of each of them. Intermediate filament proteins, chromogranins, synaptophysin, CD56, CD57, CD99, neuron-specific (gamma-dimer) enolase, protein gene product 9.5, and specific neuropeptide products are discussed. The application of such determinants in regional differential diagnosis is also summarized.
10965922: !synaptophysin Accumulation of synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) and other proteins associated with the secretory pathway in GH4C1 cells upon treatment with estradiol, insulin, and epidermal growth factor. Treatment of rat pituitary GH4C1 cells with estradiol, insulin, and epidermal growth factor induces secretory granule accumulation, PRL storage, and stabilization of ICA512, a membrane protein associated with secretory granules. In these investigations we found that the same treatment induced accumulation over 2-fold of other proteins in the secretory pathway, including synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), synaptotagmin III, synaptobrevin, synaptophysin, and cyclophilin B, and did not affect accumulation of others, including synaptotagmin I, calnexin, and glucose-regulated protein 94. The induction of proteins was not a coordinate event, because epidermal growth factor alone maximally stimulated SNAP-25 accumulation, but not that of synaptotagmin III. Induction of SNAP-25 accumulation occurred without an increase in its synthesis, and induction of cyclophilin B occurred without an increase in its messenger RNA accumulation, suggesting that accumulation may be caused by stabilization of the proteins. SNAP-25 immunofluorescence was located in the cytoplasm and on the plasma membrane and sometimes was heavily concentrated in protrusions from the cell surface, especially in hormone-treated cells. Frequenin immunofluorescence was also sometimes concentrated in intense patches, but did not colocalize with SNAP-25. Growth hormone and prolactin immunofluorescence was not found in the protrusions and sometimes did not colocalize with each other when they were present in the same cell. Hormone treatment of GH4C1 cells therefore induces accumulation of specific proteins in all parts of the secretory pathway and causes morphological changes in addition to accumulating secretory granules.
10964964: !synaptophysin Circuit-specific alterations in hippocampal synaptophysin immunoreactivity predict spatial learning impairment in aged rats. The present study examined the long-standing concept that changes in hippocampal circuitry contribute to age-related learning impairment. Individual differences in spatial learning were documented in young and aged Long-Evans rats by using a hippocampal-dependent version of the Morris water maze. Postmortem analysis used a confocal laser-scanning microscopy method to quantify changes in immunofluorescence staining for the presynaptic vesicle glycoprotein, synaptophysin (SYN), in the principal relays of hippocampal circuitry. Comparisons based on chronological age alone failed to reveal a reliable difference in the intensity of SYN staining in any region that was examined. In contrast, aged subjects with spatial learning deficits displayed significant reductions in SYN immunoreactivity in CA3 lacunosum-moleculare (LM) relative to either young controls or age-matched rats with preserved learning. SYN intensity values for the latter groups were indistinguishable. In addition, individual differences in spatial learning capacity among the aged rats correlated with levels of SYN staining selectively in three regions: outer and middle portions of the dentate gyrus molecular layer and CA3-LM. The cross-sectional area of SYN labeling, by comparison, was not reliably affected in relation cognitive status. These findings are the first to demonstrate that a circuit-specific pattern of variability in the connectional organization of the hippocampus is coupled to individual differences in the cognitive outcome of normal aging. The regional specificity of these effects suggests that a decline in the fidelity of input to the hippocampus from the entorhinal cortex may play a critical role.
10964942: !synaptophysin Subcellular localization of wild-type and Parkinson's disease-associated mutant alpha -synuclein in human and transgenic mouse brain. Mutations in the alpha-synuclein (alphaSYN) gene are associated with rare cases of familial Parkinson's disease, and alphaSYN is a major component of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites. Here we have investigated the localization of wild-type and mutant [A30P]alphaSYN as well as betaSYN at the cellular and subcellular level. Our direct comparative study demonstrates extensive synaptic colocalization of alphaSYN and betaSYN in human and mouse brain. In a sucrose gradient equilibrium centrifugation assay, a portion of betaSYN floated into lower density fractions, which also contained the synaptic vesicle marker synaptophysin. Likewise, wild-type and [A30P]alphaSYN were found in floating fractions. Subcellular fractionation of mouse brain revealed that both alphaSYN and betaSYN were present in synaptosomes. In contrast to synaptophysin, betaSYN and alphaSYN were recovered from the soluble fraction upon lysis of the synaptosomes. Synaptic colocalization of alphaSYN and betaSYN was directly visualized by confocal microscopy of double-stained human brain sections. The Parkinson's disease-associated human mutant [A30P]alphaSYN was found to colocalize with betaSYN and synaptophysin in synapses of transgenic mouse brain. However, in addition to their normal presynaptic localization, transgenic wild-type and [A30P]alphaSYN abnormally accumulated in neuronal cell bodies and neurites throughout the brain. Thus, mutant [A30P]alphaSYN does not fail to be transported to synapses, but its transgenic overexpression apparently leads to abnormal cellular accumulations.
10964486: !synaptophysin Neurons generated from adult rat hippocampal stem cells form functional glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses in vitro. Basic fibroblast growth factor-responsive neural stem cells (NSCs) derived from adult rat hippocampus were earlier demonstrated to generate neurons and glia. These stem-cell-derived neurons express GABA, acetylcholinesterase, tyrosine hydroxylase, or calbindin. It has not been clear, however, whether or not these stem-cell-derived neurons are able to form functional synapses. In the present study, we investigated the development of synapse formation by adult hippocampus-derived neural stem cells. NSCs from adult rat hippocampi and primary embryonic rat hippocampal neurons were cocultured on a glial feeder layer. Immunofluorescence studies revealed that some of the NSCs became immunoreactive for microtubule-associated protein 2ab, neurofilament 200, synaptobrevin, or synaptophysin. These cells possessed properties of functional neurons such as action potentials and miniature postsynaptic currents (mPSCs). The elicited mPSCs with rapid kinetics were blocked by 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX), but not by bicuculline (excitatory mPSCs). The remaining mPSCs had slower kinetics and were blocked by bicuculline, but not by DNQX (inhibitory mPSCs). We considered that the neurons derived from the adult NSCs expressed both non-NMDA glutamate receptors and the GABA(A) receptors and formed functional synapses. Our results demonstrate that adult NSCs can differentiate into neurons with functional glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission in vitro and support the concept that such neurons could integrate into the neuronal circuitry.
10963358: !synaptophysin Neurofilament H immunoreaction in oligodendrogliomas as demonstrated by a new polyclonal antibody. We have characterized a new polyclonal antibody against heavy chain (H) of neurofilament which can be used to demonstrate neurofilament H in normal brain tissue and oligodendroglioma cells immunocytochemically and immunochemically. Using this antibody we found neurofilament H-immunoreactive tumor cells in 13 oligodendrogliomas (6 WHO grade II, 7 WHO grade III) out of 84 oligodendrogliomas investigated (59 WHO grade II and 25 WHO grade III). Double immunolabeling and confocal laser scanning microscopy showed colocalization of neurofilament H and glial fibrillary acidic protein in certain oligodendroglioma cells. Colocalization of neurofilament and synaptophysin was observed only rarely. The results support the notion that oligodendrogliomas consists of a heterogeneous cell population displaying various stages of differentiation and dedifferentiation. The occurrence of neurofilament H-immunoreactive tumor cells in oligodendrogliomas is not related to the survival of the patients.
10956432: !synaptophysin Radiation-induced apoptosis in the neonatal and adult rat spinal cord. This study was designed to characterize radiation-induced apoptosis in the spinal cord of the neonatal and young adult rat. Spinal cords (C2-T2) of 1-, 2- and 10-week-old rats were irradiated with a single dose of 8, 18 or 22 Gy. Apoptosis was assessed histologically according to its specific morphological features or by using the TUNEL assay. Cell proliferation was assessed immunohistochemically using BrdU. Identities of cell types undergoing apoptosis were assessed using immunohistochemistry or in situ hybridization using markers for neurons, glial progenitor cells, microglia, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. The time course of radiation-induced apoptosis in 1- or 2-week-old rat spinal cord was similar to that in the young adult rat spinal cord. A peak response was observed at about 8 h after irradiation, and the apoptosis index returned to the levels in nonirradiated spinal cords at 24 h. The neonatal rat spinal cord demonstrated increased apoptosis compared to the adult. Values for total yield of apoptosis over 24 h induced by 8 Gy in the neonatal rat spinal cord were significantly greater than that in the adult. Immunohistochemistry studies using Leu7, galactocerebroside, Rip and adenomatous polyposis coli tumor suppressor protein indicated that most apoptotic cells were cells of the oligodendroglial lineage regardless of the age of the animal. No evidence of Gfap or factor VIII-related antigen-positive apoptotic cells was observed, and there was a small number of apoptotic microglial cells (lectin-Rca1 positive) in the neonatal and adult rat spinal cord. In the neonatal but not adult rat spinal cord, about 10% of the apoptotic cells appeared to be neurons and were immunoreactive for synaptophysin. Labeling indices (LI) for BrdU in nonirradiated 1- and 2-week-old rat spinal cord were 20.0 and 16.3%, respectively, significantly greater than the LI of 1.0% in the 10-week-old rat spinal cord. At 8 h after a single dose of 8 Gy, 13.4% of the apoptotic cells were BrdU-positive in 10-week-old rat spinal cord, whereas 62.4 and 44.1% of the apoptotic cells showed BrdU incorporation in 1- and 2-week-old rat spinal cord, respectively. Regardless of the age of the animal, the apoptosis indices in BrdU-positive cells were greater than those in BrdU-negative cells. We conclude that the neonatal spinal cord demonstrates a greater level of apoptosis after exposure to ionizing radiation than the young adult spinal cord. This increase in apoptosis may be associated in part with the greater percentage of proliferating cells in the neonatal spinal cord, which demonstrate a greater level of radiation-induced apoptosis than nonproliferating cells.
10955721: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptic vesicle trafficking proteins in the developing rat pineal gland. Adult mammalian pinealocytes contain several synaptic membrane proteins that are probably involved in the regulation of targeting and exocytosis of synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs). Immunohistochemical techniques have now demonstrated the spatiotemporal expression pattern of some of these proteins during rat pineal ontogenesis. Various synaptic vesicle trafficking proteins are detectable in proliferating epithelial cells of the pineal anlage even at embryonic day 17.5 (E 17.5), with the exception of syntaxin I (weakly expressed from E 19.5) and dynamin I (whose levels increase markedly during the first postnatal week). Numerous cells exhibiting strong immunoreactivity for synaptobrevin II, SNAP-25, synaptophysin, and munc-18-1 are distributed throughout the increasingly compact gland at E 19.5 and E 20.5; however, their number declines toward the proximal deep part of the organ. Groups of postmitotic cells situated at the surface of the developing gland exhibit marked immunoreactivity for the aforementioned proteins and lie close to the laminin-immunoreactive outer limiting basement membrane or to its remnants in regions of basement membrane dissolution. We also show that synthesis of vimentin and S-antigen seems to begin earlier during pineal development than previously recognized. Thus, synaptic vesicle trafficking proteins are the earliest molecular markers of pinealocyte differentiation known to date, being expressed well before the onset of rhythmic hormone secretion in the pineal gland, where they may play a role in morphogenetic events. Components of the extracellular matrix such as laminin may be critically involved in the upregulation of synaptic membrane protein expression. The dynamin immunostaining pattern indicates that SLMVs of pinealocytes begin to undergo regulated cycles of exo/endocytosis during postnatal week 1.
10955458: !synaptophysin Extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma: a clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and ploidy analysis of 23 cases. Twenty-three cases of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma, evaluated at the Mayo Clinic between 1968 and 1996, were studied for clinicopathologic features, immunohistochemical profile, Ki-67 activity, and ploidy status to identify adverse prognostic factors. Females and males were equally affected, and the median age at diagnosis was 50 years. The tumors were located mainly in the lower extremities (83%), and the median tumor size was 9.5 cm. Sixteen tumors showed low cellularity (70%), and eight tumors had high mitotic activity (more than two per 10 high-power fields). The tumors were immunoreactive for vimentin (89%), synaptophysin (72%), epithelial membrane antigen (28%), and S-100 protein (17%). Nine tumors were diploid, three aneuploid, and one tetraploid. Mean Ki-67 activity was 11% (range, 1 to 45%). The 10-year overall survival rate was 78%. On univariate analysis, tumor size > or = 10 cm, high cellularity, presence of anaplasia or rhabdoid features, mitotic activity more than two per 10 high-power fields, Ki-67 > or = 10%, and Ki-67 "hot spot" > or = 25% were associated with decreased metastasis-free or overall survival. Ploidy status was not associated with any adverse outcome. The presence of any of these adverse prognostic factors can indicate the possibility of a more aggressive behavior in extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma, and a closer follow-up is suggested.
10949818: !synaptophysin [Ganglioglioma of optic nerve in neurofibromatosis type 1. Case report and review of the literature]. Gangliogliomas are rare tumors of the central nervous system. In only seven cases they have been found within the optic nerve. Two of these cases were associated with neurofibromatosis (NF), but a pathogenic link between gangliogliomas of the optic nerve and NF still remains controversial.
10945588: !synaptophysin An evaluation of methods for the detection of spinal cord in product derived from advanced meat recovery systems. This study investigated the usefulness of immunohistochemistry, histochemistry, and polarization microscopy in documenting the presence of spinal cord in ground product produced by advanced meat recovery systems (AMRS). A battery of diagnostic stains proved most helpful for definitive documentation of spinal cord in the AMRS product. Antibodies to neurofilament and glial fibrillary acidic proteins were useful for highlighting the presence of neural tissue in comminuted product but when used alone did not definitively differentiate central nervous system tissue from peripheral nerve. Polariscopy, trichrome staining, and immunostaining for synaptophysin were very useful for differentiating spinal cord from peripheral nerve. Spinal cord was found in 2 of 196 AMRS samples when only hematoxylin and eosin staining was used. In a later immunohistochemical subset of the survey study, spinal cord was found in 7 of 17 AMRS samples. More recently, spinal cord tissue has been found in 3 of 26 regulatory samples using hematoxylin and eosin stains combined with immunohistochemical techniques.
10936747: !synaptophysin Growth of postnatal rat retina in vitro. Development of neurotransmitter systems. In this study, we demonstrate that explanted neonatal rat retina can be maintained in culture for periods up to 3 weeks. The cultured retinas displayed a distinct layering that was almost identical to litter-matched retinas of the same age, but the majority of the ganglion cells did not survive and photoreceptor outer segments did not develop properly. Distinct synaptophysin immunoreactivity was expressed in both the inner and outer plexiform layers of cultured retina and the pattern mimicked that one observed in vivo. After 2-3 weeks in vitro, the inner retina expressed immunoreactivities to various components of the cholinergic and nitrergic transmitter systems, including nitric oxide activated cyclic GMP immunoreactivity. The investigated cell populations displayed similar distribution patterns as in situ, but morphological differences appeared in vitro. Such differences were mainly observed as irregularities in the arborization patterns in the inner part of the inner plexiform layer. We suggest that these discrepancies may arise as a result of reduced ganglion cell survival. Our observations demonstrate that some neurotransmitter systems develop in vitro and their neural circuitry appears similar to the in vivo situation. The presence of synapses, receptor proteins and transmitter substances implies that neural communication can occur in cultured retinas.
10936193: !synaptophysin Glutamate receptor subunit delta2 is highly expressed in a novel population of glial-like cells in rat pineal glands in culture. The mammalian pineal gland uses L-glutamate as an intercellular chemical transmitter to regulate negatively melatonin synthesis. To receive glutamate signals, pinealocytes express at least three kinds of glutamate receptors: metabotropic receptor types 3 and 5 and an ionotropic receptor, GluR1. In this study, we examined whether or not the fourth class of ionotropic receptor, delta, which is known for its nondefinitive molecular function and its unique expression pattern in brain, is expressed in pineal gland. RT-PCR analyses with specific probes indicated the expression of mRNA of delta2 but not that of delta1 in pineal gland and cultured pineal cells. Western blotting analysis with polyclonal antibodies specific to the carboxyl-terminal region of the delta2 receptor recognized a single 110-kDa polypeptide of cerebellar membranes and specifically immunostained Purkinje cells. The delta2 antibodies recognized a 110-kDa polypeptide of pineal membranes and specifically immunostained huge glial-like cells with the occasional presence of several long, branching processes in a pineal cell culture. delta2 is not uniformly distributed throughout the cells and is relatively abundant at the periphery of the cell bodies and long processes, where the terminals of synaptophysin-positive processes of pinealocytes, a site for glutamate secretion, are frequently present. The delta2-positive cells constitute a very minor population among total pineal cells (approximately 0.03%). Double immunolabeling with delta2 antibodies and antibodies against marker proteins for pineal interstitial cells clearly distinguishes delta2-positive pineal cells and other known interstitial cells, including glial fibrillary acidic protein- or vimentin-positive glial-like cells. These results indicated that the delta2 glutamate receptor is expressed in a novel subpopulation of pineal glial-like cells in culture and suggest the presence of a glutamate-mediated intercellular signal transduction mechanism between pinealocytes and delta2-expressing cells. The pineal cells may provide a good experimental system for studies on the function of glutamate receptor delta2.
10936189: !synaptophysin The GLT-1 and GLAST glutamate transporters are expressed on morphologically distinct astrocytes and regulated by neuronal activity in primary hippocampal cocultures. The GLT-1 and GLAST astroglial transporters are the glutamate transporters mainly involved in maintaining physiological extracellular glutamate concentrations. Defects in neurotransmitter glutamate transport may represent an important component of glutamate-induced neurodegenerative disorders (such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and CNS insults (ischemia and epilepsy). We characterized the protein expression of GLT-1 and GLAST in primary astrocyte-neuron cocultures derived from rat hippocampal tissues during neuron differentiation/maturation. GLT-1 and GLAST are expressed by morphologically distinct glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes, and their expression correlates with the status of neuron differentiation/maturation and activity. Up-regulation of the transporters paralleled the content of the synaptophysin synaptic vesicle marker p38, and down-regulation was a consequence of glutamate-induced neuronal death or the reduction of synaptic activity. Finally, soluble factors in neuronal-conditioned media prevented the down-regulation of the GLT-1 and GLAST proteins. Although other mechanisms may participate in regulating GLT-1 and GLAST in the CNS, our data indicate that soluble factors dependent on neuronal activity play a major regulating role in hippocampal cocultures.
10935449: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical studies of the PrP(CJD) deposition in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. The PrP(CJD) deposition in eight brains of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) was examined immunohistochemically using both hydrolytic autoclaving and formic acid pretreatment in order to understand the pathogenesis of CJD. Synaptic-type PrP immunoreactivity was revealed in the gray matter in all cases and had a tendency to be weaker in devastated areas in cases with a longer duration of illness. However, in one particular case with numerous prion plaques, the degeneration was relatively mild while PrP(CJD) immunoreactivity was intense despite the longest duration of illness among the examined cases. Deep layer accentuation of PrP(CJD) immunoreactivity was observed in the cerebral cortices in most cases. This staining pattern, however, disappeared in a burnt-out lesion exhibiting status spongiosus. The granular layer was damaged mostly in the cerebellum of the advanced cases. PrP(CJD) and synaptophysin immunoreactivities decreased as the tissue degeneration progressed. Interestingly, the Purkinje cells had no positivity for PrP(CJD) in all cases, although the neurons in relatively preserved cerebellum showed apparent positivity for synaptophysin. In the Ammon's horn and subiculum the neurons were well preserved despite the marked immunoreactivity for PrP(CJD) in all cases, although some cases demonstrated severe spongiform change. Approximately half of the cases showed intracytoplasmic inclusion body-like immunoreactivity for PrP(CJD) in neurons of the dentate nucleus. These findings suggest that PrP(CJD) deposition may be an event that precedes neuronal degeneration evolving from deeper layers of the cerebral cortex. Although the Ammon's horn and subiculum showed striking PrP(CJD) deposition and spongiform change, neuronal loss did not take place, suggesting that deposited PrP(CJD) itself seems not to be directly harmful to the neurons. Some investigators have assumed that microglia activated by PrP(CJD) plays an important role in neuronal degeneration. Considering this, we speculate that microglia in the Ammon's horn and subiculum may have a unique characteristic of not responding to PrP(CJD).
10935220: !synaptophysin Usefulness of synaptophysin immunohistochemistry in an adult case of choroid plexus carcinoma. Choroid plexus carcinoma in an adult case is a very rare tumor and difficult to differentiate from metastatic tumors. The authors report a case of a 49-year-old female with choroid plexus carcinoma who previously had multiple carcinomas. In this case, synaptophysin immunohistochemistry proved to be extremely helpful for the histological diagnosis.
10934248: !synaptophysin A novel SNAP25-caveolin complex correlates with the onset of persistent synaptic potentiation. We have identified synaptic protein complexes in intact rat hippocampal slices using the rapid chemical cross-linking reagent paraformaldehyde. Cellular proteins were rapidly cross-linked, solubilized, separated electrophoretically by SDS-PAGE, and then identified immunologically. Multiple complexes containing syntaxin, the synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP25), and vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) were observed to coexist in a single hippocampal slice including a 100 kDa cross-linked protein complex that exhibited the same electrophoretic migration as a member of the previously identified SDS-resistant soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion attachment protein receptor "core" of the 20 S complex. A VAMP-synaptophysin complex, reported previously in vitro, was also observed in the hippocampal slices. This study links biochemical and physiological studies involving presynaptic proteins implicated in secretion and confirms that these proteins that have been studied extensively previously in the presence of detergent do form "bona fide" cellular complexes. Importantly, we have also detected additional novel protein complexes that do not correspond to complexes identified previously in vitro. After the induction of persistent synaptic potentiation, an abundant 40 kDa SNAP25-caveolin1 complex was observed. The SNAP25-caveolin1 complex was not abundant in control slices and, therefore, represents the first demonstration of a reorganization of protein complexes in intact hippocampal slices during the induction of synaptic potentiation. The interaction between caveolin1 and SNAP25 was confirmed biochemically by demonstration of the association of caveolin with recombinant-immobilized SNAP25 and by the coimmunoprecipitation of SNAP25 using caveolin-specific antisera. Caveolin1, like SNAP25, was observed to be abundant in isolated hippocampal nerve terminals (synaptosomes). Immunofluorescent studies demonstrated that both SNAP25 and caveolin1 are present in neurons and colocalize in axonal varicosities. These results suggest that a short-lasting SNAP25-caveolin interaction may be involved in the early phase of synaptic potentiation.
10934165: !synaptophysin Staging of cytoskeletal and beta-amyloid changes in human isocortex reveals biphasic synaptic protein response during progression of Alzheimer's disease. We have examined the relationships between dementia, loss of synaptic proteins, changes in the cytoskeleton, and deposition of beta-amyloid plaques in the neocortex in a clinicopathologically staged epidemiological cohort using a combination of biochemical and morphometric techniques. We report that loss of synaptic proteins is a late-stage phenomenon, occurring only at Braak stages 5 and 6, or at moderate to severe clinical grades of dementia. Loss of synaptic proteins was seen only after the emergence of the full spectrum of tau and beta-amyloid pathology in the neocortex at stage 4, but not in the presence of beta-amyloid plaques alone. Contrary to previous studies, we report increases in the levels of synaptophysin, syntaxin, and SNAP-25 at stage 3 and of alpha-synuclein and MAP2 at stage 4. Minimal and mild clinical grades of dementia were associated with either unchanged or elevated levels of synaptic proteins in the neocortex. Progressive aggregation of paired helical filament (PHF)-tau protein could be detected biochemically from stage 2 onwards, and this was earliest change relative to the normal aging background defined by Braak stage 1 that we were able to detect in the neocortex. These results are consistent with the possibility that failure of axonal transport associated with early aggregation of tau protein elicits a transient adaptive synaptic response to partial de-afferentation that may be mediated by trophic factors. This early abnormality in cytoskeletal function may contribute directly to the earliest clinically detectable stages of dementia.
10931488: !synaptophysin Spontaneous synaptogenesis in ex vivo sympathetic ganglion and the blockade by serum treatment. Central denervation for more than 1 month has been shown to cause an increase in the number of adrenergic synapses in sympathetic ganglia in vivo. Here, we report several lines of evidence that adrenergic synapses may be generated de novo in ex vivo superior cervical ganglion (SCG) of adult rats only several hours after the isolation. Structures immunoreactive for synaptophysin, a marker of presynaptic elements, were drastically decreased 6 days after the preganglionic denervation. A significant increase in number of synaptophysin positive boutons was observed over 3-8 hours in the denervated SCGs maintained ex vivo at 36 degrees C in oxygenated physiologic saline, and this increase was blocked by adding normal serum in the saline. Electron microscopic analysis confirmed that the number of adrenergic synapses specifically labeled with 5-hydroxydopamine was increased by several-fold under the same condition. Intracellular labeling of SCG neurons revealed an increase in the incidence (from 8 to 50%) of neurons having dendritic plexus after the in vitro incubation. No evidence of axonal sprouting within the ganglion was observed. Intracellular recordings from single neurons of denervated SCGs revealed that maximum amplitudes of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, which were completely blocked by yohimbine, an alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, in response to focal stimulation were increased over the several hours. These results suggest that dendrites of SCG neurons rapidly develop and exhibit local efferent characteristics that underlie the inhibitory synaptic transmission once they are subjected to serum deprivation.
10931214: !synaptophysin Frequent presence of neuroendocrine small cells in thymic carcinoma: a light microscopic and immunohistochemical study. Neuroendocrine differentiation has been described in conventional carcinomas of various organs. Small cells postulated to be neuroendocrine cells were observed previously in some thymic carcinomas. This study was conducted to confirm and characterize the presence of neuroendocrine small cells in thymic carcinomas by light microscopy and immunohistochemistry.
10917180: !synaptophysin Unusual prostatic adenocarcinoma with endocrine basophilic FSH-immunoreactive cells. We report an unusual variant of prostatic adenocarcinoma with marked endocrine differentiation (mixed endocrine-exocrine adenocarcinoma). Endocrine cells accounted for 60% of the tumour cells, were positive with silver impregnation and for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase, and coexpressed the exocrine antigens prostatic acid phosphatase and prostatic-specific antigen. Most of the endocrine cells were basophilic with haematoxylin-eosin and proved immunoreactive for alpha subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin and follicle-stimulating hormone. The remaining endocrine cells were represented by eosinophilic cells positive for serotonin, and by calcitonin and serotonin-immunoreactive cells not identifiable in haematoxylin-eosin-stained sections. On ultrastructural analysis, two types of endocrine cells were identified. The most frequent cell type showed abundant cytoplasmic round, electron-dense neurosecretory granules, either small (212+/-44 nm) or large (471+/-114 nm), resembling those of gonadotropic pituitary cells. The second type of endocrine cells contained irregular electron-dense granules similar to those of serotonin-storing enterochromaffin cells.
10923080: !synaptophysin Hyalinizing spindle cell tumor with giant rosettes--a soft tissue tumor with mesenchymal and neuroendocrine features. An immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and cytogenetic analysis. Hyalinizing spindle cell tumor with giant rosettes is a recently described biphasic neoplasm of soft tissues that shares mesenchymal and neuroendocrine features. Its morphologic structure is distinctive, with the presence of hyalinized paucicellular foci that are termed rosettes. The cells around the latter display positive immunoreactivity for neuroendocrine markers. The small number of cases described to date indicates that they tend to be localized in the extremities.
10920995: !synaptophysin [The clinicopathological and immunophenotypical features of 162 cases of gastrointestinal stromal tumor]. To demonstrate the clinicopathological and immunophenotypical features of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST).
10912928: !synaptophysin Ganglion cells in the posterior pituitary: result of ectopia or transdifferentiation? Histologic examination revealed large ganglion cells within the posterior pituitary of an 80-year-old woman who died of myocardial infarction. Apparently fully mature, the cells were an incidental finding scattered within hyperplastic foci of pars intermedia (PI)-derived cells (basophil invasion) on histologic examination of the pituitary obtained at autopsy. Immunocytochemistry showed staining reactivity for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, alpha subunit of the glycoprotein hormones and beta-endorphin. The presence of these ganglion cells with features similar to those of magnocellular hypothalamic neurons could be considered the result of abnormal migration during the early phase of embryonic life, or differentiation/maturation of neuroblasts, presumed to occur in the embryonic neurohypophysis. Alternatively, transdifferentiation from proliferating PI cells may explain the emergence of neurons; a hypothesis supported by the proximity and shared alpha subunit, and beta-endorphin immunoreactivities of the two cell types.
10912925: !synaptophysin Coexisting pathologies in the brain: influence of vascular disease and Parkinson's disease on Alzheimer's pathology in the hippocampus. The finding of more than one coexisting brain pathology in dementia sufferers is not unusual. However, it is unclear how these different diseases may interact or influence the evolution of one another. In this study we analyse the hippocampal expression patterns of hyperphosphorylated tau, paired helical filament (PHF)-related protein, beta-amyloid and synaptophysin in a group of Alzheimer's disease (AD) sufferers with and without additional pathology. Compared to cases with only AD-type pathology we found that the presence of additional vascular disease augmented the accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau in the CA1 region of the hippocampus without affecting PHF formation in cases with mild AD changes and reduced the extent of PHF formation in the CA2/3 and CA4 regions of the hippocampus in cases with severe AD pathology. We also found that synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the CA4 and dentate gyrus in pure AD was inversely related to the extent of amyloid accumulation but not to neurofibrillary pathology in the same regions. These relationships were lost when additional pathology was present. Memory scores obtained during life correlated closely with hyperphosphorylated tau and PHF-related protein expression in CA1 in pure AD but not in AD with additional pathology. Total amyloid and synaptophysin expression in the hippocampus did not correlate with memory scores in any patient group. Our findings suggest that the interactions of two pathologies in the hippocampus are complex and may differ depending on the stage reached in the evolution of a progressive disease such as AD.
10903536: !synaptophysin Neurotrophin receptor (p75) in the trigeminal thalamus of the rat: development, response to injury, transient vibrissa-related patterning, and retrograde transport. We report on the transient, patterned expression of p75 in the ventrobasal (VB) thalamus, the major thalamic relay for somatosensation. We immunostained the brains of developing rats ranging in age from embryonic day (E) 14.5 to postnatal day (PD) 15 with an antibody against p75. To compare p75 expression with the developing synaptic organization within VB, we also immunolocalized the synaptic-vesicle-associated protein, synaptophysin (SYN), on alternate sections. p75-immunoreactivity (IR) was dense and uniform in the ventroposterior medial nucleus (VPM) in the late embryonic and early postnatal periods (E 16.5 to PD 3). In contrast, from PD 4-10, p75-IR in the VPM was patterned, reminiscent of cytochrome-oxidase-stained barreloids, a characteristic feature of the VB in rodents. By PD 14, p75-IR in the VPM was no longer detectable. The ventroposterior lateral nucleus (VPL), in contrast, exhibited no p75-IR. No p75-IR was detected in the ventroposterior lateral nucleus (VPL) at any developmental stage in which VPM could be distinguished from VPL. Light, but clearly patterned SYN-IR, first detectable on PD 2-3, increased in intensity in both VPL and VPM through PD 15. Sectioning the infraorbital nerve on PD 0 resulted in blurred patterns of p75- and SYN-IR within VPM in PD 7-9 rat pups. Removing large portions of the somatosensory cortex on PD 0 resulted in subsequent greatly reduced p75- and SYN-IR within VB. To specify the source of the p75-IR terminals, we stereotaxically injected into the VPM of PD 4-5 rats a monoclonal antibody to p75. One to 2 days later, IR of retrogradely transported p75 antibodies could be traced within axons and cell bodies of neurons associated with the trigeminothalamic pathway through the caudal diencephalon and mesencephalon; labelling was confined to the contralateral trigeminal principal sensory nucleus. The observed, transiently patterned p75-IR in VPM the early postpartum period suggests a role for p75 in synaptogenesis and pattern formation.
10900081: !synaptophysin Regulation of nonphosphorylated and phosphorylated forms of neurofilament proteins in the prefrontal cortex of human opioid addicts. The neurofilament (NF) proteins (NF-H, NF-M, and NF-L for high, medium, and low molecular weights) play a crucial role in the organization of neuronal shape and function. In a preliminary study, the abundance of total NF-L was shown to be decreased in brains of opioid addicts. Because of the potential relevance of NF abnormalities in opioid addiction, we quantitated nonphosphorylated and phosphorylated NF in postmortem brains from 12 well-defined opioid abusers who had died of an opiate overdose (heroin or methadone). Levels of NF were assessed by immunoblotting techniques using phospho-independent and phospho-dependent antibodies, and the relative (% changes in immunoreactivity) and absolute (changes in ng NF/microg total protein) amounts of NF were calculated. Decreased levels of nonphosphorylated NF-H (42-32%), NF-M (14-9%) and NF-L (30-29%) were found in the prefrontal cortex of opioid addicts compared with sex, age, and postmortem delay-matched controls. In contrast, increased levels of phosphorylated NF-H (58-41%) and NF-M (56-28%) were found in the same brains of opioid addicts. The ratio of phosphorylated to nonphosphorylated NF-H in opioid addicts (3.4) was greater than that in control subjects (1.6). In the same brains of opioid addicts, the levels of protein phosphatase of the type 2A were found unchanged, which indicated that the hyperphosphorylation of NF-H is not the result of a reduced dephosphorylation process. The immunodensities of GFAP (the specific glial cytoskeletol protein), alpha-internexin (a neuronal filament related to NF-L) and synaptophysin (a synapse-specific protein) were found unchanged, suggesting a lack of gross changes in glial reaction, other intermediate filaments of the neuronal cytoskeletol, and synaptic density in the prefrontal cortex of opioid addicts. These marked reductions in total NF proteins and the aberrant hyperphosphorylation of NF-H in brains of opioid addicts may play a significant role in the cellular mechanisms of opioid addiction.
10899930: !synaptophysin Evidence for expression of some microtubule-associated protein 1B in neurons as a plasma membrane glycoprotein. Microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 1B is a high-molecular-weight cytoskeletal protein that is abundant in developing neuronal processes and appears to be necessary for axonal growth. Various biochemical and immunocytochemical results are reported, indicating that a significant fraction of MAP1B is expressed as an integral membrane glycoprotein in vesicles and the plasma membrane of neurons. MAP1B is present in microsomal fractions isolated from developing rat brain and fractionates across a sucrose gradient in a manner similar to synaptophysin, a well-known vesicular and plasma membrane protein. MAP1B is also in axolemma-enriched fractions (AEFs) isolated from myelinated axons of rat brain. MAP1B in AEFs and membrane fractions from cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons (DRGNs) remains membrane-associated following high-salt washes and contains sialic acid. Furthermore, MAP1B in intact DRGNs is readily degraded by extracellular trypsin and is labeled by the cell surface probe sulfosuccinimidobiotin. Immunocytochemical examination of DRGNs shows that MAP1B is concentrated in vesicle-rich varicosities along the length of axons. Myelinated peripheral nerves immunostained for MAP1B show an enrichment at the axonal plasma membrane. These observations demonstrate that some of the MAP1B in developing neurons is an integral plasma membrane glycoprotein.
10895813: !synaptophysin A clinicopathologic study of 100 cases of pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma with immunohistochemical studies: TTF-1 is expressed in both round and surface cells, suggesting an origin from primitive respiratory epithelium. Pulmonary sclerosing hemangioma (SH) is a lung neoplasm of uncertain histogenesis that is composed of two major cell types: surface and round cells. The authors studied 100 cases of pulmonary SH that presented as a peripheral (95%), solitary (96%) mass of less than 3 cm in diameter (74%) in asymptomatic patients who were mostly women (83%) with a mean age of 46.2 years. Immunohistochemistry of multiple epithelial, mesothelial, pneumocyte, neuroendocrine, and mesenchymal markers was performed on 47 cases to investigate the histogenesis of this neoplasm. Both surface and round cells stained with epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) and thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1) in more than 90% of cases; however, the round cells were uniformly negative for pancytokeratin and positive for cytokeratin-7 and CAM 5.2 in only 31% and 17% of cases, respectively. Surfactant proteins A and B as well as Clara cell antigen were positive in varying numbers of surface cells but they were negative in the round cells. Neuroendocrine cells either as isolated scattered cells or as a tumorlet within the center of SH were detected (chromogranin, Leu-7, synaptophysin positive) in three cases. The expression of TTF-1 in the absence of surfactant proteins A and B and Clara cell antigens in the round cells of SH suggests that they are derived from primitive respiratory epithelium. The alveolar pneumocytes and neuroendocrine cells may either represent phenotypic differentiation of a primitive respiratory epithelial component or they may correspond to non-neoplastic entrapped or hyperplastic elements. The concomitant positivity of both cell types in SH for TTF-1 and EMA, and the negativity of round cells for pancytokeratin and neuroendocrine markers, provide useful clues not only for histogenesis but also for the diagnosis of this lung neoplasm.
10890250: !synaptophysin Pediatric neuroblastic brain tumors containing abundant neuropil and true rosettes. We have encountered a series of seven unusual neuroblastic pediatric central nervous system (CNS) neoplasms with a unique constellation of histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features. The tumors presented in five girls and two boys, ages 1 to 3 years. In six cases the lesions involved the frontoparietal region, in one case the tectal plate. The tumors consisted of small to medium-sized, round to oval, hyperchromatic cells with poorly defined cytoplasmic borders. Cells were found in clusters and cords set in a paucicellular fibrillar neuropil matrix. Distinctive, virtually anuclear regions of neuropil were scattered throughout the lesions. True rosettes with well-formed central lumens often filled with granular debris were present, along with perivascular pseudorosettes and occasional Homer-Wright rosettes. Mitoses and apoptosis were frequent, but large regions of confluent necrosis were absent. Immunohistochemically, the neuropil-like areas as well as the perinuclear cytoplasm of many embryonal tumor cells were positive for synaptophysin and neurofilament protein. Ultrastructurally, the tumor cells showed microtubule-containing neuronal processes, some with neurosecretory granules. While the lesions were largely glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) negative, there was focal GFAP positivity consistent with divergent differentiation in one case. The clinical outcome was poor, with five patients dead from their disease 5 to 14 months after initial presentation and one patient with recurrent disease 7 months after resection and chemotherapy. The final patient is alive without recurrent disease 30 months after initial presentation. These lesions present distinctive histological features within the group of primitive neuroectodermal tumors.
10884805: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinomas (carcinoid tumor) of the thymus. A clinicopathologic analysis of 80 cases. We studied 80 cases of primary thymic neuroendocrine carcinomas. Most patients had symptoms; approximately one third were asymptomatic. All cases were treated by surgical excision. The tumors were divided according to histopathologic features into low- (n = 29), intermediate- (n = 36), and high-grade (n = 15) types. The tumors displayed a variegated histologic appearance and unusual cytologic features. Some cases showed transition from low to high grade within the same tumor mass. Mitotic activity ranged from fewer than 3 to more than 10 mitotic figures per 10 high-power fields, and most tumors displayed marked cellular atypia and areas of necrosis. In 73 patients, the tumor was confined to the anterior mediastinum. Positive immunohistochemical reaction was observed using antibodies for CAM 5.2 low-molecular-weight cytokeratins, broad-spectrum keratin, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and Leu-7. The clinical follow-up obtained in 50 patients correlated well with tumor differentiation. Therefore, the behavior of these tumors seems to correlate with histologic grade, which seems directly proportional to degree of differentiation. We propose replacing the term thymic carcinoid with thymic neuroendocrine carcinoma, which better reflects the aggressive biologic behavior of these tumors in the mediastinal location.
10884600: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in spinal white matter of young adult rats. Patterns of synaptophysin immunoreactivity were examined in the ventral and lateral funiculi of rat lumbosacral spinal cords. In normal young adults, dendrites from neurons in the spinal gray matter extended into the ventral and lateral white matter as finger-like projections, immunopositive for synaptophysin. These projections appeared to diminish in size as they extended peripherally and, in general, did not reach the surface of the spinal cord, so that the outer one-third to one-fourth of the funiculi contained little or no immunoreactivity. The spinal cords of some of the animals studied were X-irradiated on the third postnatal day. When examined 6 weeks to 5 months later, the pattern of synaptophysin immunoreactivity was found to be markedly altered in these animals. In general, the synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the white matter was less organized than in the non-irradiated rat. As a result, the finger-like projections, particularly into the lateral funiculi, were not as distinct, and the immunoreactivity appeared to be more diffusely distributed in the white matter. Further, the immunoreactivity was present throughout the thickness of the white matter in the irradiated animals and subpial concentrations were evident, especially along the lateral aspect of the spinal cord. Ultrastructural evaluation of the synaptic profiles revealed no differences between irradiated and non-irradiated animals. The synapses occurred on both the shafts of the dendrites and on the spines. In general, both dendrites and axon terminals were covered by astrocyte processes except at synaptic sites, and the synaptic complexes were surrounded by astrocyte processes. Although the mechanisms underlying the altered pattern of synaptophysin immunoreactivity are not yet understood, they may be related to radiation-induced effects on the glial populations previously reported by the investigators and/or to radiation-induced alterations in reorganization or maturation of dendritic trees.
10884433: !synaptophysin Nonreceptor tyrosine protein kinase pp60c-src in spatial learning: synapse-specific changes in its gene expression, tyrosine phosphorylation, and protein-protein interactions. c-src is a nonreceptor tyrosine protein kinase that is highly concentrated in synaptic regions, including synaptic vesicles and growth cones. Here, we report that the mRNA signal of pp60c-src is widely distributed in the rat brain with particularly high concentrations in the hippocampus. After spatial maze learning, up-regulation of c-src mRNA was observed in the CA3 region of the hippocampus, which was accompanied by increases in pp60c-src protein in hippocampal synaptosomal preparations. Training also triggered an increase in c-src protein tyrosine kinase activity that was correlated with its tyrosine dephosphorylation in the synaptic membrane fraction. After training, pp60c-src from hippocampus showed enhanced interactions with synaptic proteins such as synapsin I, synaptophysin, and the type 2 N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor, as well as the cytoskeletal protein actin. The association of pp60c-src with insulin receptor in the synaptic membrane fraction, however, was temporally decreased after training. Furthermore, in vitro results showed that Ca(2+) and protein kinase C might be involved in the regulation of protein-protein interactions of pp60c-src. These results suggest, therefore, that pp60c-src participates in the regulation of hippocampal synaptic activity during learning and memory.
10881741: !synaptophysin Solid-pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas: its origin revisited. Solid-pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas (SPT) has distinctive morphologic and biologic features but an unclear origin. It is classified among the pancreatic epithelial tumors, though many are reported to be negative for cytokeratin. Also unclear are its neuroendocrine differentiation, its capability to express alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT) and, in view of the tumor's striking prevalence in women, its relationship with the female genital tract. To clarify these issues, the immunoprofiles of 59 SPTs were defined by applying a battery of antibodies against cytokeratin, vimentin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin, chromogranin A, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), AAT, LeuM1, Ki-M1P, smooth-muscle actin, CD34, alpha-inhibin, calretinin, placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP), and progesterone and estrogen receptors. The most consistent markers with the strongest immunoreactivity were vimentin, AAT, NSE, and the progesterone receptor, which were each found in more than 90% of the tumors. Using immunocytochemical methods involving antigen retrieval, cytokeratin was demonstrated in almost 70% of the cases. Synaptophysin was found in 22% of the tumors, while chromogranin was absent and tyrosine hydroxylase was only present in a few tumors. None of the other markers tested were expressed by SPTs. This staining pattern fails to reveal a clear phenotypic relationship with any of the defined cell lineages of the pancreas. In view of the striking female preponderance of SPTs and the known close approximation of the genital ridges to the pancreatic anlage during embryogenesis, it is, however, hypothesized that SPTs might derive from genital ridge/ovarian anlage-related cells, which were attached to the pancreatic tissue during early embryogenesis.
10880403: !synaptophysin Age-related amyloid beta deposition in transgenic mice overexpressing both Alzheimer mutant presenilin 1 and amyloid beta precursor protein Swedish mutant is not associated with global neuronal loss. To analyze the relationship between the deposition of amyloid beta peptides (Abeta) and neuronal loss in transgenic models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we examined the frontal neocortex (Fc) and CA1 portion of hippocampus (CA1) in PSAPP mice doubly expressing AD-associated mutant presenilin 1 (PS1) and Swedish-type mutant beta amyloid precursor protein (APPsw) by morphometry of Abeta burden and neuronal counts. Deposition of Abeta was detected as early as 3 months of age in the Fc and CA1 of PSAPP mice and progressed to cover 28.3% of the superior frontal cortex and 18.4% of CA1 at 12 months: approximately 20- (Fc) and approximately 40- (CA1) fold greater deposition than in APPsw mice. There was no significant difference in neuronal counts in either CA1 or the frontal cortex between nontransgenic (non-tg), PS1 transgenic, APPsw, and PSAPP mice at 3 to 12 months of age. In the PSAPP mice, there was disorganization of the neuronal architecture by compact amyloid plaques, and the average number of neurons was 8 to 10% fewer than the other groups (NS, P > 0.10) in CA1 and 2 to 20% fewer in frontal cortex (NS, P = 0.31). There was no loss of total synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the Fc or dentate gyrus molecular layer of the 12-month-old PSAPP mice. Thus, although co-expression of mutant PS1 with Swedish mutant betaAPP leads to marked cortical and limbic Abeta deposition in an age-dependent manner, it does not result in the dramatic neuronal loss in hippocampus and association cortex characteristic of AD.
10878588: !synaptophysin Cytoplasmic dynein conversion at a crush injury in rat peripheral axons. Cytoplasmic dynein is a motor for retrograde axonal transport for movement of membranous organelles toward the neuronal cell body. However, cytoplasmic dynein is synthesized in the cell body and conveyed along the axon to nerve terminals. To characterize the axonal transport of cytoplasmic dynein in relation to synaptic vesicles and other membrane compartments, immunocytochemical and cytofluorimetric scanning analyses of crush-operated rat sciatic nerves were performed. Distal to the crush, the kinetics of dynein accumulation were consistent with its role in the retrograde transport of membranous organelles. During the initial 3 hr after crush, only small amounts of dynein-immunoreactive material accumulated proximal to the crush. This is consistent with metabolic labeling studies showing that most of the dynein moving in the anterograde direction is in the slow component of axonal transport. Thereafter, the rate of proximal accumulation of dynein increased, and by 8 hr postcrush a large amount of dynein immunoreactivity was observed. This accelerated accumulation may be due to recruitment of dynein from slow component b onto organelles proximal to the crush. Double labeling demonstrated that dynein immunoreactivity colocalized with synaptophysin, a transmembrane protein found in small, clear synaptic vesicles. In contrast, dynein immunoreactivity did not colocalize well with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a peptide matrix marker for some large dense-cored vesicles. Finally, dynein immunoreactivity colocalized with the anterograde transport motor kinesin both proximal and distal to a crush, suggesting that kinesin may carry some dynein-containing membrane compartments during fast anterograde axonal transport.
10874590: !synaptophysin Stimulation of noradrenaline release by T-588, a cognitive enhancer, in PC12 cells. Previously, we reported that (R)-(-)-1-(benzo[b]thiophen-5-yl)-2-[2-(N,N- diethylamino)ethoxy] ethanol hydrochloride (T-588), a novel putative cognitive enhancer, stimulated noradrenaline (NA) release from rat cerebral cortical slices. In this study, we investigated the effects of T-588 compared to other secretagogues on NA release from PC12 cells. Addition of as little as 10 microM T-588 stimulated [3H]NA release in a dose-dependent and an extracellular Ca(2+)-independent manner from PC12 cells. Ten micromolar ionomycin-, 300 microM adenosine-5'-O-(gamma-thiotriphosphate)- and 10 microM forskolin-induced extracellular Ca(2+)-dependent [3H]-NA release was further enhanced by 30 microM T-588. Cytosolic synaptophysin and 25-kDa synaptosome-associated protein immunoreactivity was increased by addition of T-588 in a dose-dependent manner. Interestingly, increases in synaptic vesicle-related proteins triggered by T-588 had a 4-min lag time and were completely dependent on extracellular CaCl2. These findings suggest that T-588 stimulates NA release from PC12 cells in a Ca(2+)-independent manner. T-588 also induced the translocation of synaptic vesicles in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner.
10873387: !synaptophysin Isolation and characterization of a calcium channel gene, Cacna1f, the murine orthologue of the gene for incomplete X-linked congenital stationary night blindness. The mutant L-type calcium channel alpha(1)-subunit gene, CACNA1F, was recently identified as the gene responsible for incomplete X-linked congenital stationary night blindness. The 6070-bp mRNA transcript is predicted to encode a 1977-amino-acid pore-forming protein with cytoplasmic amino- and carboxyl-termini separated by four homologous repeat domains, each consisting of six transmembrane segments. CACNA1F has been shown to be preferentially expressed in the retina, indicative of a specific functional role in visual processing. We have established the complete sequence of the murine orthologue of CACNA1F, namely Cacna1f. The total length of the mRNA transcript of the murine gene was established to be 6080 bp with an open reading frame that translates into a 1985-amino-acid protein. Cacna1f is highly homologous to the human sequence, with 90% identity at the amino acid level and almost perfect conservation between the functional domains. Furthermore, as in the human gene, the 3' end of the Cacna1f gene maps within 5 kb of the 5' end of the mouse synaptophysin gene in a region orthologous to Xp11.23. Using in situ hybridization, Cacna1f was found to be expressed in the inner and outer nuclear layers and the ganglion cell layer of the retina.
10867177: !synaptophysin Acquisition of neuronal proteins during differentiation of NG108-15 cells. The differentiated type of neuroblastomaxglioma hybrid cell line, NG108-15, has widely been used in in vitro studies instead of primary-cultured neurons. Here we examined whether NG108-15 cells can be used as a model for studying the neuronal differentiation process. We compared the expression of neuronal proteins (neurofilament 200 (NF200), phosphorylated-NF200 (p-NF200), microtubule associated protein 2, synaptophysin, syntaxin 1, choline acetyltransferase, and acetylcholinesterase (AChE)) and a glial protein (vimentin) between undifferentiated and differentiated NG108-15 cells by immunocytochemistry and immunoblot analysis. The expression of all neuronal proteins, with the exception of NF200 and p-NF200, was positive in differentiated cells, but almost negative in undifferentiated cells. On the other hand, cytoskeletal intermediate filaments (NF200 and p-NF200) for neurons and that (vimentin) for glia were present in both undifferentiated and differentiated cells. Furthermore, a high expression of AChE mRNA was confirmed in differentiated cells by reverse transcription-PCR analysis. Our results showed that even though the expression of cytoskeletal filaments does not change during differentiation of NG108-15 cells, these cells during differentiation can serve as an appropriate tool for investigating and understanding the mechanisms involved in neuronal development and differentiation.
10865324: !synaptophysin Choroidal metastasis as the initial manifestation of a pigmented neuroendocrine tumor. We report the case of a 77-year-old woman in whom choroidal metastasis was the initial manifestation of a primary neoplasm presumed to be a pigmented pulmonary carcinoid tumor. The tumor initially was misdiagnosed cytologically and pathologically as a choroidal melanoma because it contained intrinsic melanin pigment. Positive immunoreactivity for cytokeratin, synaptophysin, chromogranin, and calcitonin and the presence of dense-core neurosecretory vesicles disclosed by electron microscopy established that the metastasis was a neuroendocrine tumor. Findings from systemic evaluation suggested that the primary tumor was located in the lung. The patient subsequently developed an intradural paraspinal metastasis, which also contained melanin pigment. The latter observation confirmed that the melanin in the uveal metastasis was intrinsic and did not represent secondary phagocytosis by tumor cells. Metastases from pigmented tumors of nonmelanocytic derivation are exceedingly rare but present a major diagnostic challenge to ocular pathologists and cytopathologists if the diagnosis is not suspected. Confirmatory immunohistochemical analysis should be obtained when a pigmented choroidal tumor thought to be a melanoma has atypical features. Arch Ophthalmol. 2000;118:841-845
10863420: !synaptophysin Detection of neuroendocrine feature about salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma. To study the possibility of neuroendocrine feature of salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma (SACC).
10861540: !synaptophysin Extrinsic GABAergic innervation of developing neocortical layer 1 in organotypic slice co-cultures. Afferents from the zona incerta (ZI) of the ventral thalamus contribute to the dense, transient gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic fiber plexus in layer 1 of the developing rodent somatosensory cortex. Incertocortical axons contact the distal apical dendrites of postmigratory cortical pyramidal cells. Although recent work has shown that these GABAergic incertocortical fibers are likely to provide widespread fast synaptic excitation of pyramidal cells in layers 2-6 during peak periods of cortical synaptogenesis, little is known about the mechanisms by which these axons project to the neocortex and are confined to layer 1. Here we characterize organotypic slice co-cultures in which a region of embryonic diencephalon containing the ZI is maintained adjacent to a region of embryonic somatosensory cortex. Diencephalic explants from transgenic mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) enabled direct visualization of diencephalocortical connections. Isochronic co-cultures exhibited diencephalocortical fiber ingrowth immunoreactive for both GABA and the presynaptic vesicle-associated protein synaptophysin that was restricted to neocortical layer 1. This pattern of lamina-specific diencephalocortical ingrowth occurred irrespective of placement of the afferent explant, and persisted in the absence of action potential activity and GABA(A) receptor activation. Heterochronic co-cultures containing older cortex demonstrated that the cortical explants remain permissive for lamina-specific ingrowth through the first postnatal week. Organotypic slice cocultures provide a system in which to study the mechanisms underlying the layer 1-specific ingrowth of extrinsic GABAergic inputs to the perinatal neocortex.
10860784: !synaptophysin Accumulation of insoluble alpha-synuclein in dementia with Lewy bodies. The alpha-synuclein (alpha SN) protein is thought to play a central role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases where it aggregates to form intracellular inclusions. We have used Western blotting to examine the expression levels and solubility of alpha SN in brain homogenates from dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and normal controls using samples from the parahippocampus/transentorhinal cortex. Compared to controls, DLB brains accumulate significantly greater amounts of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-soluble and SDS-insoluble alpha SN but levels of TBS-soluble alpha SN did not change. Levels of synaptophysin, a marker of synaptic integrity, were significantly lower in DLB cases than in normal aged controls regardless of whether concurrent changes of AD were present. This limbic synaptic dysfunction may contribute to cognitive impairment in DLB. Whether aggregated alpha SN is a cause or effect of the disease process in DLB and PD remains to be determined, but the presence of aggregated alpha SN is consistent with a pathogenesis similar to that associated with aggregates of Abeta amyloid in AD.
10860580: !synaptophysin Loss of cadherin-11 adhesion receptor enhances plastic changes in hippocampal synapses and modifies behavioral responses. Cadherins organize symmetrical junctions between the pre- and postsynaptic membranes in central synapses. One of them, cadherin-11 (cad11), is expressed in the limbic system of the brain, most strongly in the hippocampus. Immunohistochemical studies of the hippocampus showed that cad11 proteins were densely distributed in its synaptic neuropil zones; in cultured hippocampal neurons, their distribution often overlapped with that of synaptophysin, and also occasionally with that of GluR1 at spines. To assess the role of cad11 in synaptic formation and/or function, we analyzed brains of cad11-deficient mice. In these mice, long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of the hippocampus was, unexpectedly, enhanced; and the level of LTP saturation was increased. In behavioral tests, the mutant mice showed reduced fear- or anxiety-related responses. These results suggest that the cad11-mediated junctions may modulate synaptic efficacy, confining its dynamic changes to a limited range, or these junctions are required for normal development of synaptic organization in the hippocampus.
10850861: !synaptophysin Alpha-synuclein expression in central nervous system tumors showing neuronal or mixed neuronal/glial differentiation. Alpha-synuclein (alpha-synuclein) is a member of a family of cytoplasmic proteins found predominantly and abundantly in the brain, and concentrated in pre-synaptic nerve terminals, near vesicles. We hypothesized that an antibody to alpha-synuclein could be a useful marker of neuronal differentiation in central nervous system (CNS) tumors. Twenty tumors known to have neuronal or mixed neuronal/glial differentiation ( 11 gangliogliomas, 2 anaplastic gangliogliomas, 5 gangliocytomas, and 2 ganglioneuroblastomas), 5 central neurocytomas, and 1 dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNET) were immunostained with a mouse monoclonal antibody raised against human alpha-synuclein. Intense cytoplasmic staining, in some instances extending into the perikarya, was seen in 6 of 11 gangliogliomas, 2 of 2 anaplastic gangliogliomas, and 2 of 2 ganglioneuroblastomas. Alpha-synuclein-positive cells were usually large in size, resembled dysmorphic neurons, and were variably immunoreactive for anti-neurofilament and/or anti-synaptophysin antibodies. In contrast, central neurocytomas, gangliocytomas, and the DNET were negative for cytoplasmic alpha-synuclein expression. Our findings indicate that alpha-synuclein is expressed within the neuronal component of mixed tumors of the CNS displaying more than 1 histophenotype, and/or showing different degrees of anaplasia. Based on currently available data, we conclude that cytoplasmic alpha-synuclein expression is a marker of maturing neurons in these tumors.
10849329: !synaptophysin Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the small bowel mesentery: a case showing perforation at onset. A case of peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the small bowel mesentery with an uncommon clinical onset is reported. A 40-year-old man was admitted to hospital because of acute severe abdominal pain. Chest X-ray revealed a free air sign beneath the diaphragm. At emergency surgery a mass measuring 11.0 x 8.0 cm with perforation was located in the jejunal mesenteric region. Histologically the resected lesion consisted of sheets of undifferentiated small round cells forming abortive Homer Wright rosettes. Some spindle-shaped cells showed perivascular pseudorosettes. Immunohistochemical study revealed that the tumor cells expressed positivity against CD99 (MIC2), neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and vimentin. To the authors' knowledge this is the first documentation of peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the small bowel mesentery with perforation at onset.
10842233: !synaptophysin The emergence of compartmental organization in olfactory bulb glomeruli during postnatal development. The olfactory bulb glomerulus is a discrete and heterogeneous neuropil where olfactory receptor cell axons synapse with dendrites of mitral, tufted, and periglomerular neurons. To understand better the maturation of glomeruli and the spatiotemporal interactions that occur during postnatal development, we employed confocal microscopy and markers for immature and mature olfactory receptor cell axons in parallel with a marker for synaptic structure in maturing glomeruli. Sprague-Dawley rats at postnatal days 1, 6, 12, and 18 were processed for single- and double-label immunocytochemistry for olfactory marker protein (OMP), growth-associated protein (GAP-43), and synaptophysin. Mature or adult-like subcompartmental organization within the glomerulus emerged by postnatal day 12. Earlier in development immature axons entered the core of the glomerulus and moved to the periphery as they matured. However, beginning around 12 days postnatal, immature axons distributed in the periphery and moved toward the core as they matured. This change in the trajectories of axons into glomeruli suggests that different rules may be followed in establishing versus maintaining glomeruli. Double labeling with OMP and synaptophysin demonstrated strong colocalization compared with GAP-43 and synaptophysin, which showed much less colocalization, consistent with the notion that OMP is associated with more mature axons.
10842016: !synaptophysin Prion protein deposition and abnormal synaptic protein expression in the cerebellum in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Prion protein (PrP(C)) is a cell membrane-anchored glycoprotein, which is replaced by a pathogenic protease-resistant, beta-sheet-containing isoform (PrP(CJD) or PrP(SC)) in human and animal prion encephalopathies, including sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Cell fractionation methods show that PrP(C) localizes in presynaptic membrane-enriched fractions. Following infection, abnormal PrP accumulates in nerve cell processes and synaptic regions. The present study examines the possible correlation between abnormal PrP deposition and the expression of synaptic proteins controlling neurotransmission in the cerebellum of six 129 Met/Met sporadic cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Aggregates of protease-resistant PrP-positive granules, reminiscent of cerebellar glomeruli, were found in the granular cell layer, whereas fine punctate PrP-immunoreactive deposits occurred in the molecular layer. Small numbers of diffuse, irregular plaque-like PrP deposits in the molecular and granular cell layers were present in every case. The somas of Purkinje cells, and stellate, basket and Golgi neurons, were not immunostained. PrP-immunoreactive fibres were found in the album of the cerebellum and hilus of the dentate nucleus. Punctate PrP deposition decorated the neuropil of the dentate nucleus and the surface of dentate neurons. Synaptic protein expression was examined with synaptophysin, synapsin-1, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25,000 mol. wt, syntaxin-1 and Rab3a immunohistochemistry. Reduced synaptophysin, synapsin-1, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25,000 mol. wt, syntaxin-1 and Rab3a immunoreactivity was noted in the granular cell layer in every case, but reduced expression was inconstant in the molecular layer. Synaptophysin accumulated in axon torpedoes, thus indicating abnormal axon transport. Expression of synaptic proteins was relatively preserved in the dentate nucleus, although synaptophysin immunohistochemistry disclosed large coarse pericellular terminals in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, instead of the fine granular terminals in control cases, around the soma of dentate neurons. Finally, Rab3a accumulated in the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells, thus suggesting major anomalies in Rab3a transport. These observations demonstrate, for the first time, abnormal expression of crucial synaptic proteins in the cerebellum of cases with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. However, abnormal PrP deposition is not proportional to the degree of reduction of synaptic protein expression in the different layers of the cerebellar cortex and in the dentate nucleus. Therefore, it remains to be elucidated how abnormal PrP impacts on the metabolism of proteins linked to exocytosis and neurotransmission, and how abnormal PrP deposition results in eventual synaptic loss.
10839614: !synaptophysin Divergent differentiation in neuroendocrine lung tumors. The classification of neuroendocrine (NE) lung tumors has been revised in the 1999 World Health Organization (WHO) classification of lung tumors, allowing sharp morphological definition of typical versus atypical carcinoids, and atypical carcinoids versus large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC), a newly described class of high-grade NE lung tumors which differs from small-cell lung cancer by a large-cell phenotype. Divergent differentiation accounts for the high frequency of glandular differentiation with mucin production, and ultrastructural features in carcinoids and LCNEC, and low frequency of squamous differentiation in both LCNEC and SCLC. Specific NE markers (chromogranin, synaptophysin, neural cell adhesion molecule) and epithelial markers consistently negative in neuroendocrine components (cytokeratins 1, 5, 10, 14; epidermal growth factor (EGF)-receptor, human leukocyte antigen beta 2 (HLA-beta2) microglobuline) help to recognize divergent differentiation in NE tumors. At morphological level, divergent differentiation in NE tumors is recognized in WHO classification as variants: combined SCLC and combined LCNEC. The derivation of all lung tumors from a common endodermal stem cell and adoption of amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation properties by this endodermal stem cell explains divergent differentiation in NE lung tumors and the occurrence of NE subsets in NSCLC.
10837922: !synaptophysin N-myc and c-myc expression in Alzheimer disease, Huntington disease and Parkinson disease. The present study examines N-myc and c-myc protein expression with Western blotting and single and double-labeling immunohistochemistry in the hippocampus in Alzheimer disease (AD), the striatum in Huntington disease (HD) and the substantia nigra in Parkinson disease (PD). No modifications in the N-myc and c-myc expression are found in hippocampal neurons in AD, striatal neurons in HD, and pigmented neurons of the substantia nigra in PD. Yet punctate synaptic-like N-myc immunoreactivity, matching enhanced synaptophysin expression, occurs in diffuse plaques, but not in dystrophic neurites of neuritic plaques. In contrast, c-myc immunoreactivity is found in dystrophic neurites, but not in aberrant sproutings of neuritic plaques, as shown by double-labeling immunohistochemistry to c-myc and phosphorylated tau or phosphorylated neurofilament epitopes, and to c-myc and GAP-43, respectively. Strong N-myc and c-myc are observed in reactive astrocytes in AD, HD and PD, as revealed by double-labeling with N-myc or c-myc and GFAP. Finally, no relationship is found between nuclear DNA fragmentation and increased N-myc or c-myc expression in individual cells. These results demonstrate that neuron death in AD, HD and PD is not associated with modifications in the steady-state expression of N-myc and c-myc in individual neurons, and that neurofibrillary degeneration and Lewy body formation are not accompanied by increased immunoreactivity to these transcription factors. Increased N-myc and c-myc expression in reactive astrocytes probably plays a role in reactive astrocytosis in human neurodegenerative disorders.
10835515: !synaptophysin Primary nodal gastrinomas. The term primary lymph node gastrinoma was first used to describe a group of patients with gastrin-producing tumors present in lymph nodes located in a well-defined anatomic region. The patients had no known primary tumors in the pancreas or gastrointestinal tract and had disease-free survival for up to 18 years. The anatomic region in question has a triangular shape that extends from the cystic and common bile ducts to the second and third portion of the duodenum and the neck and body of the pancreas. The term gastrinoma triangle was coined to identify the area; in addition, it was postulated that lymph nodes located in the gastrinoma triangle normally contained neuroendocrine cells capable of secreting gastrin and other neuropeptides. From its inception, the postulate became the subject of controversy.
10826528: !synaptophysin Correlation between N-acetylaspartate levels and histopathologic changes in cortical infarcts of mice after middle cerebral artery occlusion. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the use of the endogenous neuronal compound N-acetylaspartate (NAA) as a marker of neuronal damage after focal cerebral ischemia in mice. After occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO) the ischemic cortex was sampled, guided by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining, and the NAA concentration was measured by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). Conventional histology and immunohistological methods using antibodies against neuron-specific enolase (NSE), neurofilaments (NF), synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and carbodiamide-linked NAA and N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG). The level of NAA rapidly declined to 50% and 20% of control levels in infarcted tissue after 6 hours and 24 hours, respectively. No further decrease was observed during the observation period of 1 week. Within the first 6 hours the number of normal-appearing neurons in the infarcted cortical tissue decreased to 70% of control, of which the majority were eosinophilic. After 24 hours almost no normal-appearing neurons were seen. The number of eosinophilic neurons decreased steadily to virtually zero after 7 days. The number of immunopositive cells in the NSE, NF, and synaptophysin staining within the infarct was progressively reduced, and after 3 to 7 days the immunoreactions were confined to discrete granulomatous structures in the center of the infarct, which otherwise was infested with macrophages. This granulomatous material also stained positive for NAA. The number of cells with positive GFAP immunoreactions progressively increased in the circumference of the infarct. They also showed increased immunoreaction against NAA and NSE. The study shows that the level of NAA 7 days after ischemia does not decline to zero but remains at 10% to 20% of control values. The fact NAA is trapped in cell debris and NAA immunoreactivity is observed in the peri-infarct areas restricts its use as a marker of neuronal density.
10824919: !synaptophysin Primary neuroendocrine carcinoma (thymic carcinoid) of the thymus with prominent oncocytic features: a clinicopathologic study of 22 cases. Twenty-two cases of oncocytic thymic neuroendocrine carcinomas (carcinoid tumors) are presented. The patients were 17 men and 5 women between the ages of 26 and 84 years (median, 55 years). Nine were asymptomatic, and the tumor was found on routine examination; four patients presented with chest pain, two with weight loss, two with multiple endocrine neoplasia I syndrome, and one with Cushing's syndrome. Surgical resection of the mediastinal tumor was performed in all cases. The lesions were described as soft, light tan to brown, measuring from 3 to 20 cm in greatest diameter. On cut section, the tumors showed a homogeneous surface, soft consistency, and focal areas of hemorrhage. Microscopically, the lesions were characterized by nests or trabeculae of tumor cells that contained abundant granular to densely eosinophilic cytoplasm, with round to oval nuclei and in some areas prominent nucleoli. Mitotic figures ranged from 2 to 10 per 10 high-power fields; foci of comedonecrosis were seen in all cases. Immunohistochemical studies including broad spectrum keratin, CAM 5.2, chromogranin, synaptophysin, Leu-7, and p53 were performed in 12 cases. All of the tumors were strongly positive for CAM 5.2 low-molecular-weight cytokeratin, 11 showed strong positive reaction for Leu-7, 10 for broad-spectrum keratin, 8 for chromogranin, 7 for synaptophysin, and only 1 case showed focal positive staining of the tumor cells for p53. Clinical follow-up of 14 patients showed that 10 were alive between 2 and 11 years, and 4 patients had died of tumor from 4 to 11 years after diagnosis. Patients with good clinical outcome were those whose tumors showed low mitotic activity and minimal nuclear pleomorphism, whereas those who had died of their tumors were those whose tumors were characterized by marked nuclear atypia and higher mitotic rates. Oncocytic thymic carcinoids should be added to the differential diagnosis of anterior mediastinal neoplasms characterized by a monotonous population of tumor cells with prominent oncocytic features.
10823955: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin regulates clathrin-independent endocytosis of synaptic vesicles. The GTPase dynamin I is required for synaptic vesicle (SV) endocytosis. Our observation that dynamin binds to the SV protein synaptophysin in a Ca(2+)-dependent fashion suggested the possibility that a dynamin/synaptophysin complex functions in SV recycling. In this paper we show that disruption of the dynamin/synaptophysin interaction by peptide injection into the squid giant synapse preterminal results in a decrease in transmitter release during high-frequency stimulation, indicating an inhibition of SV recycling. Electron microscopy of these synapses reveals a depletion of SVs, demonstrating a block of vesicle retrieval after fusion. In addition, we observed an increase in clathrin-coated vesicles, indicating that the peptide does not block clathrin-dependent endocytosis. We conclude that the dynamin/synaptophysin complex functions in a clathrin-independent mechanism of SV endocytosis that is required for efficient synaptic transmission.
10821486: !synaptophysin NCAM (neural cell adhesion molecules) expression in malignant mesotheliomas. Neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAM) are adhesion molecules expressed by neural and neuroendocrine tumors and a few biphasic tumors such as synovialosarcomas and breast phyllode tumors. To investigate NCAM expression in mesotheliomas, we studied 26 cases of epithelioid (n = 12), biphasic (n = 11), and sarcomatoid (n = 3) malignant mesotheliomas (MM), in comparison with normal mesothelium, and 50 primary non-small cell lung carcinomas (NSCLC) (25 adenocarcinomas [ADC] and 25 squamous cell carcinomas [SCC]), using electron microscopy as a gold standard for recognition of MM. NCAM reactivity using 123C3 antibody was compared with that of NE markers such as chromogranin A and synaptophysin. Although normal mesothelium remains negative, NCAM was expressed in 19 of 26 MM (73%) with a membranous staining on frozen or paraffin sections. In 6 of 12 epithelioid MM, the tumor cells expressed NCAM, whereas in 5 cases stromal fibroblasts showed a strong but focal staining. In 11 biphasic MM, 4 presented an NCAM reactivity of both epithelioid and spindle cell components, whereas in 7, only fusiform component was NCAM positive. Two of 3 sarcomatoid MM showed an NCAM expression. Chromogranin expression was never seen, whereas synaptophysin was noticed in 2 cases. No case of NSCLC showed membranous 123C3 staining, whereas 2 ADC weakly expressed synaptophysin. We conclude that NCAM expression in MM is reminiscent of its expression in mesoderm during fetal life and consistent with that reported in other biphasic tumors. These data show that NCAM expression occurs in 73% of MM, highly exceeding that observed in lung cancer.
10821485: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine expression in metastatic prostate cancer: evaluation of high throughput tissue microarrays to detect heterogeneous protein expression. The theory that poorly differentiated prostate carcinoma develops a neuroendocrine (NE) phenotype is controversial. Supportive data is variable with NE expression being observed in anywhere from 5% to 83% of prostate cancers. These percentages are derived from standard immunohistochemistry studies, which make no attempt to quantify the results. High-density tissue microarrays (TMAs), represent a novel method for evaluating up to 1000 tissue samples with a 0.6 mm diameter on a single glass slide. This high throughput technology for screening antibodies, however, requires validation to determine if TMAs are useful in evaluating heterogeneously expressed proteins such as the NE markers chromogranin A (CGA) and synaptophysin (SYN). This study compares results from standard slides to TMAs in 50 primary and metastatic prostate tumors taken from 12 rapid autopsies from men with hormone refractory prostate cancer. One hundred standard and 2 TMA slides were immunostained for CGA and SYN. Using standard slides, focal NE expression was seen in 1/12 primary prostate tumors. Overall, 13/100 (13%) standard slides showed focal NE expression for both primary and metastatic prostate tumors; NE expression was observed in 4/12 autopsy cases (33%) when all tumor sites per case were considered. 458 tissue elements (tumor and normal) were arrayed into one paraffin block. Seventy-three percent (332/458) of the elements placed into the TMA were confirmed histologically to represent tumor. Seventy-five percent (250/332) and 66% (218/332) could be evaluated for CGA and SYN expression, respectively. Six of the metastatic tumors expressed CGA and SYN or 2.4% (6/250; 95% CI = 0.9% to 5.2%) and 2.3% (6/218; 95% CI = 0.8% to 5.3%), respectively. In conclusion, only focal NE expression was observed by both methods (eg, standard and TMA slides). The focal expression in these advanced prostate tumors was unexpected given data from prostate tumor cell lines and animal models suggesting that progression to the NE phenotype parallels tumor progression. This study also supports the use of high density TMAs to screen for protein expression, even when expression is focal.
10820532: !synaptophysin Aspiration cytology and core biopsy of a carcinoid tumor arising in a retrorectal cyst: a case report. Retrorectal cysts are uncommon lesions of uncertain histogenesis, and primary carcinoid tumors arising in retrorectal cysts are extremely rare. We present the case of a 52-yr-old man who had a 22-cm partially cystic, partially solid mass in the presacral space. A computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration of the mass was performed. The smears contained abundant keratinous debris and rare groups of tumor cells. The tumor cells were cuboidal, with slightly granular cytoplasm and centrally located nuclei with speckled chromatin and inconspicuous nucleoli. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed strong reactivity for chromogranin and keratin, and focal reactivity for synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase. The cytological diagnosis of a carcinoid arising in a tail-gut cyst was confirmed histologically. This is the first reported case of a carcinoid arising in a retrorectal cyst diagnosed preoperatively by cytology. This diagnosis is possible in the setting of consistent clinical, radiographic, and cytological findings.
10820197: !synaptophysin Lithium ions enhance cysteine string protein gene expression in vivo and in vitro. Lithium is a well established pharmacotherapy for the treatment of recurrent manic-depressive illness. However, the mechanism by which lithium exerts its therapeutic action remains elusive. Here we report that lithium at 1 mM significantly increased the expression of cysteine string proteins (CSPs) in a pheochromocytoma cell line (PC12 cells) differentiated by nerve growth factor. These cells concomitantly exhibited increased expression of CSPs in their cell bodies and boutons. Enhanced CSP expression was also observed in the brain of rats fed a lithium-containing diet, which elevated serum lithium to a therapeutically relevant concentration of approximately 1.0 mM. However, both in vitro and in vivo, the expression of another synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, and the t-SNARE, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), was not significantly altered by lithium. These observations indicate that lithium-induced changes of CSP gene expression may contribute to the therapeutic efficacy of this monovalent cation.
10819897: !synaptophysin Expression of complexin I and II mRNAs and their regulation by antipsychotic drugs in the rat forebrain. Complexin (cx) I and II are homologous synaptic protein genes which are differentially expressed in mouse and human brain and differentially affected in schizophrenia. We characterized the distribution of cx I and II mRNAs in rat forebrain and examined whether their abundance, or the transcript of the synaptic marker synaptophysin, is affected by 14 days' administration of antipsychotic drugs (haloperidol, chlorpromazine, risperidone, olanzapine, or clozapine). Cx I mRNA predominated in medial habenula, medial septum-diagonal band complex, and thalamus, whereas cx II mRNA was more abundant in most other regions, including isocortex and hippocampus. Within the hippocampus, cx I mRNA was primarily expressed by interneurons and cx II mRNA by granule cells and pyramidal neurons. Localized cx II mRNA signal was seen in the dentate gyrus molecular layer, suggestive of its transport into granule cell dendrites. Antipsychotic treatment produced selective, modest effects on cx mRNA expression. Cx I mRNA was elevated by olanzapine in dorsolateral striatum and frontoparietal cortex, while the abundance of cx II mRNA relative to cx I mRNA was decreased in both areas by olanzapine and haloperidol. Chlorpromazine increased cx II mRNA in frontoparietal cortex and synaptophysin mRNA in dorsolateral striatum. In summary, the data have implications both for understanding the effects of antipsychotic medication on synaptic organization, and for synaptic protein expression studies in patients treated with the drugs.
10818529: !synaptophysin Effect of a memory-enhancing drug, AIT-082, on the level of synaptophysin. Our objective is to study the effect of AIT-082 on the level of synaptophysin in cultured pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. The drug AIT-082, a unique purine hypoxanthine derivative, is under development for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We analyzed synaptophysin protein as an index of synaptic numbers and density and indirectly neuronal transmission. PC12 cells were treated with nerve growth factor (NGF) (50 ng/ml) and/or different doses of AIT-082 (5-50 ng/ml) obtained from NeoTherapeutics, CA. In the western immunoblots of conditioned media and cell lysates, we detected synaptophysin as 36-40 kDa protein bands. When PC12 cells were treated with NGF and samples were analyzed at 24 or 48 hours after treatment, the secretion of synaptophysin was drastically reduced in the conditioned medium. A significant reduction in the intracellular levels of synaptophysin in NGF-treated samples was also noted. By contrast, when PC12 cells were treated with AIT-082, the secretion of synaptophysin was increased in the conditioned medium as compared to the control. There was also a significant increase in the intracellular levels of synaptophysin in AIT-082-treated cultures. NGF treatment resulted in sympathetic neuronal phenotypes in PC12 cells. As it is known that the immunoreactivity of the synaptophysin protein correlates with the density of the synaptic terminal, our results suggest that treatment by AIT-082 could enhance neurotransmitter release at the presynaptic terminal, which may play a role in the improvement of cognition seen in AD subjects.
10818140: !synaptophysin High-level neuronal expression of abeta 1-42 in wild-type human amyloid protein precursor transgenic mice: synaptotoxicity without plaque formation. Amyloid plaques are a neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but their relationship to neurodegeneration and dementia remains controversial. In contrast, there is a good correlation in AD between cognitive decline and loss of synaptophysin-immunoreactive (SYN-IR) presynaptic terminals in specific brain regions. We used expression-matched transgenic mouse lines to compare the effects of different human amyloid protein precursors (hAPP) and their products on plaque formation and SYN-IR presynaptic terminals. Four distinct minigenes were generated encoding wild-type hAPP or hAPP carrying mutations that alter the production of amyloidogenic Abeta peptides. The platelet-derived growth factor beta chain promoter was used to express these constructs in neurons. hAPP mutations associated with familial AD (FAD) increased cerebral Abeta(1-42) levels, whereas an experimental mutation of the beta-secretase cleavage site (671(M-->I)) eliminated production of human Abeta. High levels of Abeta(1-42) resulted in age-dependent formation of amyloid plaques in FAD-mutant hAPP mice but not in expression-matched wild-type hAPP mice. Yet, significant decreases in the density of SYN-IR presynaptic terminals were found in both groups of mice. Across mice from different transgenic lines, the density of SYN-IR presynaptic terminals correlated inversely with Abeta levels but not with hAPP levels or plaque load. We conclude that Abeta is synaptotoxic even in the absence of plaques and that high levels of Abeta(1-42) are insufficient to induce plaque formation in mice expressing wild-type hAPP. Our results support the emerging view that plaque-independent Abeta toxicity plays an important role in the development of synaptic deficits in AD and related conditions.
10816071: !synaptophysin Two peptidergic drugs increase the synaptophysin immunoreactivity in brains of 6-week-old rats. An increase of synaptic density has been found in the hippocampus, the dendate gyrus and in the entorhinal cortex of 6-week-old rats after 7 days of treatment with the peptidergic drug Cerebrolysin, its peptide preparation E021 and the diluted peptide preparation E021dil. Rats received drugs on postnatal days 1-7 (2.5 ml/kg, each day). Controls received saline. The animals were sacrificed on days 42-48 of their life, after they had undergone behavioural testing in a Morris water maze. Slices of brain were stained immunohistochemically with anti-synaptophysin, a specific marker of presynaptic terminals. The synaptophysin-immunoreactivity of presynaptic terminals was quantified using light microscopy and a computerised image analysis system. Our results showed that rats benefit from the treatment with both drugs. A significant increase in the number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals was found in the entorhinal cortex and the hippocampal subfields CA1, CA2, CA3 stratum radiatum and CA3 stratum lucidum. The increased immunoreactive presynaptic terminals found in the present study are in accordance with the positive effects of the drugs on spatial learning and memory in young rats (Gschanes & Windisch 1999).
10808558: !synaptophysin Sinonasal teratocarcinosarcoma: ultrastructural and immunohistochemical evidence of neuroectodermal origin. The authors report a case of sinonasal teratocarcinosarcoma in a 37-year-old man, which was located in the anterior skull base and extended to the right nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses. The tumor was surgically resected twice, but it could not be removed completely. Microscopically, it was mainly composed of primitive cell nests within a moderately cellular stroma. The components of squamous cell epithelia with focal teratoid appearance and adenocarcinomatous differentiation were observed. There were many rhabdomyoblasts scattered in the nests and stroma. Ultrastructurally, the primitive cells had many neural processes with parallel microtubules, resembling olfactory neuroblastoma. Rhabdomyoblasts showed various degrees of skeletal muscle differentiation. Some of the stromal spindle cells had actin filaments with dense patches and dense core granules. Immunohistochemically, the primitive cells were positive for epithelial markers, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and myogenic regulatory proteins. The rhabdomyoblasts showed immunoreactivity for myoid markers, cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, and synaptophysin. Most of the stromal spindle cells were positive for smooth muscle actin, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. The immunohistochemical and ultrastructural findings suggest that primitive cells had the most primitive phenotype of placodes, and support the possibility that sinonasal teratocarcinosarcoma is essentially a neuroectodermal tumor with divergent differentiation.
10807403: !synaptophysin Autonomic nervous regeneration in acetic acid-induced ulcer from the viewpoint of synapse formation--effect of basic fibroblast growth factor and sofalcone in the rat. Monoclonal antibodies against GAP43 and synaptophysin, markers of regenerated nerves, have recently become available.
10797556: !synaptophysin Immunostaining of ganglioside GD1b, GD3 and GM1 in rat cerebellum: cellular layer and cell type specific associations. We have studied the cellular distribution of gangliosides GD1b, GD3 and GM1 in rat cerebellum by immunostaining, using monoclonal antibodies and confocal microscopy. Antibodies against astroglial, neuronal and synaptic vesicle associated molecules were used for colocalization analyses. In the gray matter, the anti-GD1b antibody stained thin strands in the molecular layer (ML), interpreted as Bergman glia fibers based on colocalized staining with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). The neuropil in the granule (GL) and Purkinje (PL) cell layers was also anti-GD1b positive. The anti-GD3 antibody stained the ML, the neuropil in the GL and PL and also the granule and Purkinje cell bodies, appearing intracytoplasmically and vesicle associated. Anti-GD1b and anti-GD3 staining in the GL glomeruli were colocalized with anti-synaptophysin staining. The anti-GM1 antibody stained cell bodies in the ML but they could not be characterized in colocalization experiments. The GL and PL were not stained with the anti-GM1 antibody. In the white matter, different staining patterns were seen for the gangliosides, the anti-GM1 staining being the most intense. This study shows cellular layer and cell type specific associations of the investigated gangliosides and localization of GD1b and GD3 at synaptic sites, warranting further studies on their role in synaptic mechanisms.
10790237: !synaptophysin Fine-needle aspiration cytology of a case of oncocytic adrenocortical carcinoma. We report on the results of fine-needle aspiration cytology of a case of oncocytic adrenocortical carcinoma in a 39-yr-old man. The tumor invaded the inferior vena cava and extended up to the right atrium. Aspirate smears were very cellular and showed a monomorphic population of large polyhedral cells with abundant granular cytoplasm, predominantly distributed singly. Mitotic activity was inconspicuous, and there was no necrosis. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for vimentin, cytokeratin, and p53, and negative for synaptophysin, chromogranin, inhibin, and S-100. Ultrastructurally, the cytoplasm of the tumor cells was packed with mitochondria. The patient underwent left radical nephrectomy as well as a combined cardiopulmonary bypass, with atriotomy and resection of the tumor from the right atrium and inferior vena cava. Three months of postoperative follow-up were uneventful.
10789836: !synaptophysin Role of synaptophysin in exocytotic release of dopamine from Xenopus oocytes injected with rat brain mRNA. 1. The role of synaptophysin in the exocytotic release of dopamine (DA) was examined in Xenopus laevis oocytes injected with rat brain mRNA. 2. The mRNA-injected oocytes showed DA uptake which depended on the incubation time and external DA concentrations. 3. Stimulation with KCl (10-50 mM) of mRNA-injected oocytes preloaded with DA evoked external Ca2+ -dependent release of DA. The noninjected and water-injected oocytes did not produce uptake of DA and stimulation-evoked release of DA. 4. The high-KCl (50 mM)-stimulated release of DA decreased in the oocytes injected with rat brain mRNA together with antibody to synaptophysin. 5. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that synaptophysin was expressed in the brain mRNA-injected oocytes but not in the noninjected and water-injected oocytes. 6. Thus, uptake and release machinery similar to native dopaminergic nerve terminals was expressed in Xenopus oocytes by injecting mRNA-extracted from the rat brain, and synaptophysin may play a role in the exocytotic release of DA.
10783292: !synaptophysin Neuroanatomical abnormalities in behaviorally characterized APP(V717F) transgenic mice. Histological analyses were performed on the brains of APP(V717F) transgenic (Tg)mice previously studied in a battery of behavioral tests. We describe here the regional and age-dependent deposition of amyloid in both heterozygous and homozygous Tg mice. We also report that Tg mice show significant and age-dependent changes in synaptic density measured by synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Surprisingly, a rather marked hippocampal atrophy is observed as early as 3 months of age in Tg mice (20-40%). Statistical analyses revealed that the deficits in object recognition memory are related to the number of amyloid deposits in specific brain regions, whereas deficits in spatial reference and working memory are related to the changes in synaptic density and hippocampal atrophy. Our study suggests that the behavioral deficits observed in Tg mice are only in part related to amyloid deposition, but are also related to neuroanatomical alterations secondary to overexpression of the APP(V717F) transgene and independent of amyloid deposition.
10777786: !synaptophysin Synucleins are developmentally expressed, and alpha-synuclein regulates the size of the presynaptic vesicular pool in primary hippocampal neurons. alpha-, beta-, and gamma-Synuclein, a novel family of neuronal proteins, has become the focus of research interest because alpha-synuclein has been increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. However, the normal functions of the synucleins are still unknown. For this reason, we characterized alpha-, beta-, and gamma-synuclein expression in primary hippocampal neuronal cultures and showed that the onset of alpha- and beta-synuclein expression was delayed after synaptic development, suggesting that these synucleins may not be essential for synapse formation. In mature cultured primary neurons, alpha- and beta-synuclein colocalized almost exclusively with synaptophysin in the presynaptic terminal, whereas little gamma-synuclein was expressed at all. To assess the function of alpha-synuclein, we suppressed expression of this protein with antisense oligonucleotide technology. Morphometric ultrastructural analysis of the alpha-synuclein antisense oligonucleotide-treated cultures revealed a significant reduction in the distal pool of synaptic vesicles. These data suggest that one function of alpha-synuclein may be to regulate the size of distinct pools of synaptic vesicles in mature neurons.
10776810: !synaptophysin Confocal microscopic estimation of GABAergic nerve terminals in the central nervous system. We describe a method for estimating the average proportion of GABAergic terminal area relative to total nerve terminal area with confocal microscopy. Nerve terminal regions were identified with dual colour immunofluorescence on Vibratome sections with an antibody to synaptophysin (SYN), and GABAergic processes, including axon terminals, were identified with an antibody to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). Sections were viewed in an Olympus AX70 microscope attached to a Biorad 1024 MRC scanning confocal system. Images were collected with a 100 x objective from the same tissue locations and imported into the NIH-Image program, where black and white binary images were obtained for co-localisation and quantitation. Measurements were made separately of areas of SYN/GAD (GABAergic terminals) and SYN labelling (all terminals). The relative proportion of GABAergic terminal areas in visual cortex (6.1+/-1%; mean +/- SE), CA1 hippocampus (2.6+/-0.5%) and deep cerebellar nuclei (46.6+/-3%) are consistent with what is known of the relative levels of inhibitory input to these structures. The assumptions that SYN labelling is restricted to axon terminals, and that SYN labels all axon terminals was tested by ultrastructural localisation of SYN in the three brain regions examined. Only 7.4+/-0.4% of SYN-labelled profiles could not be positively identified as synaptic vesicle-containing axon terminals, and between 93.4 and 99.2% of vesiculated axon profiles were SYN-positive. These results suggest that SYN is a very reliable marker for axon terminals, and validates the confocal analytical approach. The confocal method allows rapid sampling of many brain regions and would be suitable for examining terminals containing any neurotransmitter that can be detected immunocytochemically.
10774945: !synaptophysin Olfactory neuroepithelioma arising from the olfactory placode. The patient was a 54-year-old man, who had lost his sense of smell 6 years previously and had started to become forgetful about 6 months prior to presenting at hospital. MRI admission showed a large multicystic tumor with Gd-DTPA enhancement extending from the anterior cranial fossa through the sphenoid sinus and into the nasal cavity. Histopathological examination revealed extensive proliferation of small round cells that were divided by connective tissue septae. The tumor cells occasionally formed tubular structures, although no basement membranes were present. On immunostaining, round tumor cells were positive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A, while cells forming tubules were positive for AE 1 and CAM 5.2. Almost all of the tumor cells were positive for Ber-EP4, and some of the epithelioid cells surrounding the tubular structures were also positive for luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH). Electron microscopy demonstrated sporadic intercellular junctions, many microtubules in the tumor cell processes, and clear- and dense-cored vesicles in the cytoplasm. Based on the results, this case appears to be the first documented neuroepithelioma with Ber-EP4- and LH-RH-positive cells arising from the olfactory placode.
10762320: !synaptophysin Formation of hippocampal synapses on patterned substrates of a laminin-derived synthetic peptide. We created a new culture system which provides simple, stereotyped neuronal circuitries suitable for investigating synaptic events between mammalian central neurons. We used surface chemistry and laser-lithography to produce geometrical patterns of neuron-compatible substrate spaced by less neuron-compatible surfaces. The patterned substrates were composed of a laminin-derived synthetic peptide, PA22-2, and the spacing surfaces of either decyldimethylsilane (DDMS) or trimethylsilane (TMS). Dissociated rat hippocampal neurons survived on the patterned substrates for several days without the aid of glia and extended their neurites along the substrates. The TMS spacing surfaces appeared more favourable for the excitability development and axonal differentiation of the hippocampal neurons, but less favourable for the development of the resting conductance than the DDMS spacing surfaces. Furthermore, neurons grown on the patterned substrates frequently made synaptophysin-positive contacts with one another. Spontaneous post-synaptic currents recorded from such neurons suggest that these contacts were indeed functional synapses. When hippocampal neurons were plated at a very low density, they often formed circuitries consisting of only two neurons on the patterned substrate. Such a simple circuitry allowed us to analyse synaptic transmission in a single neuronal pair without the influence of the third neurons. With the clarity of analysis and the readiness of manipulation, our culture system would offer a powerful tool for studying development and functions of mammalian central synapses.
10749980: !synaptophysin Batten disease: evaluation of CLN3 mutations on protein localization and function. Juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (JNCL), Batten disease, is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease associated with mutations in CLN3. CLN3 has no known homology to other proteins and a function has not yet been described. The predominant mutation in CLN3 is a 1.02 kb genomic deletion that accounts for nearly 85% of the disease alleles. In this mutation, truncation of the protein by a premature stop codon results in the classical phenotype. Additional missense and nonsense mutations have been described. Some missense substitutions result in a protracted phenotype, with delays in the onset of classical clinical features, whereas others lead to classical JNCL. In this study, we examined the effect of naturally occurring point mutations on the intracellular localization of CLN3 and their ability to complement the CLN3-deficient yeast, btn1-Delta. We also examined a putative farnesylation motif thought to be involved in CLN3 trafficking. All of the point mutations, like wild-type CLN3, were highly associated with lysosome-associated membrane protein II in non-neuronal cells and with synaptophysin in neuronal cell lines. In the yeast functional assay, point mutations correlating with a mild phenotype also demonstrated CLN3 activity, whereas the mutations associated with severe disease failed to restore CLN3 function completely. CLN3 with a mutation in the farnesylation motif trafficked normally but was functionally impaired. These data suggest that these clinically relevant point mutations, causative of Batten disease, do not affect protein trafficking but rather exert their effects by impairing protein function.
10749925: !synaptophysin Axonal membrane proteins are transported in distinct carriers: a two-color video microscopy study in cultured hippocampal neurons. Neurons transport newly synthesized membrane proteins along axons by microtubule-mediated fast axonal transport. Membrane proteins destined for different axonal subdomains are thought to be transported in different transport carriers. To analyze this differential transport in living neurons, we tagged the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and synaptophysin (p38) with green fluorescent protein (GFP) variants. The resulting fusion proteins, APP-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), p38-enhanced GFP, and p38-enhanced cyan fluorescent protein, were expressed in hippocampal neurons, and the cells were imaged by video microscopy. APP-YFP was transported in elongated tubules that moved extremely fast (on average 4.5 micrometer/s) and over long distances. In contrast, p38-enhanced GFP-transporting structures were more vesicular and moved four times slower (0.9 micrometer/s) and over shorter distances only. Two-color video microscopy showed that the two proteins were sorted to different carriers that moved with different characteristics along axons of doubly transfected neurons. Antisense treatment using oligonucleotides against the kinesin heavy chain slowed down the long, continuous movement of APP-YFP tubules and increased frequency of directional changes. These results demonstrate for the first time directly the sorting and transport of two axonal membrane proteins into different carriers. Moreover, the extremely fast-moving tubules represent a previously unidentified type of axonal carrier.
10747315: !synaptophysin The spectrum of neuroendocrine differentiation among gastrointestinal carcinoids: importance of histologic grading, MIB-1, p53, and bcl-2 immunoreactivity. The advent of panneuroendocrine markers has helped to better depict the heterogeneity of gastrointestinal carcinoids. Consequently, it has been proposed that these tumors constitute a histologic spectrum that includes well-, moderately, and poorly differentiated carcinoids. However, the reproducibility of this grading system and its prognostic importance have sometimes been called into question.
10747310: !synaptophysin Differential distribution of the neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin in neuroendocrine lung tumors. To study the immunoreactivity profile of the neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin isotype (beta III) in epithelial lung tumors.
10744061: !synaptophysin Expression of the neurotrophin receptor p75NTR in medulloblastomas is correlated with distinct histological and clinical features: evidence for a medulloblastoma subtype derived from the external granule cell layer. Medulloblastomas (MBs) are primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET) of the cerebellum. They represent the most frequent malignant pediatric brain tumors, but their origin still remains unresolved and controversial. MB cells correspond to different stages of neural development and differentiation as illustrated by their expression of neuronal and glial markers. In the present study, we examined the expression pattern of the common low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75NTR in a series of 167 MBs by immunohistochemistry. While p75NTR was present in only 17% of classic MBs (CMB), we found expression of p75NTR in all desmoplastic (nodular) MBs (DMB) examined, and in 71% of those MBs with a significant desmoplastic component. Furthermore, both desmoplastic histology and p75NTR expression were present preferentially in those tumors of adolescents and adults that are frequently located laterally in the cerebellar hemispheres. In DMBs, p75NTR was expressed predominantly in the proliferative, reticulin-rich areas, which may show coexpression of GFAP. In the pale islands of DMB, p75NTR was expressed only weakly or was absent. The expression pattern showed an inverse relation to that of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin that was predominant in p75NTR negative classic MBs. Since the neurotrophin receptor p75NTR is expressed in cells of the external granule cell layer (EGL) of the fetal cerebellum, our findings suggest that progenitor cells of the EGL are the cellular origin of a distinct subset of MB, namely the desmoplastic variant and MBs with a significant desmoplastic component.
10740612: !synaptophysin Cytologic diagnosis of metastatic basal cell carcinoma. Report of a case with immunocytochemical and molecular pathologic considerations. Metastases of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) are extraordinarily rare events, with only about 200 published reports. The usefulness of immunohistochemical markers in the diagnosis of metastatic BCC was previously established on cytologic material. Furthermore, in recent years, numerous molecular markers have been studied to explain its pathogenesis and relatively indolent behavior.
10734054: !synaptophysin Regulation by neurotransmitter receptors of serotonergic or catecholaminergic neuronal cell differentiation. The murine F9-derived 1C11 clone exhibits a stable epithelial morphology, expresses nestin, an early neuroectodermal marker, and expresses genes involved in neuroectodermal cell fate. Upon appropriate induction, 100% of 1C11 precursor cells develop neurite extensions and acquire neuronal markers (N-CAM, synaptophysin, gammagamma-enolase, and neurofilament) as well as the general functions of either serotonergic (1C11*(/5HT)) (5HT, 5-hydroxytryptamine) or noradrenergic (1C11**(/NE)) (NE, norepinephrine) neurons. The two programs are shown to be mutually exclusive. 1C11 thus behaves as a neuroepithelial cell line with a dual bioaminergic fate. 1C11*(/5HT) cells implement a functional 5-HT transporter and thereby a complete serotonergic phenotype within 4 days, whereas 5-HT(1B/D), 5-HT(2B), and 5-HT(2A) receptors are sequentially induced. The accurate time schedule of catecholaminergic differentiation was defined. Catecholamine synthesis, storage, and catabolism are acquired within 4 days; the noradrenergic phenotype is complete at day 12 and includes a functional norepinephrine transporter and an alpha(1D)-adrenoreceptor (day 8). The time-dependent onset of neurotransmitter-associated functions proper to either program is similar to in vivo observations. Along each pathway, the selective induction of serotonergic or adrenergic receptors is shown to be an essential part of the differentiation program, since they promote an autoregulation of the corresponding phenotype.
10729116: !synaptophysin Synaptic pathology in Borna disease virus persistent infection. Borna disease virus (BDV) infection of newborn rats leads to a persistent infection of the brain, which is associated with behavioral and neuroanatonomical abnormalities. These disorders occur in the absence of lymphoid cell infiltrates, and BDV-induced cell damage is restricted to defined brain areas. To investigate if damage to synaptic structures anteceded neuronal loss in BDV neonatally infected rats, we analyzed at different times postinfection the expression levels of growth-associated protein 43 and synaptophysin, two molecules involved in neuroplasticity processes. We found that BDV induced a progressive and marked decrease in the expression of these synaptic markers, which was followed by a significant loss of cortical neurons. Our findings suggest that BDV persistent infection interferes with neuroplasticity processes in specific cell populations. This, in turn, could affect the proper supply of growth factors and other molecules required for survival of selective neuronal populations within the cortex and limbic system structures.
10727695: !synaptophysin Relationship between ataxin-1 nuclear inclusions and Purkinje cell specific proteins in SCA-1 transgenic mice. Spinocerebellar ataxia-1 (SCA-1), like other polyglutamine diseases, is associated with aggregation of mutant protein ataxin-1 in the nuclei of susceptible neurons. The role of ataxin-1 aggregates in the pathogenesis of susceptible neurons, especially cerebellar Purkinje cells, is unknown. The present study was initiated to determine the temporal relationship between ataxin-1 aggregation and the sequence of specific biochemical changes in Purkinje cells in SCA-1 transgenic mice (TM). Earlier, we demonstrated that SCA-1 TM with no Purkinje cell loss and no alterations in home cage behavior show decreased expression of calcium-binding proteins calbindin-D28k (CaB) and parvalbumin (PV) in Purkinje cells. To determine if increased expression of mutant ataxin-1 in TM is also associated with earlier biochemical changes in Purkinje cells, both heterozygous and homozygous (B05 line of SCA-1) TM were used. The age of onset of ataxia in SCA-1 TM was at 12 weeks in heterozygotes and 6 weeks in homozygotes. In 6 week old heterozygous TM, Western blot analysis of growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43) and synaptophysin revealed no significant alterations as compared with the age-matched nontransgenic mice (nTM), whereas CaB was significantly reduced. beta-III-Tubulin was used as a specific Purkinje cell marker protein, immunohistochemical localization showed strong beta-III-tubulin immunoreactivity (IR) in Purkinje cells in 6 week old heterozygous TM, whereas CaB and PV IR were markedly reduced in the same neurons (double immunofluorescence staining). Most Purkinje cells from heterozygous (12 weeks old) and homozygous (6 weeks old) TM contained ataxin-1 nuclear inclusions (NIs). Cells with and without visible NIs revealed reduced PV and CaB IR; however, the changes were overtly more severe in cells with visible NIs. In contrast, the same cells were strongly immunoreactive to beta-III-tubulin. CaB, which is also present in the nucleus, colocalized with ataxin-1 and ubiquitin positive NIs. Further, RT-PCR analysis of CaB mRNA in the cerebellum in 6 week old heterozygous TM demonstrated a significant decrease in mRNA in comparison with the aged-matched nTM. These data suggest that there are selective alterations in the expression of CaB and PV in Purkinje cells which possibly occur earlier than ataxin-1 aggregation. Further, we speculate that ataxin-1 aggregates may not be toxic in general; however, they may deplete specific proteins essential for Purkinje cell viability in SCA-1 TM.
10725395: !synaptophysin The neuregulin receptor ErbB-4 interacts with PDZ-containing proteins at neuronal synapses. Neuregulins regulate the expression of ligand- and voltage-gated channels in neurons and skeletal muscle by the activation of their cognate tyrosine kinase receptors, ErbB 1-4. The subcellular distribution and mechanisms that regulate the localization of ErbB receptors are unknown. We have found that ErbB receptors are present in brain subcellular fractions enriched for postsynaptic densities (PSD). The ErbB-4 receptor is unique among the ErbB proteins because its C-terminal tail (T-V-V) conforms to a sequence that binds to a protein motif known as the PDZ domain. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we found that the C-terminal region of ErbB-4 interacts with the three related membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUKs) PSD-95/SAP90, PSD-93/chapsyn-110, and SAP 102, which harbor three PDZ domains, as well as with beta(2)-syntrophin, which has a single PDZ domain. As with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, ErbB4 interacts with the first two PDZ domains of PSD-95. Using coimmunoprecipitation assays, we confirmed the direct interactions between ErbB-4 and PSD-95 in transfected heterologous cells, as well as in vivo, where both proteins are coimmunoprecipitated from brain lysates. Moreover, evidence for colocalization of these proteins was also observed by immunofluorescence in cultured hippocampal neurons. ErbB-4 colocalizes with PSD-95 and NMDA receptors at a subset of excitatory synapses apposed to synaptophysin-positive presynaptic terminals. The capacity of ErbB receptors to interact with PDZ-domain proteins at cell junctions is conserved from invertebrates to mammals. As discussed, the interactions found between receptor tyrosine kinases and MAGUKs at neuronal synapses may have important implications for activity-dependent plasticity.
10720439: !synaptophysin Expression of palmitoyl protein thioesterase in neurons. Infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (INCL) is a severe neurodegenerative disorder in childhood that is caused by mutations in the gene encoding lysosomal palmitoyl protein thioesterase (PPT). INCL is characterized by massive and selective loss of cortical neurons. Here we have analyzed the intracellular processing and localization of adenovirus-mediated PPT in mouse primary neurons and NGF-induced PC-12 cells. The neuronal processing of PPT was found to be similar to that observed in peripheral cells, and a significant amount of the PPT enzyme was secreted in the primary neurons. Immunofluorescence analysis of the neuronal cells infected with wild-type PPT showed a granular staining pattern in the cell soma and neuronal shafts. Interestingly, PPT was also found in the synaptic ends of the neuronal cells and the staining pattern of the enzyme colocalized to a significant extent with the synaptic markers SV2 and synaptophysin. These in vitro data correspond with the distribution of endogeneous PPT in mouse brain and suggest that PPT may not solely be a lysosomal hydrolase. The specific targeting of PPT into the neuritic shafts and nerve terminals indicates that PPT may be associated with the maintenance of synaptic function. Furthermore, since a substantial amount of PPT is secreted by neurons, it is tempting to speculate that the enzyme could also have an extracellular substrate.
10716153: !synaptophysin Myxoid neoplasms of the adrenal cortex: a rare histologic variant. The myxoid variant of adrenocortical carcinoma is a rare neoplasm described previously in only two case reports. Because of the rarity of these lesions, the presence of myxoid changes in adrenal cortical neoplasms usually raises the possibility of malignancy. We studied the histopathologic features of 14 cases of myxoid adrenocortical neoplasms, including six adenomas and eight carcinomas. All patients with adenomas with sufficient follow-up (n = 5) were alive with no recurrence of their tumors or evidence of metastatic disease. Four patients with carcinomas died of their disease, two were alive with metastatic disease, and one was alive with no evidence of recurrence or metastatic disease. Histologically, the 14 tumors varied in their myxoid composition, ranging from 10% to 95%. The myxoid foci stained positively with Alcian blue and were usually negative with periodic acid-Schiff and mucicarmine stains. As a group, the immunophenotype of the lesions was typical of other adrenal cortical neoplasms, with positive immunostaining for vimentin, synaptophysin, and alpha-inhibin. One tumor was focally positive for keratin. Myxoid adrenal cortical neoplasms should be included in the differential diagnosis of myxoid retroperitoneal neoplasms. Myxoid changes in adrenal cortical neoplasms may be present in both adenomas and carcinomas, and the usual clinical and histopathologic features for adrenocortical neoplasms should be used to diagnose these neoplasms.
10716149: !synaptophysin Pituicytoma: a distinctive low-grade glioma of the neurohypophysis. Pituicytoma is a rare, poorly characterized tumor of the sella and suprasellar region that is distinct morphologically from other local tumors and is thought to be derived from neurohypophyseal pituicytes. Clinical data, neuroimaging studies, and microsections were reviewed from nine such low-grade gliomas. Immunostains for glial, neuronal, and proliferation markers were performed on all nine tumors and six control neurohypophyses. Three tumors were studied ultrastructurally. Six men and three women, age 30 to 83 years (mean, 48 years), presented with visual symptoms, headache, or hypopituitarism. Magnetic resonance images showed solid, discrete, contrast-enhancing masses, four within the sella and five in the suprasellar space. The tumors consisted of sheets and/or fascicles of plump spindle cells with slightly fibrillar cytoplasm and slightly pleomorphic, oval-to-elongate nuclei with pinpoint nucleoli. Extracellular mucin was prominent in one tumor. Rosenthal fibers, granular bodies, and Herring bodies (granular axonal dilatations characteristic of the normal neurohypophysis) were lacking. Mitoses were rare or absent. MIB-1 labeling indices were low (0.5-2%). Tumor cells were strongly reactive for vimentin and S-100 protein, variably positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein, and nonreactive for synaptophysin and neurofilament protein. Cytoplasm varied in electron density and contained intermediate filaments. Neither meningothelial nor ependymal features were noted. Two tumors recurred at 20 and 26 months after subtotal resection, but none of the six completely resected tumors have done so. Pituicytomas are discrete, largely noninfiltrative low-grade gliomas of the sellar region that occur in adults. Their histologic appearance is distinct from pilocytic and ordinary, infiltrative astrocytomas. The distinction between pituicytoma and normal neurohypophysis is aided by the latter's content of axons, Herring bodies, and perivascular anucleate zones rich in axonal terminations. Although curable by total excision, subtotal resection can be associated with recurrence.
10713490: !synaptophysin Synapses on human spiral ganglion cells: a transmission electron microscopy and immunohistochemical study. A transmission electron microscopy (TEM) study and synaptophysin immunoreactivity analysis of neurons in the human spiral ganglion was performed with particular emphasis on the demonstration of synapses. The study was based on surgical biopsy material obtained during transcochlear meningioma surgery. Vesiculated nerve endings of unmyelinated nerve fibers occurred frequently on the small ganglion cells at all levels. The nerve terminals exhibited abundant clear synaptic vesicles but also dense-core vesicles. Multisynaptic contact sites were also seen with fibers of the intraganglionic spiral bundle (IGSB). Complex associations of synapses could be demonstrated, including several synaptic terminals in conjunction with contact sites or an adherent type of junctions on large ganglion cells. These contact sites exhibited membrane densities which were symmetric or asymmetric, changed their polarity recurrently over their extension from one cell to the other and back and lacked clear synaptic vesicles. This suggests the existence of connections between efferents, belonging to the olivocochlear bundle, and both small and large ganglion cells. Thus, both the inner and outer hair cell system may be under the influence of efferent innervation in the human spiral ganglion. The morphology and course of synaptophysin-positive nerve fibers indicated that synaptic contacts within the spiral ganglion, as observed under the electron microscope, may be abundant. These results indicate that complex neural processing may occur at the level of the spiral ganglion in man.
10710628: !synaptophysin [Quantitative analysis of synaptophysin (p38) in the brain of the second generation offspring from male rats with long-term morphine intoxication]. 
10705813: !synaptophysin Thymic neuroendocrine carcinomas with combined features ranging from well-differentiated (carcinoid) to small cell carcinoma. A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 11 cases. We reviewed 11 cases of primary thymic neuroendocrine carcinomas with combined features ranging from well-differentiated to poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma. For 3 asymptomatic patients, tumors were discovered during routine examination. Presentation in the other patients was as follows: Cushing syndrome, 2 patients; chest pain, 3 patients; superior vena cava syndrome, 1 patient; and hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia, 1 patient. No clinical data were available for the 11th patient. All tumors were located in the anterior mediastinum and treated by surgical excision. The lesions were large and well-circumscribed with areas of hemorrhage and necrosis. They were characterized by areas showing a proliferation of monotonous, round tumor cells adopting a prominent organoid pattern admixed with areas showing sheets of atypical cells with hyperchromatic nuclei, frequent mitoses, and extensive areas of hemorrhage and necrosis. Immunohistochemical studies performed in 6 cases showed strong CAM 5.2 low-molecular-weight cytokeratin positivity in all cases, chromogranin and synaptophysin positivity in 4, Leu-7 in 3, and focal positivity for p53 in 2. Follow-up information for 9 cases showed that all patients died of their tumors between 1 and 4 years after diagnosis. The present cases highlight the heterogeneity of neuroendocrine neoplasms and reinforce the notion that these tumors form part of a continuous spectrum of differentiation.
10704665: !synaptophysin Digital analysis of light microscope immunofluorescence: high-resolution co-localization of synaptic proteins in cultured neurons. A protocol is presented for determining the subcellular distribution of fluorescently labeled proteins in neurons using deconvolved images gathered with a wide-field microscope. The protocol includes optimal settings for the numerical algorithm used to deconvolve the images and an objective method for thresholding the deconvolved images to retain only high-intensity, specific labeling. The effectiveness of the protocol is demonstrated using a fluorescent antibody stain directed towards the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor in cultured neurons. We also show, using an antibody against the presynaptic vesicular protein synaptophysin, that the technique can detect presumptive regions of synaptic contact between neurons. Double-labeling with the anti-alpha1 and anti-synaptophysin antibodies in a cultured neuron reveals regions of both synaptic and non-synaptic alpha1 labeling. Thus, numerical postprocessing of wide-field images can be used to efficiently locate receptor proteins in neurons in relation to functionally important structures. This confocal-like functionality is attained without the excessive bleaching and phototoxicity associated with the intense laser excitation light used in confocal techniques.
10698218: !synaptophysin Phakomatous choristoma: a case report and review of the literature. Phakomatous choristoma is a rare congenital lesion of the eyelid that can be clinically and/or histologically mistaken for a cyst, cutaneous adnexal neoplasm, or an ocular adnexal oncocytoma. Only 13 such cases have been previously described, mostly in the English language ophthalmic literature. Zimmerman reported the first case in 1971 and proposed the lesion to be of lenticular anlage origin, a theory that has been widely accepted. We report an additional case occurring in an 8-week-old male infant with a firm nodule of the right lower eyelid that was present since birth. A 15 x 12 x 2 mm circumscribed solid nodule with a homogenously white cut surface was surgically excised. Histologically, this lesion was comprised of cuboidal cells forming cystically dilated and irregularly branched ducts and cords within a densely fibrotic stroma. Also present were eosinophilic basement membranelike material, psammoma body-like calcifications and intraluminal degenerated ghost cells. The immunohistochemical profile of the epithelial cells included strong immunoreactivity for vimentin, focal weak staining for S-100, and negative staining for cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, synaptophysin, and chromogranin. The irregularity of the ducts and cords of epithelial cells within the densely fibrotic stroma resembled an infiltrative neoplasm of cutaneous adnexal or lacrimal duct origin. However, the site of involvement, the peculiar basement membrane material, ghost cells, and immunohistochemical profile were features that helped to distinguish phakomatous choristoma from an infiltrative carcinoma. The correct identification of this lesion is essential to avoid an aggressive surgical excision, thus sparing the eyelid and lacrimal system. The purpose of this article is to bring attention to this rare entity, because it has not been described in either the dermatology or dermatopathology literature and furthermore, is not mentioned in any of the major dermatopathology texts.
10686543: !synaptophysin Searching for a locus for schizophrenia within chromosome Xp11. Three gene-rich loci-HS212G6, HSU93305, and HS884M20-within the short arm of the X chromosome have been examined for allelic association with schizophrenia by the transmission disequilibrium test in 70 families of male individuals affected with schizophrenia. Neither the HS212G6 nor HS884M20 was found to be associated with schizophrenia. The HSU93305 locus, however, was significantly associated with schizophrenia (X(2)=17.92, df=3, P<0.001). The HSU93305 locus contains four distinct genes. They code, respectively, for A4 differentiation-dependent protein, triple LIM domain protein, synaptophysin, and calcium channel alpha-1 subunit. It is possible that one of these genes or some loci near to it may predispose a vulnerability to schizophrenia. Am. J. Med. Genet. (Neuropsychiatr. Genet.) 96:4-7, 2000.
10685641: !synaptophysin The ciliated hepatic foregut cyst, an unusual bronchiolar foregut malformation: a histological, histochemical, and immunohistochemical study of 7 cases. The ciliated hepatic foregut cyst is an unusual solitary cystic lesion of the liver. In a series of 7 cases of hepatic ciliated cysts, we performed a histological, histochemical, and immunohistochemical study to better define the histogenesis of this rare entity. The patients were 4 women and 3 men, aged 39 to 75 years. Four patients presented with abdominal pain. In 3 cases the cyst was discovered incidentally on ultrasonography. The cysts measured from 1 to 4 cm in diameter. Microscopically, the lining of the columnar epithelium was composed of ciliated cells and mucin secreting goblet cells. The wall was composed of bands of smooth-muscle fibers surrounded by an outer fibrous capsule. The goblet cells stained with PAS, alcian blue, and high-iron diamine. The immunohistochemical study showed that endocrine cells were present within the cyst epithelium, positive for chromogranin, synaptophysin, bombesin, and calcitonin, and negative for serotonin, somatostatin, glucagon, insulin, gastrin, and pancreatic polypeptide. In all the cases, immunoreactivity of some cells for CC10 strongly suggested the presence of Clara cells. Our study shows that the epithelium lining ciliated hepatic foregut cysts has histological, histochemical, and immunohistochemical features similar to those observed in the bronchiolar epithelium. This lesion is a developmental ventral foregut abnormality that could arise from a bronchiolar bud of the tracheobronchial diverticulum.
10682975: !synaptophysin Abnormalities in rod photoreceptors, amacrine cells, and horizontal cells in human retinas with retinitis pigmentosa. To evaluate changes in the rods and amacrine cells and horizontal cells in human retinas with retinitis pigmentosa.
10681387: !synaptophysin A qualitative and quantitative study on the enkephalinergic innervation of the pig gastrointestinal tract. Enkephalins are involved in neural control of digestive functions such as motility, secretion, and absorption. To better understand their role in pigs, we analyzed the qualitative and quantitative distribution of enkephalin immunoreactivity (ENK-IR) in components of the intestinal wall from the esophagus to the anal sphincter. Immunohistochemical labelings were analyzed using conventional fluorescence and confocal microscopy. ENK-IR was compared with the synaptophysin immunoreactivity (SYN-IR). The results show that maximal ENK-IR levels in the entire digestive tract are reached in the myenteric plexuses and, to a lesser extent, in the external submucous plexus and the circular muscle layer. In the longitudinal muscle layer, ENK-IR was present in the esophagus, stomach, rectum, and anal sphincter, whereas it was absent from the duodenum to the distal colon. In the ENK-IR plexuses and muscle layers, more than 60% of the nerve fibers identified by SYN-IR expressed ENK-IR. No ENK-IR was observed in the internal submucous plexus and the mucosa; the latter was found to contain ENK-IR endocrine cells. These results strongly suggest that, in pigs, enkephalins play a major role in the regulatory mechanisms that underlie the neural control of digestive motility.
10680897: !synaptophysin Mesotheliomas with deciduoid morphology: a morphologic spectrum and a variant not confined to young females. Deciduoid mesotheliomas are rare with only four previously reported cases, all affecting the peritoneum of young females. We describe another six cases (three men and three women; age range 52-65 yrs, median 55 yrs; five peritoneal and one pleural). Three patients had an occupational history of asbestos exposure. The deciduoid appearance predominated in four cases, whereas in two it represented a minor component within conventional tubulopapillary epithelioid mesothelioma. All tumors were strongly cytokeratin-positive (including CK5/6) and all showed at least focal staining for thrombomodulin, HBME-1, and calretinin. All were negative for epithelial mucin (D/PAS), CEA, BerEP4, LeuM1 (CD15), CD21, CD35, and S100 protein. Five of six cases (83%) were vimentin-positive and two (33%) were focally positive for alpha-smooth muscle actin. A differential diagnosis of gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumor (GANT) had been initially considered from the morphology of one case, and we found positivity for some of the "neuronal" markers described in GANTs. This prompted us to apply such a panel to the other five tumors, accepting that the cytokeratin positivity encountered in all of our cases would exclude GANT. All cases of deciduoid mesothelioma (100%) were positive for PGP 9.5 and NSE and four of six (66%) were positive for NKI/C3. Weak focal staining (<5% cells) for synaptophysin was seen in two of six tumors. All cases were chromogranin-negative. All cases examined by electron microscopy showed desmosomes and smooth microvilli without rootlets but no neuroendocrine granules. In conclusion, a deciduoid morphology appears to be part of the histopathologic spectrum encountered in epithelioid mesothelioma. This variant is not confined to female patients and occurs over a wider age range than previously recognized. The overlapping immunophenotype with GANTs illustrates that caution should be exercised when interpreting positivity for "neuronal" markers in this context. An immunohistochemical panel that includes cytokeratins should always be used.
10679769: !synaptophysin Motoneuron differentiation of immortalized human spinal cord cell lines. Human motoneuron cell lines will be valuable tools for spinal cord research and drug discovery. To create such cell lines, we immortalized NCAM(+)/neurofilament(+) precursors from human embryonic spinal cord with a tetracycline repressible v-myc oncogene. Clonal NCAM(+)/neurofilament(+) cell lines differentiated exclusively into neurons within 1 week. These neurons displayed extensive processes, exhibited immunoreactivity for mature neuron-specific markers such as tau and synaptophysin, and fired action potentials upon current injection. Moreover, a clonal precursor cell line gave rise to multiple types of spinal cord neurons, including ChAT(+)/Lhx3(+)/Lhx4(+) motoneurons and GABA(+) interneurons. These neuronal restricted precursor cell lines will expedite the elucidation of molecular mechanisms that regulate the differentiation, maturation and survival of specific subsets of spinal cord neurons, and the identification and validation of novel drug targets for motoneuron diseases and spinal cord injury.
10679654: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma of the urinary bladder: can biologic potential be predicted? Paraganglioma of the urinary bladder is rarely encountered and its biologic behavior is uncertain. The authors sought to determine the prognostic factors that would predict patient outcome.
10676878: !synaptophysin Expressions of amyloid precursor protein, synaptophysin and presenilin-1 in the different areas of the developing cerebellum of rat. This study reveals the expressions of Alzheimer's disease-related amyloid precursor protein, presenilin-1, and a presynaptic marker protein, synaptophysin, in the archi-, paleo- and neocerebellum during the postnatal development of the rat. The Western blot results demonstrate a gradual increase in the soluble amyloid precursor protein level in the archicerebellum during the first 3 weeks, while in the neo- and paleocerebellum the levels reach a plateau as early as the 1st week. Immunohistochemically, the protein is present in the deep part of the external granule cell layer and the internal granule cell layer in the newborn animal, while in 3-week-old animals the staining appears mainly in the perikarya and dendrites of the Purkinje cells. The level of synaptophysin increases progressively from postnatal day 7 up to 3 weeks in the archi- and paleocerebellum, and up to 6 weeks in the neocerebellum. Immunohistochemically, the amyloid precursor protein staining appears first in the inner part of the molecular layer and in the internal granule cell layer. In a 3-week-old animal, synaptophysin staining is present in all areas of the cerebellar molecular layer and in the internal granule cell layer. The presenilin-1 immunohistochemical reaction appeared equally in the archi-, paleo- and neocerebellum. Much of the staining is present in the glial cells and Purkinje cells. Less immunoreactivity is observed in the Golgi cells and granule cells. It is concluded that the postnatal expressions of soluble and membrane-bound amyloid precursor protein, synaptophysin and presenilin-1 are regulated differently during the ontogenetical development of the archi-, paleo- and neocerebellum of rat. Further, the amyloid precursor protein and presenilin-1 may be present in cells which do not degenerate in Alzheimer's disease.
10672322: !synaptophysin alpha-Synuclein is expressed in a variety of brain tumors showing neuronal differentiation. alpha-Synuclein is presynaptic nerve terminal protein and its immunoreactivity has been observed in such neurodegenerative structures as senile plaques of Alzheimer's disease or Lewy bodies of Parkinson's disease. The physiological role of alpha-synuclein is still unknown. It is speculated that alpha-synuclein may be expressed in brain tumors, especially in those showing neuronal differentiation. We examined the immunohistochemical localization of alpha-synuclein in 77 human brain tumors. alpha-Synuclein was widely distributed in the brain tumors showing neuronal differentiation. As a result, positive immunostaining for alpha-synuclein was observed in ganglioglioma, medulloblastoma, neuroblastoma, primitive neuroectodermal tumor, pineocytoma/pineoblastoma, and central neurocytoma. Compared with other neuronal markers, the positive ratio of alpha-synuclein was not as high as synaptophysin, microtubule-associated protein 2, neuron-specific enolase and tau, but it was higher than neurofilament and chromogranin A. The expression of synaptophysin was diffusely observed in the cytoplasm, cellular processes and nucleus in tumors showing neuronal differentiation; however, the expression of alpha-synuclein was predominantly observed in the cytoplasm of the tumors as well as in the cellular processes. On the other hand, non-neuronal brain tumors such as astrocytic tumors or meningiomas were totally negative for alpha-synuclein. In conclusion, the appearance of an alpha-synuclein-positive structure was not limited to neurodegenerative diseases, but could also be detected in neoplastic cells showing neuronal differentiation.
10668702: !synaptophysin E4 allele dosage does not predict cholinergic activity or synapse loss in Alzheimer's disease. To investigate the relationship between apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype and both cholinergic dysfunction and synapse loss in AD.
10663977: !synaptophysin Papillary glioneuronal tumour: clinicopathological and biochemical study of one case with 7-year follow up. Among the mixed glioneuronal tumours, a new variant called papillary glioneuronal tumour has recently been delineated. A case occurring in a 23-year-old man is reported. The tumour was cystic with a mural nodule enhanced by gadolinium injection. It was located within the left parieto-occipital lobe. Surgical excision showed a greyish friable tumour with cystic areas. Histopathological examination revealed a pseudopapillary component comprising a single layer of regular cells, arranged around hyalinised vessels. These cells were immunoreactive with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein and HNK1 antibodies. A neurocytoma-like component coexisted with round blind cells and focal fibrillary rosettes. These cells were immunostained by anti-neuron-specific enolase and anti-synaptophysin antibodies. Neither mitoses nor ganglioid cells were seen. HNK1, the three isoforms of NCAM, and the L1 adhesion molecule were detected by Western blot analysis. Ultrastructural study showed three different types of cells. The first contained gliofilaments, the second showed long processes with true synapses, and the third was poorly differentiated. However, all had identical nuclei and contained dense bodies. These findings suggest a common origin for the tumour cells derived from a bipotential neuroglial progenitor. As for other mature mixed neuroglial tumours, the prognosis is good. Our patient is free of disease 7 years after complete surgical treatment.
10663971: !synaptophysin Spontaneous and ethyl-nitrosourea-induced medullomyoblastomas in cerebellar vermis defect (CVD) mutant rats. A 26-week-old female cerebellar vermis defect (CVD) rat, a mutant with cerebellar vermis defect and cerebellar dysplasia, developed a brain tumor about 10 mm in diameter. Histopathologically, the tumor consisted of diffuse proliferation of small round to ovoid cells with hyperchromatic nuclei, occasionally containing round to strap-shaped myoblastic cells. Immunohistochemically, the small round cells expressed neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, indicating neuronal differentiation; myoblastic components reacted to desmin, myoglobin, and vimentin. Based on these findings, the case was diagnosed as a medullomyoblastoma (MMB). Furthermore, two cerebella tumors in CVD rats, which were induced by transplacental application of ethyl-nitrosourea, showed histopathology similar to the aforementioned case. MMB is a very rare tumor in humans and animals; thus, it is noteworthy that MMBs developed in CVD rats, involving the dysplastic cerebellum with abnormal migration of external granule cells.
10658627: !synaptophysin Increased exocytotic capability of rat cerebellar granule neurons cultured under depolarizing conditions. To obtain insights into the mechanisms underlying activity-dependent survival of neurons, we surveyed various indices of cellular activity in rat cerebellar granule neurons cultured under conditions advantageous and disadvantageous for survival. Previously, we reported that the turnover of Ca2+ (both influx and efflux) is activated in raised K+-cultures (survival condition), although the cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration is not affected. We also reported that endocytotic activity was high in the high K+-cultures. In the present study, we used the release of FM1-43 dye [N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-dibutylamino)styryl)py ridium bromide] to determine the exocytotic capabilities of neurons cultured in normal K+ (death condition), high K+ (survival condition) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor-supplemented (survival condition) media. The FM1-43 releases triggered by K+-induced depolarization and glutamate exposure were significantly higher in the high K+-cultures than in normal K+-cultures. Interestingly, the neurons whose survival was supported by brain-derived neurotrophic factor did not show high exocytotic capability, indicating that the high exocytotic capability is not a mere result of viability. However, the number of synaptic sites per cell (as monitored by synaptophysin immunopositivity) was unaffected by culture conditions. The present results suggest that an enhanced exocytotic activity supported by a strengthened exocytotic capability may underlie the high viability of rat cerebellar granule neurons cultured under depolarizing conditions.
10657486: !synaptophysin Expression of neuropeptides and other neuroendocrine markers in human phaeochromocytomas. Phaeochromocytomas may produce several neuropeptides as they are considered neuroendocrine tumours. Nevertheless, studies are scarce and no clear predictive biologic value has been stablished in the case of neuropeptides expression.
10656740: !synaptophysin Mixed ductal-endocrine carcinoma of the pancreas: a possible pathogenic mechanism for arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy. We describe herein a case of a mixed ductal-endocrine pancreatic carcinoma. Rare cases of mixed pancreatic tumors have been described, with endocrine and exocrine components each making up a significant proportion of the neoplasm; to our knowledge, only one case has been reported with a mixed liver metastasis. In our case, ductal and endocrine cells were intimately admixed in the primary tumor and in a peripancreatic lymph node metastasis, diagnosed by standard light microscopy and double immunostaining for cytokeratin 19 and synaptophysin. The endocrine component was immunoreactive for somatostatin. Tumors with admixed endocrine and exocrine components support the hypothesis of a common endodermal histogenesis for the ductal and endocrine cells in the human pancreas.
10645967: !synaptophysin Changing distribution patterns of synaptophysin-immunoreactive structures in the human dorsal striatum of the fetal brain. Within the striatum two compartments, matrix and patches, can be distinguished by differences in the expression of neuroactive substances, afferent and efferent connections and time of neurogenesis. The present study was done to demonstrate the pattern of synaptophysin (SYN) expression which is indicative of synaptogenesis in the human fetal striatum (15th-32nd weeks of gestation) with special reference to developmental changes. From the 15th to the 22nd gestational weeks an intense diffuse SYN immunolabelling of striatal patches is observed. In the matrix SYN-immunoreactive fiber bundles are seen until the 20th week. Thereafter, the matrix is nearly devoid of SYN-immunoreactive structures. From the 28th week of gestation the matrix contains diffuse SYN immunoreactivity which gradually becomes as intense as that of the patches. The latter, thus, can no longer be delineated in the 30th week. The results show that fibrous SYN immunolabelling most probably indicating intra-axonal transport of synaptic vesicles can only be observed during the first half of gestation. Moreover, it becomes obvious that the patch compartment can selectively be visualized by anti-SYN until the 28th week. This pattern may correspond to the early dopaminergic innervation from the substantia nigra which is known to reach the developing patches. From the 28th week a transition from patchy to diffuse immunolabelling is seen. The increase in matrix labelling may be due to the occurrence of new neuronal contacts. The changeover from patchy to homogeneous SYN immunolabelling takes place distinctly earlier than changes in the distribution of other neuroactive substances described before.
10643990: !synaptophysin Dermal intravascular leiomyosarcoma in a cat. A 10-year-old female spayed domestic shorthaired cat presented with a subcutaneous tumor between the first and second phalanges of the left hind foot. Six months after excision, a similar tumor occurred on the medial aspect of the third phalanx of the same limb. Histologically, both tumors consisted of solid masses of spindle and round cells, many of which grew within endothelial-lined vessels. Tumor cells stained positively for smooth muscle actin and vimentin, but were negative for cytokeratin, S-100, desmin, synaptophysin, factor VIII-related antigen, and neuron-specific enolase. The diagnosis was dermal intravascular leiomyosarcoma.
10643815: !synaptophysin Human amyloid-beta1-42 applied in vivo inhibits the fast axonal transport of proteins in the sciatic nerve of rat. Human amyloid-beta1-42 has been suggested to be a pathogenetic factor in Alzheimer's disease. The precise mechanism by which this peptide causes the degeneration of neurons in the affected brain is not yet fully understood. By using immunohistochemistry we explored the inhibitory effects of human amyloid-beta1-42 applied in vivo on the fast axonal transport of acetylcholinesterase, the amyloid precursor protein, the vesicular acetylcholine transporter and synaptophysin in the sciatic nerve of rat. Our findings provide evidence for the in vivo neurotoxic effect of human amyloid-beta peptide.
10643003: !synaptophysin Oncogene amplification in medulloblastoma: analysis of a case by comparative genomic hybridization and fluorescence in situ hybridization. We describe amplification of the MYCC oncogene in a medulloblastoma with aggressive clinical behavior. The patient was a six year old boy who underwent gross total surgical excision of a cerebellar tumor. Despite chemotherapy and total neuraxis radiation, the clinical course was one of relentless progression, with extensive subarachnoid spread and death within eight months of presentation. The pathological features were consistent with the recently described, "large cell variant" of medulloblastoma. Tumor cells exhibited large vesicular nuclei, prominent nucleoli and strong immunoreactivity for synaptophysin. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) assay revealed no evidence of MYCN amplification or 1p deletion in the tumor. FISH analysis revealed evidence of MYCC amplification in the 20- to 30-fold range. Comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) revealed regions of gains and amplification in three locations, with gains of chromosome 7, amplification of 8q24 (corresponding to the MYCC locus) and gains of the long arm of chromosome 17 (suggestive of isochromosome 17q). While conventional karyotypic analysis was not successful in the present case, CGH provided invaluable information about gene amplification and losses/gains of chromosomes and chromosomal regions. Thus, CGH is a powerful technique applicable to frozen or paraffin-embedded material which helps to ascertain the presence of gene amplification even without prior knowledge of the gene to be tested.
10640190: !synaptophysin Interferon-gamma receptors are expressed at synapses in the rat superficial dorsal horn and lateral spinal nucleus. Interferon-gamma can facilitate the spinal nociceptive flexor reflex and may elicit neuropathic pain-related behavior in rats and mice. Immunoreactivity for the interferon-gamma receptor (IFN-gamma R) occurs in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn and the lateral spinal nucleus in the rat and mouse spinal cord, as well as in subsets of neurons in the dorsal root ganglia. The aim of the present study was to examine the cellular localization and origin of the IFN-gamma R in the spinal cord. As viewed by confocal microscopy, the immunopositivity for the IFN-gamma R was co-localized with that of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin and with neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the lateral spinal nucleus, whereas only a minor overlap with these molecules was observed in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn. There was no co-localization of the IFN-gamma R with markers for astrocytes and microglial cells. Ultrastructurally, the IFN-gamma R was found predominantly in axon terminals in the lateral spinal nucleus, but at postsynaptic sites in dendrites in laminae I and II. The IFN-gamma R expressed in neurons in dorsal root ganglia was transported in axons both centrally and peripherally. Hemisection of the spinal cord caused no reduction in immunolabelling of the IFN-gamma R in the dorsal horn or the lateral spinal nucleus. Since rhizotomy does not affect the immunolabelling in the lateral spinal nucleus, our observation indicates that the presynaptic receptors in this nucleus are derived from intrinsic neurons. The localization of the IFN-gamma R in the spinal cord differed from that of the AMPA glutamate receptor subunits 2 and 3 and the substance P receptor (NK1). Our results, showing localization of IFN-gamma R to pre- and postsynaptic sites in the dorsal horn and lateral spinal nucleus indicate that IFN-gamma can modulate nociception at the spinal cord level.
10640174: !synaptophysin Distribution of afferent axons in the bladder of rats. The distribution of afferent axons in the bladder of rats was studied by means of immunohistochemistry for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), in frozen sections and in wholemount preparations of mucosa and muscle coat. Synaptophysin-immunofluorescence was used for the general detection of all intramural axons. The afferent axons were distributed over four distinct targets: at the base of the epithelium, inside the epithelium, on blood vessels (both arteries and veins) and along muscle bundles. In the mucosa, all the afferent axons, except the perivascular ones, lay either inside the epithelium or in a subepithelial plexus very close to the basal surface of the epithelium. The plexus was thickest in the neck of the bladder and in the initial portion of the urethra, and it became progressively less dense in the adjacent regions; it did not extend beyond the equatorial region, and therefore the mucosa of the cranial region of the bladder had no afferent axons. Most of the axons in the subepithelial plexus were terminal axons and included conspicuous varicosities arranged in very long chains; branching points were numerous, usually at right angles and located at the level of a varicosity; some axons split and then rejoined, forming closed axonal loops. The afferent innervation of the musculature was more diffuse, and appeared uniform throughout the bladder. After unilateral surgical denervation (by excision of the pelvic ganglion 5-7 days earlier) areas of complete denervation were observed, but there were large areas where the innervation was only reduced. The results showed that there is a bilateral innervation of many regions of the mucosa and the musculature, including individual muscle bundles. A substantial number of fibres crossed the midline into the contralateral side of the bladder. CGRP-immunofluorescence in mucosal afferent axons is enhanced in the surviving axons 5 days after contralateral denervation, a change which is interpreted as an early sign of regeneration.
10636906: !synaptophysin Pantophysin is a phosphoprotein component of adipocyte transport vesicles and associates with GLUT4-containing vesicles. Pantophysin, a protein related to the neuroendocrine-specific synaptophysin, recently has been identified in non-neuronal tissues. In the present study, Northern blots showed that pantophysin mRNA was abundant in adipose tissue and increased during adipogenesis of 3T3-L1 cells. Immunoblot analysis of subcellular fractions showed pantophysin present exclusively in membrane fractions and relatively evenly distributed in the plasma membrane and internal membrane fractions. Sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation demonstrated that pantophysin and GLUT4 exhibited overlapping distribution profiles. Furthermore, immunopurified GLUT4 vesicles contained pantophysin, and both GLUT4 and pantophysin were depleted from this vesicle population following treatment with insulin. Additionally, a subpopulation of immunopurified pantophysin vesicles contained insulin-responsive GLUT4. Consistent with the interaction of synaptophysin with vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 in neuroendocrine tissues, pantophysin associated with vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 in adipocytes. Furthermore, in [(32)P]orthophosphate-labeled cells, pantophysin was phosphorylated in the basal state. This phosphorylation was unchanged in response to insulin; however, insulin stimulated the phosphorylation of a 77-kDa protein associated with alpha-pantophysin immunoprecipitates. Although the functional role of pantophysin in vesicle trafficking is unclear, its presence on GLUT4 vesicles is consistent with the emerging role of soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive protein receptor (SNARE) factor complex and related proteins in regulated vesicle transport in adipocytes. In addition, pantophysin may provide a marker for the analysis of other vesicles in adipocytes.
10635062: !synaptophysin Studies of chromaffin granule functioning by flow cytometry: transport of fluorescent epsilon-ATP and granular size increase induced by ATP. Flow cytometry techniques, usually employed to characterize cellular populations, are reported here to be a valuable tool to approach the study of subcellular organelle functioning. Chromaffin granules rendered fluorescent by using an antibody against their membrane protein, synaptophysin, are detectable by flow cytometry. Moreover, these storage granules are able to transport the fluorescent ATP analogue, epsilon-ATP (1,N6-ethenoadenosine 5'-triphosphate), and the resulting granular fluorescence increase can also be followed by this technique. The saturation studies show a non-hyperbolic kinetic behaviour, with a two step curve. The K0.5 values were 0.26 and 2.5 mM and Hill numbers 1 and 6 respectively. In addition, an unexpected granular size increase, which was dependent on the epsilon-ATP concentration, occurred together with the fluorescence increase. Other nucleotide triphosphate substrates of V-ATPase, such as ATP or GTP, but not the non-hydrolyzable analogue ATP gamma S (adenosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate), mimic this effect, which exhibited sigmoidal saturation curves with K0.5 values of 1.8 and 3.1 mM for ATP and epsilon-ATP respectively. The V-ATPase inhibitors, suramin, EGTA or EDTA significantly reduced the granular size increase in the presence of ATP. Extragranular addition of noradrenaline has no effect by itself on the granular size, but significantly reduced the granular size increase induced by ATP. This effect was reversed by the amine transport inhibitor reserpine. The granular size increase induced by ATP was more effective in the presence of Cl- than Br- or I-. Moreover, no increase occurred in the presence of F- or acetate. The Cl- channel blockers were poorly effective, and only 2-(phenylamino)-benzoic acid (DPC) exhibited an effect on the ATP-induced granular size increase.
10632935: !synaptophysin Pineal malignant rhabdoid tumor with chondroid formation in an adult. A pineal tumour in a 27-year-old male is presented with the characteristic histological features of a pineal malignant rhabdoid tumor (MRT) with chondroid formation. Occasionally, tumor cells contained a single well-demarcated hyaline globular inclusion within the cytoplasm adjacent to the nucleus. The stroma of these tumors tends to be densely hyalinized and become chondroid. Immunohistochemical staining was positive for vimentin, epithelial membrane antigen, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, S-100 protein, and muscle actin. Despite surgery and radiochemotherapy, the tumor recurred in the pineal region and metastasized to the lower lobe of right lung. The patient died 2 years after the initial diagnosis. This is the second published case of central nervous system-MRT appearing in an adult. The clinical and pathological features of pineal MRT in this patient are presented.
10629772: !synaptophysin Medial olivocochlear efferent terminals are protected by sound conditioning. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was used as a marker for the olivocochlear efferent system that innervates the outer hair cells of the cochlea. An intense noise exposure at either 6.3 kHz or 1.0 kHz caused a significant reduction in anti-synaptophysin immunoreactivity within the 8-6 mm or 14-11 mm distance from the round window, respectively. In the region of the main lesion, the reduction in synaptophysin immunoreactivity for both the 6.3 and 1.0 kHz exposures correlated well with outer hair cell loss. In regions peripheral to the main lesion, some remnants of efferent nerve endings could remain even when their associated outer hair cells were missing. Pre-treatment with a low level sound conditioner (either at 6.3 tone or 1.0 kHz) effectively reduced the efferent and outer hair cell pathology induced by the 6.3 and 1.0 kHz intense noise exposures, respectively. The results demonstrate the feasibility of using anti-synaptophysin immunoreactivity as an effective means of quantifying pathological alterations to the medial cochlear efferent terminals throughout the cochlea. Furthermore, the results show that sound conditioning significantly reduces damage to the efferent terminals.
11102477: !synaptophysin Dendritic and axonal targeting of type 5 metabotropic glutamate receptor is regulated by homer1 proteins and neuronal excitation. The physiological actions of neurotransmitter receptors are intimately linked to their proper neuronal compartment localization. Here we studied the effect of the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-interacting proteins, Homer1a, b, and c, in the targeting of mGluR5 in neurons. We found that mGluR5 was exclusively localized in cell bodies when transfected alone in cultured cerebellar granule cells. In contrast, mGluR5 was found also in dendrites when coexpressed with Homer1b or Homer1c, and in both dendrites and axons when cotransfected with Homer1a. In dendrites, cotransfected mGluR5 and Homer1b/c formed clusters that colocalized with the synaptic marker synaptophysin. Interestingly when transfected alone, the Homer proteins were also translocated to neurites but did not form such clusters. Depolarization of the neurons with a mixture of ionotropic glutamate receptor agonists, NMDA and kainate, or potassium channel blockers, tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine, induced transient expression of endogenous Homer1a and persistent neuritic localization of transfected mGluR5 even long after degradation of Homer1a. These results suggest that Homer1a/b/c proteins are involved in the targeting of mGluR5 to dendritic synaptic sites and/or axons and that this effect can be regulated by neuronal activity. Because the activity-dependent effect of endogenous Homer1a was also long-lasting, the axonal targeting of mGluR5 by this protein is likely to play an important role in synaptic plasticity.
11102473: !synaptophysin Dopamine D3 receptors expressed by all mesencephalic dopamine neurons. A polyclonal antibody was generated using synthetic peptides designed in a specific sequence of the rat D(3) receptor (D(3)R). Using transfected cells expressing recombinant D(3)R, but not D(2) receptor, this antibody labeled 45-80 kDa species in Western blot analysis, immunoprecipitated a soluble fraction of [(125)I]iodosulpride binding, and generated immunofluorescence, mainly in the cytoplasmic perinuclear region of the cells. In rat brain, the distribution of immunoreactivity matched that of D(3)R binding, revealed using [(125)I]R(+)trans-7-hydroxy-2-[N-propyl-N-(3'-iodo-2'-propenyl)amino] tetralin ([(125)I]7-trans-OH-PIPAT), with dense signals in the islands of Calleja and mammillary bodies, and moderate to low signals in the shell of nucleus accumbens (AccSh), frontoparietal cortex, substantia nigra (SN), ventral tegmental area (VTA) and lobules 9 and 10 of the cerebellum. Very low or no signals could be detected in other rat brain regions, including dorsal striatum, or in D(3)R-deficient mouse brain. Labeling of perikarya of AccSh and SN/VTA appeared with a characteristic punctuate distribution, mostly at the plasma membrane where it was not associated with synaptic boutons, as revealed by synaptophysin immunoreactivity. In SN/VTA, D(3)R immunoreactivity was found on afferent terminals, arising from AccSh, in which destruction of intrinsic neurons by kainate infusions produced a loss of D(3)R binding in both AccSh and SN/VTA. D(3)R-immunoreactivity was also found in all tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons observed in SN, VTA and A8 retrorubral fields, where it could represent D(3) autoreceptors controlling dopamine neuron activities, in agreement with the elevated dopamine extracellular levels in projection areas of these neurons found in D(3)R-deficient mice.
10629157: !synaptophysin Pathologic quiz case: patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Diffuse pulmonary neuroendocrine hyperplasia with multifocal tumorlets, immunoreactive to synaptophysin, associated with pulmonary emphysema. 
10629146: !synaptophysin Pleomorphic giant cell carcinoma of the esophagus with coexpression of cytokeratin and vimentin and neuroendocrine differentiation. A pleomorphic (giant cell) carcinoma of the esophagus is reported in a 52-year-old man who had dysphagia and weakness. The 8-cm-high vegetating tumor consisted of solid sheets of poorly cohesive epithelioid cells broken into clusters by strands of stroma. Numerous giant cells showing phagocytic phenomenon were present. Immunochemical analyses demonstrated the epithelial origin of the neoplasm, although most of the tumor cells strongly expressed vimentin. Numerous tumor cells expressed synaptophysin. Neurosecretory granules were detected in some tumor cells on electron microscopic examination. The patient died 4 months after he became symptomatic. As far as we can ascertain, this is the first case report describing a pleomorphic carcinoma arising in the esophagus. This poorly differentiated carcinoma might be of neuroendocrine differentiation. In the esophagus, pleomorphic carcinoma must be distinguished from polypoid tumors such as carcinosarcoma and malignant melanoma.
10628803: !synaptophysin Mixed ductal-endocrine carcinoma of the pancreas presenting as gastrinoma with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome: an autopsy case with a 24-year survival period. We report an autopsy case of mixed ductal-endocrine carcinoma of the pancreas presenting as gastrinoma with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. A 38-year-old Japanese male was found to have Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and pancreatic gastrinoma, and gastrectomy and resection of the pancreatic tumor were performed. However, hypergastrinemia persisted, and the patient died of disseminated carcinomatosis at 62 years of age, 24 years after the onset of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. At autopsy, the main tumor was present in the residual pancreas, and metastases were noted in many organs. In the pancreas and other organs, ductal and endocrine carcinoma areas were mixed and there was a gradual transition between the two. No acinar differentiation was noted. The ductal elements were positive for mucins and carcinoembryonic antigen but negative for neuroendocrine markers, while endocrine elements were positive for chromogranin A and synaptophysin and to a lesser extent for gastrin, but negative for mucins and carcinoembryonic antigen. The ductal elements comprised about 30% of the tumor cells, and endocrine elements 70%. According to the revised World Health Organization classification, our case was diagnosed as mixed ductal-endocrine carcinoma. Our case is rare because the tumor manifested as gastrinoma with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and the patient survived for 24 years. To the best of our knowledge, no such case has been reported. Our case suggests that pancreatic endocrine tumors may evolve into mixed ductal-endocrine carcinomas.
10625083: !synaptophysin Prenatal blockade of vasoactive intestinal peptide alters cell death and synaptic equipment in the murine neocortex. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is a potent growth factor that stimulates murine neocortical astrocyte genesis during the period of ontogenesis corresponding to premature delivery in humans. In rodents, part of the VIP supplied to the fetal brain is maternal VIP that crosses the placenta. If these data also apply to human brain development, premature newborns may be partly VIP-deficient because of loss of the maternal supply, and this may adversely affect their brain development. The goal of the present study was to determine the effects of VIP blockade during mouse neocortical astrocyte genesis on neuritic survival and maturation. VIP blockade by a specific VIP antagonist on embryonic d 17 and 18 induced transient, postnatal depletion of astrocytes in the upper neocortical layers. Combined use of in situ DNA fragmentation analysis (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling method, a marker of cell death); immunohistochemical detection of synaptophysin, microtubule-associated proteins, and neurofilaments; and quantification of mRNA for synaptophysin and N-methyl-D-aspartate R1 receptor subunit revealed that early VIP blockade significantly altered programmed neuritic death and impaired neuritic differentiation. VIP inhibition induced 1) exaggerated postnatal terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling of cortical neurons, 2) long-term overexpression of synaptophysin and N-methyl-D-aspartate R1 receptor subunit, and 3) long-term overexpression of microtubule-associated protein-5 and neurofilament 160 kD. Although the functional consequences of this deviant pattern of murine neocortical development remain to be determined, these data open up new avenues for investigating some of the cognitive deficits observed in human premature infants.
10624552: !synaptophysin Reduction of the small synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin but not the large dense core chromogranins in the left thalamus of subjects with schizophrenia. It has been hypothesized that a lesion in the neuronal circuits of thalamus might contribute to the symptoms in schizophrenia. It has also been suggested that impaired synaptic transmission is an important component of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In the present study we assess the synaptic integrity of thalamus by means of examining the protein levels of: (1) synaptophysin, a membrane bound protein of small synaptic vesicles, and (2) chromogranins, a family of soluble secretory proteins stored and released from the secretory large dense-core vesicles.
10623873: !synaptophysin [Digestive carcinoid tumors: often undiagnosed endocrine tumors (a case report)]. The authors reported a case of a carcinoid tumor of the ileum with nodal metastasis. Diagnosis was made by histological examination of the tumor after its removal. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated the presence of serotonin, synaptophysin, chromogranin and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in the tumor cells. The patient was followed up for 15 months. Tumor ablation resulted in the total cessation of bronchospastic episodes in the patient, suggesting that these symptoms were mediated by tumor secretion. We also present a review of the literature concerning clinical, paraclinical and treatment aspects of gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors.
10620806: !synaptophysin Cholesterol binds to synaptophysin and is required for biogenesis of synaptic vesicles. Here, to study lipid-protein interactions that contribute to the biogenesis of regulated secretory vesicles, we have developed new approaches by which to label proteins in vivo, using photoactivatable cholesterol and glycerophospholipids. We identify synaptophysin as a major specifically cholesterol-binding protein in PC12 cells and brain synaptic vesicles. Limited cholesterol depletion, which has little effect on total endocytic activity, blocks the biogenesis of synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs) from the plasma membrane. We propose that specific interactions between cholesterol and SLMV membrane proteins, such as synaptophysin, contribute to both the segregation of SLMV membrane constituents from plasma-membrane constituents, and the induction of synaptic-vesicle curvature.
10619501: !synaptophysin Pineal ganglioneuroblastoma in an adult. A 57-year-old male with pineal ganglioneuroblastoma was reported. The tumor was composed of a predominant ganglioneuromatous component and a small neuroblastic component. Primary ganglioneuroblastoma of the pineal region is extremely rare. To our knowledge, only three cases have been documented. This case may have a good prognosis because there is a predominant ganglioneuromatous component defined by both neurofilament triplet proteins and synaptophysin. The clinical significance of the neuronal differentiation in the present case and pathological considerations are discussed.
10613905: !synaptophysin Abnormal features in skeletal muscle from mice lacking mitsugumin29. Physiological roles of the members of the synaptophysin family, carrying four transmembrane segments and being basically distributed on intracellular membranes including synaptic vesicles, have not been established yet. Recently, mitsugumin29 (MG29) was identified as a novel member of the synaptophysin family from skeletal muscle. MG29 is expressed in the junctional membrane complex between the cell surface transverse (T) tubule and the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), called the triad junction, where the depolarization signal is converted to Ca(2+) release from the SR. In this study, we examined biological functions of MG29 by generating knockout mice. The MG29-deficient mice exhibited normal health and reproduction but were slightly reduced in body weight. Ultrastructural abnormalities of the membranes around the triad junction were detected in skeletal muscle from the mutant mice, i.e., swollen T tubules, irregular SR structures, and partial misformation of triad junctions. In the mutant muscle, apparently normal tetanus tension was observed, whereas twitch tension was significantly reduced. Moreover, the mutant muscle showed faster decrease of twitch tension under Ca(2+)-free conditions. The morphological and functional abnormalities of the mutant muscle seem to be related to each other and indicate that MG29 is essential for both refinement of the membrane structures and effective excitation-contraction coupling in the skeletal muscle triad junction. Our results further imply a role of MG29 as a synaptophysin family member in the accurate formation of junctional complexes between the cell surface and intracellular membranes.
10611498: !synaptophysin Developmental expression of palmitoyl protein thioesterase in normal mice. Deficiency in palmitoyl protein thioesterase (PPT) results in the rapid death of neocortical neurons in human. Very little is known about the developmental and cell-specific expression of this lysosomal enzyme. Here we show that PPT is expressed as a major 2.65 kb and a minor 1.85 kb transcript in the mouse brain. Transcript levels gradually increase between postnatal days 10 and 30. In situ hybridization analysis revealed that PPT transcripts are found widely but not homogeneously in the brain. The most intense signal was detected in the cerebral cortex (layers II, IV-V), hippocampal CA1-CA3 pyramidal cells, dentate gyrus granule cells and the hypothalamus. Immunostaining of PPT was localized in the cell soma, axons and dendrites, especially in the pyramidal and granular cells of the hippocampus, correlating well, both spatially and temporally, with the immunoreactivity of a presynaptic vesicle membrane protein, synaptophysin. In whole embryos, at embryonic day 8, the PPT mRNA expression was most apparent throughout the neuroepithelium, and from day 9 onwards it was seen in all tissues. The expression pattern of PPT suggests its general significance for the brain cells and reflects the response to maturation and growth of the neural networks. Strong PPT immunoreactivity in the axons and dentrites would imply that PPT may not be exclusively a lysosomal enzyme. A notable correlation with synaptophysin would suggest that PPT may have a role in the function of the synaptic machinery.
10611117: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterization of mossy fibre sprouting in the hippocampus of patients with pharmaco-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy. Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) is a common derangement in many patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. As a result of neuronal cell loss in the hilar region of the hippocampus, it is proposed that mossy fibres sprout and re-innervate new regions of the dentate gyrus. This sprouting may cause recurrent excitation that may lead to the generation of seizures. Here, we determined neuronal density, and synaptophysin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity in hippocampal specimens from patients with pharmaco-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy. Patients were classified into two groups: those with severe and those with no HS. Non-epileptic autopsy tissue served as controls. Mossy fibre sprouting was investigated in these two groups of epilepsy patients using Timm's staining and an immunohistochemical staining of the presynaptic growth-associated protein B-50 (also known as GAP-43, neuromodulin, F1). B-50 immunoreactivity in the different sub-areas of the hippocampus was quantified by image analysis. Our results show the following: (i) in both groups of temporal lobe epilepsy patients, there was a significant loss in cell number in all major hippocampal sub-areas compared with autopsy control tissue; (ii) in HS patients, when compared with non-HS patients, there was a further decline in the number of principal cells in all hippocampal sub-areas analysed, which was associated with an increase in GFAP immunoreactivity; (iii) the decline in cell density was accompanied by a reduced number of synaptic terminals; (iv) in the HS group, there were sprouted mossy fibres in the supragranular layer (SGL) of the dentate gyrus; (v) there was an increase in synaptophysin immunostaining in the SGL indicating that functionally active nerve terminals were formed; and (vi) B-50 immunoreactivity was also increased in the SGL in the HS group compared with the non-HS and control groups. These data showed that all temporal lobe epilepsy hippocampi investigated had severe neuronal cell loss which was most dramatic in the HS group, where it was accompanied by a severe loss of synapses. In the HS group, mossy fibre sprouting into the SGL was found. The increase in B-50 immunoreactivity in the SGL indicated that there was still active sprouting. This sprouting was accompanied by an increased density of synapses, indicating that mossy fibre terminals are not only anatomically present, but probably also functional. Thus, functional glutamatergic mossy fibre terminals are in the right position to synapse on to the dendrites of granule cells and thus may contribute to the onset of seizures.
10598866: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry of neural markers for the study of the laminar architecture in celloidin sections from the human cerebral cortex. Morphometric studies of the cerebral cortex in celloidin sections provide reliable quantitative estimates of cytoarchitectural features in individual brain regions. To increase our knowledge about the morphology and distribution of neuronal and glial cell types using specific cellular markers, we compared two methods of celloidin removal/antigen recovery, and subsequent immunohistochemical staining of free floating sections with specific antibodies. The method based on methanol and NaOH for celloidin removal was the most adequate for optimal recovery of immunoreactivity of the neural markers NF200, MAP2, GFAP, calretinin, parvalbumin, calbindin-D28kD, and synaptophysin. The other method, based on a treatment with ethanol/ether and formic acid, gave good results in the immunostaining of NF200, GFAP and MAP2, but not the other markers named above. The immunostained sections were compared with nearby sections stained with cresyl violet in order to assign the immunoreactive structures to individual layers in the prefrontal cortex. Sections from blocks not embedded in celloidin showed a comparable distribution of all the antigens included in the present study. The present paper provides an antigen recovery technique for celloidin sections that can be applied to optimize studies on the cytoarchitecture and distribution of specific neural elements in the human cerebral cortex.
10595912: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: A novel marker for human and rat hepatic stellate cells. Synaptophysin is a protein involved in neurotransmitter exocytosis and is a neuroendocrine marker. We studied synaptophysin immunohistochemical expression in 35 human liver specimens (normal and different pathological conditions), in rat models of galactosamine hepatitis and carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis, and in freshly isolated rat stellate cells. Synaptophysin reactivity was present in perisinusoidal stellate cells in both human and rat normal liver biopsies. The number of synaptophysin-reactive perisinusoidal cells increased in pathological conditions. Double staining for alpha-smooth muscle actin and synaptophysin, detected by confocal laser scanning microscopy, unequivocally demonstrated colocalization of both markers in lobular stellate cells. In addition, freshly isolated rat stellate cells expressed synaptophysin mRNA (detected by polymerase chain reaction) and protein. Finally, electron microscopy showed the presence of small electron translucent vesicles, comparable to the synaptophysin-reactive synaptic vesicles in neurons, in stellate cell projections. We conclude that synaptophysin is a novel marker for quiescent as well as activated hepatic stellate cells. Together with the stellate cell's expression of neural cell adhesion molecule, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and nestin, this finding raises questions about its embryonic origin and its differentiation. In addition, the presence of synaptic vesicles in stellate cell processes suggests a hitherto unknown mechanism of interaction with neighboring cells.
10595519: !synaptophysin Essential roles in synaptic plasticity for synaptogyrin I and synaptophysin I. We have generated mice lacking synaptogyrin I and synaptophysin I to explore the functions of these abundant tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins of synaptic vesicles. Single and double knockout mice were alive and fertile without significant morphological or biochemical changes. Electrophysiological recordings in the hippocampal CA1 region revealed that short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity were severely reduced in the synaptophysin/synaptogyrin double knockout mice. LTP was decreased independent of the induction protocol, suggesting that the defect in LTP was not caused by insufficient induction. Our data show that synaptogyrin I and synaptophysin I perform redundant and essential functions in synaptic plasticity without being required for neurotransmitter release itself.
10541003: !synaptophysin The synaptic-vesicle-specific proteins rab3a and synaptophysin are reduced in thalamus and related cortical brain regions in schizophrenic brains. Two synaptic-vesicle proteins, rab3a and synaptophysin, have been studied on post-mortem brain tissues of schizophrenics and healthy controls. We found significantly reduced levels of rab3a in thalamus (p<0.001); for both proteins in gyrus cinguli and hippocampus (p<0.0001); for rab3a in frontal and parietal cortex (p<0.05); and no differences in temporal cortex or cerebellum in schizophrenics compared with controls. Reduced synaptic density may be a prominent feature of the molecular neuropathology of schizophrenia.
10593406: !synaptophysin Evidence for a dense and intimate innervation of the bone tissue, including glutamate-containing fibers. The recent demonstration in bone cells of receptors for glutamate (Glu), a major neuromediator, suggests that Glu may also act as a signaling molecule in bone and regulate bone cell metabolism. Although bone is known to be innervated, the distribution and characteristics of nerve fibers in this tissue have not been well documented. We have studied the anatomical distribution of nerve fibers and the presence of glutamate-immunoreactive ones in sections of long bones from neonatal, 15-, and 25-day-old rats, using immunocytochemistry with antibodies directed against several neuronal markers and Glu. We showed by electron microscopy that bone is rich in nerve-like processes running along vessels adjacent to bone trabeculae, in the vicinity of hematopoietic cells and bone cells. Immunocytochemical studies at the tissue and cellular level confirmed the presence of a dense network of thin nerve processes immunolabeled for neurofilament 200, tyrosine hydroxylase, and microtubule associated protein-2, three markers of nerve fibers. Some of these nerve processes showed local dilatations in contact with medullary cells and bone cells that were immunolabeled for synaptophysin, a nerve terminal marker. Glu was largely expressed in these thin nerve processes in proximity to bone cells. These findings show evidence for a dense and intimate network of nerve processes in bone, some of which were containing Glu, suggesting glutamatergic innervation in bone.
10593300: !synaptophysin Neurochemical markers do not correlate with cognitive decline in the Lewy body variant of Alzheimer disease. Reductions in neocortical synapses and cholinergic function occur in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and in patients with the Lewy body variant of AD (LBV). The relation between these losses and cognitive decline has been reported frequently in patients with AD but remains unclear for patients with LBV.
10588650: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicles form by budding from tubular extensions of sorting endosomes in PC12 cells. The putative role of sorting early endosomes (EEs) in synaptic-like microvesicle (SLMV) formation in the neuroendocrine PC12 cell line was investigated by quantitative immunoelectron microscopy. By BSA-gold internalization kinetics, four distinct endosomal subcompartments were distinguished: primary endocytic vesicles, EEs, late endosomes, and lysosomes. As in other cells, EEs consisted of vacuolar and tubulovesicular subdomains. The SLMV marker proteins synaptophysin and vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP-2) localized to both the EE vacuoles and associated tubulovesicles. Quantitative analysis showed that the transferrin receptor and SLMV proteins colocalized to a significantly higher degree in primary endocytic vesicles then in EE-associated tubulovesicles. By incubating PC12 cells expressing T antigen-tagged VAMP (VAMP-TAg) with antibodies against the luminal TAg, the recycling pathway of SLMV proteins was directly visualized. At 15 degrees C, internalized VAMP-TAg accumulated in the vacuolar domain of EEs. Upon rewarming to 37 degrees C, the labeling shifted to the tubular part of EEs and to newly formed SLMVs. Our data delineate a pathway in which SLMV proteins together with transferrin receptor are delivered to EEs, where they are sorted into SLMVs and recycling vesicles, respectively.
10588583: !synaptophysin No loss of synaptic proteins in the hippocampus of aged, behaviorally impaired rats. The levels of three different synaptic proteins in the hippocampus of young (6 months of age) and aged (26-27 months of age) Long Evans rats were examined using quantitative Western blotting. An important feature to this study is that prior to the neurobiological analysis, hippocampal function was determined by assessing spatial learning ability in the Morris water maze. A subset of the aged rats was impaired on the learning task while the remaining aged cohort performed within the range of young rats. The amount of immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and synaptosomal associated protein-25 did not differ between the young and aged rats. In addition, the aged rats with severe cognitive impairment had levels of these synaptic proteins that were similar to those of the aged rats with preserved cognitive function. This finding of no change in the levels of synaptic proteins suggests that substantial synapse loss in the hippocampal formation does not underlie cognitive decline in normal aging.
10583399: !synaptophysin Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II isoenzymes gamma and delta are both present in H+/K+-ATPase-containing rabbit gastric tubulovesicles. Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II is thought to participate in M3 muscarinic receptor-mediated acid secretion in gastric parietal cells. During acid secretion tubulovesicles carrying H+/K+-ATPase fuse with the apical membrane. We localized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II from highly purified rabbit gastric tubulovesicles using Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II isoform-specific antibodies, in vitro phosphorylation and pharmacological inhibition of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activity by the potent Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II inhibitor KN-62. The presence of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II in tubulovesicles was shown by immunoblot detection of both Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-gamma (54 kDa) and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-delta (56.5 kDa). The immunoprecipitated Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II from tubulovesicles showed Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity by phosphorylating autocamtide-II, a specific synthetic Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II substrate. KN-62 inhibited the in vitro autophosphorylation of tubulovesicle-associated Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (IC50 = 11 nM). During the search for potential Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II substrates we identified different proteins associated with tubulovesicles, such as synaptophysin and beta-tubulin immunoreactivity, which were identified using specific antibodies. These targets are known to participate in intracellular membrane traffic. Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II is thought to play an important role in regulating tubulovesicular motor activity and therefore in acid secretion.
10582616: !synaptophysin Vesicular monoamine transporter 1 is responsible for storage of 5-hydroxytryptamine in rat pinealocytes. Vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs) are involved in chemical transduction in monoaminergic neurons and various endocrine cells through the storage of monoamines in secretory vesicles. Mammalian pinealocytes contain more 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) than any other cells and are expected to contain VMAT, although no information is available so far. Upon the addition of ATP, radiolabeled 5-HT was taken up by a particulate fraction prepared from cultured rat pinealocytes. The 5-HT uptake was inhibited significantly by bafilomycin A1 (an inhibitor of vacuolar H+-ATPase), 3,5-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroxybenzylidenemalononitrile (a proton conductor), or reserpine (an inhibitor of VMAT). RT-PCR analysis suggested that VMAT type 1 (VMAT1), but not type 2, is expressed. Antibodies against VMAT1 recognized a single polypeptide with an apparent molecular mass of approximately 55 kDa, and specifically immunostained pinealocytes. VMAT1 immunoreactivity was high in the vesicular structures in the varicosities of long branching processes and was associated with 5-HT, but not with synaptophysin, a marker protein for microvesicles. The 5-HT immunoreactivity in the long branching processes disappeared upon incubation with reserpine. These results indicate that 5-HT, at least in part, is stored in vesicles other than microvesicles in pinealocytes through a mechanism similar to that of various secretory vesicles.
10582586: !synaptophysin CTCF is essential for up-regulating expression from the amyloid precursor protein promoter during differentiation of primary hippocampal neurons. The transcriptional mechanism underlying amyloid precursor protein (APP) regulation in primary neurons during development was investigated. We observed an approximately threefold elevation of APP mRNA levels in differentiating rat hippocampal neurons between day 1 and day 7 in culture and in rat brain hippocampi between embryonic day 18 and postnatal day 3. When an APP promoter construct extending to position -2,832 upstream from the main transcriptional start site was transfected into primary rat hippocampal neurons, promoter activity increased from day 1 until reaching a maximum on day 7 in culture. This increase in APP promoter activity was correlated more closely with the time course of expression of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, an indicator of synaptogenesis, than with neurofilament accumulation, an indicator of neuritogenesis. Transfection of 5' APP promoter deletions and internal block mutations indicated that the CTCF binding domain designated APBbeta was the primary contributor to the increase in APP promoter activity. Furthermore, the binding of transcription factor CTCF to the APBbeta element increased approximately fivefold between day 1 and day 7, whereas the binding of USF to the APBalpha sequence increased only twofold. These results suggest that CTCF is pivotal for the up-regulation of APP expression during synaptogenesis in primary neurons.
10582268: !synaptophysin Intraventricular neurocytoma with prominent myelin figures. A case is reported of intraventricular neurocytoma that had characteristic light microscopic findings of neurocytoma with prominent intracytoplasmic concentric lamellar structures mimicking myelin sheaths. On routine H&E-stained sections, this tumor showed intracytoplasmic vesicular bleb-like structures having eosinophilic cores that were consistent with ultrastructural concentric lamellar structures. Immunohistochemically, this tumor was immunoreactive for synaptophysin and neurofilament, but negative for antibody to glial fibriallary acidic protein. Electron microscopic findings fulfilled the criteria for neurocytoma, with the presence of neurosecretory granules and neurotubules. These findings may suggest dual differentiation of this tumor into neurocytes and oligodendrocytes.
10581852: !synaptophysin Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT): an ultrastructural study of six cases. We report six cases od DNT with a detailed ultrastructural characteristics. The patient age ranged from 7 to 16 years (mean 12), the location was temporal in three cases and frontal, temporooccipital and parietooccipital in each of one remaining cases. The predominant clinical feature in each case was history of episodes of intractable seizures. Histopathologically, the neoplasms were multinodular, each nodule was well-circumscribed and was composed of glioneuronal elements embedded in the variable amount of myxoid matrix. The oligodendroglial-like cells (OLC) predominated in the nodules with some accompanying mature neurons. The nodules were frequently surrounded by small calcifications which could be found also within the tumors. OLCs were immunoreactive for S-100 protein and neurons had the expression of synaptophysin and neurofilament proteins. Ultrastructurally, each tumor consisted of three major elements: neoplastic cells (OLC), elongated processes forming neuropil-like structure and expanded "mucoid" extracellular space: the latter gave an impression of cellular elements floating within it. Neoplastic cells had round, oval or elongated nuclei, no discernible nucleoli and a relatively narrow rim of the cytoplasm. Some nuclei were irregular and invaginated and pseudoinclusions were observed; a part of cytoplasm sequestered within pseudoinclusions often appeared degenerated with large blabs and electron-lucent vesicles, some of these contained in turn semicircular profiles of unknown significance. The second element consisted of innumerable cellular processes. Some of these were elongated and formed stacks connected by symmetrical symmetric or asymmetric adhesive plaque junctions. The others had shorter "neck" containing microtubules, these extended into bullous extensions. Dense-cored vesicles were occasionally observed, in both cytoplasm of neoplastic cells and within processes. In one cell, cross-sectioned annulate lamellae were found. In cytoplasm of a few cells, unusual inclusions reminiscent ribosome-lamellae complexes were observed. These were cylindrical resembling "laboratory tubes" with a cone-like endings. At higher power, walls of the "tubes" resolved into layered structures composed of several laminae; between laminae, ribosome-like structures were visible.
10581851: !synaptophysin Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor. A case report. Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT) is a rare, benign tumor encountered in the cortex. It is characterized by the presence of cells of different histogenesis. Due to its mixed nature (glial-neuronal), WHO histological classification of brain tumors included it into the group of neuronal and glial-neuronal mixed tumors. Case of tumor in a 19-year-old woman experiencing for three years seizure of temporal lobe epilepsy is presented. A cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed "pseudocystic" tumor in temporal lobe. Histological and immunocytochemical examinations of the tumor fragment removed during surgery revealed large numbers of neuronalglial nodules occurring in the cerebral cortex. Columns of glial-neuronal structures crossing parallely to the cortex surface, surrounded by oligodendrocyte-like cells (OLC) were a characteristic feature of the tumor texture. In the tumor interstitium, "floating" maturated, dysplastic-free ganglionic cells were visible in numerous bright spaces. In addition, numerous lobuliform--structured areas consisted of oligodendrocyte-like cells. Oligodendrocyte-like cells were characterized by positive immunoreaction to the presence of S-100 protein and synaptophysin. Basing on clinical manifestation and histopathological findings dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor was diagnosed.
10581850: !synaptophysin The significance of immunocytochemical markers, synaptophysin and neurofilaments in diagnosis of ganglioglioma. Ganglioglioma is a tumor composed of neoplastic neurons and neoplastic glial cells mixed in different proportions. Astrocytes are the essential glial component. The tumor proliferates mostly in the temporal lobe cortex, scarcely in other areas of the brain. In ganglioglioma the population of ganglionic neurons is very difficult to diagnose. In the last ten years, immunocytochemical reaction with synaptophysin and neurofilament protein (NFP) triad considered as neoplastic neuron markers seemed to differentiate neoplastic nerve cells from normal neurons occurring incidentally within neoplastic proliferation area. In our study, the reaction with synaptophysin and NFP was performed on fragments of normal frontal lobe, pons and cerebellum as well as on fragments of post-operation tumor diagnosed as ganglioglioma. A positive synaptophysin reaction was obtained on the surface of neoplastic neurons in gangliogliomas, as well as on the surface of normal neurons in the encephalon, cerebellum and pons. Both neoplastic and normal neurons and their processes showed the expression of neurofilaments protein triad. Thus, a positive reaction of neurons with synaptophysin and NFP seems to be nonpathognomic in the diagnosis of the neoplastic neuron population in gangliogliomas.
10579591: !synaptophysin Endocytic vacuoles formed following a short pulse of K+ -stimulation contain a plethora of presynaptic membrane proteins. It is now well established that the membrane of synaptic vesicles is recycled following exocytosis. However, little is known concerning the identity of the primary or secondary endocytic structures and their molecular composition. Using cultured rat cerebellar granule cells we combined uptake of horseradish peroxidase as a fluid phase marker and immunogold labeling for a variety of presynaptic proteins to assess the molecular identity of the stimulation-induced endocytic compartments. Short periods (5 or 30 s) of stimulation with 50 mM KCl were followed by periods of recovery for up to 30 min. Stimulation resulted in the formation of horseradish-peroxidase-filled vacuoles in the axonal varicosities as the apparent primary endocytic compartment. Horseradish peroxidase-filled synaptic vesicles were formed when stimulated cells were allowed to recover in horseradish peroxidase-free culture medium. Horseradish peroxidase-filled vacuoles as wells as vesicles contained the synaptic vesicle membrane proteins VAMP II, synaptotagmin, SV2, and synaptophysin, the vesicle-associated proteins rab 3A and synapsin I, and in addition SNAP-25. No incorporation of vesicle proteins into the plasma membrane was observed. Horseradish peroxidase-filled vesicles and vacuoles generated on incubation of unstimulated granule cells with horseradish peroxidase for prolonged periods of time were equally immunolabeled. Renewed stimulation of prestimulated granule cells with either 100 mM KCl or 30 microM Ca2+ ionophore A23187 resulted in a reduction of horseradish peroxidase-filled vacuoles suggesting that the vacuolar membrane compartment was exocytosis-competent. Our results suggest that varicosities of cultured cerebellar granule cells possess a fast stimulation-induced pathway for recycling the entire synaptic vesicle membrane compartment. The primary endocytic compartment represents not a synaptic vesicle but a somewhat larger vesicle protein-containing vacuolar entity from which smaller vesicles of identical protein composition may be regenerated. Endocytic vacuoles and synaptic vesicles share membrane and membrane-associated proteins and presumably also major functional properties.
10575034: !synaptophysin The establishment of GABAergic and glutamatergic synapses on CA1 pyramidal neurons is sequential and correlates with the development of the apical dendrite. We have performed a morphofunctional analysis of CA1 pyramidal neurons at birth to examine the sequence of formation of GABAergic and glutamatergic postsynaptic currents (PSCs) and to determine their relation to the dendritic arborization of pyramidal neurons. We report that at birth pyramidal neurons are heterogeneous. Three stages of development can be identified: (1) the majority of the neurons (80%) have small somata, an anlage of apical dendrite, and neither spontaneous nor evoked PSCs; (2) 10% of the neurons have a small apical dendrite restricted to the stratum radiatum and PSCs mediated only by GABA(A) receptors; and (3) 10% of the neurons have an apical dendrite that reaches the stratum lacunosum moleculare and PSCs mediated both by GABA(A) and glutamate receptors. These three groups of pyramidal neurons can be differentiated by their capacitance (C(m) = 17.9 +/- 0.8; 30.2 +/- 1.6; 43.2 +/- 3.0 pF, respectively). At birth, the synaptic markers synapsin-1 and synaptophysin labeling are present in dendritic layers but not in the stratum pyramidale, suggesting that GABAergic peridendritic synapses are established before perisomatic ones. The present observations demonstrate that GABAergic and glutamatergic synapses are established sequentially with GABAergic synapses being established first most likely on the apical dendrites of the principal neurons. We propose that different sets of conditions are required for the establishment of functional GABA and glutamate synapses, the latter necessitating more developed neurons that have apical dendrites that reach the lacunosum moleculare region.
10570206: !synaptophysin G(o) protein-dependent survival of primary accessory olfactory neurons. Extensive G protein-coupled receptor families in both the main and accessory olfactory systems have been implicated in axonal targeting, sensory function, and cell survival. Although sensory function seems to be mediated by G proteins, axonal guidance and cell survival may be G protein-independent processes. In the accessory olfactory system, the G(o)-containing neurons in the basal vomeronasal organ (VNO) project to the posterior accessory olfactory bulb (AOB), whereas more apically located VNO neurons contain G(i2) and project to the anterior AOB. Herein, we investigate the organization of the accessory olfactory system in mice with a targeted deletion in the G(o)alpha gene. The accessory olfactory system seems normal at birth; however, postnatally, the number of G(o)-receptor-containing VNO neurons decreases by half, and apoptotic neurons are detected. The axons of VNO neurons remain restricted to the posterior AOB. The posterior AOB is reduced in size but contains a synaptophysin-positive layer with the normal number of glomeruli. The posterior AOB has reduced mitral cell c-Fos immunoreactivity, consistent with decreased sensory activation of G(o) protein-coupled VNO receptor neurons. Thus, in the accessory olfactory system, receptor-coupled G proteins are required for cell survival.
10567730: !synaptophysin Cellular and subcellular localization of a newly identified member of the protein 4.1 family, brain 4.1, in the cerebellum of adult and postnatally developing rats. For obtaining a deeper insight into the properties of a newly characterized member of the protein 4.1 family, brain 4.1, the cellular and subcellular localization was investigated in the cerebellar cortex of adult and postnatally developing rats. Fluorescent immunohistochemical observations showed that brain 4.1 localized predominantly to glomeruli in the granular layer and throughout the molecular layer in adult rat cerebellar cortex. Analysis of subcellular localization of brain 4.1 by immuno-electron microscopy further demonstrated that presynaptic terminals of mossy fibers and parallel fibers, cytoplasm of granule cells and cytoplasm and/or processes of glial cells contained brain 4.1 while postsynaptic regions of the dendrites of granule cells and Purkinje cells, axons and myelin sheaths did not. Thus, one of the major subcellular destination of brain 4.1 was presynaptic terminal in the cerebellum. This was further supported by the fact that the immunostaining pattern of brain 4.1 in the cerebellum changed in a similar way to that of a synaptic terminal marker, synaptophysin during the postnatal development. Immunoblot analysis also demonstrated that contents of brain 4.1 isoforms varied in parallel with the changes of the immunostaining pattern. Biochemical analysis confirmed the presence of brain 4.1 at synaptic terminals, but there was no obvious correlation between each isoform and its subcellular localization. These results suggested that brain 4.1 is involved in the formation and maintenance of synapse as a membrane skeletal component at presynaptic terminals in the cerebellum.
10564344: !synaptophysin Axonal transport of synucleins is mediated by all rate components. Synucleins are abundant nerve terminal proteins of hitherto unknown function. In diseases with Lewy bodies, human alpha-synuclein concentrates in these lesions in the cell body and mutations in alpha-synuclein lead to heritable Parkinson's disease with Lewy bodies. This indicates that changes in the normal metabolism and axonal transport of alpha-synuclein is perturbed in these diseases. To investigate the normal axonal transport of synucleins we studied the rat visual system by nerve crush operations and metabolic labelling of the retinal ganglion cells followed by immunoprecipitation of nerve segments. We found by immunofluorescence microscopy of the crush-operated nerves that synucleins are transported by fast antero- and retrograde transport and colocalize with synaptophysin and SNAP-25 around the lesion. The metabolic labelling studies demonstrated that synucleins were moved through the nerve with all the rate components, the fast component and the slow components a and b, with component b predominating. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed that both alpha- and beta-synuclein migrate through the nerve by slow component b in a ratio of 2:1.
10555010: !synaptophysin Primary desmoplastic small cell tumor of soft tissues and bone of the hand. Desmoplastic small cell tumor (DSCT) is a high-grade malignant neoplasm that shows polyphenotypic differentiation. Its almost exclusive involvement of serosal surfaces (particularly peritoneum) has led to the consideration of a putative "mesothelioblast" as the cell of origin. Although an extraserosal case involving the brain (presumably arising from the dura) has been reported, to date no case primary in the bone or soft tissues has been documented. The authors describe a 34-year-old man who presented with a 3-year history of pain in the right hand and a recently noted mass in the hypothenar area. Open biopsy followed by wide en bloc excision in combination with index ray resection was performed. Subsequently, the patient underwent ipsilateral axillary lymph node dissection. Extensive radiologic workup at the time of presentation and 12 months later revealed no tumor in the chest or abdomen. The patient was treated with an HD-CAV chemotherapy regimen (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, ifosfamide, etoposide) and was free of tumor until 18 months later, at which time he developed multiple metastases in the lungs. Currently, he is alive with tumor and in poor condition. The histologic sections of the mass displayed the characteristic features of DSCT involving bone and soft tissue. Immunohistochemical stains showed positivity of the tumor cells for muscle marker (desmin), neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin, synaptophysin), and epithelial markers (keratins CAM5.2, AE1:AE3, epithelial membrane antigen). Chimeric transcripts were detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, indicating the presence of EWS-WT1 gene fusion, which is characteristically associated with DSCT. Sequence analysis showed in-frame fusion of EWS exon 9 to WT1 exon 8--a variant not documented in any other case. This is a unique example of DSCT primary in bone and soft tissues, which raises interesting questions about the histogenesis of this tumor type and its relationship to other small round cell tumors. Although the "mesothelioblast" hypothesis as the origin of DSCTs is attractive, it does not account for the tumors that are located in the brain or, as in this patient, in the soft tissues and bone. In addition, this patient demonstrates a rare variant of EWS-WT1 gene fusion not described in DSCT involving serosal surfaces.
10550330: !synaptophysin Elimination of the class A scavenger receptor does not affect amyloid plaque formation or neurodegeneration in transgenic mice expressing human amyloid protein precursors. The class A scavenger receptor (SR) is expressed on reactive microglia surrounding cerebral amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Interactions between the SR and amyloid beta peptides (Abeta) in microglial cultures elicit phagocytosis of Abeta aggregates and release of neurotoxins. To assess the role of the SR in amyloid clearance and Abeta-associated neurodegeneration in vivo, we used the platelet-derived growth factor promoter to express human amyloid protein precursors (hAPPs) in neurons of transgenic mice. With increasing age, hAPP mice develop AD-like amyloid plaques. We bred heterozygous hAPP (hAPP(+/-)) mice that were wild type for SR (SR(+/+)) with SR knockout (SR(-/-)) mice. Crosses among the resulting hAPP(+/-)SR(+/-) offspring yielded hAPP(+/-) and hAPP(-/-) littermates that were SR(+/+) or SR(-/-). These second-generation mice were analyzed at 6 and 12 months of age for extent of cerebral amyloid deposition and loss of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals. hAPP(-/-)SR(-/-) mice showed no lack of SR expression, plaque formation, or synaptic degeneration, indicating that lack of SR expression does not result in significant accumulation of endogenous amyloidogenic or neurotoxic factors. In hAPP(+/-) mice, ablation of SR expression did not alter number, extent, distribution, or age-dependent accumulation of plaques; nor did it affect synaptic degeneration. Our results do not support a critical pathogenic role for microglial SR expression in neurodegenerative alterations associated with cerebral beta amyloidosis.
10544681: !synaptophysin On a novel type of neuron with proposed mechanoreceptor function in the human round window membrane--an immunohistochemical study. An immunohistochemical study was performed on surgically obtained human fresh cochlear tissue, using synaptophysin antibodies. After immediate aldehyde fixation and decalcification in Na-EDTA serial cryosections were made of the cochlea including the round window membrane (RWM). Apart from highly specific immunostaining of spiral ganglion cells and unmyelinated nerve fibers an immunoreactive neuroreceptor could be demonstrated at the postero-medial insertion of the RWM. The perikaryon showed intense synaptophysin immunoreativity with a distal process projecting into the fibrous stroma of the RWM displaying structural specializations suggestive of a mechanoreceptor function. It is speculated whether the neuroreceptor may be involved in the proprioception and/or mechanoreception of tensile forces generated within the lamina propria during displacement of the yielding RWM in the bony labyrinth. Such a function could be important for the regulation of perilymph pressure.
10544214: !synaptophysin Quantitative comparison of growth-associated protein GAP-43, neuron-specific enolase, and protein gene product 9.5 as neuronal markers in mature human intestine. This study was performed to compare GAP-43, PGP 9.5, synaptophysin, and NSE as neuronal markers in the human intestine. GAP-43-immunoreactive nerve fibers were abundant in all layers of the ileum and colon. GAP-43 partially co-localized partially with every neuropeptide (VIP, substance P, galanin, enkephalin) studied. All neuropeptide-immunoreactive fibers also showed GAP-43 reactivity. By blind visual estimation, the numbers of GAP-43-immunoreactive fibers in the lamina propria were greater than those of PGP 9.5, synaptophysin, or NSE. In the muscle layer, visual estimation indicated that the density of GAP-43-immunoreactive fiber profiles was slightly greater than that of the others. The number and intensity of GAP-43-, PGP 9.5-, and NSE-immunoreactive fibers were estimated in sections of normal human colon and ileum using computerized morphometry. In the colon, the numbers of GAP-43-immunoreactive nerve profiles per unit area and their size and intensity were significantly greater than the values for PGP and NSE. A similar trend was observed in the ileum. Neuronal somata lacked or showed only weak GAP-43 immunoreactivity, variable PGP 9.5 immunoreactivity, no synaptophysin immunoreactivity, and moderate to strong NSE immunoreactivity. We conclude that GAP-43 is the superior marker of nerve fibers in the human intestine, whereas NSE is the marker of choice for neuronal somata. (J Histochem Cytochem 47:1405-1415, 1999)
10543001: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical study of nerve structures in the anulus fibrosus of human normal lumbar intervertebral discs. The innervation of the anulus fibrosus of human macroscopically normal intervertebral discs from five patients was investigated immunohistochemically.
10542945: !synaptophysin Localization of chromogranin, synaptophysin, serotonin, and CXCR2 in neuroendocrine cells of the minor vestibular glands: an immunohistochemical study. Sections of vulvar tissue containing minor vestibular glands (15 sections from 14 women with vulvar vestibulitis syndrome and six control sections from five asymptomatic women) were immunohistochemically stained with antibodies against chromogranin, synaptophysin, serotonin, and CXCR2. The degree of inflammation in vestibular tissue from women with and without vulvar vestibulitis syndrome was not significantly different. All vulvar minor vestibular glands contained neuroendocrine cells that expressed chromogranin to some degree. Only one case failed to express synaptophysin. The number of cells expressing chromogranin and synaptophysin was the same regardless of the degree of inflammation. However, moderate to severe inflammation was associated with a statistically significant increase in the number of cells expressing serotonin (p < 0.001) and CXCR2 (p < 0.02). It is concluded that neuroendocrine cells are present within minor vestibular glands of the vulva. The number of cells expressing the inflammatory mediator serotonin and CXCR2, the shared interleukin-8 receptor, are upregulated with inflammation. Chronic inflammation is a normal finding in vestibular tissue and does not serve as a histologic marker for vulvar vestibulitis.
10537046: !synaptophysin Expression of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter, proteins involved in exocytosis, and functional calcium signaling in varicosities and soma of a murine septal cell line. The expression and localization of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter in a septal cell line, SN56, were investigated. Immunoprecipitation and immunoblot analysis of postnuclear supernatants indicated that this cell line expresses reasonable amounts of the transporter. Immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy experiments showed that the vesicular transporter is present in varicosities and also in the cell body of differentiated cells. Varicosities have the potential to be functional sites of transmitter release because they responded to depolarization with calcium influx through voltage-gated calcium channels and expressed the synaptic proteins synaptotagmin, SV2, synaptophysin, and a subunit of P/Q calcium channels. In the soma of SN56 cells, the transporter immunoreactivity was similar to that for synaptotagmin, and it colocalized with synaptophysin, but it did not colocalize with SV2. Labeling for SV2 appeared prominently in a defined perinuclear structure, whereas the two former proteins were widely distributed in the soma, where several endocytic compartments could be identified with the vital dye FM4-64. These data suggest that distinct synaptic vesicle proteins exist in different subcellular compartments, and consequently they may follow distinct pathways in neurites before reaching sites of transmitter storage and release in SN56 cells.
10537044: !synaptophysin Isolation of a potential neural stem cell line from the internal capsule of an adult transgenic rat brain. A thermosensitive mutation of simian virus 40 large T antigen (LTA) gene, the tsA58 gene, was cloned downstream of the 6-kbp neurofilament light chain promoter in pPOLYIII and injected into the pronucleus of fertilised oocytes of Sprague-Dawley rats to develop a strain harbouring six copies of the transgene. Immunocytochemical staining of hemizygous adult tissues with antibodies to the C-terminus of LTA showed that the inactive form of LTA was expressed only in the fibres of the internal capsule and in the choroid plexus of the brain. Culturing the former region at 33 degrees C, the permissive temperature for LTA, yielded a cell line, NF2C, which produced active LTA and grew at 33 degrees C but which produced only inactive LTA and eventually died at the non-permissive temperature of 39 degrees C. This clonal cell line was heterogeneous at 33 degrees C, producing the precursor neuronal cell marker nestin and the glial-specific markers glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin and S100A1, as well as weakly producing the neuronal cell markers 68-kDa neurofilament protein (NF68) and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) in different subpopulations of cells. However, at 39 degrees C, the cells produced dendritic, neuronal-like processes and elevated levels of NF68 and MAP2, as well as the neuronal markers synaptophysin, neurone-specific enolase, and low levels of tau, all determined by western blotting and immunofluorescent staining. Basic fibroblast growth factor enhanced the growth of the cells at 33 degrees C but also enhanced the formation of dendritic neuronal-like processes at 39 degrees C. It is suggested that NF2C represents a potential stem cell line from adult brain that expresses precursor and glial cell markers at 33 degrees C but undergoes partial differentiation to a neuronal cell phenotype at 39 degrees C.
10535307: !synaptophysin The synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex is developmentally upregulated in cultivated neurons but is absent in neuroendocrine cells. Regulated secretion requires the formation of a fusion complex consisting of synaptobrevin, syntaxin and SNAP 25. One of these key proteins, synaptobrevin, also complexes with the vesicle protein synaptophysin. The fusion complex and the synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex are mutually exclusive. Using a combination of immunoprecipitation and crosslinking experiments we report here that the synaptophysin-synaptobrevin interaction in mouse whole brain and defined brain areas is upregulated during neuronal development as previously reported for rat brain. Furthermore the synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex is also upregulated within 10-12 days of cultivation in mouse hippocampal neurons in primary culture. Besides being constituents of small synaptic vesicles in neurons synaptophysin and synaptobrevin also occur on small synaptic vesicle analogues of neuroendocrine cells. However, the synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex was not found in neuroendocrine cell lines and more importantly it was also absent in the adrenal gland, the adenohypophysis and the neurohypophysis although the individual proteins could be clearly detected. In the rat pheochromocytoma cell line PC 12 complex formation between synaptophysin and synaptobrevin could be initiated by adult rat brain cytosol. In conclusion, the synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex is upregulated in neurons in primary culture but is absent in the neuroendocrine cell lines and tissues tested. The complex may provide a reserve pool of synaptobrevin during periods of high synaptic activity. Such a reserve pool probably is less important for more slowly secreting neuroendocrine cells and neurons. The synaptophysin on small synaptic vesicle analogues in these cells appears to resemble the synaptophysin of embryonic synaptic vesicles since complex formation can be induced by adult brain cytosol.
10531545: !synaptophysin Synaptogenesis in the brachial and lumbosacral enlargements of the spinal cord in the postnatal opossum, Monodelphis domestica. Synaptic proteins were localized in light microscopy on sections of the brachial and lumbosacral enlargements of the spinal cord of postnatal opossums, Monodelphis domestica, to determine whether their expression correlates with the development of major motor pathways and simple motor behaviors. The tissues were fixed, cryoprotected, frozen, cut in 15-micrometer sections, and processed immunohistochemically using antibodies against synaptophysin, synaptotagmin-I, or SNAP-25. Immunolabeling was observed in the presumptive white matter before the presumptive gray matter, suggesting that the proteins are evidenced in growing axons before the onset of synaptogenesis, and it was observed in presumed propriospinal axons before most presumed descending axons of supraspinal origin. In the newborn opossum, the immunolabeling was scant in the gray matter and was limited to the periphery of the ventral horn, and indeed few synapses were seen in electron microscopy in nonexperimental material. Labeling increased in intensity and spread throughout the gray matter until 5-7 weeks, when it was no longer found in the white matter and resembled the adult pattern of labeling. Considering the location and relative intensity of the immunolabeling for the three proteins over time in the two enlargements, synaptogenesis occurs according to three general gradients: rostrocaudal, ventrodorsal, and lateromedial. These gradients match those of spinal cord and limb development, and of the growth of descending axons into the cord. Synaptogenesis is most intense when the spinal sensorimotor reflexes begin to be expressed.
10530817: !synaptophysin Modulation of synaptic transmission and differential localisation of mGlus in cultured hippocampal autapses. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlus) are known to modulate synaptic transmission in various pathways of the central nervous system, but the exact mechanisms by which this modulation occurs remain unclear. Here we utilise electrophysiological and immunocytochemical techniques on cultured autaptic hippocampal neurones to investigate the mechanism of action and distribution of mGlus. Agonists at all three groups of mGlus depressed glutamatergic transmission, whereas only agonists at group I mGlus depressed GABAergic transmission. Agonists at all mGlus failed to modulate Ca2+ and K+ channels in glutamatergic autapses whereas an agonist at group III mGlus did depress the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). Agonists failed to modulate Ca2+ or K+ channels and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) in GABAergic autapses. Distribution studies using selective antibodies revealed punctate staining for group III mGlus that co-localised with the synaptic marker, synaptophysin. Staining for the remaining mGlus was more diffuse throughout the soma and processes with little co-localisation with synaptophysin. The distribution of the group III receptors is consistent with the direct 'downstream' modulation of mEPSCs, although the exact mechanism of action for the remaining receptors remains unclear.
10530558: !synaptophysin Pigmented thymic carcinoids: a clinicopathological and immunohistochemical study of two cases. Two cases of pigmented thymic carcinoids are presented. The patients were two men, 32 and 47 years of age. The two patients were asymptomatic and the tumor was discovered on routine chest radiographic evaluation. The tumors were treated by surgical excision in both patients. Grossly, they presented as tan-white tumors without evidence of necrosis or hemorrhage or any visible pigmentation. Histologically, the tumors were characterized by a monotonous proliferation of tumor cells arranged in a trabecular or nesting pattern. The tumor cells showed moderate amounts of pale eosinophilic cytoplasm, round to oval nuclei, and inconspicuous nucleoli. Mitotic activity varied from three to eight per 10 high-power fields. In addition, both tumors showed prominent areas of intra- and extracellular dark pigment deposition. The pigment reacted positively with the Fontana-Masson stain and was negative for iron stain. Immunohistochemical studies performed in one case showed immunoreactivity of the tumor cells for chromogranin, Leu 7, and keratin. Synaptophysin and P53 immunostains were negative. Clinical follow-up was obtained in one patient who was alive and well 10 years after surgical resection. The presence of abundant melanin pigment in thymic carcinoids highlights an important pitfall for diagnosis in these tumors that should be taken into consideration in the evaluation of anterior mediastinal lesions.
10526147: !synaptophysin Localization of opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule (OBCAM) in adult rat brain. We investigated the tissue distribution and brain localization of opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule (OBCAM) in the adult rats by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry using a monoclonal anti-OBCAM peptide antibody that is specific for OBCAM. OBCAM was preferentially expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) and at a very low level in the spleen. Within the brain, OBCAM was distributed in almost all the gray matter, but little or no immunoreactive OBCAM was found in the white matter. Morphologically, the distribution pattern of OBCAM immunoreactivity was very similar to that of synaptophysin, suggesting a role in the synaptic machinery.
10525344: !synaptophysin Synapse formation and agrin expression in stratospheroid cultures from embryonic chick retina. Stratospheroids are three-dimensional cellular spheres which develop in vitro through the proliferation and differentiation of retinal neuroepithelial precursor cells. We investigated synapse formation in stratospheroids by analyzing the development of aggregates of synapse-associated molecules and of electron microscopically identifiable synaptic specializations. Our results show that the first aggregates of the GABA(A) receptor, the glycine receptor, and gephyrin appear in the inner plexiform layer after 8 days in culture simultaneously with the development of the first active zones and postsynaptic densities. In contrast, presynaptic molecules including synaptophysin could be detected in the inner plexiform layer before synaptogenesis, suggesting functions for these molecules in addition to neurotransmitter exocytosis at mature synapses. Similar to the retina in vivo, synapses were not found in the nuclear layers of stratospheroids. We also analyzed the isoform pattern, expression, and distribution of the extracellular matrix molecule agrin, a key regulator during formation, maintenance, and regeneration of the neuromuscular junction. In stratospheroids, several agrin isoforms were expressed as highly glycosylated proteins with an apparent molecular weight of approximately 400 kDa, similar to the molecular weight of agrin in the retina in vivo. The expression specifically of the neuronal isoforms of agrin was concurrent with the onset of synaptogenesis. Moreover, the neuronal agrin isoforms were exclusively found in the synapse-containing inner plexiform layer, whereas other agrin isoforms were associated also with the inner limiting membrane and with Müller glial cells. These results show that synapse formation is very similar in stratospheroids and in the retina in vivo, and they suggest an important role for agrin during CNS development.
10524340: !synaptophysin Glomerular formation in the developing rat olfactory bulb. Using the confocal microscope together with markers for the cellular components of glomeruli, we examined the spatiotemporal cellular interactions that occur between the axons of olfactory receptor cells, their dendritic targets, and glial cells during the critical period of glomerular formation. We have employed markers of immature and mature olfactory receptor cell axons, mitral/tufted cell dendrites, and glial cells as well as a synapse-associated protein for double- and triple-label immunocytochemistry. Axons of olfactory receptor cells grew into a dense dendritic zone of the olfactory bulb (comprising the dendrites of both mitral and tufted cells) between E17 and E18. At E19, these axons coalesced into protoglomeruli, which continued to develop until birth, when the basic anatomical structure of adult glomeruli emerged. Neither mitral/tufted cell dendrites nor olfactory bulb astrocytes became specifically associated with these protoglomeruli until E21. Ensheathing cells remained restricted to the outer nerve fiber layer and did not appear to contribute to glomerular formation. Finally, the synaptophysin staining has shown that synaptic constituents are expressed as early as E17, prior to the appearance of mature olfactory receptor cell axons. Based on these data, we have established a time line detailing the temporal and spatial interactions that occur between cell types during late embryonic rat olfactory bulb development. We conclude that the initial event in the formation of glomeruli is the penetration of the mitral/tufted cell dendritic zone by olfactory receptor cell axons. The coalescence of dendritic and glial processes into glomerular structures appears secondary to the arrival of the olfactory receptor cell axons.
10524333: !synaptophysin Apoptosis during development of the human retina: relationship to foveal development and retinal synaptogenesis. Apoptosis in the ganglion cell (GCL) and inner nuclear (INL) layers of human fetal retinae aged 14-35 weeks of gestation (WG) was investigated in relation to synaptogenesis and foveal depression formation. Terminal transferase dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) was used to identify apoptosis, and synapse development was demonstrated by synaptophysin immunoreactivity (-IR). The distribution of apoptotic cells and synaptophysin-IR was studied as a function of eccentricity. Between 14 and 23-24 WG in the GCL, rates of apoptosis were relatively low in central retina. A shallow fovea was detected at 23-24 WG. In the central GCL, the rate of apoptosis was 0.21% of viable cells compared with a higher incidence of 0.79-1.64% peripherally. Apoptosis in the INL was 2-8 times greater than that in the GCL. At 14-15 WG, peak death occurred at the incipient fovea; however, by 20 WG the distribution was bimodal, with peaks at more eccentric locations on either side of the incipient fovea with increasing age. Approximately 90% of INL apoptotic cells were in the middle and outer regions, suggesting that bipolar cells formed the majority of dying neurons. Synaptophysin-IR was present in cones, bipolar cells, and processes in the inner and outer plexiform layers at the incipient fovea at 14 WG and spread peripherally with increasing age. The peripheral margin of synaptophysin-IR coincided with areas of peak INL apoptosis. This pattern suggests that bipolar cell elimination is associated with the onset of synaptogenesis. Apoptosis in the GCL and INL is not a significant factor in foveal depression morphogenesis.
10523820: !synaptophysin Alterations of hippocampal secreted N-CAM in bipolar disorder and synaptophysin in schizophrenia. Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder have both been linked to structural abnormalities of the hippocampus, which is consistent with a neurodevelopmental anomaly. One isoform of the neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) protein, cytosolic N-CAM 105-115 kDa, was previously shown to be increased in schizophrenia in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Another isoform of N-CAM, the variable alternative spliced exon of N-CAM, was also increased in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of bipolar disorder patients. In the present study, the secreted isoform of N-CAM (SEC N-CAM), synaptophysin, and actin proteins were measured in the hippocampus of controls, suicide victims, and patients with bipolar disorder or schizophrenia by quantitative Western immunoblotting. Previous measurements of cytosolic N-CAM (105-115 kDa) protein, from the same hippocampus samples, were used to calculate the N-CAM (105-115 kDa)/synaptophysin ratio. An affinity purified antibody to SEC N-CAM recognized SEC N-CAM (108 kDa and 115 kDa) in brain but SEC N-CAM was not detectable in CSF. In bipolar disorder, but not in schizophrenia, an increased SEC N-CAM 115 kDa/108 kDa ratio was found as compared to controls (P = 0.03). The synaptophysin/actin ratio was significantly decreased in schizophrenia (P = 0.014) as compared to controls. The cytosolic N-CAM 105-115 kDa/synaptophysin ratio was increased in patients with schizophrenia (P= 0.017), but not in bipolar disorder. Thus, bipolar disorder patients show altered expression of SEC N-CAM in the hippocampus. Patients with schizophrenia show a decrease in synaptophysin and an increase in the cytosolic N-CAM 105-115 kDa/synaptophysin ratio. The results offer further evidence of differences in protein expression between bipolar disorder and schizophrenia in the hippocampus, which is consistent with a distinct neuropathology for each neuropsychiatric disorder.
10517919: !synaptophysin Loss of interstitial cells and a fibromuscular layer on the luminal side of the colonic circular muscle presenting as megacolon in an adult patient. Animal studies have shown that the neuromuscular structures on the luminal side of the colonic circular muscle coordinate circular muscle activity. These structures have been identified by electron microscopy in the normal human colon, but have never been thoroughly studied in patients with acquired intestinal hypoganglionosis.
10515234: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin in choroid plexus epithelial cells: no useful aid in differential diagnosis. 
10508884: !synaptophysin Desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma. We present the clinical, anatomic, and laboratory findings in a 4-month-old child with desmosplastic infantile ganglioglioma. Microtubule-associated protein-2 (AP18) and neuron-specific B-tubulin (TUJ-1) were more sensitive in detecting immature neural elements than synaptophysin. Despite the immature neuroblastic component, focal intermediate proliferation indices, microinvasion, presence of secondary features (extension into Virchow Robin spaces, perineuronal satellitosis), and subtotal resection, the child has done well, with striking improvement of the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) image, head size improvement, no tumor recurrence, and minimal neurological deficits.
10506530: !synaptophysin Variations of synaptotagmin I, synaptotagmin IV, and synaptophysin mRNA levels in rat hippocampus during the estrous cycle. Periodic changes in ovarian steroid levels during fertility cycles affect learning both in humans and in rats in parallel with electrophysiological and morphological fluctuations in selective neuronal populations. In particular, during the estrous cycle of the female rat, hippocampal CA1 region undergoes cyclic modifications in synaptic density. To investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in synaptic remodeling during the estrous cycle, we analyzed the expression of three presynaptic markers, synaptotagmin I, synaptotagmin IV, and synaptophysin, in the female adult rat brain by in situ hybridization. Relative abundance in mRNA for these three markers was quantified at four phases of the estrous cycle: diestrus, proestrus (AM and PM), and estrus. mRNA levels for syt1 exhibited cyclic variations in pyramidal neurons of the CA3 region of hippocampus during the estrous cycle, while mRNA levels for syt4 and SYN were relatively invariant in this or other regions of the hippocampus. Because CA3 pyramidal neurons make synaptic contacts in CA1, modulation of syt1 expression in CA3 may participate in the changes in synaptic density observed in CA1 during the estrous cycle. Furthermore, both syt1 and SYN mRNA varied cyclically in layer II, but not in layer III of entorhinal cortex, while syt4 remained unchanged throughout the cycle. These data suggest that regular variations in steroid hormone levels during fertility cycles may alter the properties of several networks involved in information processing and learning and memory through altered levels of presynaptic proteins.
10506448: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the posterior mediastinum: a possible primary lesion. A paravertebral mass was noted in the posterior mediastinum in a 47-year-old man. Microscopically, the tumor showed solid and trabecular patterns and consisted of poorly differentiated atypical cells that often formed Flexner-Wintersteiner rosettelike glands. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells expressed both epithelial and neuroendocrine markers, including cytokeratin (AE1/3), carcinoembryonic antigen, epithelial membrane antigen, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin, but were negative for CD99 (MIC2). Ultrastructurally, numerous desmosomes and neurosecretory granules were identified in the tumor cells. The present lesion was a primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the posterior mediastinum-an unusual site for such a lesion.
10504543: !synaptophysin Ossifying fibromyxoid tumor of soft parts: clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of four cases. Four cases of uncommon soft tissue tumors were investigated histopathologically. All of them consisted of fibrous and myxoid components, and mature bone showed shell-like characteristics. Histological features revealed these tumors were well circumscribed by a thick collagenous fibrous capsule and composed of uniform-sized fusiform cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and a round or oval nucleus in the myxoid matrix. An incomplete shell of mature bone with lamellar structure was also observed at the periphery. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies were performed. The major component of the proliferating cells in the tumors had positive staining for vimentin, S-100 protein, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. The myxoid matrix was stained by alcian blue and was digested completely by pretreatment with hyaluronidase. Electron microscopy showed the cytoplasm contained dense-core granules measuring 100-200 nm and abundant filaments of an intermediate size. It is suggested that these uncommon tumors might be diagnosed as the 'ossifying fibromyxoid tumor of soft parts' previously described by Enzinger et al., which were derived from peripheral nerve sheath tumors such as neurofibroma and myxoid neurofibroma.
10504304: !synaptophysin VAMP (synaptobrevin) is present in the plasma membrane of nerve terminals. Synaptic vesicle docking and exocytosis require the specific interaction of synaptic vesicle proteins (such as VAMP/synaptobrevin) with presynaptic plasma membrane proteins (such as syntaxin and SNAP 25). These proteins form a stable, SDS-resistant, multimolecular complex, the SNARE complex. The subcellular distribution of VAMP and syntaxin within Torpedo electric organ nerve endings was studied by immunogoldlabeling of SDS-digested freeze-fracture replicas (Fujimoto, 1995). This technique allowed us to visualize large surface areas of the presynaptic plasma membrane and numerous synaptic vesicles from rapidly frozen nerve endings and synaptosomes. VAMP was found associated with synaptic vesicles, as also shown by conventional electron microscopy immunolabeling, and to the presynaptic plasma membrane (P leaflet). Syntaxin was also detected in the nerve ending plasma membrane, without gold labeling of synaptic vesicles. Comparison of gold particle densities suggests that the presynaptic plasma membrane contains 3 VAMP molecules per molecule of syntaxin. After biotinylation of intact synaptosomes, the synaptosomal plasma membrane was isolated on Streptavidin coated magnetic beads. Its antigenic content was compared to that of purified synaptic vesicles. VAMP was present in both membranes whereas syntaxin and SNAP 25 were highly enriched in the synaptosomal plasma membrane. This membrane has a low content of classical synaptic vesicle proteins (synaptophysin, SV2 and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter). The VAMP to syntaxin stoichiometry in the isolated synaptosomal membrane was estimated by comparison with purified antigens and close to 2, in accordance with morphological data. SDS-resistant SNARE complexes were detected in the isolated presynaptic membrane but absent in purified synaptic vesicles. Taken together, these results show that the presence of VAMP in the plasma membrane of nerve endings cannot result from exocytosis of synaptic vesicles, a process which could, as far as SNAREs are concerned, very much resemble homotypic fusion.
10503278: !synaptophysin Middle ear adenomatous tumor with a predominant neuroendocrine component. A primary adenomatous tumor of the middle ear was examined by light microscopy, ultrastructural and immunohistochemical techniques. In support of its extensive neuroendocrine differentiation, was the diffuse detection of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and positive immunoreaction with antibodies to chromogranin and synaptophysin. The great majority of tumor cells contained neurosecretory granules and intraluminal mucin production could be focally detected. These characteristics confirm the diagnosis of a middle ear adenomatous tumor (MEAT) of a biphasic nature and with a prominent neuroendocrine component.
10502912: !synaptophysin Atypical central neurocytoma: report of a case. Central neurocytomas are rare, relatively benign intraventricular neoplasms composed of uniform round cells with neuronal differentiation. The majority of previously reported central neurocytomas did not recurr after tumor removal and the patients had favorable postoperative outcomes. Only a few cases with malignant histopathology or malignant behavior have been noted. Atypical central neurocytoma is a new entity that was first described in the literature in 1997. The tumors have been noted to exhibit a Ki-67 labeling index of 2% or more, or vascular proliferation, mitoses, and necrosis, or both. Atypical histologic findings are usually associated with a somewhat less favorable clinical course and requires postoperative radiotherapy. We report a unique case of a 33-year-old man with a large intraventricular central neurocytoma. The characteristic histopathologic picture, the immunoreactivity for both synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase, and the ultrastructural features of neuronal differentiation distinguished it from ependymoma and oligodendroglioma. The mitotic activity (up to 3 mitoses/10 high power field) and the high percentage of Ki-67-staining tumor cells (labeling index, 5.0%) in our case were consistent with the atypical variant of central neurocytoma. The patient underwent craniotomy and partial resection of the tumor. Unfortunately, he died of hydrocephalus and brain edema, the next day.
10502279: !synaptophysin Axonal transport and distribution of immunologically distinct kinesin heavy chains in rat neurons. The functional significance of biochemical and immunochemical heterogeneity in neuronal kinesin remains uncertain. Confocal laser scanning microscopy, cytofluorimetric scanning, and immunoblots were used for quantitative analyses of axonal transport and cellular distribution of immunochemically distinct kinesin heavy chain isoforms (H1 and H2) in rat peripheral nerve and spinal cord. H1 and H2 immunoreactivities (IR) were observed in axons proximal to a crush as early as 1 hr after the crush operation and increased linearly with time, consistent with fast axonal transport of both. Only approximately 10% of the proximal accumulations of H1-IR and H2-IR accumulated distal to the crush, in contrast to synaptophysin-IR (approximately 70%). H2-IR was widely present in peripheral nervous system and virtually colocalized with synaptic vesicle proteins synaptophysin, synaptobrevin I, and SNAP-25 and two neuropeptides [calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP)], although H2-IR was weaker in spinal cord terminals. In contrast, H1-IR appeared preferentially enriched in large axons, probably motor and large sensory neurons, which contained synaptophysin-IR, synaptobrevin I-IR, SNAP-25-IR, and CGRP-IR. However, H1-IR was weak or absent from SP-containing thin and medium-sized axons. In addition, H1-IR appeared to be absent from spinal cord nerve terminals. H1- and H2-IR kinesins are both transported with fast axonal transport, and comparatively small amounts of kinesins are retrogradely transported. H2 was widely distributed in motor, sensory, and sympathetic neurons, whereas H1 was enriched in large motor and sensory neurons.
10502067: !synaptophysin Molecular dissection of regulated secretory pathways in human gastric enterochromaffin-like cells: an immunohistochemical analysis. Enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells regulate gastric acid secretion through vesicular release of histamine. Until now, the molecular machinery of human ECL cells involved in the formation and release of vesicles is largely unknown. We analyzed tissue samples obtained from normal human gastric mucosa (n=4) and ECLomas (n=5) immunohistochemically using the APAAP method or double immunofluorescence confocal laser microscopy. Human pheochromocytomas (n=5) were investigated in parallel and compared to ECL cells. Secretory pathways were characterized using antibodies specific for marker proteins of large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs; islet cell antigen 512, chromogranin A, pancreastatin, and vesicular monoamine transporter 2) and small synaptic vesicle (SSV) analogues (synaptophysin). Tissues were also analyzed for expression of the peptide hormone processing enzymes, carboxypeptidase E and prohormone convertase 1, as well as the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins, 25-kDa synaptosome-associated protein (SNAP25), syntaxin, and synaptobrevin. Immunoreactivity for markers of LDCVs and SSV analogues were detected in normal ECL cells and ECLomas. Both tissues also showed expression of carboxypeptidase E and prohormone convertase 1. Analysis of vesicular SNARE (v-SNARE) and target membrane SNARE (t-SNARE) proteins revealed the presence of SNAP25, syntaxin, and synaptobrevin in normal and neoplastic ECL cells. Our data suggest that ECL cells possess the two vesicle types of regulated neuroendocrine secretory pathways, LDCVs and SSV analogues. Since ECL cells also contain typical SNARE proteins, the molecular machinery underlying secretory processes in this cell type appears to be identical to the secretory apparatus of neuroendocrine cells and neurons. In addition, our findings suggest that the secretory apparatus of ECL cells is maintained during neoplastic transformation.
10502047: !synaptophysin A comparison of cell phenotypes in hemimegalencephaly and tuberous sclerosis. Hemimegalencephaly, an uncommon sporadic nonfamilial congenital dysplastic abnormality of the central nervous system, constitutes a pathological spectrum of neuronal migration disorders, but consistently includes abnormal large neurons similar to those in the cortical tubers of tuberous sclerosis. Microscopically, there are also cells with homogeneous and weakly eosinophilic cytoplasm with a single eccentric nucleus, sometimes called balloon cells (likewise prominent in tuberous sclerosis). We looked for immunohistochemical and ultrastructural differences in the large neurons and balloon cells between hemimegalencephaly and tuberous sclerosis. Microtubule-associated protein 1B and 2, phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated neurofilament and synaptophysin identify the large neurons and distinguish them from balloon cells in both entities. Balloon cells in hemimegalencephaly showed no immunoreactivity for TSC2 gene product, tuberin, and vimentin, but similar cells in tuber tissue showed consistent immunoreactivity. Balloon cells in hemimegalencephaly showed no immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein, but some cells in tubers showed such immunoreactivity. Ultrastructurally, balloon cells in hemimegalencephaly contained very few lysosomes, microfilaments, and microtubules, but abundant lipofuscin granules. Similar cells in tubers had prominent lysosomes, more microfilaments and microtubules, and very few lipofuscin granules. The resemblance between abnormal cells in hemimegalencephaly and tuberous sclerosis is superficial; their immunohistochemistry and electron microscopic profiles show distinct differences.
10501454: !synaptophysin Olfactory receptor neurons exist as distinct subclasses of immature and mature cells in primary culture. The processes of neuronal differentiation and survival are key questions in neurobiology. The olfactory system possesses unique regenerative capacity, as its neurons are continually replaced throughout adulthood from a maintained population of precursor cells. Primary cultures of olfactory epithelium enriched in olfactory neurons would provide a useful model to study the processes of neurogenesis, differentiation and senescence. To determine whether immature olfactory neurons could be isolated in primary culture and to investigate the mechanisms underlying these processes, culture conditions which selectively favored the presence of immature olfactory neurons were optimized. Using low plating densities, a population of cells was identified which, by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, demonstrated messages for olfactory neuronal markers, including Golf, olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel and olfactory marker protein, as well as the p75 low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor. Immunocytochemical analysis showed that these putative immature olfactory neurons possessed immunoreactivity to G(olf), neuron-specific tubulin, neural cell adhesion molecule, synaptophysin and neurofilament. These neurons were defined as olfactory receptor neuron-1 cells. Under these conditions, a separate class of rarely occurring cells with different morphology demonstrated immunoreactivity to mature markers, such as adenylyl cyclase III and olfactory marker protein. Electrophysiologically, these cells displayed properties consistent with those of acutely dissociated olfactory receptor neurons. Another class of rarer cells which represented less than 2% of cells in culture demonstrated immunoreactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein. These cultures can serve as a model for in vitro analysis of olfactory receptor neuronal development and maintenance, and provide a potential substrate for the development of cell lines.
10496592: !synaptophysin Cytokeratin-negative desmoplastic small round cell tumor: a report of two cases emphasizing the utility of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT) is a unique, highly aggressive neoplasm that chiefly affects male adolescents and young adults. This tumor is characterized by nests of small undifferentiated cells that show immunohistochemical evidence of epithelial, mesenchymal, and neural differentiation. We report two cases of DSRCT that lacked immunohistochemical evidence of epithelial differentiation, but were found to have the fusion transcripts characteristic of this tumor. Both patients (a 41-year-old male and a 31-year-old female) presented with large intra-abdominal masses. After diagnostic biopsy, both were treated with multi-agent chemotherapy. One patient expired 18 days after diagnosis, and the other is currently alive 28 months later. Histologically, both tumors had the characteristic features of DSRCT and were composed of small round cells with hyperchromatic nuclei and scanty cytoplasm. In one of the cases, perinuclear intracytoplasmic hyaline inclusions were seen. Immunohistochemically, neither case expressed any of the epithelial markers tested, including AE1/AE3, CAM 5.2 and EMA. Both tumors were diffusely immunoreactive for desmin with a prominent globoid "dot-like" pattern of staining in one case. Both tumors stained for vimentin, neuron specific enolase, and synaptophysin, but were negative for CD99, muscle-specific actin, and myogenin. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction revealed EWS-WT1 fusion transcripts characteristic of this neoplasm. In conclusion, we describe two cases of DSRCT that lacked immunohistochemical evidence of epithelial differentiation but had histologic and other immunohistochemical features which suggested this diagnosis. The ability to confirm the diagnosis of this rare tumor using molecular genetic techniques is particularly useful in those cases with unusual histologic or immunophenotypic features.
10494074: !synaptophysin Rods and cones project to the inner plexiform layer during development. Mature rod and cone photoreceptor cells extend terminals to the outer plexiform layer (OPL), where they form characteristic spherules or pedicles, synapsing with the second-order neurons of the inner nuclear layer (INL). The present study demonstrates that, prior to the formation of this connectivity, immature rods and cones in the ferret extend processes beyond the level of the horizontal cells and future OPL, reaching the inner plexiform layer (IPL). The number of processes extending to the IPL increases steadily as the population of photoreceptor cells expands postnatally, reaching a maximum 2 weeks after birth. These processes are immunopositive for synaptophysin, and they terminate in two strata occupied by the dendrites of amacrine cells and ganglion cells. The frequency of these processes declines rapidly during the third postnatal week, and they are no longer detectable by the fourth postnatal week. Their loss is neither a consequence of photoreceptor cell death nor is it due to selective protein trafficking mechanisms that render them immunonegative. Rather, these processes retract to the level of the OPL during this period, coincident with the maturation of bipolar and horizontal cell processes. These results demonstrate that, despite the clear presence of environmental signals presaging the formation of the OPL, photoreceptor terminals initially ignore them to grow beyond this level of the retina. Rather, they detect and respond to signals within the IPL during this period, terminating in proximity to the processes of other cells in the inner retina, where they may contribute to transient retinal circuitry during early development.
10492040: !synaptophysin Relation of neurological marker expression and EWS gene fusion types in MIC2/CD99-positive tumors of the Ewing family. The Ewing family of tumors (EFT) is characterized by high MIC2/CD99 expression and specific EWS/ETS gene rearrangements, resulting in different chimeric transcripts. Further division into peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors and Ewing's sarcoma is still debated and, in the absence of distinct morphological parameters, has been based on the reactivity with neuroglial markers (NgM). We investigated 44 EFT in terms of a possible correlation between the type of EWS chimeric transcripts and reactivity with the following NgM: polyclonal and monoclonal neuron-specific enolase (NSE), S-100, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, Leu-7, glial fibrillary acid protein, and neurofilament. EWS/Fli1 fusion type 1 was detected in 30 of 44 and type 2 in 11 of 44 tumors. Three tumors, presenting with an uncommon morphology, carried rare chimeric transcripts. Our results indicate an association of lack of NgM staining with type 1 EWS/Fli1 translocations, found in 16 of 18 tumors with no NgM expression as detectable by any of the antibodies we applied. Using the monoclonal NSE antibody, 21 of 26 tumors without NgM staining expressed type 1 EWS/FLI1chimeric RNA, whereas in the groups with 1 or more and 2 or more NgM, only 9 of 17 and 1 of 5 tumors, respectively, carried type 1 EWS/Fli1 fusion transcripts. Despite this association of increased NgM expression with a non-type 1 EWS/Fli1 gene fusion, a strict correlation between the extent of NgM expression and certain EWS fusion types was not evident. This fortifies the concept to consider EFT as a spectrum of tumors and suggests the type of EWS fusion transcripts as one, but not the only parameter influencing the extent of differentiation.
10491573: !synaptophysin Neurotrophins and hippocampal synaptic transmission and plasticity. Neurotrophins are traditionally thought to be secretory proteins that regulate long-term survival and differentiation of neurons. Recent studies have revealed a previously unexpected role for neurotrophins in synaptic development and plasticity in diverse neuronal populations. In this review, we focus on the synaptic function of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus. Although a variety of in vitro experiments have shown the ability of BDNF to acutely modulate synaptic transmission, whether BDNF truly potentiates basal synaptic transmission in hippocampal neurons remains controversial. More consistent evidence has been obtained for the role of BDNF in long-term potentiation (LTP), a cellular model for learning and memory. BDNF also potentiates high frequency transmission by modulating the number of docked vesicles and the levels of the vesicle protein synaptobrevin and synaptophysin at the CA1 synapses. Both pre- and postsynaptic effects of BDNF have been demonstrated. Recent studies have begun to address the role of BDNF in late-phase LTP and in the development of hippocampal circuit. BDNF and other neurotrophins may represent a new class of neuromodulators that regulate neuronal connectivity and synaptic efficacy. J. Neurosci. Res. 58:76-87, 1999. Published 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
10487842: !synaptophysin Soluble amyloid beta peptide concentration as a predictor of synaptic change in Alzheimer's disease. We have characterized amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) concentration, Abeta deposition, paired helical filament formation, cerebrovascular amyloid angiopathy, apolipoprotein E (ApoE) allotype, and synaptophysin concentration in entorhinal cortex and superior frontal gyrus of normal elderly control (ND) patients, Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, and high pathology control (HPC) patients who meet pathological criteria for AD but show no synapse loss or overt antemortem symptoms of dementia. The measures of Abeta deposition, Abeta-immunoreactive plaques with and without cores, thioflavin histofluorescent plaques, and concentrations of insoluble Abeta, failed to distinguish HPC from AD patients and were poor correlates of synaptic change. By contrast, concentrations of soluble Abeta clearly distinguished HPC from AD patients and were a strong inverse correlate of synapse loss. Further investigation revealed that Abeta40, whether in soluble or insoluble form, was a particularly useful measure for classifying ND, HPC, and AD patients compared with Abeta42. Abeta40 is known to be elevated in cerebrovascular amyloid deposits, and Abeta40 (but not Abeta42) levels, cerebrovascular amyloid angiopathy, and ApoE4 allele frequency were all highly correlated with each other. Although paired helical filaments in the form of neurofibrillary tangles or a penumbra of neurites surrounding amyloid cores also distinguished HPC from AD patients, they were less robust predictors of synapse change compared with soluble Abeta, particularly soluble Abeta40. Previous experiments attempting to relate Abeta deposition to the neurodegeneration that underlies AD dementia may have failed because they assayed the classical, visible forms of the molecule, insoluble neuropil plaques, rather than the soluble, unseen forms of the molecule.
10483783: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical evaluation of the marbled state in childhood hypoxic encephalopathy. We have immunohistochemically analyzed the marbled state in 8 cases of perinatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy and 4 cases of infantile hypoxic encephalopathy, using antibodies against calbindin-D28k (CaBD), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), methionine-enkephalin (MEnk), myelin basic protein (MBP), neurofilament (NF), parvalbumin (PV), substance-P (SuP) and synaptophysin (SP). The marbled state was found in the thalamus in 11 cases, whose age at death was over 10 years. Four cases demonstrated the marbled state in the cerebral cortex, in addition to the striatum and/or the thalamus. The abnormally myelinated fibers in the marbled state were stained with both Kluver-Barrera and Holzer stainings; however, they were partly immunopositive for MBP and completely immunonegative for GFAP, CaBD, MEnk, PV, SuP and SP, although some of the neurons and/or fibers showed immunoreactivities for those calcium-binding proteins and/or neurotransmitters. The axons were visualized in the abnormally myelinated fibers by Bodian staining and/or anti-NF immunostainings in the cerebral cortex and striatum but not in the thalamus. GFAP-positive astrocytes did not show any continuity with the abnormally myelinated fibers. These histological features were seen in the cerebral cortex, striatum and thalamus. Difference of the etiology did not affect the histological features with the exception of anti-PV staining, in which PV-immunopositive neurons were observed only in aged subjects with infantile hypoxic encephalopathy, and seemed to be more severely affected by hypoxic stress during the perinatal period than the early infantile period. These data suggest that the site of lesion or the length of survival period after brain injury might influence the formation of the marbled state rather than the etiology. And the direct relationship between the abnormally myelinated fiber and astrocytic process was not verified.
10479063: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptic proteins in the developing rat cerebellum following ionizing radiation. Various proteins regulating neurotransmission release and synaptic vesicle exocytosis have been implicated in axonal elongation and synaptic maturation. In the present study, immunohistochemistry to the presynaptic membrane proteins syntaxin-I and synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) synaptic vesicle-associated proteins synaptophysin and synapsin-I and the neuronal maturation and axonal growth-related protein GAP-43, has been carried out in the normal developing cerebellum and following a single dose of ionizing radiation (2 Gy gamma-rays) at postnatal day 1. Our aim has been to learn about the morphological and possible functional modalities that occur during the progression of neuronal connectivity in normal and abnormal development. Expression of all these proteins is associated with the arrival of afferents in the subcortical white matter and with the maturation of the internal granule cell layer and molecular layer during normal development. In addition, SNAP-25 and GAP-43 are strongly expressed in granule cells of the external granule cell layer, thus suggesting that these proteins are involved in cell elongation of granule cells. Apoptosis appears at 3 h and peaks at 6 h following ionizing radiation. Radiation-induced apoptosis in the external granule cell layer produces a transient decrease in the expression of SNAP-25 and GAP-43 in the external granule cell layer. The external granule cell layer recovers at 48 h and external granule cells of proliferating cells also express SNAP-25 and GAP-43, thus indicating that proliferating cells in this layer are equipped with proteins involved in cell elongation. Furthermore, expression of synaptophysin, synapsin-I, syntaxin-I and SNAP-25 is the same in the cerebellum of irradiated and normal rats from this time to adulthood (3 months). These results point to the likelihood that recovery of the cerebellar cortex occurs following a single exposure of ionizing radiation during postnatal development.
10473260: !synaptophysin High level of adenosine A1 receptor-like immunoreactivity in the CA2/CA3a region of the adult rat hippocampus. We describe the immunocytochemical distribution of adenosine A1 receptors in the rat hippocampus. Adenosine A1 receptor-like immunoreactivity was seen on the cell soma and dendrites of pyramidal cells and the cell soma and proximal part of dendrites of granule cells, but not on glial cells. Developmentally, adenosine A1 receptor-like immunoreactivity was diffuse on postnatal day 7 and increased in intensity in individual cells by day 21. In the CA2/CA3a region, the adult pattern of A1 receptor distribution was established by day 28. In the adult rat hippocampus, rostrocaudal inspection revealed that immunoreactivity in CA2/CA3a was greatest. Confocal microscopy revealed differences in the staining patterns for the adenosine A receptor and synaptophysin, a marker of presynaptic terminals. This result suggests that the adenosine A1 receptor might have postsynaptic physiological functions. Double-labeling of adenosine A1 receptors and anterogradely-labeled fibers from the supramammillary nucleus showed that the fibers from the supramammillary nucleus terminate directly on the cell soma of the A1 receptor-immunopositive neurons in CA2/CA3a and the dentate gyrus. These results indicate that the adenosine A 1 receptor in CA2/CA3a and the dentate gyrus are in a position to regulate hippocampal theta activity and that resultant strong synaptic depression in CA2/CA3a could play a role in regulating the intrinsic signal flow between CA3 and CA1.
10470826: !synaptophysin Gangliocytoma masquerading as a prolactinoma. Case report. The authors describe the case of a 36-year-old man who presented with bitemporal hemianopsia and a serum prolactin concentration of 1440 ng/ml. Magnetic resonance imaging of the pituitary revealed a presumed macroadenoma with suprasellar and temporal lobe extension. Although the patient's prolactin level was lowered to 55 ng/ml by bromocriptine therapy, no tumor shrinkage occurred. Fourteen months later, progression of visual field defects necessitated transsphenoidal resection, which was incomplete. Immunocytochemical analysis of the biopsy tissue was positive for prolactin and, in view of the clinical picture, more detailed analysis was not performed. External-beam radiotherapy was given 2 years later because of enlargement of residual tumor. Subsequently, despite a fall in the serum prolactin concentration to less than 20 ng/ml in response to the course of bromocriptine, the mass displayed further extension into the temporal lobe. Nine years after the patient's initial presentation, he underwent transfrontal craniotomy for sudden deterioration in visual acuity caused by hemorrhage into the mass. No adenohypophyseal tissue was identified in the resected tissue. The mass was composed of dysplastic neurons that were strongly immunoreactive for synaptophysin and neurofilament (indicating neural differentiation) and prolactin. Review of the original biopsy specimen indicated that the prolactin-positive cells had striking neuronal morphological characteristics. The final diagnosis in this case is prolactin-secreting gangliocytoma. Although exceedingly rare, this disease must be added to the differential diagnosis in cases of "prolactinoma" when bromocriptine therapy is followed by a marked decline in serum prolactin that is not accompanied by significant tumor shrinkage. Furthermore, in such instances, consideration should be given to "obtaining a biopsy sample prior to electing for radiotherapy.
10469401: !synaptophysin Rectal adenocarcinoid with lymph node metastasis. We describe a case of a rare variant of a rectal carcinoid tumor that showed mucous gland differentiation accompanied by a lymph node metastasis with a histological appearance similar to that of the primary site. The tumor consisted of a typical argyrophilic carcinoid component and of goblet cell glands. The carcinoid component was positive for neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A and synaptophysin. The goblet cells stained positively with periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) and alcian blue, and expressed carcinoembryonic antigen, but were negative for neuroendocrine markers. This case suggests that carcinoid tumor can differentiate towards mucus glands, which can also be found in the metastatic site.
10465502: !synaptophysin Disconnection of cerebellar Purkinje cells in Kearns-Sayre syndrome. Kearns-Sayre syndrome (KSS) is a sporadic multisystem disorder due to rearrangements in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). To gain further insight into the pathogenesis of cerebellar dysfunction in KSS, antibodies against synaptophysin (SY) were used to identify presynaptic terminals and antibodies to calbindin D (CB) to identify Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex and in the dentate nucleus from two autopsied cases of KSS. By conventional neuropathology we found marked spongiform degeneration and by immunohistochemistry a disruption of presynaptic terminals and of the terminal arborizations of Purkinje cell axons on multipolar neurons of the dentate nucleus in the KSS patients. We suggest that a disconnection of Purkinje cells at the dentate nucleus may play a role in the pathogenesis of cerebellar ataxia in KSS.
10462225: !synaptophysin Two peptidergic drugs increase the synaptophysin immunoreactivity in brains of 24-month-old rats. The brain-derived peptidergic drug Cerebrolysin has been found to support the survival of neurones in vitro and in vivo. Positive effects on learning and memory have been demonstrated in various animal models and also in clinical trails. In the present study, the effects of Cerebrolysin and its peptide preparation E021 on the synapse density in the hippocampus, the dentate gyrus and in the entorhinal cortex of 24-month-old rats were investigated. Rats received the drugs or saline for control for 19 consecutive days (2.5 ml/kg per day). Slices of the brains were immunohistochemically stained with anti-synaptophysin, which is a specific marker of presynaptic terminals. Quantification of the synapse density was done by using light microscopy and a computerised image analysing system. Our results clearly showed that the rats benefit from the administration of both drugs, showing an enhancement in the number of synaptophysin-immunostained presynaptic terminals in the entorhinal cortex, the dentate gyrus, and also in the hippocampal subfields CA1, CA2, CA3 stratum lucidum and CA3 stratum radiatum. It can be assumed that these effects are the reason for improved cognitive performances of rats treated with Cerebrolysin and E021.
10461354: !synaptophysin ECL cell morphology. Using immunohistochemistry at the conventional light, confocal and electron microscopic levels, we have demonstrated that rat stomach ECL cells store histamine and pancreastatin in granules and secretory vesicles, while histidine decarboxylase occurs in the cytosol. Furthermore the ECL cells display immunoreactivity for vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (VMAT-2), synaptophysin, synaptotagmin III, vesicle-associated membrane protein-2, cysteine string protein, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa, syntaxin and Munc-18. Using electron microscopy in combination with stereological methods, we have evidence to suggest the existence of both an exocytotic and a crinophagic pathway in the ECL cells. The process of exocytosis in the ECL cells seems to involve a class of proteins that promote or participate in the fusion between the granule/vesicle membrane and the plasma membrane. The granules take up histamine by VMAT-2 from the cytosol during transport from the Golgi zone to the more peripheral parts of the cells. As a result, they turn into secretory vesicles. As a consequence of stimulation (e.g., by gastrin), the secretory vesicles fuse with the cell membrane to release their contents by exocytosis. The crinophagic pathway was studied in hypergastrinemic rats. In the ECL cells of such animals, the secretory vesicles were found to fuse not only with the cell membrane but also with each other to form vacuoles. Subsequent lysosomal degradation of the vacuoles and their contents resulted in the development of lipofuscin bodies.
10460660: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of urinary bladder is differentiated from urothelial carcinoma by chromogranin expression, absence of CD44 variant 6 expression, a unique pattern of cytokeratin expression, and more intense gamma-enolase expression. Small cell (neuroendocrine) carcinoma of the urinary bladder is clinically more aggressive than urothelial (transitional cell) carcinoma. We have investigated the immunohistochemical markers most useful in diagnosing small cell carcinoma in bladder.
10460656: !synaptophysin High mitotic index associated with poor prognosis in gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumour. Three gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumours (GANT) were characterized by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. Two of the three cases occurred in the small intestine, while the third was found in the stomach. Besides the immunohistochemical and ultrastructural description, the aim of this study was to examine the relation between the known and accepted predictive factors (ploidy data, the S-phase fraction, the mitotic and MIB-1 index and the size of the tumour) and the survival of the patients.
10460489: !synaptophysin Relationships between nerves and myofibroblasts during cutaneous wound healing in the developing rat. Contraction of skin excision wounds is affected by age and the presence of peripheral nerves. The present study examined relationships between peripheral innervation, wound contractile cells, and rate of wound closure to determine whether these are altered during development. Full-thickness 4-mm-diameter circular flaps were excised from the interscapular skin of rats on postnatal day (PND) 5, PND 12, or PND 60. Wounds of PND 5 and PND 12 rats contracted 45% between post-wound days (WD) 3 and 5 and more slowly thereafter, with a scar 9-14% of the original wound size by WD 21. In contrast, PND 60 wounds contracted only 22% between WD 3 and 5, and the residual scar at WD 21 was 40% of the original wound size. In younger rats, alpha-smooth muscle actin-immunoreactive myofibroblasts first appeared on WD 2 and attained maximum density at WD 5. Innervation, as assessed by protein gene product 9.5 immunoreactivity, appeared by WD 3 and increased rapidly through WD 7 in younger rats. In PND 60 wounds, myofibroblasts did not appear until WD 5 and did not attain a maximum until day 10. Nerve ingrowth was not significant until WD 10 and was depressed relative to younger rats throughout the healing phase. Wound nerves were predominantly immunoreactive to calcitonin gene-related peptide, and synaptophysin-immunostaining revealed close associations between varicosities and myofibroblasts. These findings suggest that wound myofibroblasts may be a target of peripheral nerves, and delayed wound closure in mature rats is associated with deficiencies in both myofibroblasts and innervation.
10459047: !synaptophysin Malignant Sertoli cell tumor of the ovary metastatic to the lung mimicking neuroendocrine carcinoma: report of a case. A Sertoli cell carcinoma of the ovary with lung metastases mimicking neuroendocrine carcinoma is presented. Lung metastases frequently occur. Primary and secondary tumors may exhibit similar growth patterns and differentiating primary from secondary tumors may be troublesome. This process may be more difficult when metastases occur from a tumor in which metastases are uncommon and morphologically resemble only a small portion of the primary tumor. We report the case of a 52-year-old woman who underwent resection of a 4,550-g Sertoli cell tumor of the ovary. Histologically, in addition to the characteristic tubular pattern of growth, 5% of the tumor consisted of poorly differentiated areas with tumor cells in sheets, a high mitotic rate, and areas of necrosis. Eleven months after this surgery she presented at a different institution with multiple pulmonary nodules. Microscopic examination of a subsequently resected lung nodule showed histologic findings similar to those of the poorly differentiated areas of the ovarian tumor and initial immunohistochemical studies showed positive staining for cytokeratin, neuron-specific enolase, and focal positivity for synaptophysin. Without knowledge of the ovarian tumor the lung lesion was interpreted as large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma. On review of the clinical history and comparison with the previous surgical material, however, both tumors showed similar light microscopy and immunohistochemical reactivity, and a final diagnosis of metastatic Sertoli cell tumor was made. Immunohistochemical staining for inhibin revealed weak positivity in the poorly differentiated areas of the ovarian tumor but not in the lung metastasis. This is one of the rare reports of ovarian Sertoli cell tumor metastasizing to the lungs and it emphasizes the importance of complete clinical histories, ancillary studies, appropriate sampling, and review of archival material in such unusual cases.
10458170: !synaptophysin Limiting photoreceptor death and deconstruction during experimental retinal detachment: the value of oxygen supplementation. To assess the role of hypoxia in causing the death and deconstruction of photoreceptors in detached retinas and the effectiveness of supplemental oxygen in limiting such damage.
10452503: !synaptophysin Neuroectodermal differentiation in Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors does not predict tumor behavior. The observation that neuroectodermal differentiation imparts a worse prognosis to the Ewing family of tumors has been suggested by some studies and refuted by others. To assess whether the diagnosis of Ewing's sarcoma versus peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) affects prognosis, we analyzed tumors from 63 analogously treated pediatric and young adult patients from the National Cancer Institute and St Jude Children's Research Hospital and retrospectively compared the results with clinical outcomes. The tumors were assessed using standard light microscopy and immunohistochemical stains for neuron-specific enolase, CD57, S100 protein, neurofilament protein, and synaptophysin with or without antigen retrieval. Ultrastructural evaluation was also performed in 39 tumors. Classification was performed using Kiel criteria as well as a modified classification. Kaplan-Meier analyses, with Mantel-Haenzel evaluation of the significance of the differences, were performed separately for localized or metastatic tumors. Using the Kiel classification on a subset of 60 cases, 39 tumors qualified as PNET and 21 as Ewing's sarcoma. Using the modified classification on a subset of 61 cases, 14 were classified as PNET, 21 as atypical Ewing's sarcoma, and 26 as Ewing's sarcoma. The addition of electron microscopy to the diagnostic armamentarium significantly increased the likelihood of identifying PNET. No significant differences in event-free or overall survival were seen using either the modified or Kiel classification, regardless of the ancillary diagnostic techniques employed. In this exploratory analysis, neuroectodermal differentiation did not play a role in clinical outcome. Confirmation of this finding will require a larger, separate study of similarly treated patients, and it may not apply to older patients.
10451427: !synaptophysin Tissue culture of human neurocytomas induces the expression of glial fibrilary acidic protein. Cell cultures were established from three human neurocytoma specimens (primary and recurrent). The phenotypic evolution was analyzed by immunocytology in different culture conditions in the presence and absence of serum including the addition of epidermal growth factor, rat caudate extract, retinoic acid, and N-acetyl cystein. The cells were grown on glass cover slides or an extracellular matrix (ECM) from bovine corneal endothelial cells. Immunostainings were performed after overnight incubation and were repeated after 5 and 10 days of culture. The cultures were compared to an oligoastrocytoma also arising at the foramen of Monro and an ependymoma of the frontal lateral ventricle, two tumors supposedly originating from the same tissue matrix as the neurocytoma. After overnight incubation, 90% of the neurocytoma cells were positive for A2B5 and synaptophysin. GFAP reactivity appeared in the periphery of cell processes in less than 1% of the cells. The staining patterns and morphology were nearly identical under the different culture conditions. After 5 days, almost all cells were strongly positive for GFAP, while the number of cells remaining positive for synaptophysin and A2B5 was unchanged from the earlier time point. Again, there were no fundamental differences between the incubation conditions. At this point, cultures maintained on ECM were compared to their counterparts on untreated glass cover slides with identical staining results, although many fewer cells had attached. An identical immuno-reactive pattern was found on day 10. In contrast to the neurocytoma cultures, there was an immediate strong GFAP signal in both the mixed glioma and the ependymoma. A2B5 was also positive, but synaptophysin was absent. Because the neurocytoma specimens were synaptophysin positive but GFAP negative by immunohistochemistry, it is concluded that neurocytomas may represent a human neuronoglial precursor tumor that switches its phenotype in culture to astroglial differentiation despite very diverse culture conditions.
10448437: !synaptophysin Increased cerebral cortical lipid peroxidation and abnormal phospholipids in aged homozygous apoE-deficient C57BL/6J mice. Aged homozygous apolipoprotein E gene-deficient (apoE -/-) mice have been proposed as an experimental model for the role of human apoE isoforms in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, results from different laboratories have been in conflict regarding the presence or absence of neurodegeneration in these mice. Moreover, despite apoE being the major lipid trafficking molecule in the central nervous system, there has been no investigation of brain lipid levels in apoE -/- mice. Here we have examined male and female apoE -/- and control mice aged 10 to 12 months, testing the hypothesis that lack of apoE leads to some of the neuropathological changes seen in AD. Our results failed to demonstrate significant neurodegeneration, histopathological changes, or reduction in cerebral cortical synaptophysin in apoE -/- mice. However, we did observe a significant reduction in cerebral cortical phospholipids and their constituent fatty acids, as well as elevated lipid peroxidation products, in apoE -/- mice compared to apoE +/+ mice with the same genetic background. Our results suggest that the brains of aged apoE -/- mice display some of the lipid abnormalities associated with AD; however, these changes alone, at the magnitudes achieved in the apoE -/- mice, do not directly lead to the major neurodegenerative changes of AD.
10442558: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in temporal lobe epilepsy-associated hippocampal sclerosis. We have previously devised a semiquantitative grading system for hippocampal sclerosis (HS) in specimens resected for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy. The grades range from zero to four based on the amount and distribution of neuronal loss and gliosis. In the present study hippocampal sections from 25 patients who had temporal lobe epilepsy and had previously been assigned a grade were examined with synaptophysin immunohistochemistry, and the synaptic content in specific hippocampal fields was correlated with the results of the HS grading system. There was evidence of both significant synaptic loss and increased synaptic density in different fields of the hippocampus with increasing HS. A marked decrement of synaptic inmmunostaining was present in fields CA1 and CA4 that were highly correlated with HS grade. Sector CA4 seemed to respond in a more graded or continuous way to the pathological insults occurring in temporal lobe epilepsy than did CA1, which appeared to exhibit an all or nothing response. Also, while the width of the outer part of the molecular layer of the dentate (mid) gyrus decreased with increasing HS grade, the inner part of the mid became wider and showed an increased synaptic density so that the overall width of the mid was increased in the high-grade group. We conclude that quantitative measurement of synaptic loss in CAI and CA4 using synaptophysin immunohistochemistry is a sensitive method for detecting HS and correlates well with the empirically derived HS grading scale, with CA4 exhibiting a more graded response than CA1. In addition, a plasticity response in the inner part of the mld in patients with high-grade HS has been confirmed and quantitated.
10442464: !synaptophysin Cytokeratins expression in paragangliomas of the cauda equina. Paragangliomas rarely involve the cauda equina region. In this location, these tumors can show misleading morphological features such as trabecular or papillary growth patterns and variable expression of cytokeratins.
10441625: !synaptophysin Adnexal-centered giant congenital melanocyte nevus with extensive ganglioneuromatous component and trisomy 7. Adequate interpretation of clinical and histopathologic features of giant congenital melanocytic nevus (GCMN) in newborns is a continued challenge. A GCMN with three large nodules and three polypoid exophytic tumors presented in the dorsum of a female full-term newborn, the borders exhibiting a spotted grouped pattern. Microscopic examination revealed a peculiar adnexal-centered (eccrine sweat gland ducts, acrosiringia, and hair infundibula) compound nevus expressing pagetoid intraepidermal spreading of epithelioid melanocytes. The nodules represented an extensive ganglioneuromatous component. The neurons and their neuropil were positive for neuron-specific enolase, S-100, synaptophysin, tyrosine hydroxilase, and PGP 9.5. In addition to these components, a poorly differentiated, fusiform, low-mitotic rate population of cells undergoing epithelioid differentiation (and probably neuronal differentiation) with nodular arrangement was also present in the polypoid tumors and deeper parts of the nevus, in part intermixed with the neurons. These cells were vimentin positive but S-100 negative. FISH studies revealed these cells to express three signals for the centromeric probe for chromosome 7 whereas the neuronal component showed just two. Adnexal-centered arrangement of melanocytes has not been emphasized in GCMN. Ganglioneuromatous differentiation has been rarely reported in this condition. Trisomy 7 in GCMN has been reported only once previously.
10440265: !synaptophysin The impact of basic fibroblast growth factor on photoreceptor function and morphology. To assess the impact of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) on photoreceptor function and morphology.
10436342: !synaptophysin Neurons and their dendrites in frontotemporal dementia. Regional and areal patterns of cell vulnerability (manifested as cell death and neuron loss) and cell sensitivity (as revealed by the presence of intracytoplasmic inclusions) are described in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and FTD+ motor neuron disease (MND). This is followed by studies geared to learning about possible mechanisms involved in selective neuron loss and studies focused on recognizing the identity of vulnerable populations of local-circuit neurons and the impact of FTD on individual cells as well as on postsynaptic and presynaptic terminals in the frontal cortex. Neuron loss is not associated with increased vulnerability to nuclear DNA fragmentation, and nor is it accompanied by modifications in the expression of the proteins Bcl-2 and Bax, and transcription factors c-Fos and c-Jun, thus suggesting that these proteins are probably not involved in cell death in these disorders. In the frontal and temporal cortices, glutamatergic pyramidal cells and calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive GABAergic local-circuit neurons are lost in the upper cortical layers. Parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells are preserved. In addition, reduction of putative postsynaptic sites (as inferred from the decreased numbers of dendritic branches in both pyramidal and nonpyramidal neurons, and of dendritic spines in pyramidal cells) in remaining neurons of the upper layers, as well as reduction of presynaptic terminals (as suggested by the decreased expression of synaptic vesicle-associated proteins, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, rab 3a and synapsin 1, and presynaptic plasma membrane proteins SNAP-25 and syntaxin 1) in the upper layers of the frontal cortex, but not of the posterior parietal cortex, demonstrate the combined devastating effects of FTD on cortico-cortical connections.
10434003: !synaptophysin Metalloprotease MP100: a synaptic protease in rat brain. Proteases are expressed widely throughout the nervous system and perform essential functions. We have earlier characterized and cloned the metalloprotease MP100, an enzyme originally described as a beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) processing candidate. In the present study we describe the cellular and subcellular localization of MP100 in rat brain. A punctuate intracellular immunostaining in cortical, hippocampal and cerebellar neurons suggests its high abundance in vesicular intracellular structures. The MP100 staining pattern resembled that of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin. In gel filtration chromatography of isolated rat brain synaptosomal membranes, MP100 co-fractionated with synaptophysin and beta-APP. Furthermore, pre-embedding immunoelectron microscopy of the cerebellum revealed MP100 to be localized at synaptic sites. All together, these data might indicate a role for MP100 in functions such as proteolytic modification of synaptic proteins.
10432890: !synaptophysin Squash cytology of pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma mimicking glioblastoma. A case report. Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) is an uncommon, superficially located and well-circumscribed brain tumor that originates in astrocytic cells. Despite the fact that the tumor cells are pleomorphic, with bizarre nuclei, the clinical course is favorable. Cytologic and histologic differentiation from other high grade gliomas is necessary to determine adequate therapy during surgery. Cytomorphologic features of this tumor have been described only rarely.
10430491: !synaptophysin Colchicine administration in the rat central nervous system induces SNAP-25 expression. he arrest of axonal transport by colchicine administration has been extensively used in immunocytochemical studies to increase the levels of neuroactive compounds in neuronal somata. In order to study the accumulation rates of a variety of proteins with location and physiological action at the synaptic terminal, we analysed, by immunocytochemical methods, the neuronal cell body content of these synaptic proteins in colchicine-injected rats. In sham-injected animals, all synaptic proteins tested were essentially observed in nerve fibres and terminal boutons. After colchicine administration, intense SNAP-25 immunoreactivity was found in many neuronal cell bodies throughout the CNS. In contrast, immunostaining for the rest of the synaptic proteins analysed (syntaxin 1A and 1B, synaptobrevin I and II, Rab3A, synaptophysin, synapsin I, synaptotagmin I and GAP-43) was virtually absent in neuronal cell bodies in treated animals. Furthermore, northern blot and in situ hybridization analysis revealed an increase in SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b messenger RNA isoforms in the brains of adult colchicine-administered animals. In addition, colchicine administration in five-day-old rat pups induced a notable increase in both SNAP-25 transcript isoforms. The present results indicate that in vivo colchicine administration, under conditions known to inhibit axoplasmic transport, upregulates SNAP-25 expression in the rat brain.
10430474: !synaptophysin Detection and quantification of hippocampal synaptophysin messenger RNA in schizophrenia using autoclaved, formalin-fixed, paraffin wax-embedded sections. Most in situ hybridization histochemistry studies of messenger RNA in human brain have been carried out on frozen tissue. Recently, autoclaving has been reported to enable routinely processsed material to be used for in situ localization of messenger RNA. We have investigated whether autoclaving also permits in situ hybridization histochemistry to be used quantitatively. To do this, we targeted synaptophysin messenger RNA with a 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probe in autoclaved, formalin-fixed, paraffin wax-embedded sections of the hippocampal formation of 11 schizophrenics and 11 controls. We compared the results with those seen on frozen sections from adjacent blocks, which had been used previously to demonstrate a loss of the messenger RNA in schizophrenia. Synaptophysin messenger RNA was readily detected in the autoclaved sections. The hybridization signal correlated strongly with that seen in the frozen sections. We found a similar pattern and magnitude of decreased synaptophysin messenger RNA in schizophrenia in the autoclaved sections as we had in the frozen sections, including the selective preservation of synaptophysin messenger RNA in CA1. The reduction of synaptophysin messenger RNA was replicated when six subjects with schizophrenia not included in the earlier study were considered separately. We conclude that autoclaving renders formalin-fixed, paraffin wax-embedded sections of human brain suitable for quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. This has considerable implications, given the wider availability, better morphology and easier handling of fixed than frozen human brain tissue. Using this material, we confirmed the finding of decreased synaptophysin messenger RNA in the hippocampal formation in schizophrenia, furthering the evidence for synaptic pathology in this region in the disorder.
10430346: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the esophagus: a case report. Primary small cell carcinoma of the esophagus, which is similar in appearance and behavior to its counterpart of the lung, is a rare tumor. We describe a 77 year-old woman whose esophagram revealed a well-defined mass in the lower third of the thoracic esophagus. A biopsy specimen showed an infiltration of small malignant cells. The individual cells were oval- or spindle-shaped with hyperchromatic nuclei and scant cytoplasm. Synaptophysin staining was positive. The mass was diagnosed as a small cell carcinoma of the esophagus. She underwent an esophagectomy with esophagogastric anastomosis. We discuss the treatment of small cell carcinoma of the esophagus.
10428070: !synaptophysin Peroxynitrite induces tryosine nitration and modulates tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptic proteins. Peroxynitrite, the product of the radical-radical reaction between nitric oxide and superoxide anion, is a potent oxidant involved in tissue damage in neurodegenerative disorders. We investigated the modifications induced by peroxynitrite in tyrosine residues of proteins from synaptosomes. Peroxynitrite treatment (> or =50 microM) induced tyrosine nitration and increased tyrosine phosphorylation. Synaptophysin was identified as one of the major nitrated proteins and pp60src kinase as one of the major phosphorylated substrates. Further fractionation of synaptosomes revealed nitrated synaptophysin in the synaptic vesicles, whereas phosphorylated pp60src was enriched in the postsynaptic density fraction. Tyrosine phosphorylation was increased by treatment with 50-500 microM peroxynitrite and decreased by higher concentrations, suggesting a possible activation/inactivation of kinases. Immunocomplex kinase assay proved that peroxynitrite treatment of synaptosomes modulated the pp60src autophosphorylation activity. The addition of bicarbonate (CO2 1.3 mM) produced a moderate enhancing effect on some nitrated proteins but significantly protected the activity of pp60src against peroxynitrite-mediated inhibition so that at 1 mM peroxynitrite, the kinase was still more active than in untreated synaptosomes. The phosphotyrosine phosphatase activity of synaptosomes was inhibited by peroxynitrite (> or =50 microM) but significantly protected by CO2. Thus, the increase of phosphorylation cannot be attributed to peroxynitrite-mediated inhibition of phosphatases. We suggest that peroxynitrite may regulate the posttranslational modification of tyrosine residues in pre- and postsynaptic proteins. Identification of the major protein targets gives insight into the pathways possibly involved in neuronal degeneration associated with peroxynitrite overproduction.
10425544: !synaptophysin Distribution of vasoactive intestinal peptide and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactive nerve fibers and binding sites in the hamster seminal vesicle during post-natal development. The distribution of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)- and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive nerves and 125I-labeled VIP- and CGRP-binding sites was studied in the hamster seminal vesicle of 12-, 30- and 60-day-old animals. In addition, the general innervation of the seminal vesicle was examined using the general neuronal marker synaptophysin. Our results show that the densities of the overall (synaptophysin immunoreactive) and CGRP-immunoreactive innervation is constant during the post-natal development of the gland. However, a significant decrease in VIP-containing nerves is observed at the end of puberty. The autoradiographic study revealed that in 12-day-old animals, the epithelium presents VIP binding sites. However, in 30-day-old animals, VIP binding sites are observed in the epithelium of only a few clumps of acini. In 60-day-old animals, the gland is composed of acini with dilated lumina where VIP binding sites are not detected. In all groups studied the epithelium does not exhibit CGRP binding sites. The seminal vesicle muscle layer displays specific binding sites for both VIP and CGRP at all post-natal developmental times, but the density of VIP binding sites is higher in 12- than in 30- and 60-day-old animals. Our results, showing the presence of specific VIP and CGRP binding sites during the development of the hamster seminal vesicle, suggest that these neuropeptides may be involved in the growth and differentiation of the gland.
10421869: !synaptophysin Differential expression of nerve terminal protein isoforms in VAChT-containing varicosities of the spinal cord ventral horn. Of the different types of synaptic contacts with the mammalian spinal motoneuron, the synapse made by the cholinergic, so-called C-terminal of unknown origin and function has special morphological characteristics. Thus, in this synapse, there is no postsynaptic density but rather a large subsynaptic cistern in the motoneuron. To see whether this particular arrangement imposes special demands on the transmitter release machinery, we examined the presence of nerve terminal proteins in the C-terminal by using immunohistochemistry. Cholinergic nerve fibers and terminals in the spinal cord ventral horn were identified with an antiserum to the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) protein. Immunohistochemistry in combination with confocal laser microscopy showed the presence of synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25)-, syntaxin-, cysteine string protein (CSP)-, synuclein-, synapsin I-, synapsin I/II-, synaptotagmin I-, synaptotagmin I/II-, synaptophysin-, and synaptobrevin-2-like immunoreactivity (-LI) in VAChT-containing C-terminals. Synaptotagmin III and synaptobrevin 1 could not be demonstrated in this type of terminal. VAChT-containing varicosities in the Renshaw cell area, with a probable origin from motoneuron axon collaterals, exhibited CSP, synapsin I/II, and synaptobrevin-1-LI, but not SNAP-25-, syntaxin-, synuclein-, synapsin I-, synaptotagmin I-, synaptotagmin I/II-, synaptophysin- and synaptobrevin-2-LI. The results suggest a differential content of nerve terminal proteins and their isoforms in cholinergic C-terminals apposing motoneurons and in the Renshaw cell area. It is concluded that C-terminals contain synaptic proteins necessary for fast transmitter release, and their origin should not be the motoneurons themselves.
10421471: !synaptophysin Anticholinesterases induce multigenic transcriptional feedback response suppressing cholinergic neurotransmission. Cholinesterase inhibitors (anti-ChEs) include a wide range of therapeutic, agricultural and warfare agents all aimed to inhibit the catalytic activity of the acetylcholine (ACh) hydrolysing enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE). In addition to promoting immediate excitation of cholinergic neurotransmission through transient elevation of synaptic ACh levels, anti-ChEs exposure is associated with long-term effects reminiscent of post-traumatic stress disorder. This suggested that exposure to anti-ChEs leads to persistent changes in brain proteins and called for exploring the mechanism(s) through which such changes could occur. For this purpose, we established an in vitro system of perfused, sagittal mouse brain slices which sustains authentic transcriptional responses for over 10 h and enables the study of gene regulation under controlled exposure to anti-ChEs. Slices were exposed to either organophosphate or cabamate anti-ChEs, both of which induced within 10 min excessive overexpression of the mRNA encoding the immediate early response transcription factor c-Fos. Twenty minutes later we noted 8-fold increases over control levels in AChE mRNA, accompanied by a 3-fold decrease in the mRNAs encoding for the ACh synthesizing enzyme choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and the vesicular ACh transporter (VAChT). No changes were detected in synaptophysin mRNA levels. These modulations in gene expression paralleled those taking place under in vivo exposure. Of particular concern is the possibility that feedback processes leading to elevated levels of brain AChE may be similarly associated with low-level exposure to common organophosphorous anti-cholinesterases, and lead to long-term deleterious changes in cognitive functions.
10408983: !synaptophysin Complement-mediated lesion of sympathetic ganglia in vitro with acetylcholinesterase antibodies. When administered to rats, antibodies against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) selectively destroy presynaptic inputs to sympathetic ganglia. To investigate the mechanism of this immunolesion, we created an in vitro system in which relevant components could be manipulated. Freshly dissected rat superior cervical ganglia (SCG) were incubated 15-20 h at 37 degrees C in fresh human serum (a potent source of complement) with continuous oxygenation. More than 96% of neurons in six control ganglia retained synaptic inputs, as defined by action potentials or excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP) upon stimulation of the preganglionic trunk. However, when anti-AChE antibodies were present (0.16 mg/ml), none of 61 neurons from six incubated ganglia showed synaptic responses although membrane potential and input resistance remained normal. Staining for AChE and synaptophysin (a synaptic vesicle marker) was also disrupted in ganglia exposed to AChE antibodies in complement-sufficient serum. When complement was eliminated by substituting serum that was heat-inactivated or deficient in C3, synaptic input was retained in 60-90% of neurons incubated with AChE antibodies. Choline acetyltransferase activity (ChAT), an enzymatic marker of cholinergic cytoplasm in sympathetic ganglia, was largely lost after incubation with AChE antibodies and serum. However, incubation with AChE antibodies in heat-inactivated serum, or serum that was deficient in C3 or C8, caused no measurable loss of ganglionic ChAT activity. These findings strongly implicate the complement cascade in the destruction of preganglionic sympathetic terminals that follows binding of AChE antibodies.
10405810: !synaptophysin Multicentric oncocytoma of the lung diagnosed by fine-needle aspiration. A 50-yr-old man presented with dyspnea. On chest X-ray, multiple pulmonary nodules were observed. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) showed tridimensional aggregates of atypical round epithelial cells, containing numerous cytoplasmic granules. The tissue fragment confirmed the presence of an epithelial tumor composed of trabecular sheets of clear cells, with numerous cytoplasmic granules which stained with phosphotungstic acid hematoxylin (PTAH). Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for cytokeratins and antimitochondrial antigen, whereas chromogranin, synaptophysin, S-100 protein, and HMB-45 were negative. Clinical and tomographic studies ruled out any tumor mass elsewhere. The rarity of this lesion in the lung and the potential difficulties for its diagnosis prompted us to report the clinical, cytological, and immunohistochemical findings in this case.
10405481: !synaptophysin Cellular neurothekeoma with possible neuroendocrine differentiation. We report a case of cellular neurothekeoma showing unusual immunohistochemical findings and occurring on the left upper arm of a healthy 48-year-old woman. She presented with a 1 cm, red, asymptomatic, dermal nodule of 1 year duration. A biopsy showed dermal proliferation of plexiform fascicles of spindle-shaped or polygonal cells with plentiful eosinophilic cytoplasms. The immunohistochemical profile included negative stains for S-100, CD34, factor XIIIa, CD68, HMB45, cytokeratins, and EMA, strongly positive stains for neuron specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin, and chromogranin A, and focally positive ones for NKI/C3 and alpha-smooth muscle actin. Ultrastructural analysis showed undifferentiated mesenchymal cells with cytoplasmic projections and abundant RER. Although we couldn't find any confirmative cell type in this cellular tumor, we believe that cellular neurothekeoma is predominantly composed of undifferentiated cells that can exhibit features of neuroendocrine cells in addition to fibroblastic or myofibroblastic ones, suggesting a divergent cell origin.
10403513: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin is phosphorylated in rat cortical synaptosomes treated with botulinum toxin A. Phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of neuronal proteins have been implicated in regulation of synaptic transmission. Studies were performed to determine if synaptophysin was phosphorylated or dephosphorylated during exposure of synaptosomes to botulinum toxin A (BoTX/A). Cholinergic-enriched synaptosomes were preincubated in the presence of 3H-choline to label newly synthesized acetylcholine (3H-ACh). This was followed by incubation with low or high potassium to stimulate release of newly synthesized 3H-ACh. BoTX/A inhibited total Ach release by 15-19% and inhibited release of newly synthesized 3H-ACh by 35%. A 165% increase in synaptophysin phosphorylation occurred in a dose-dependent manner over a range of doses (0.2 nM, 2 nM, 20 nM, 100 nM) of BoTX/A. When 4-Aminopyridine was added to synaptosomes that were BoTX/A treated, synaptophysin was dephosphorylated to control levels. Synaptosomes incubated with BoTX/A exhibited an inhibition of potassium stimulated ACh release and an increase in synaptophysin phosphorylation. Synaptophysin phosphorylation may be involved in inhibition of acetylcholine release.
10402269: !synaptophysin Development of telencephalin in the human cerebrum. Telencephalin (TLN) is a 130kDa, type 1 integral membrane glycoprotein of the immunoglobulin superfamily found in the mammalian central nervous system. TLN shows a molecular structure resembling intercellular adhesion molecules-1 and -3, and binds to the CD11a/CD18 leukocyte integrin. TLN was localized to neuronal dendrites in the telencephalic gray matter: cerebral cortex and basal ganglia. We studied immunohistochemically the expression of TLN in the developing human brain. In the hippocampus, TLN immunoreactivity appeared at 29 gestational weeks (GW), intensified subsequently, and persisted into adulthood. In the temporal cortex, labeling was weak and restricted to the cytoplasm of pyramidal neurons from 35 to 39 GW, but thereafter became diffuse and intense in the cortical layers, especially the molecular layer, by 5 months of postnatal age. The development of TLN was late compared to synaptophysin and microtubule-associated protein 2, suggesting its involvement in the functional maturation of neuronal dendrites and synapses.
10399173: !synaptophysin Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the uterine cervix: a report of a case with coexisting cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and human papillomavirus 16. Large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas (LCNECs), one of the four newly categorised endocrine tumors of the uterine cervix, are unusual and aggressive tumors. The present report describes a case of LCNEC diagnosed at an early stage and associated with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). The LCNEC showed organoid and trabecular growth patterns and was positive for chromogranin and synaptophysin. The CIN lesion was of a high grade and was negative for these neuroendocrine markers. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using genomic DNA extracted from archival tissue demonstrated human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 DNA in both the LCNEC and CIN lesions. These histological, immunohistochemical and PCR findings suggested that the LCNEC lesion was distinct from the CIN lesion and that both resulted from the carcinogenic field effect of HPV 16.
10396737: !synaptophysin [Pathological features of dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT): study of five surgical cases with intractable epilepsies]. The dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT), characterized by its favorable prognosis, must be precisely differentiated from other gliomas to prevent overtreatment by radio/chemotherapy. We studied, here, pathological features of five surgical cases of DNT with intractable epilepsies. There were two males and three females with a median age of 20.4 years (range 12-41). We evaluated lesional topography, gross appearances and microscopic findings including immunohistochemical data. One tumor was located in the temporal lobe, another two in the parietal lobe, another in the occipital lobe, and the other one in the occipito-parietal junction. The lesions were predominantly intracortical in all cases. Macroscopically, two tumors were grayish-soft, another two were yellowish-elastic, and the other one was resected as soft-mucinous fragments. Microscopically, the main glial components were oligodendrocyte-like cells (OLCs) in all cases, except for one case in which atypical glial cells were also prominent. Histopathological characteristics of the DNTs included the specific glioneuronal elements (the mixture of OLCs and neurons) in four cases, alveolar pattern (all cases), microcystic degeneration (all cases), multinodular architecture (four cases), and adjacent cortical dysplasia (all cases). Immunohistochemically, Ki-67 labelling indices ranged from 0 to 0.8%. OLCs were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein in two cases, for S-100 protein in all cases, for synaptophysin in two cases, and for class III beta tubulin in all cases. Pathological features of our cases were characterized by its heterogeneous histological appearances and divergent cellular differentiation.
10393370: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma with malignant course. Neuronal and glial differentiation and craniospinal dissemination. Central neurocytoma is a benign neuronal tumor of young adults in the lateral cerebral ventricles with characteristic X ray and light microscopic findings. In many respects typical central neurocytoma is reported below, with recurrence in the third month requiring reoperation. Death ensued in the fifth postoperative month. Subsequent histology proved progressive vascular proliferation and increasing, unusual glial differentiation of the neuronal tumor. At autopsy tumorous seeding blocked the liquor circulation. A thin tumorous layer covered the surface of all ventricles, the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. The GFAP positive cells out-numbered the synaptophysin positive ones. Increase of GFAP positivity and vascular proliferation of the central neurocytoma may be alarming signs suggesting a malignant course in addition to the other atypical features.
10392634: !synaptophysin Spindle-cell neuroendocrine carcinomas of the thymus (spindle-cell thymic carcinoid): a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of seven cases. Seven cases of spindle-cell neuroendocrine carcinomas (carcinoid tumors) of the thymus are presented. The patients were three women and four men between the ages of 26 and 74 years (median age, 50 yr). The lesions presented as large anterior mediastinal masses on radiographic examination and were treated by surgical excision. Grossly, the tumors were tan-brown and well circumscribed but encapsulated, and they measured from 2 to 15 cm in greatest diameter. Histologically, they were characterized by a dense proliferation of spindle cells that focally adopted a vaguely organoid pattern, with discrete nests of tumor cells separated by thin fibrovascular septa. Mitotic figures were present in all of our cases and ranged from 2 to 8 per 10 high power fields. Focal areas of necrosis were also present in all of the cases. Immunohistochemical studies performed in six cases showed positive staining for chromogranin in five cases, synaptophysin and keratin in four, and Leu 7 in three. Clinical follow-up showed that two patients died of their tumors 6 and 11 years after diagnosis; one was alive 8 years after diagnosis. Spindle-cell neuroendocrine carcinomas of the thymus (spindle-cell thymic carcinoids) should be considered in the differential diagnosis of spindle-cell neoplasms of the anterior mediastinum. Because of their aggressive clinical behavior, it is important to separate them from the other benign or low-grade spindle-cell tumors that are more common at this location.
10391432: !synaptophysin Synaptic and plasticity-associated proteins in anterior frontal cortex in severe mental illness. Abnormalities of proteins involved in neurotransmission and neural plasticity at synapses are reported in schizophrenia, and may be markers of dysregulated neural connectivity in this illness. Studies of brain development and neural regeneration indicate a dynamic interplay between neural and oligodendroglial mechanisms in regulating synaptic plasticity and axonal sprouting. In the present study, markers of synapses (synaptophysin), plasticity (growth-associated protein-43) and oligodendrocytes (myelin basic protein) were investigated in anterior frontal cortex homogenates from individuals with schizophrenia and depression. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was reduced in schizophrenics who died of natural causes relative to controls. Myelin basic protein immunoreactivity was decreased in both schizophrenics and depressed individuals who died by suicide. Overall, no changes were observed in growth-associated protein-43 immunoreactivity. However, a slight increase in immunoreactivity in depressed suicides relative to control was observed. These findings support the hypothesis that synaptic abnormalities are a substrate for disordered connectivity in severe mental illness, and suggest that synaptic-oligodendroglial interactions may contribute to the mechanism of dysregulation in certain cases.
10385522: !synaptophysin A complex web of signal-dependent trafficking underlies the triorganellar distribution of P-selectin in neuroendocrine PC12 cells. By analyzing the trafficking of HRP-P-selectin chimeras in which the lumenal domain of P-selectin was replaced with horseradish peroxidase, we determined the sequences needed for targeting to synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMV), dense core granules (DCG), and lysosomes in neuroendocrine PC12 cells. Within the cytoplasmic domain of P-selectin, Tyr777 is needed for the appearance of P-selectin in immature and mature DCG, as well as for targeting to SLMV. The latter destination also requires additional sequences (Leu768 and 786DPSP789) which are responsible for movement through endosomes en route to the SLMV. Leu768 also mediates transfer from early transferrin (Trn)-positive endosomes to the lysosomes; i.e., operates as a lysosomal targeting signal. Furthermore, SLMV targeting of HRP-P-selectin chimeras, but not the endogenous SLMV protein synaptophysin/p38, previously shown to be delivered to SLMV directly from the plasma membrane, is a Brefeldin A-sensitive process. Together, these data are consistent with a model of SLMV biogenesis which involves an endosomal intermediate in PC12 cells. In addition, we have discovered that impairment of SLMV or DCG targeting results in a concomitant increase in lysosomal delivery, illustrating the entwined relationships between routes leading to regulated secretory organelles (RSO) and to lysosomes.
10383386: !synaptophysin Synaptogyrins regulate Ca2+-dependent exocytosis in PC12 cells. Synaptogyrins constitute a family of synaptic vesicle proteins of unknown function. With the full-length structure of a new brain synaptogyrin isoform, we now show that the synaptogyrin family in vertebrates includes two neuronal and one ubiquitous isoform. All of these synaptogyrins are composed of a short conserved N-terminal cytoplasmic sequence, four homologous transmembrane regions, and a variable cytoplasmic C-terminal tail that is tyrosine-phosphorylated. The localization, abundance, and conservation of synaptogyrins suggest a function in exocytosis. To test this, we employed a secretion assay in PC12 cells expressing transfected human growth hormone (hGH) as a reporter protein. When Ca2+-dependent hGH secretion from PC12 cells was triggered by high K+ or alpha-latrotoxin, co-transfection of all synaptogyrins with hGH inhibited hGH exocytosis as strongly as co-transfection of tetanus toxin light chain. Synaptophysin I, which is distantly related to synaptogyrins, was also inhibitory but less active. Inhibition was independent of the amount of hGH expressed but correlated with the amount of synaptogyrin transfected. Inhibition of exocytosis was not observed with several other synaptic proteins, suggesting specificity. Analysis of the regions of synaptogyrin required for inhibition revealed that the conserved N-terminal domain of synaptogyrin is essential for inhibition, whereas the long C-terminal cytoplasmic tail is largely dispensable. Our results suggest that synaptogyrins are conserved components of the exocytotic apparatus, which function as regulators of Ca2+-dependent exocytosis.
10380047: !synaptophysin Neurofollicular hamartoma with strong diffuse S-100 positivity: a case report. Neurofollicular hamartoma is a recently described lesion with a distinct pilosebaceous and spindle cell proliferation. Neurofollicular hamartoma is composed of spindle cells haphazardly arranged in a fibromyxoid stroma closely associated with an abnormal hyperplasia of folliculosebaceous units. Although this histologic pattern has been classified as "neurofollicular," all cases reported thus far have had only scattered spindle cells with S-100 positivity. We present a case of neurofollicular hamartoma with strong and diffusely positive staining of spindled cells for S-100 protein. This lesion also shows scattered positivity of spindle cells for monoclonal neuron specific enolase and synaptophysin. We interpret the results of immunostains of this lesion as evidence for neural differentiation. This case validates the concept of "neurofollicular" hamartoma.
10378375: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural characterization of neuritic clusters around ghost tangles in the hippocampal formation in progressive supranuclear palsy brains. We performed a detailed study of swollen neurite aggregation surrounding extracellular neurofibrillary tangles (ghost tangles, GTs) in brains of patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy (EM). The complex structures, designated as tangle-associated neuritic clusters (TANCs), were found in the hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex in all five PSP brains examined. TANCs measured from 20 to 40 microm across; twice as large as nearby neurons. Each neurite was globular or fusiform in shape, measured up to 10 microm in diameter, and was found between loosened fascicles of GTs or along their outer rims. There were several subsets of neurites that were argyrophilic or immunoreactive against antibodies to either phosphorylated tau protein, phosphorylated neurofilaments, ubiquitin, or synaptophysin. On EM, TANCs consisted of numerous axon terminals of varying size, which were filled with flocculate dense bodies, vesicular profiles, and synaptic vesicles, as well as normal-looking and degenerating cell organelles. Some axons had 13- to 15-nm-thick straight tubules that showed tau immunoreactivity; however, there was little neurofilament accumulation. Most of the swollen axon terminals conformed to the ultrastructural features of either reactive or degenerating terminals. The neurites identified by immunohistochemistry only represented a minority of the swollen axons visualized by EM. Tubules of GTs were dispersed in the extracellular space, but no amyloid fibrils were found. TANCs may constitute a distinctive form of neuronal degeneration in PSP cortices. We hypothesize that axon terminal accumulation may occur in response to GT-formation.
10374770: !synaptophysin Angiomatoid neuroendocrine carcinoma of the thymus: report of a distinctive morphological variant of neuroendocrine tumor of the thymus resembling a vascular neoplasm. Three cases of primary thymic neuroendocrine tumors characterized by prominent angiomatoid features that resembled a vascular neoplasm are presented. The patients were all men between 52 and 59 years of age who presented with chest pain and shortness of breath attributable to a large anterior mediastinal mass. The lesions ranged in size from 6 cm to 15 cm in greatest diameter, and were grossly soft and well circumscribed, but not encapsulated. The cut surface was remarkable for multiple blood-filled cyst-like spaces admixed with focal solid, hemorrhagic areas. Histologically, the tumors contained multiple cystically dilated spaces filled with blood which imparted the lesion with a striking angiomatoid appearance. The walls of the cysts were lined by a monotonous proliferation of round to oval cells with distinct cell borders, round central nuclei, and abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm. Mitotic activity was present in all cases and varied from 3 to 8 mitoses per 10 high-power fields. Immunohistochemical studies performed in two cases showed positivity of the tumor cells for keratin, Leu 7, and synaptophysin, and focal chromogranin positivity in one. Follow-up information obtained in two patients showed that both had died of tumor 4 and 8 years after initial diagnosis. The present cases show an unusual morphological appearance of thymic neuroendocrine tumors that may be mistaken for a vascular neoplasm. Immunohistochemical stains may be of importance in such instances in arriving at the correct diagnosis.
10374233: !synaptophysin [Central neurocytoma. A report of 4 cases]. We report 4 cases of central neurocytoma removed by a transfrontal approach with no recurrence after a mean follow up of 3 years. This uncommon lesion of the supratentorial ventricles (150 cases reported) occurs in young adults, and often induces intracranial hypertension secondary to an obstructive hydrocephalus. The CT scan, MRI and histopathological features are related. This neuronal origin tumor is difficult to distinguish from other intraventricular processes as oligodendroglioma or ependymoma. However, the immunopositivity for the neuronal markers as synaptophysin, calcineurin and microtubul associated protein 2, and the negativity for the glial fibrillary acidic protein, allow the diagnosis of this neuropathological entity. The prognosis is favorable though some cases of recurrence (14 cases) and cerebrospinal dissemination (2 cases) has been reported in the literature.
10370136: !synaptophysin Tissue expression of the vesicle protein pantophysin. The cell-type restricted expression of cytoplasmic microvesicle membrane protein isoforms may be a consequence of the functional adaptation of these vesicles to the execution of specialized processes in cells of different specialization. To characterize the expression of the vesicle protein pantophysin, an isoform of the synaptic vesicle proteins synaptophysin and synaptoporin, we have prepared and characterized antibodies useful for the immunological detection of pantophysin in vitro and in situ. Using these reagents, we show by immunoblot analyses that pantophysin expression is not homogeneous but differs significantly between various bovine tissues. Furthermore, these differences are not exactly paralleled by the expression of other vesicle proteins of the SCAMP (secretory carrier-associated membrane protein) and VAMP (vesicle-associated membrane protein) types that have previously been localized to pantophysin vesicles in cultured cells. By immunofluorescence microscopy, pantophysin expression is seen predominantly in non-neuroendocrine cells with pronounced membrane traffic. Pantophysin staining codistributes with SCAMP and VAMP immunoreactivities in most instances but differs in some. Remarkably, pantophysin staining in liver is restricted to cells surrounding sinusoids and is not detectable in hepatocytes, similar to that of the SCAMP and VAMP isoforms as detected by our reagents in tissue sections.
10366630: !synaptophysin Impairments in high-frequency transmission, synaptic vesicle docking, and synaptic protein distribution in the hippocampus of BDNF knockout mice. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal CA1 synapses by a presynaptic enhancement of synaptic transmission during high-frequency stimulation (HFS). Here we have investigated the mechanisms of BDNF action using two lines of BDNF knockout mice. Among other presynaptic impairments, the mutant mice exhibited more pronounced synaptic fatigue at CA1 synapses during high-frequency stimulation, compared with wild-type animals. Quantitative analysis of CA1 synapses revealed a significant reduction in the number of vesicles docked at presynaptic active zones in the mutant mice. Synaptosomes prepared from the mutant hippocampus exhibited a marked decrease in the levels of synaptophysin as well as synaptobrevin [vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP-2)], a protein known to be involved in vesicle docking and fusion. Treatment of the mutant slices with BDNF reversed the electrophysiological and biochemical deficits in the hippocampal synapses. Taken together, these results suggest a novel role for BDNF in the mobilization and/or docking of synaptic vesicles to presynaptic active zones.
10366621: !synaptophysin Expression of human apolipoprotein E3 or E4 in the brains of Apoe-/- mice: isoform-specific effects on neurodegeneration. Apolipoprotein (apo) E isoforms are key determinants of susceptibility to Alzheimer's disease. The apoE4 isoform is the major known genetic risk factor for this disease and is also associated with poor outcome after acute head trauma or stroke. To test the hypothesis that apoE3, but not apoE4, protects against age-related and excitotoxin-induced neurodegeneration, we analyzed apoE knockout (Apoe-/-) mice expressing similar levels of human apoE3 or apoE4 in the brain under control of the neuron-specific enolase promoter. Neuronal apoE expression was widespread in the brains of these mice. Kainic acid-challenged wild-type or Apoe-/- mice had a significant loss of synaptophysin-positive presynaptic terminals and microtubule-associated protein 2-positive neuronal dendrites in the neocortex and hippocampus, and a disruption of neurofilament-positive axons in the hippocampus. Expression of apoE3, but not of apoE4, protected against this excitotoxin-induced neuronal damage. ApoE3, but not apoE4, also protected against the age-dependent neurodegeneration seen in Apoe-/- mice. These differences in the effects of apoE isoforms on neuronal integrity may relate to the increased risk of Alzheimer's disease and to the poor outcome after head trauma and stroke associated with apoE4 in humans.
10366022: !synaptophysin Developmental expression of alpha-synuclein in rat hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Alpha-synuclein is an evolutionary highly conserved neuronal protein localized in presynaptic nerve terminals. The protein has been suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, but little is known about the physiological function of the protein. In the present study we used newborn, three, 14, 93 and 710-day-old rats to examine the expression of alpha-synuclein messenger RNA and protein during development of the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Using in situ hybridization and an S1 nuclease protection assay, we found a high expression of alpha-synuclein messenger RNA during early postnatal development, followed by a marked decrease between postnatal days 14 and 93. In contrast, the amount of alpha-synuclein protein, as determined by immunoblotting, continued to increase throughout development and remained at a high level for at least two years. The persistent high expression of alpha-synuclein protein throughout development suggests that the protein is involved in maintaining synaptic function. Furthermore, the discrepancy between the levels of alpha-synuclein messenger RNA and protein after postnatal day 14 indicates that the amount of alpha-synuclein is determined by post-transcriptional regulation, and not by messenger RNA expression alone. To estimate the changes of alpha-synuclein expression per synapse, we compared the developmental expression of alpha-synuclein with synaptophysin, a well-established synaptic marker. The alpha-synuclein/synaptophysin messenger RNA and protein ratio was high during early development, but low in adult (postnatal day 93) and old (postnatal day 710) rats. This could indicate a higher expression of alpha-synuclein per synapse during early development.
10363302: !synaptophysin [Central neurocytoma: analysis of three cases and review of the literature]. Three cases of central neurocytoma, confirmed by immunohistochemical study are reported. The central neurocytoma has recently been added to the differential diagnosis of intraventricular tumors. It is more frequent than previously thought, with high incidence in young patients. The positivity for synaptophysin and neuron specific enolase, the negativity for neurofilament protein and glial fibrillary acid protein, and the finding of elements of neuronal differentiation on electron microscopy, are the main pathological features of these tumors.
10359336: !synaptophysin Effects of the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor in an experimental model of retinal detachment. To examine the effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in an animal model of retinal detachment.
10349333: !synaptophysin [Analysis of neuronal connections in the basal ganglia]. Morphological features indicating occurrence of two types of extrasynaptic chemical transmission were observed within rat basal ganglia. (1) Striatonigral neurons containing substance P (SP) sent many axon collaterals equipped with axonal varicosities to the striatum: the varicosities displayed synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity (-LI). However, only 15% of the varicosities appeared to be in close contact with structures showing SP receptor (SPR)-LI. Many of axon terminals of striatonigral neurons were confirmed electron microscopically not to be in synaptic contact with SPR-like immunoreactive structures within the striatum. SP released from the varicosities might, at least partly, diffuse to reach SPR at distance from the release sites. (2) Immunoreactivities for metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) 4 a, 7 a, 7 b and 8 were in axon terminals within the globus pallidus (external segment of the globus pallidus in primates). The immunoreactivities disappeared after destruction of the striatum, but not after destruction of the subthalamic nucleus. The immunoreactivity for mGluR 7 a was confirmed electron microscopically to be within axon terminals showing glutamic acid decarboxylase-LI. Glutamate released from glutamatergic subthalamopallidal neurons might partly spilled over from the synaptic sites to reach mGluRs on "nearby" axon terminals of GABAergic striatopallidal neurons. Functional significance of thalamostriatal and corticosubthalamic fibers was also discussed.
10343970: !synaptophysin Evidence of neuronal degeneration in C57B1/6 mice infected with the LP-BM5 leukemia retrovirus mixture. Mice infected with LP-BM5 develop a severe immunodeficiency accompanied by learning and memory deficits, gliosis, and neurotransmitter abnormalities. The neurochemical alterations are consistent with elevated excitotoxin levels, suggesting that infected mice may incur neuronal damage. Although the number of neocortical neurons was unchanged in mice 12 wk after LP-BM5 infection, the expression of cytoskeletal proteins declined, particularly in the frontal and parietal cortex as indicated by MAP2, NF-200, and synaptophysin immunoreactivity. In contrast, the number of striatal neurons decreased 19%. The remaining neurons were smaller, with fewer synaptic boutons, and showed decreased synaptophysin and NF-200, immunoreactivity. Immunoblots of cortex and striatum confirmed decreases in MAP2, NF-200 and synaptophysin expression. Finally, although NCAM expression decreased in the striatum, it increased in the cortex. These results indicate that LP-BM5-infected mice sustain significant neuronal damage, which may contribute to their behavioral deficits. Moreover, the increase in cortical NCAM expression suggests active synaptic remodeling to compensate for the persistent excitotoxic environment in these mice, whereas striatal neurons degenerate. These concurrent degenerative and compensatory processes may also occur in the brains of patients with AIDS dementia complex (ADC), who suffer extensive degeneration of the basal ganglia and cerebral cortex.
10343324: !synaptophysin Expression of proteins linked to exocytosis and neurotransmission in patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. In order to characterize synaptic involvement in human spongiform encephalopathies, the expression of synaptic vesicle-associated proteins, synaptophysin and synapsin-I, and presynaptic plasma membrane proteins, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) and syntaxin-I, was examined in the brains of four patients who had suffered from sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Nerve cell loss, spongiform degeneration, astrocytosis, and deposition of prion protein (PrP) were observed in the cerebral cortex in every case. Decreased immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, synapsin-I, SNAP-25, and syntaxin-I was observed in the cerebral cortex in every case, thus showing generalized reduction of proteins involved in exocytosis of synaptic vesicles in the brains of patients with spongiform encephalopathy. Upregulation of synaptophysin and SNAP-25, a feature associated with beta A4 deposits in Alzheimer's disease (AD), was not observed in associated with PrP deposition. The present results indicate that synaptic pathology is a major event in spongiform encephalopathy, and suggest that synaptic loss, together with neuron loss and selective involvement of certain populations of local-circuit neurons, as shown in other studies, may account for the dramatic neurological decay and for the main neurological symptoms in patients with CJD.
10340764: !synaptophysin A plethora of presynaptic proteins associated with ATP-storing organelles in cultured astrocytes. Cultured astrocytes can release a variety of messenger substances via receptor-mediated mechanisms, implicating their potential for regulated exocytosis and the participation of proteins of the SNARE complex. Here we demonstrate the astrocytic expression and organellar association of a large variety of synaptic proteins (synaptobrevin II, synaptotagmin I, synaptophysin, rab3a, synapsin I, SNAP-25, and syntaxin I) and also of the ubiquitous cellubrevin. As revealed by immunoblotting the expression of synaptic proteins was highest within the first few days after plating. Synaptophysin and SNAP-25 showed the most significant decline with prolonged culture time. Rab3a and synaptobrevin II were retained at a high level and synaptotagmin I, synapsin I, and syntaxin I at a lower level until 20 DIV. The immunoreaction for cellubrevin was low at the beginning and increased with prolonged culture time. As revealed by light microscopical immunocytochemistry the proteins are expressed by GFAP-positive astrocytes and associated with organelles of varying size. Immunoelectron microscopical analysis allocates synaptobrevin II and synaptophysin to the membranes of vesicular organelles. Double labeling experiments for pairs of synaptic proteins reveal that individual synaptic proteins can be entirely colocalized or partly reside on different organelles. Subcellular fractionation of astrocyte cultures by sucrose density gradient centrifugation after 2, 6, 13, and 20 DIV showed that the proteins sediment with ATP containing organelles of a broad density range. Our data suggest that messenger substances may be released from cultured astrocytes via receptor-mediated, Ca2+-dependent exocytosis.
10340047: !synaptophysin A case of synchronous double primary lung cancer with neuroendocrine features. We report a case of unique double primary lung cancers with neuroendocrine features in a 63-year-old male smoker. The mass in the left lower lobe (LLL) was a small cell/large cell carcinoma with spindle cell sarcomatous areas and organoid structure. The mass in the left upper lobe (LUL) was a tubular adenocarcinoma with neuroendocrine features including organoid nests showing occasional rosette formation, nuclear palisading in the periphery of the nests and positive immunoreaction for CD56, chromogranin A and synaptophysin. The difference in histological structures between the two masses led us to diagnose double primary lung cancer. The combination of small cell lung carcinoma and spindle cell carcinoma is very uncommon. The relationship between LLL and LUL tumors remains unclear. Multiple lung cancers with neuroendocrine features have only rarely been reported in the literature. The patient in our case died of widespread cancer 2 years and 4 months after the surgery without adjuvant chemotherapy, a longer postoperative survival time than in cases of ordinary extensive small cell lung cancer. Multiple lung cancers with neuroendocrine features are extremely rare and similar cases have not been reported in the literature. Neuroendocrine differentiation has attracted widespread attention and, therefore, examining neuroendocrine features in lung cancers is important.
10338291: !synaptophysin No hippocampal neuron or synaptic bouton loss in learning-impaired aged beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice. Aged beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice were used to investigate the relationship between beta-amyloid precursor protein, hippocampal neuron and synaptic bouton number, and cognitive function. Learning and memory performance of aged beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice and age-matched controls were assessed in the Morris water maze. Beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice demonstrated impaired task acquisition as measured by significantly longer swim path lengths, a higher percentage of failed trials, and more frequent thigmotaxis behavior than controls. In a subsequent probe trial, beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice spent significantly less time in the old goal quadrant, and made fewer crossings over the old platform location than did controls. No differences in motor or visual skills were observed which could account for the performance differences. In light of these findings and previous evidence for a role of beta-amyloid precursor protein in neuronal maintenance and synaptogenesis, we pursued the hypothesis that the learning impairment of beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice may be a reflection of differences in neuron or synaptophysin-positive presynaptic bouton number. Thus, unbiased stereological analysis was used to estimate neuron and synaptic bouton number in dentate gyrus and hippocampal CA1 of the behaviorally characterized mice. No difference in neuron or synaptophysin-positive presynaptic bouton number was found between the beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice and age-matched controls. Our results suggest that the learning impairment of beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice is not mediated by a loss of hippocampal neurons or synaptic boutons.
10336665: !synaptophysin Visualization of local afferent inputs to magnocellular oxytocin neurons in vitro. We recently showed that oxytocin (OT) neurons in organotypic slice cultures obtained from postnatal rat hypothalamus display complex patterns of electrical activity, similar to those of adult magnocellular OT neurons in vivo. Here we used such cultures to investigate the identity and, in particular, the origin of afferent inputs responsible for this activity. Multiple immunostaining with light and confocal microscopy showed that the somata and dendrites of oxytocinergic neurons were contacted by numerous synapses, visualized by their reaction to the synaptic markers, synaptophysin or synapsin. Many were GABAergic, displaying immunoreactivities for glutamic acid decarboxylase or gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA); others were enriched in glutamate immunoreactivity. Such afferents presumably arose from GABA- or glutamate-immunoreactive neurons, respectively, with distinct and characteristic morphologies and topographies. A few dopaminergic boutons (tyrosine hydroxylase- or dopamine-immunopositive) impinged on OT neurons; they arose from dopamine-positive neurons located along the third ventricle. No noradrenergic profiles were detected. Despite the presence of choline acetyl-transferase (ChAT)-immunoreactive neurons, there were no cholinergic contacts. Lastly, we found oxytocinergic synapses, identified by immunoreaction for OT-related neurophysin and synapsin, contacting OT somata and dendrites. Our observations thus demonstrate that inhibitory and excitatory inputs to OT neurons derive from local intrahypothalamic GABA and glutamate neurons, in close proximity to the neurons. They also reveal that OT neurons are innervated by hypothalamic dopaminergic neurons. Finally, they confirm the existence of homotypic OT synaptic contacts which derive from local OT neurons.
10336260: !synaptophysin Age-changes of brain synapses and synaptic plasticity in response to an enriched environment. Numerical synaptic density and synaptic vesicle density in rat frontal cortex were examined by electron microscopy as a function of age. The density of axospinous synapses, a major population of synapses, was found to peak at age 1 month, and to gradually decrease with aging. The synaptic vesicle density in axospinous synapses was shown to rapidly increase to a peak during the first 3 weeks and then decrease to the adult level, which remained unchanged in senescence. The time course of synaptic changes in aging is presented in this study. In a previous report (Saito et al. [1994] J. Neurosci. Res. 39:57-62), we showed that enriched rearing conditions restored the age-related decrease of synaptophysin contents. This might be due to increased numerical synaptic density or enhanced packing density of synaptic vesicles in synapses. The results of the present study support the latter explanation; that is, synaptic vesicle contents were increased without changes in synaptic density. Synaptic plasticity induced by environmental stimulation is shown to relate with synaptic strengthening, but not with the formation of new synapses.
10336118: !synaptophysin Role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and presynaptic proteins in passive avoidance learning in day-old domestic chicks. The consolidation of a one-trial passive avoidance learning task in the day-old chick involves a number of transient and longer-term biochemical processes, including increased release of glutamate. This study demonstrated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor, a proposed modulator of synaptic transmission and neurotransmitter release, is involved in the cascade associated with memory consolidation in the chick and that its actions were linked to modulation of expression of SNAP-25, syntaxin and synaptophysin, required for exocytosis. Intracerebral injections of 5 microl of antibodies to brain-derived neurotrophic factor into the left and right intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in avoidance of an "aversive" bead by 3 h after training. Neurotrophin antibodies (0.5 microg/chick) administered between 1 h before, and up to 30 min after, training induced amnesia by 3 h which was sustained for at least 24 h. Injections of recombinant brain-derived neurotrophic factor (50 microg/ml; 0.5 microg/chick) just before training maintained avoidance in birds trained with a weaker aversant (10% methylanthranilate), such that chicks showed enhanced recall at times (24 h) beyond that when shorter-term forms of memory have decayed. In lysed synaptosomal membranes prepared from chicks injected with antibodies to brain-derived neurotrophic factor there was a decrease in expression of SNAP-25 and syntaxin in the left, but not the right, intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale, a region known to be associated with memory formation, which correlated with the decrease in neurotrophin concentration. Thus, these data indicate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is involved in the formation of a long-term memory for an aversive stimulus and may function as a modulator of presynaptic proteins associated with exocytosis, enabling increases in neurotransmitter release.
10336063: !synaptophysin Calcium changes induced by presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 serotonin receptors on isolated terminals from various regions of the rat brain. The serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor is a ligand-gated ion channel that is distributed widely in the nervous system. Within the CNS, a significant portion of the 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors appears to be present on presynaptic nerve terminals and, using an imaging approach, it was shown previously that presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors on individual isolated nerve terminals (synaptosomes) from rat corpus striatum display a distinctive set of properties-slow onset, little desensitization and high apparent permeability for Ca2+-when compared to those observed for 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors localized at postsynaptic sites on neuronal cell bodies. To consider whether their characteristic nature is a common feature of presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors across the brain, we used confocal microscopy to measure changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration resulting from 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 agonist-induced responses in synaptosomes from representative rat brain regions, ranging in expression of overall levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors from relatively low (cerebellum) to intermediate (corpus striatum and hippocampus) to high (amygdala). Application of 100 nM m-chlorophenyl biguanide, a specific 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor agonist, induced changes in relative intracellular Ca2+ concentration in subsets of synaptosomes from the corpus striatum (approximately 6% of total), hippocampus (approximately 3% of total), amygdala (approximately 30% of total) and cerebellum (approximately 32% of total). In order to assure the viability of the synaptosomes that did not respond to 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 agonist stimulation, KCl (45 mM) was subsequently added to depolarize the same population of synaptosomes, and increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration were then seen in 80-90% of the synaptosomes from all four regions. The kinetics of the intra synaptosomal Ca2+ changes produced by K+-evoked depolarization were similar in all regions, showing a rapid rise to a peak followed by an apparent plateau phase. In contrast, the changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration evoked by m-chlorophenyl biguanide displayed substantially slower kinetics, similar to previous findings, but which varied among responding synaptosomes from one region to another. In particular, m-chlorophenyl biguanide-induced changes were notably slower in synaptosomes from the amygdala (rise time constant, tau = 25 s), when compared to responses in synaptosomes from other regions (striatum, tau = 12 s; hippocampus, tau= 9.6 s; cerebellum, tau = 7 s). To independently demonstrate the presence of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors on nerve terminals in the various regions using a molecular approach, we double-immunostained the synaptosomes for the 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor and the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, using, respectively, a polyclonal antibody raised against an N-terminal peptide of the 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor and a monoclonal anti-synaptophysin antibody, and observed 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors in varying subsets of the synaptosomes from each region, providing direct support for the results obtained in our functional experiments. These results suggest that the distinctive properties of presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors are found throughout the brain, with evident differences in the kinetics of the responses to agonist stimulation observed across the brain regions studied. As expected, the proportion of the synaptosomal population that responded on application of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 agonist varied in preparations from one region to another; however, the presence of a relatively high proportion of presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors in the cerebellum contrasts with previous binding studies demonstrating a relatively low overall density of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors in this region. We hypothesize that presynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptors present on nerve terminals regulate the
10334480: !synaptophysin In vitro synaptotrophic effects of Cerebrolysin in NT2N cells. Recent studies have shown that Cerebrolysin can enhance synaptic function and ameliorate synaptodendritic alterations in animal models of neurodegeneration, suggesting a synaptotrophic effect. We hypothesize that Cerebrolysin might exert this effect, in part, by regulating the expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP). We studied the patterns of expression of synaptic proteins during differentiation of human teratocarcinoma cell line NTera 2 (NT2) in the presence or absence of Cerebrolysin. This study showed that the terminally differentiated neurons (NT2N) expressed a wide variety of synaptic markers and that expression of these synaptic-associated proteins coincided with the shift in expression from APP770/751 to APP695. Furthermore, APP immunoreactivity was colocalized with synaptophysin-immunoreactive neuritic varicosities in NT2N neurites, and Cerebrolysin treatment of NT2N cells resulted in an augmented and earlier expression of synaptic-associated proteins. This increased synaptic protein expression coincided with an increase in APP695 over APP770/751. These results support the possibility that synaptotrophic effects of Cerebrolysin might be mediated via regulation of APP expression.
10331433: !synaptophysin 5'-Nucleotidase activity indicates sites of synaptic plasticity and reactive synaptogenesis in the human brain. The localization and morphological assessment of plastic or newly formed synapses in the human brain remains difficult due to the lack of specific markers. The ectoenzyme 5'-nucleotidase may represent a useful marker of these structures, since in adult rodents synaptic 5'-nucleotidase activity is restricted to sites of spontaneous synaptic turnover and induced reactive synaptogenesis. However, it is unclear to what extent synaptic 5'-nucleotidase activity occurs in the normal human brain, and whether reactive synaptogenesis, as seen e.g. in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), is associated with this ectoenzyme. Therefore, we have investigated the histochemical distribution of 5'-nucleotidase in hippocampal control specimens (n = 3) and in the hippocampus of TLE patients (n = 13). In controls, 5'-nucleotidase activity was present in the dentate gyrus molecular layer (DG-ML) and the mossy fiber termination field within the CA4 and CA3 subfields. Compared with controls, TLE specimens revealed markedly increased 5'-nucleotidase labeling in the DG-ML, implying TLE-associated reactive synaptogenesis in this hippocampal region. In contrast to GAP-43, synaptophysin, and dynorphin A, synaptic 5'-nucleotidase activity may serve as a potential specific indicator of plastic synapses or newly formed terminals in the human brain and prove useful for the study of diseases involving aberrant sprouting or altered synaptic plasticity.
10330401: !synaptophysin PKCepsilon, via its regulatory domain and independently of its catalytic domain, induces neurite-like processes in neuroblastoma cells. To investigate the role of protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms in regulation of neurite outgrowth, PKCalpha, betaII, delta, and epsilon fused to enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) were transiently overexpressed in neuroblastoma cells. Overexpression of PKCepsilon-EGFP induced cell processes whereas the other isoforms did not. The effect of PKCepsilon-EGFP was not suppressed by the PKC inhibitor GF109203X. Instead, process formation was more pronounced when the regulatory domain was introduced. Overexpression of various fragments from PKCepsilon regulatory domain revealed that a region encompassing the pseudosubstrate, the two C1 domains, and parts of the V3 region were necessary and sufficient for induction of processes. By deleting the second C1 domain from this construct, a dominant-negative protein was generated which suppressed processes induced by full-length PKCepsilon and neurites induced during retinoic acid- and growth factor-induced differentiation. As with neurites in differentiated neuroblastoma cells, processes induced by the PKCepsilon- PSC1V3 protein contained alpha-tubulin, neurofilament-160, and F-actin, but the PKCepsilon-PSC1V3-induced processes lacked the synaptic markers synaptophysin and neuropeptide Y. These data suggest that PKCepsilon, through its regulatory domain, can induce immature neurite-like processes via a mechanism that appears to be of importance for neurite outgrowth during neuronal differentiation.
10328091: !synaptophysin Malignant melanoma showing ganglioneuroblastic differentiation: report of a unique case. We report a case of metastatic malignant melanoma in an inguinal lymph node, expressing ganglioneuroblastic differentiation. This was characterized by the presence of discrete nests and islands of large ganglion cells with abundant cytoplasm and eccentric nuclei with prominent nucleoli admixed with smaller primitive neuroblasts. The cells were separated by pale pink fibrillar material representing neuritic cell processes. These foci of ganglioneuroblastoma were seen over a background of an otherwise typical metastatic epithelioid, focally melanotic, malignant melanoma. Immunohistochemistry showed positivity for neurofilament, synaptophysin, chromogranin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, and glial fibrillary acidic protein in the areas with ganglioneuroblastic differentiation, but not in the melanocytic component. Conversely, HMB45 positivity was expressed by the melanocytic cells only. S-100 protein and Melan-A, a putative melanocytic marker, showed positivity in both melanocytic and ganglioneuroblastic components. Ultrastructurally, neuritic cell processes and dense core neurosecretory granules were identified in the ganglionic and neuroblastic cells. A subsequent nodal metastasis in the same region showed focal neuroblastic differentiation without the ganglionic element. No evidence of neuronal or ganglionic differentiation was seen in the primary skin melanoma.
10328080: !synaptophysin A distinctive glioneuronal tumor of the adult cerebrum with neuropil-like (including "rosetted") islands: report of 4 cases. Four examples of a novel glioneuronal neoplasm are presented. All tumors affected adults (including two males and two females aged 25-40 years) as supratentorial, cerebral hemispheric masses with associated seizure activity and, in one case, symptoms of raised intracranial pressure and progressive hemiparesis. CT scans in two cases revealed hypodense masses without calcification. MRI scans at presentation demonstrated, in all cases, solid T1-hypointense and T2-hyperintense tumors with mass effect in one instance but no edema or contrast enhancement. Only one was relatively circumscribed on neuroradiologic study. All were infiltrative in their histologic growth pattern and predominantly glial in appearance, being composed mainly of fibrillary, gemistocytic, or protoplasmic astroglial elements of WHO grade II to III. Their distinguishing feature was their content of sharply delimited, neuropil-like islands of intense synaptophysin reactivity inhabited and rimmed in rosetted fashion by cells demonstrating strong nuclear immunolabeling for the neuronal antigens NeuN and Hu. These cells included small, oligodendrocyte-like ("neurocytic") elements as well as larger, more pleomorphic forms. Two cases contained, in addition, well-differentiated neurons of medium to ganglion-cell size. Proliferative activity was observed principally within the glial compartment; two cases contained mitotic figures and exhibited relatively elevated MIB-1 indices (6.8% and 8.2%). One of the latter progressed and proved fatal at 30 months following subtotal resection and radiotherapy. The three other patients are alive at intervals of 14 to 83 months, two tumor-free and one with extensive disease associated with the appearance of enhancement on MRI. This glioneuronal tumor variant may pursue an unfavorable clinical course.
10327170: !synaptophysin Differential neurotrophic effects of apolipoprotein E in aged transgenic mice. The present study seeked to determine whether the neurodegenerative and cognitive alterations in aged apolipoprotein E-deficient mice are differentially reversed by transgenic overexpression of human apolipoprotein-E3 vs. apolipoprotein-E4 in the background of deficient endogenous apolipoprotein E. These studies showed dendritic alterations in pyramidal neurons of apolipoprotein-E4 transgenic mice, similar to the ones observed in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. However, these mice had a preserved density of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals. In contrast, mice overexpressing apolipoprotein-E3 showed no synapto-dendritic alterations. Analysis of behavioral performance in the Morris water maze showed that while apolipoprotein E-deficient mice performed poorly, overexpression of apolipoprotein-E3 and, to a lower extent apolipoprotein-E4, resulted in an improved performance. This study supports the contention that, compared with apolipoprotein-E4, apolipoprotein-E3 might have a greater neurotrophic in vivo effect in aged mice.
10320744: !synaptophysin Increase in apoptosis and concomitant reduction of ischemic lesion volume and evidence for synaptogenesis after transient focal cerebral ischemia in rat treated with staurosporine. We sought to determine whether induction of apoptosis alters an ischemic lesion. Rats were subjected to 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) and treated with staurosporine (n=8) or vehicle (n=4). Our data demonstrate that at 22 h after MCAo, staurosporine triggered a significant increase in apoptosis, a reduction of lesion volume and an increase of synaptophysin immunoreactivity, as compared to the control group.
10320710: !synaptophysin Establishment and characterization of a human neuroectodermal cell line (TB) from a cerebrospinal fluid specimen. We have established a cell line (TB) from a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimen of a patient with a primary leptomeningeal melanomatosis. TB cell line was immunoreactive with the antibodies for low molecular weight neurofilament protein, vimentin, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin and HMB-45 (an antibody sensitive and specific for melanoma). When TB cells were transplanted into nude mice, the same immunohistochemical pattern present in cultured cells was found but surprisingly, a positive staining for desmin was observed. Significant amounts of serotonin and its metabolite were detectable. Retinoic acid but not nerve growth factor was able to induce differentiation towards a neuronal phenotype. In summary, TB cells represent primitive neuroectodermal cells having the potential for neuronal, myoblastic and possibly melanoblastic differentiation.
10320149: !synaptophysin Malignant supratentorial ganglioglioma (ganglion cell-giant cell glioblastoma): a case report and review of the literature. From both epidemiologic and pathologic viewpoints, gangliogliomas exhibiting components of giant cell glioblastomas are extraordinary neoplasms. We report herein the case of a 6-year-old girl who presented initially with a World Health Organization grade IV anaplastic ganglioglioma (a mixed ganglion cell tumor-giant cell glioblastoma). Despite aggressive management, the patient died of disease in a relatively short period.
10234022: !synaptophysin Change in the shape of dendritic spines caused by overexpression of drebrin in cultured cortical neurons. Dendritic spines are known to be extremely motile, providing a structural mechanism for synaptic plasticity. Actin filaments are thought to be responsible for the changes in the shape of spines. We tested our hypothesis that drebrin, an actin-binding protein, is a regulator of spine shape. In high-density long-term primary cultures of rat cerebral cortex neurons, drebrin was colocalized with actin filaments at spines. We introduced drebrin tagged with green fluorescent protein (GFP) into these neurons to test the ability of exogenous drebrin to localize at spines and the effect of overexpression of drebrin on spine shape. We observed that exogenous drebrin indeed accumulated in spines. But when the actin-binding domain of drebrin was deleted, the protein was distributed in both spines and dendritic shafts, indicating that accumulation of drebrin in the spines required its actin-binding activity. Statistical analysis of the lengths of spines as determined from confocal laser microscopic images revealed that the spines were significantly longer in GFP-drebrin-expressing neurons than in GFP-expressing neurons. The longer spines labeled with GFP-drebrin were demonstrated to be postsynaptic by double labeling of the presynaptic terminals with antibody against synaptophysin. These results directly indicate that drebrin binds to actin filaments at dendritic spines and alters spine shape.
10231726: !synaptophysin Melatonin affects the metabolism of the beta-amyloid precursor protein in different cell types. Melatonin is released in mammals during the dark phase of the circadian cycle, and its production declines with age in animals and humans. Since supplemental administration of melatonin may be beneficial in delaying age-related degenerative conditions, it is necessary to study its effect on neuronal differentiation and the processing of key neuronal proteins, such as beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP) and synaptophysin. One of the important pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the cerebrovascular deposition of amyloid plaques. The amyloid in senile plaques is mainly composed of the amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) of 39-43 amino acids derived from a larger beta APP. The proteolytic cleavage by 'alpha-secretase' generate soluble derivatives of beta APP (sAPP), lacking the cytoplasmic tail, transmembrane domain, and a small portion of the extracellular domain. Here levels of sAPP and beta APP were analyzed in cell lines of different origins by Western immunoblot of samples from conditioned media and cell lysates, respectively. Normal levels of secretion of sAPP into conditioned media were severely inhibited by treating different cell lines with a high dose of melatonin. In PC12 cells, levels of the fully matured beta APP forms of the post-Golgi compartment were more drastically decreased than the unglycosylated beta APP of the endoplasmic-reticulum (ER) forms. In other cell types, the unglycosylated ER-bound beta APP derivatives are predominant forms that were marginally affected by melatonin treatment. When the treatment of cells with melatonin was withdrawn, the normal level of secretion of sAPP was restored. Melatonin reduces the secretion of soluble A beta. Melatonin also inhibits the secretion of synaptophysin in PC12 cells. Taken together, these data suggest that melatonin probably affects the secretion of sAPP in the conditioned medium by interfering with its full maturation, and melatonin also affects the presysnaptic terminal marker.
10231402: !synaptophysin Histological heterogeneity of dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumour: identification and differential diagnosis in a series of 74 cases. In a retrospective study of resected specimens from 416 patients being treated for long-standing epilepsy, 74 cases of dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumour (DNT) were encountered that were all characteristically composed of small round oligodendroglia-like cells (OLC), astrocytes and mature neurones in varying proportions. The architectural patterns, histological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features and results of cell proliferation studies and postoperative follow-up are described to facilitate the identification of DNT and to differentiate it from other intrinsic neoplasms that commonly present with seizures.
10230707: !synaptophysin Are neuronal markers and neocortical graft-host interface influenced by housing conditions in rats with cortical infarct cavity? The aim was to study if exposure to an enriched environment influenced graft-host interface and neuronal markers in neocortical grafts implanted in cortical infarct cavities 3 weeks after distal ligation of the middle cerebral artery in adult hypertensive rats. Half the rats were exposed to an enriched environment for 2 h daily 5 days a week starting 1 week after the arterial ligation. The brain was fixed by perfusion 4 weeks postgrafting. The immunoreactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein, microtubule associated protein 2, and synaptophysin was studied in coronal paraffin-embedded sections. A distinct glial border separated the infarct cavity from the surrounding brain in sham-transplanted rats. Most grafts filled the larger part of the infarct cavity. In 8 of 18 transplants, 4 in each experimental group, part of the transplants protruded through the thin glial membrane that delineated the transplant-host interface into the adjacent host brain tissue. Microtubule associated protein 2 immunostained sections indicated bridging of dendrites in the host-transplant interface. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was significantly higher in grafts than in contralateral cortex. However, graft morphology and neuronal marker immunoreactivity did not differ between rats housed in standard and activity stimulating cages.
10221001: !synaptophysin [Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumor (GANT) associated with Von Recklinghausen's disease]. Here we describe a case of gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumor (GANT) arosen in a patient with von Recklinghausen's disease. To the best of our knowledge, only four other similar cases have been previously reported in the literature. Histologically, the tumour was composed of spindle shaped cells arranged in short bundles. The neoplastic cells had pleomorphic nuclei and numerous mitoses. Immunohistochemical investigation displayed evidence of neural differentiation. Neoplastic cells were diffusely anti-synaptophysin, anti-neuron specific enolase and anti-vimentin positive. The clinicopathological features of the present case are described and discussed together with those of the other previously reported cases.
10219973: !synaptophysin Mechanisms contributing to the deficits in hippocampal synaptic plasticity in mice lacking amyloid precursor protein. Abnormal processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP), in particular the generation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. This study examined the consequences of deleting the APP gene on hippocampal synaptic plasticity, and upon the biophysical properties of morphologically identified neurones in APP-null mice. The hippocampus of APP-null mice had a characteristic increase in gliosis throughout the CA1 region and a disruption of staining for the dendritic marker MAP2 and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin. The disruption of MAP2 staining was associated with a significant reduction in overall dendritic length and projection depth of biocytin labeled CA1 neurones. In two groups of APP-null mice that were examined at 8-12 months, and 20-24 months of age, there was an impairment in the formation of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region compared to isogenic age matched controls. This LTP deficit was not associated with an alteration in the amplitude of EPSPs at low stimulus frequencies (0.033 Hz) or facilitation during a 100 Hz stimulus train, but was associated with a reduction in post-tetanic potentiation. Paired-pulse depression of GABA-mediated inhibitory post-synaptic currents was also attenuated in APP-null mice. These data demonstrate that the impaired synaptic plasticity in APP deficient mice is associated with abnormal neuronal morphology and synaptic function within the hippocampus.
10219424: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin staining for ganglioglioma. 
10218635: !synaptophysin Choroid plexus epithelium (normal and neoplastic) expresses synaptophysin. A potentially useful aid in differentiating carcinoma of the choroid plexus from metastatic papillary carcinomas. As an incidental finding in paraffin sections of brain tissue used as positive controls for synaptophysin immunostain, the cytoplasm of choroid plexus epithelium present was found to stain strongly positively for this substance. This was subsequently found to be the case in normal choroid plexuses in autopsy material from infancy to old age, as well as in epithelial cells of papillomas and carcinomas of the choroid plexus. The latter findings may prove useful in differentiating choroid plexus carcinomas from metastatic papillary carcinomas of extracerebral origin with the exception of neuroendocrine carcinomas of various sites that are usually positive for synaptophysin.
10218199: !synaptophysin [Immunohistochemical characterisation of surgically excised choroidal neovascularisation in age-related macular degeneration]. The objective of the study was to gather further information about the pathogenesis of choroidal neovascularisations (CNV), which is still not clearly understood, and to establish criteria for making decisions on a appropriate therapy. Immunohistochemical characteristation should allow a more comprehensive evaluation of cellular components of the membranes and their functional role.
10213094: !synaptophysin Compartmental organization of the olfactory bulb glomerulus. Olfactory receptor cell (ORC) axons terminate in the olfactory bulb glomerular neuropil, where they synapse with dendrites of mitral, tufted, and periglomerular neurons. We investigated the organization of the glomerular neuropil by using antibodies to both single- and double-label constituents for analyses with confocal microscopy. Electron microscopy (EM) was employed to assess the distribution of synaptic appositions within the glomerulus. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were processed for immunocytochemistry with olfactory marker protein (OMP), synaptophysin, synapsin 1, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and/or microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). Equivalent rats were processed for transmission EM. Double labeling for OMP and MAP2 revealed two distinctive subcompartments within glomeruli: an axonal compartment containing predominately primary afferent axons with individual dendritic inserts and a complementary dendritic compartment that excluded primary afferent axons. Areas not occupied by OMP or MAP2 immunoreactivity were either immunoreactive for GFAP, indicating a glial process, or were blood vessels. Synaptophysin and synapsin 1 also showed differential labeling within the glomerulus. Synaptophysin strongly colocalized with OMP, whereas synapsin 1 was associated most strongly with MAP2. Reconstructions of glomeruli from EM montages revealed interdigitating axonal and dendritic subcompartments. The axonal subcompartments were composed primarily of ORC processes with individual or small groups of dendrites interspersed. Dendritic subcompartments were composed predominately of dendritic processes. Primary afferent axodendritic and local-circuit dendrodendritic synapses segregated within the glomerulus into the axonal and dendritic subcompartments, respectively. The results support the hypothesis of subcompartmental organization within olfactory bulb glomeruli.
10212486: !synaptophysin The frog neuromuscular junction revisited after quick-freezing-freeze-drying: ultrastructure, immunogold labelling and high resolution calcium mapping. Until now, most ultrastructural studies on the neuromuscular junction have been carried out on samples first exposed to chemical treatments--with fixatives and/or dehydration agents--that are known to induce, or to be inadequate to prevent, artefactual changes of the native state. We report here on the potential of a physical approach to the preparation of samples that combines quick-freezing and freeze-drying (with or without exposure to OsO4 vapours) followed by direct embedding of the samples in various resins. Thin sections from physically processed frog neuromuscular junctions, when compared to their chemically fixed counterparts, exhibit an overall excellent preservation, with the organelles retaining their native density and shape. These preparations were also investigated by electron spectroscopic imaging and electron energy loss spectroscopy, obtaining high resolution maps of native total calcium distribution within the nerve terminal. Finally, thin sections from analogously processed, however unfixed, preparations embedded in Lowicryl, were immunogold labelled before exposure to OsO4. Nerve-muscle preparations treated this way exhibited adequate preservation of ultrastructure and revealed the distribution of synaptophysin with high sensitivity and resolution. In conclusion, we provide an overview of the potential of the quick-freezing-freeze-drying approach in the study of the neuromuscular junction function.
10208464: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and clonal analysis of minute pulmonary meningothelial-like nodules. The histogenesis of meningothelial-like nodule or so-called minute pulmonary chemodectoma remains unclear, with various immunohistochemical analyses giving inconsistent results. We performed an immunohistochemical and clonal analysis of minute pulmonary meningothelial-like nodules. Thirty-one histologically defined meningothelial-like nodules in 14 cases were stained immunohistochemically. One case had multiple lesions with brown pigment granules, which were positively stained with Berlin blue method, indicating the presence of hemosiderin. All meningothelial-like nodules were positive for vimentin and epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), but not for S-100 protein, chromogranin A, or synaptophysin. Five of 13 cases (13 of 28 lesions) were positive for CD68 by KP-1. Ten cases (24 lesions) stained for CD68 by PG-M1 were weakly positive. All lesions were negative for lysozyme, myosin, actin, keratin, and melanoma-associated antigen. Alveolar macrophages were intensely positive for CD68 and lysozyme in all examined cases. We analyzed the clonality of 11 minute pulmonary meningothelial-like nodule lesions in two female cases based on an X-chromosome-linked polymorphic marker, the human androgen receptor gene (HUMARA). The HUMARA was found to be amplified with or without prior digestion by the methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease HpaII. Six of 11 lesions showed monoclonal expansion. Five lesions in a multiple case showed different patterns of monoclonality. Our findings showed that minute pulmonary meningothelial-like nodules have meningothelial-like and phagocytic characteristics but no muscular phenotype. Furthermore, some minute pulmonary meningothelial-like nodules may show monoclonal expansion, whereas others are polyclonal. Our data indicate that minute pulmonary meningothelial-like nodules are reactive rather than neoplastic.
10208257: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical examination of an orbital alveolar soft part sarcoma. A 32 year-old male patient had a 6-week history of left-sided proptosis. Computer tomography revealed a 16x15x15 mm smooth and well-defined mass between the optic nerve and the medial and superior rectus muscles in the left orbit.
10205022: !synaptophysin Adult-generated neurons in the dentate gyrus send axonal projections to field CA3 and are surrounded by synaptic vesicles. The subgranule zone of the dentate gyrus in rats has been shown to be proliferative into adulthood and senescence. However, the connectivity of newly generated, identified neurons in the adult has not been definitively described. In the present study, 9 weeks after a series of intraperitoneal injections of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU), animals received stereotaxic iontophoretic injections of Fluoro-Gold (FG) into field CA3. Three weeks after FG injections, sections were analyzed for BrdU immunoreactivity (proliferative label), FG retrograde label, and either calbindin-D28k or synaptophysin immunohistochemistry. A large proportion (up to 44%) of BrdU-labeled cells in the dentate gyrus within regions of FG retrograde label incorporated FG. All of the doubly labeled (BrdU-FG) neurons also immunolabeled with the antibody to calbindin-D28k. Many doubly labeled (BrdU-FG) cells were also surrounded in three planes by synaptophysin immunoreactivity. We conclude that newly generated neurons in the dentate gyrus have the correct immunohistochemical profile, send appropriate axonal projections to field CA3, and are surrounded by profiles containing synaptic vesicle proteins.
10197819: !synaptophysin Quantitative decrease in synaptophysin message expression and increase in cathepsin D message expression in Alzheimer disease neurons containing neurofibrillary tangles. Combining immunocytochemistry with in situ hybridization of Alzheimer disease (AD) hippocampus demonstrated a 50% reduction in grain density for synaptophysin message over CA1 pyramidal neurons containing neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) relative to near neighbor NFT-free neurons. This decrease was not global, but was selective since message grain density for the lysosomal protein, cathepsin D, increased 33% in these neurons (relative to NFT-free neurons). Poly A+ message grain density decreased by 25% in NFT neurons. Percent of the cell body containing NFT correlated -0.35 (p < 0.0001) with grain density for synaptophysin message. These data verify the concept of altered profiles of gene expression as a function of disease state within single cells and suggest that events associated with NFT formation may lead to altered expression of synaptic messages.
10196449: !synaptophysin Reduced synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus of prepulse inhibition-impaired isolation-reared rats. Isolation rearing of rat pups from weaning produces neurochemical and behavioural changes that may have relevance to the neurodevelopmental basis of neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. Although limited, studies have begun to probe for neuroanatomical changes produced by isolation rearing. In the present study, rat pups were reared in isolation, i.e., housed one per cage, from weaning. After 8 weeks of isolation, 'isolates' were compared to their socially reared controls (housed three per cage) in two behavioural paradigms: locomotor activity in a novel open field and prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response. Subsequently, all rats were sacrificed and their brains removed. The hippocampus was sectioned and analysed immunohistochemically using an antibody to the synapse-specific protein synaptophysin, to gain an estimate of the synaptic content of selected hippocampal subfields. Isolates demonstrated locomotor hyperactivity and deficits in PPI relative to socially reared controls. Analysis of synaptophysin immunoreactivity suggested that isolates had significantly reduced synaptic content in the hippocampal dentate gyrus molecular layer, with smaller, non-significant reductions in the CA1 and CA3 regions. This pattern of change may be consistent with reduced neuronal input to the dentate gyrus via the entorhinal cortex, suggesting developmental changes in hippocampal-cortical circuitry. These preliminary studies extend the characterisation of isolation rearing as a model for the investigation of neurodevelopmental diseases such as schizophrenia.
10196445: !synaptophysin Transient increase of synapsin-I immunoreactivity in the mossy fiber layer of the hippocampus after transient forebrain ischemia in the mongolian gerbil. Synapsin-I is a vesicular phosphoprotein, which regulates neurotransmitter release, neurite development, and maturation of synaptic contacts during normal development and following various brain lesions in adulthood. In the present study, we have examined by immunohistochemistry possible modifications in the expression of synapsin-I in the hippocampus of Mongolian gerbils after transient forebrain ischemia. The animals were subjected to 5 min of transient forebrain ischemia through bilateral common carotid occlusion, and were examined at different time-points post-ischemia. Transient forebrain ischemia produces cell death of the majority of CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and polymorphic hilar neurons of the dentate gyrus. This is followed by reactive changes, including synaptic reorganization and modifications in the expression of synaptic proteins, which provide the molecular bases of synaptic plasticity. Transient decrease of synapsin-I immunoreactivity was observed in the inner zone of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, thus suggesting denervation and posterior reinervation in this area. In addition, a strong increase in synapsin-I immunoreactivity was observed in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and in the mossy fiber layer of the hippocampus at 2, 4 and 7 days after ischemia. Parallel increases in synaptophysin immunoreactivity were not observed, thus suggesting a selective induction of synapsin-I after ischemia. The present results indicate that synapsin-I participates in the reactive response of granule cells to transient forebrain ischemia in the hippocampus of the gerbil, and suggest a role for this protein in the plastic adaptations of the hippocampus following injury.
10193326: !synaptophysin Schwannoma with features mimicking neuroblastoma: report of two cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural findings. A study of two cases of a rare variant of benign schwannoma showing areas mimicking neuroblastoma/peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumour (PNET).
10192220: !synaptophysin Hippocampal neuron and synaptophysin-positive bouton number in aging C57BL/6 mice. A loss of hippocampal neurons and synapses had been considered a hallmark of normal aging and, furthermore, to be a substrate of age-related learning and memory deficits. Recent stereological studies in humans have shown that only a relatively minor neuron loss occurs with aging and that this loss is restricted to specific brain regions, including hippocampal subregions. Here, we investigate these age-related changes in C57BL/6J mice, one of the most commonly used laboratory mouse strains. Twenty-five mice (groups at 2, 14, and 28-31 months of age) were assessed for Morris water-maze performance, and modern stereological techniques were used to estimate total neuron and synaptophysin-positive bouton number in hippocampal subregions at the light microscopic level. Results revealed that performance in the water maze was largely maintained with aging. No age-related decline was observed in number of dentate gyrus granule cells or CA1 pyramidal cells. In addition, no age-related change in number of synaptophysin-positive boutons was observed in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus or CA1 region of hippocampus. We observed a significant correlation between dentate gyrus synaptophysin-positive bouton number and water-maze performance. These results demonstrate that C57BL/6J mice do not exhibit major age-related deficits in spatial learning or hippocampal structure, providing a baseline for further study of mouse brain aging.
10190159: !synaptophysin [Intracranial primitive neuroectodermal tumor in an infant: a case report]. A 2-month-old girl with a supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET), which extended into the skull, is herein presented. The patient underwent total removal of the tumor and also received a course of postoperative chemotherapy. After a follow-up period of 12 months, the infant is alive without recurrence. Histologically, the tumor was composed of poorly differentiated neuroectodermal cells, and these neoplastic cells showed a mild immunohistochemical reaction for GFAP and synaptophysin, and a moderate reactivity for neuron specific enolase and vimentin. In addition, a moderate level of immunoreactivity for HBA71 antigen (p30/32M1C2), which is the product of the M1C2 gene and is found in peripheral PNETs but not in central PNETs, was noted in many neoplastic cells. Although this tumor was located intracranially, it may be classified as a peripheral PNET.
10188929: !synaptophysin Age-related cognitive deficits, impaired long-term potentiation and reduction in synaptic marker density in mice lacking the beta-amyloid precursor protein. Mutations in the beta-amyloid precursor protein are strongly associated with some cases of familial Alzheimer's disease. The normal physiological role of beta-amyloid precursor protein in the brain was evaluated in a cross-sectional analysis of mice deficient in beta-amyloid precursor protein. Compared with wild-type control mice the beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice developed age-dependent deficits in cognitive function and also had impairments in long-term potentiation. In addition, the brains of the beta-amyloid precursor protein-null mice had marked reactive gliosis in many areas, especially in the cortex and hippocampus. A subpopulation of mice (n = 15) died prematurely (between three and 18 months of age). Analysis of another six mice from the same population that were showing weight loss and hypolocomotor activity exhibited a marked reactive gliosis as detected by immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein and a profound loss of immunoreactivities for the presynaptic terminal vesicle marker proteins synaptophysin and synapsin and the dendritic marker microtubule-associated protein-2 in many brain areas, but most predominantly in the cortex and hippocampus. These results suggest that normal beta-amyloid precursor protein may serve an essential role in the maintenance of synaptic function during ageing. A compromise of this function of the beta-amyloid precursor protein may contribute to the progression of the memory decline and the neurodegenerative changes seen in Alzheimer's disease.
10103130: !synaptophysin Unexpected localization of the Na+/Cl--dependent-like orphan transporter, Rxt1, on synaptic vesicles in the rat central nervous system. Numerous features of its primary structure demonstrate that the orphan transporter Rxt1 belongs to the Na+/Cl--dependent neurotransmitter plasma membrane transporter superfamily, which includes the dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporters. Initial immunocytochemical investigations with affinity-purified antibodies have established that Rxt1 is localized, almost exclusively, in axon terminals of glutamatergic neurons and subsets of GABAergic neurons in the CNS. Further studies were carried out to determine its subcellular distribution. In a first series of experiments, PC-12 cells were transfected with plasmids encoding either the dopamine transporter or Rxt1. Immunofluorescence experiments showed that the dopamine transporter was expressed in these cells, and, as expected, addressed to their plasma membrane. Surprisingly, this was never the case with Rxt1, which was targeted to the same subcellular compartment as synaptophysin, a vesicular protein. In a second set of experiments, subcellular fractionation of rat striatum showed that Rxt1, but not the dopamine transporter, was relatively abundant in the purified synaptic vesicle fraction. Finally, electron microscopic immunocytochemistry with anti-Rxt1 antibodies showed peroxidase as well as pre- and post-embedding immunogold labelling confined to the intracellular compartment in various brain regions. Moreover, quantitative analysis of post-embedding experiments demonstrated that the immunogold particles corresponding to Rxt1 immunoreactivity were mostly localized to small synaptic vesicles. These data indicate that, in contrast with the other members of the Na+/Cl--dependent neurotransmitter transporter superfamily, which are targeted to the plasma membrane, Rxt1 is distributed as a vesicular protein in the CNS.
10103074: !synaptophysin SNARE complex at the ribbon synapses of cochlear hair cells: analysis of synaptic vesicle- and synaptic membrane-associated proteins. Neurotransmitters are released via exocytosis of synaptic vesicles involving a fusion complex consisting of a set of highly conserved proteins, which form a multiprotein complex resulting in the docking of synaptic vesicles at the site of release. There are three major differences between cochlear hair cell synapses and CNS synapses: (i) hair cells have a specialized structure, the synaptic ribbon, to which synaptic vesicles are attached; (ii) hair cells can maintain high and sustained release of neurotransmitter; and (iii) hair cells lack synaptophysin and synapsin. These differences suggest that an unconventional mechanism of neurotransmitter release may be involved at ribbon synapses. In this study we used different and complementary approaches to determine whether or not ribbon-containing hair cells of the cochlea express any component of the core fusion complex found in conventional synapses. Syntaxin 1, the synaptic membrane synaptosome-associated protein (SNAP)-25 and vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP or synaptobrevin) were found to be present in the organ of Corti of both rat and guinea-pig, as shown by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry showed mRNA and protein expression, respectively, in both inner and outer hair cells. Synaptotagmins I and II, generally considered to play major roles in neurotransmitter release at central synapses, were not detected in the organ of Corti.
10097164: !synaptophysin A nerve growth factor mimetic TrkA antagonist causes withdrawal of cortical cholinergic boutons in the adult rat. Cholinergic neurons respond to the administration of nerve growth factor (NGF) in vivo with a prominent and selective increase of choline acetyl transferase activity. This suggests the possible involvement of endogenous NGF, acting through its receptor TrkA, in the maintenance of central nervous system cholinergic synapses in the adult rat brain. To test this hypothesis, a small peptide, C(92-96), that blocks NGF-TrkA interactions was delivered stereotactically into the rat cortex over a 2-week period, and its effect and potency were compared with those of an anti-NGF monoclonal antibody (mAb NGF30). Two presynaptic antigenic sites were studied by immunoreactivity, and the number of presynaptic sites was counted by using an image analysis system. Synaptophysin was used as a marker for overall cortical synapses, and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter was used as a marker for cortical cholinergic presynaptic sites. No significant variations in the number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive sites were observed. However, both mAb NGF30 and the TrkA antagonist C(92-96) provoked a significant decrease in the number and size of vesicular acetylcholine transporter-IR sites, with the losses being more marked in the C(92-96) treated rats. These observations support the notion that endogenously produced NGF acting through TrkA receptors is involved in the maintenance of the cholinergic phenotype in the normal, adult rat brain and supports the idea that NGF normally plays a role in the continual remodeling of neural circuits during adulthood. The development of neurotrophin mimetics with antagonistic and eventually agonist action may contribute to therapeutic strategies for central nervous system degeneration and trauma.
10091761: !synaptophysin Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma of the sinonasal tract. Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma (BSCC) is a high grade, aggressive variant of squamous cell carcinoma with a predilection for the larynx, hypopharynx, tonsils, and base of the tongue. To the authors' knowledge, BSCC originating in the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses rarely has been reported.
10089678: !synaptophysin [Central neurocytoma. Immunohistochemical study: MIB1, p53 and bcl-2. Report of 5 cases]. To further characterize central neurocytoma, a rare intraventricular tumour described in 1982, we analyzed six tumours by immunohistochemistry for MIB1, p53 and bcl-2. bcl-2, an inhibitor of p53-mediated apoptosis is frequently expressed in gliomas, especially in tumors with wild-type p53. Its expression in peripheral neuroblastomas suggests a down-regulation during final terminal differentiation. Six tumors from five patients (one female/four males, age ranged from 18 to 63 years) were examined. All patients were alive from 2 to 88 months after initial surgical resection. On histological sections, tumours demonstrated a typical pattern. Synaptophysin staining was seen in all cases. Proliferation index was low (< 4.5%). bcl-2 was never expressed. p53 expression varied but within low values (< 10% of cells). These latter antibodies were rarely analyzed until now in this usually benign neoplasm which represents a well differentiated variant of neuron derived tumors.
10089007: !synaptophysin Alterations in synaptic proteins and their encoding mRNAs in prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia: a possible neurochemical basis for 'hypofrontality'. An impairment of prefrontal cortical functioning in schizophrenia ('hypofrontality') has been suggested by clinical, neuroimaging, and postmortem brain tissue studies. We used Western immunoblot and Northern hybridization analyses of postmortem brain tissue obtained from 14 schizophrenic patients and 12 control patients of similar ages to measure tissue levels of synaptophysin (a structural synaptic vesicle protein) and of SNAP-25 (a 25-kDa presynaptic protein), and their encoding mRNAs, in Brodmann's area 10 of prefrontal cortex. There were significant decreases in tissue levels of both of these proteins in prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic patients relative to controls. In contrast, tissue levels for the mRNAs encoding these proteins were not decreased in schizophrenic patients. Subsequent labeling of the same Western immunoblots showed no difference in tissue levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in schizophrenic and control patients. Similarly, subsequent hybridization of the same Northern hybridization membranes showed no difference in tissue levels of GFAP mRNA or of 28S rRNA in schizophrenic and control patients. These alterations in tissue levels of synaptophysin and SNAP-25 are consistent with the idea that the clinically observed 'hypofrontality' of schizophrenia arises from abnormalities of synaptic number or structural integrity in prefrontal cortex.
10085365: !synaptophysin Estradiol increases spine density and NMDA-dependent Ca2+ transients in spines of CA1 pyramidal neurons from hippocampal slices. To investigate the physiological consequences of the increase in spine density induced by estradiol in pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, we performed simultaneous whole cell recordings and Ca2+ imaging in CA1 neuron spines and dendrites in hippocampal slices. Four- to eight-days in vitro slice cultures were exposed to 17beta-estradiol (EST) for an additional 4- to 8-day period, and spine density was assessed by confocal microscopy of DiI-labeled CA1 pyramidal neurons. Spine density was doubled in both apical and basal dendrites of the CA1 region in EST-treated slices; consistently, a reduction in cell input resistance was observed in EST-treated CA1 neurons. Double immunofluorescence staining of presynaptic (synaptophysin) and postsynaptic (alpha-subunit of CaMKII) proteins showed an increase in synaptic density after EST treatment. The slopes of the input/output curves of both alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) postsynaptic currents were steeper in EST-treated CA1 neurons, consistent with the observed increase in synapse density. To characterize NMDA-dependent synaptic currents and dendritic Ca2+ transients during Schaffer collaterals stimulation, neurons were maintained at +40 mV in the presence of nimodipine, picrotoxin, and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). No differences in resting spine or dendritic Ca2+ levels were observed between control and EST-treated CA1 neurons. Intracellular Ca2+ transients during afferent stimulation exhibited a faster slope and reached higher levels in spines than in adjacent dendrites. Peak Ca2+ levels were larger in both spines and dendrites of EST-treated CA1 neurons. Ca2+ gradients between spine heads and dendrites during afferent stimulation were also larger in EST-treated neurons. Both spine and dendritic Ca2+ transients during afferent stimulation were reversibly blocked by D, L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D,L-APV). The increase in spine density and the enhanced NMDA-dependent Ca2+ signals in spines and dendrites induced by EST may underlie a threshold reduction for induction of NMDA-dependent synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus.
10084605: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease: neuroendocrine properties of tumors associated with Carney complex. Carney complex (CNC) is characterized by lentiginosis and myxomatosis together with a variety of endocrine, neural crest-derived, and other tumors, including primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD). PPNAD is characterized by lipofuscin-containing, autonomously functioning, cortisol-producing nodules surrounded by mostly atrophic adrenocortical and normal adrenomedullary tissue. The nature and origin of the tumors, including the myxomas and PPNAD, are unclear. In this study, seven paraffin-embedded PPNAD tumors, one skin myxoma, and two cell lines (one myxoma and one PPNAD) established from patients with CNC were stained with antisera for synaptophysin (SYN), neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, tyrosine hydroxylase, and the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). In addition, one PPNAD specimen and one myxoma were analyzed by electron microscopy. The results showed that chromogranin A and tyrosine hydroxylase stained adrenomedullary tissue, but not the PPNAD nodules or the extranodular adrenal cortex. SYN, neuron-specific enolase, and NCAM also stained the medulla. PPNAD nodules and the PPNAD cell line, but not the extranodular adrenal cortex, stained intensely for SYN. The myxoma cell line, but not normal fibroblasts, stained for SYN and NCAM. Ultrastructural analysis of a PPNAD tumor and a skin myxoma revealed a well developed rough endoplasmic reticulum, prominent mitochondria, and vesicle-like structures dispersed throughout the cytoplasm. We conclude that immunostaining for SYN, a marker protein for neuroendocrine cells, clearly distinguishes PPNAD nodules from surrounding adrenocortical tissue and can be helpful in the detection of small nodules in apparently unaffected cortex. The cells of a cutaneous myxoma were also stained positive by two of the three neuroendocrine markers. Finally, both PPNAD and myxoma cells demonstrated ultrastructural features suggestive of neuroendocrine properties. These results support the previously suggested hypothesis that the genetic mechanism leading to CNC involves genes with a neuroendocrine role.
10082252: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunocytochemistry with thermal intensification: a marker of terminal axonal maturation in the human fetal nervous system. Synaptophysin is a protein of synaptic vesicles and may be demonstrated in tissue sections of human brain and spinal cord by immunocytochemistry using a monoclonal antibody. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was studied in paraffin-embedded sections of the central nervous system (CNS) in 14 normal human fetuses and neonates ranging in age from 8 to 41 weeks gestation, and in three brains with heterotopic neurons or malformations. A progressive expression of synaptophysin is seen in axonal terminals within grey matter in various parts of the CNS, beginning in the ventral horns of the spinal cord and brainstem tegmentum at 12-14 weeks. In the cerebellum, the molecular layer shows a band of reactivity from 18 weeks; by term two parallel bands of synaptophysin are seen in the molecular layer and reactivity also is demonstrated in the Purkinje and internal granular layers. In the cerebral neocortex, the molecular zone has weak synaptophysin reactivity as early as 10 weeks, though reactivity is not detected in the deep layers of the cortical plate until 19 weeks and in layers 2-4 until 25 weeks gestation. Synaptophysin reactivity is strong at the surface of neurons but not detected in their somatic cytoplasm; coarsely beaded reactivity within the neuropil probably corresponds to synaptic vesicles in terminal axons. Similar granular synaptophysin reactivity is seen around heterotopic neurons in the subcortical white matter, in dysgenesis of the cerebellar cortex and in the residual anencephalic forebrain. Thermal intensification by heating the incubating solution in a microwave oven often enhances immunoreactivity because of more complete antigen retrieval and is recommended for tissue stored in formalin or in paraffin for long periods. Synaptophysin provides a useful tissue marker of synaptogenesis during normal development and in cerebral dysgeneses, and may provide useful correlations with functional imaging of the brain in living patients. Used in conjunction with other neuronal markers, the expression of synaptophysin in terminal axons of distant neurons, in temporal relation to the maturation of the neurons they innervate, may provide clues to the pathogenesis of epilepsy in early infancy.
10079028: !synaptophysin Apoptosis in the adrenal gland of non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice. Apoptosis appears to play an important role in the development of diabetes in the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse. Since the autoimmune process leading to the manifestation of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) can also affect the sympathochromaffin system, we analyzed the role of apoptosis and infiltration of the adrenal medulla as features of this autoimmune process in parallel with the development of diabetes. Prediabetic and diabetic NOD mice aged 3 to 30 weeks were studied and compared with control mice. Apoptosis was assessed by in situ end-labeling method and ultrastructural analysis. Adrenals were screened for lymphocytic infiltration by conventional hematoxylin-eosin staining. Chromaffin cells were characterized by immunohistochemical staining against synaptophysin and tyrosine hydroxylase. Apoptotic nuclei were detected in all mice studied at a very low level, mainly occuring within the connective tissue between medulla and cortex. The maximum score was achieved at 3 weeks (1.91+/-0.48 apoptotic cells/1000 counted cells; n = 4). There was no significant difference between NOD mice and control mice. No correlation could be found between blood glucose levels and apoptosis. On the ultrastructural level, apoptotic cells presented typical features of apoptosis, i.e. condensed nuclei and cytoplasm. Neither in NOD mice nor in controls lymphocytic infiltration or fibrosis of the adrenal was detected. Even NOD mice with overt diabetes did not exhibit morphological signs of medullitis. In summary, no signs of immune destruction of the adrenal medulla in NOD mice aged 3 to 30 weeks could be detected.
10078811: !synaptophysin Quantitative analysis of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in human neocortex after cardiac arrest: confocal laser scanning microscopy study. Transient global ischaemia caused by cardiac arrest results in lesions that involve all brain structures. The aim of this study was to investigate the condition of synapses in patients surviving, but remaining in a persistent vegetative state, following resuscitation after cardiac arrest. We performed a quantitative analysis of the distribution and density of elements containing a synaptic vesicle protein--synaptophysin (p38)--in human neocortex in cases which survived for 1 week, 2 months, and 1 year after the cardiac arrest. Neurologically healthy cases that died following an accident served as control. Dual-channel confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) was used to image p38-immunoreactivity (IR) and lipofuscin autofluorescence. In control cases no statistically significant differences were found for p38-IR between layers II-III and V-VII. However, the temporal cortex had a higher density of p38-immunoreactive structures than the motor cortex. In postischaemic cases a reduction in the density of p38-IR elements was apparent, mainly in the frontal and motor cortices and less pronounced in the temporal cortex. The least decrease compared with controls was observed in the visual cortex. In the 1 week survival case, a maximal decrease in p38-IR (35% below control) was found. In this case, the number of p38-IR elements per visual field was decreased, and big aggregates of p38-IR structures were observed. In general, the amounts of p38-IR structures were higher in all of the control cases compared with the postischaemic cases.
10071707: !synaptophysin Cell biology of the hippocampal formation in schizophrenia. The hippocampal formation (HF) has been a centerpiece of neuropathologic investigations of schizophrenia. Numerous MRI studies have demonstrated a slight bilateral reduction in HF volume. Reports of reduced N-acetyl aspartate measured with in vivo proton spectroscopy suggest that neuronal pathology exists. However, morphometric data from postmortem studies have not revealed a clear change in HF size, and recent studies of neuronal number and of cytoarchitecture have been largely negative. Evidence of glial proliferation is consistently absent. The most reproducible positive anatomic finding in postmortem HF has been reduced size of neuronal cell bodies. Studies of gene transcription have provided replicable evidence of decreased expression of mRNAs for synaptophysin, GAP-43, cholecystokinin, and non-NMDA glutamate receptor subunits (GLU R 1 and 2), particularly in CA 3-4. These data about the cellular and molecular biology of the HF in schizophrenia are different from that found in a number of conditions associated with hippocampal damage, including excitotoxicity, epilepsy, alcoholism, Alzheimer's disease, steroid neurotoxicity, and normal aging. Notwithstanding the real possibility that the data are epiphenomena of chronic illness, the findings may implicate a unique cellular defect in schizophrenia--a genetic variation affecting the plasticity of HF circuitry and connectivity. Directions for further research are proposed.
10066245: !synaptophysin The synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex: a hallmark of synaptic vesicle maturation. Exocytosis of synaptic vesicles requires the formation of a fusion complex consisting of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptobrevin (vesicle-associated membrane protein, or VAMP) and the plasma membrane proteins syntaxin and soluble synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (or SNAP 25). In search of mechanisms that regulate the assembly of the fusion complex, it was found that synaptobrevin also binds to the vesicle protein synaptophysin and that synaptophysin-bound synaptobrevin cannot enter the fusion complex. Using a combination of immunoprecipitation, cross-linking, and in vitro interaction experiments, we report here that the synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex is upregulated during neuronal development. In embryonic rat brain, the complex is not detectable, although synaptophysin and synaptobrevin are expressed and are localized to the same nerve terminals and to the same pool of vesicles. In contrast, the ability of synaptobrevin to participate in the fusion complex is detectable as early as embryonic day 14. The binding of synaptoporin, a closely related homolog of synaptophysin, to synaptobrevin changes in a similar manner during development. Recombinant synaptobrevin binds to synaptophysin derived from adult brain extracts but not to that derived from embryonic brain extracts. Furthermore, the soluble cytosol fraction of adult, but not of embryonic, synaptosomes contains a protein that induces synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex formation in embryonic vesicle fractions. We conclude that complex formation is regulated during development and is mediated by a posttranslational modification of synaptophysin. Furthermore, we propose that the synaptophysin-synaptobrevin complex is not essential for exocytosis but rather provides a reserve pool of synaptobrevin for exocytosis that can be readily recruited during periods of high synaptic activity.
10064396: !synaptophysin Diagnostic relevance of chromosomal in-situ hybridization in Merkel cell carcinoma: targeted interphase cytogenetic tumour analyses. To resolve the conflicting diagnoses of five pathologists (which included well-differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma, malignant carcinoid, undifferentiated small-cell carcinoma, primitive neuroectodermal tumour, metastases of small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) and Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC)), and tumour-free lungs after necropsy, we investigated an alarmingly metastasizing MCC in a 32-year-old Caucasian man using chromosomal in-situ hybridization (CISH). Differences in incidence and course in males and females also prompted targeted analyses for chromosomes X and Y. The lesion was also analysed for p53 gene mutations.
10064395: !synaptophysin Diagnostic markers in paediatric medulloblastoma: a Paediatric Oncology Group Study. We have reviewed immunohistochemically 17 paediatric medulloblastomas in order to determine if correlations exist that might be useful in subclassifying these tumours.
10037470: !synaptophysin SNARE complex proteins, including the cognate pair VAMP-2 and syntaxin-4, are expressed in cultured oligodendrocytes. Myelin membrane synthesis in the CNS by oligodendrocytes (OLs) involves directed intracellular transport and targeting of copious amounts of specialized lipids and proteins over a relatively short time span. As in other plasma membrane-directed fusion, this process is expected to use specific trafficking and vesicle fusion proteins characteristic of the SNARE model. We have investigated the developmental expression of SNARE proteins in highly enriched primary cultures of OLs at discrete stages of differentiation. VAMP-2/synaptobrevin-2, syntaxin-2 and -4, nsec-1/munc-18-1, Rab3a, synaptophysin, and synapsin were expressed. During differentiation, expression of the vesicular SNARE VAMP-2, the small GTP-binding protein Rab3a, and the target SNARE syntaxin-4 were up-regulated. VAMP-2 and Rab3 proteins detected immunocytochemically in cultured OLs were localized within the developing process network; in situ anti-VAMP-2 antibody stained the perikarya of rows of cells with the distribution and appearance of OLs. We discuss the potential involvement of SNARE complex proteins in a plasma membrane-directed transport mechanism targeting nascent myelin vesicles to the forming myelin sheath.
10036231: !synaptophysin Presence of the vesicular inhibitory amino acid transporter in GABAergic and glycinergic synaptic terminal boutons. The characterization of the Caenorhabditis elegans unc-47 gene recently allowed the identification of a mammalian (gamma)-amino butyric acid (GABA) transporter, presumed to be located in the synaptic vesicle membrane. In situ hybridization data in rat brain suggested that it might also take up glycine and thus represent a general Vesicular Inhibitory Amino Acid Transporter (VIAAT). In the present study, we have investigated the localization of VIAAT in neurons by using a polyclonal antibody raised against the hydrophilic N-terminal domain of the protein. Light microscopy and immunocytochemistry in primary cultures or tissue sections of the rat spinal cord revealed that VIAAT was localized in a subset (63-65%) of synaptophysin-immunoreactive terminal boutons; among the VIAAT-positive terminals around motoneuronal somata, 32.9% of them were also immunoreactive for GAD65, a marker of GABAergic presynaptic endings. Labelling was also found apposed to clusters positive for the glycine receptor or for its associated protein gephyrin. At the ultrastructural level, VIAAT immunoreactivity was restricted to presynaptic boutons exhibiting classical inhibitory features and, within the boutons, concentrated over synaptic vesicle clusters. Pre-embedding detection of VIAAT followed by post-embedding detection of GABA or glycine on serial sections of the spinal cord or cerebellar cortex indicated that VIAAT was present in glycine-, GABA- or GABA- and glycine-containing boutons. Taken together, these data further support the view of a common vesicular transporter for these two inhibitory transmitters, which would be responsible for their costorage in the same synaptic vesicle and subsequent corelease at mixed GABA-and-glycine synapses.
10027562: !synaptophysin Patterns of synaptophysin expression during development of the inner ear in the chick. The onset of active neural connections between the periphery and the central nervous system is integral to the development of sensory systems. This study presents patterns of synaptogenesis in the chick basilar papilla (i.e., cochlea) by examining the immunohistochemical expression of synaptophysin with a specific monoclonal antibody, SBI 20.10. The initial onset of synaptophysin expression occurs in nerve fibers and ganglion cell bodies at a time when neurites reach the basement membrane of the chick cochlea on embryonic day 6-7 (ED 6-7). By ED 8, synaptophysin positive fibers invade the neural side of the entire length of the cochlea, so that by ED 9-10, fibers are forming multiple terminals on the basolateral ends of retracting receptor or hair cells. In contrast, on the abneural side, immunoreactive terminals are seen first as small, punctate contacts and then as large, synaptophysin positive calyceal endings beneath short hair cells. These terminals are sparse during early development, more numerous by ED 17-19, but still incomplete after 2 weeks posthatching. In comparison, hair cells show synaptophysin immunoreactivity in both supra- and infranuclear regions by ED 11-12, a time when efferent innervation is incomplete. Thus, during development, synaptophysin is expressed at both synaptic and nonsynaptic sites, is relatively selective in its regional distribution, and is expressed in hair cells at a time when auditory function begins. Our results present a framework with which to understand the potential role of synaptophysin in early synaptogenesis of the cochlea.
10027403: !synaptophysin Nerve terminal damage by beta-bungarotoxin: its clinical significance. We report here original data on the biological basis of prolonged neuromuscular paralysis caused by the toxic phospholipase A2 beta-bungarotoxin. Electron microscopy and immunocytochemical labeling with anti-synaptophysin and anti-neurofilament have been used to show that the early onset of paralysis is associated with the depletion of synaptic vesicles from the motor nerve terminals of skeletal muscle and that this is followed by the destruction of the motor nerve terminal and the degeneration of the cytoskeleton of the intramuscular axons. The postjunctional architecture of the junctions were unaffected and the binding of fluorescein-isothiocyanate-conjugated alpha-bungarotoxin to acetylcholine receptor was not apparently affected by exposure to beta-bungarotoxin. The re-innervation of the muscle fiber was associated by extensive pre- and post-terminal sprouting at 3 to 5 days but was stable by 7 days. Extensive collateral innervation of adjacent muscle fibers was a significant feature of the re-innervated neuromuscular junctions. These findings suggest that the prolonged and severe paralysis seen in victims of envenoming bites by kraits (elapid snakes of the genus Bungarus) and other related snakes of the family Elapidae is caused by the depletion of synaptic vesicles from motor nerve terminals and the degeneration of the motor nerve terminal and intramuscular axons.
9986741: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical study of an autosomal dominant feline rod/cone dysplasia (Rdy cats). An autosomal dominant, early onset feline model of rod/cone dysplasia has been described. The clinical features, light and electron microscopy, and the electrophysiology were documented. We have now examined in more detail the histopathological and immunohistochemical changes during the early phase of the disease using antibodies against opsin, synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and an epithelial marker (MNF118). We have also demonstrated programmed cell death by a modified TUNEL (Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, Uridine triphosphate, Nick End Labelling) technique. In the Rdy cats, there was significant photoreceptor degeneration between 5 and 17 weeks of age. The TUNEL-labeled cell and pyknotic cell counts in the outer nuclear layer peaked at around 9 weeks of age. Accumulation of opsin in the entire outer nuclear layer of the retina was noted with opsin-immunolabeled rod neurite sprouting. There was a reduction in synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the outer plexiform layer. The Muller cells were activated and expressed GFAP. No significant change of immunolabeling of MNF118 was found. These findings closely parallel those seen in human RP.
9952228: !synaptophysin Adenocarcinoid of ileum and appendix, incidentally discovered during exploratory laparotomy for gastric MALT lymphoma, with subsequent diffuse prostatic metastases: report of a case with light, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopic studies. The diagnosis of adenocarcinoid (mucinous/goblet cell carcinoid) is usually unexpected by both clinicians and pathologists. We report here the case of a 74-year-old man with gastric lymphoma (B-cell MALToma) diagnosed by endoscopy, who was found on exploratory laparotomy also to have extensive intraabdominal involvement by adenocarcinoid, arising from the ileum and/or appendix. The patient died two years after diagnosis with bladder outlet and small bowel obstruction due to diffuse metastases. In addition to mucin positivity, immunohistochemical stains demonstrated the tumor to be positive for chromogranin, synaptophysin, serotonin, gastrin, and glucagon. Of histogenetic interest, some individual neoplastic cells appeared to be positive for both mucin and chromogranin, and this was confirmed by the electron microscopic finding of microvilli, intracytoplasmic mucin droplets, and neurosecretory granules involving the same neoplastic cells. This also appears to be the first reported case of adenocarcinoid associated with lymphoma and demonstration of histochemical/immunohistochemical and ultrastructural evidence of cellular components with dual mucinous adenocarcinoma and neuroendocrine features, and the second reported case to have prostatic metastases.
9950819: !synaptophysin Activation of neuronal adenosine A1 receptors suppresses secretory reflexes in the guinea pig colon. The role of adenosine A1 receptors (A1R) in reflex-evoked short-circuit current (Isc) indicative of chloride secretion was studied in the guinea pig colon. The A1R antagonist 8-cyclopentyltheophylline (CPT) enhanced reflex-evoked Isc. Adenosine deaminase and the nucleoside transport inhibitor S-(4-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine enhanced and reduced reflex-induced Isc, respectively. The A1R agonist 2-chloro-N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA) inhibited reflex-evoked Isc at nanomolar concentrations, and its action was antagonized by CPT. In the presence of either N-acetyl-5-hydroxytryptophyl-5-hydroxytryptophan amide to block the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-mediated pathway or piroxicam to block the prostaglandin-mediated pathway, CCPA reduced the residual reflex-evoked Isc. CCPA reduced the response to a 5-HT pulse without affecting the tetrodotoxin-insensitive Isc responses to carbachol or forskolin. Immunoreactivity for A1R was detected in the membrane (10% of neurons) and cytoplasm (90% of neurons) of neural protein gene product 9.5-immunoreactive (or S-100-negative) submucosal neurons, in glia, and in the muscularis mucosa. A1R immunoreactivity in a majority of neurons remained elevated in the cytoplasm despite preincubation with adenosine deaminase or CPT. A1R immunoreactivity colocalized in synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic varicose nerve terminals. The results indicate that endogenous adenosine binding to high-affinity A1R on submucosal neurons acts as a physiological brake to suppress reflex-evoked Isc indicative of chloride secretion.
9950507: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma: morphological, flow cytometric, polymerase chain reaction, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and karyotypic analyses. Case report. The results of cytogenetic and molecular genetic analysis of a central neurocytoma are presented. Central neurocytomas are intriguing neoplasms that exhibit primarily neuronal, but also glial characteristics, which indicate an origin from a pluripotential neuroglial precursor. The authors describe an intraventricular neurocytoma in an 11-year-old boy that showed anaplastic features with widespread necrosis and mitoses, as well as extensive calcification and foci that exhibited marked neuronal differentiation with clusters of ganglion cells. Immunohistochemical examination showed prominent synaptophysin and neurofilament positivity and focal glial fibrillary acidic protein positivity. Electron microscopy revealed abundant neuritic processes with microtubules and dense core granules as well as mature ganglion cells. Flow cytometry studies revealed increased S (7.8%) and G2M (9.7%) phase components. Molecular and cytogenetic studies were undertaken to assess whether there were similarities to two other tumor types that exhibit neuronal differentiation, the neuroblastoma and medulloblastoma. Polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis revealed no evidence of amplification of the MYCN oncogene or chromosome 1p deletion, which are common in neuroblastomas. Chromosomal analysis by G banding revealed a complex karyotype, with counts in the near-diploidy range (45-48). Two chromosomes 1 appeared normal on G banding and FISH analysis, with p58 signals present on the distal p arm of both chromosomes 1; however, three additional copies of distal 1q were present in rearrangements with 4 and 7. Although the histological findings indicate a kinship to the neuroblastoma and medulloblastoma, the central neurocytoma appears to have a different karyotypic profile, although more cases need to be assessed using molecular genetic analysis.
9949905: !synaptophysin [An immunohistochemical study of the expression of the epithelial antigen Ber-EP4 and other tissue-specific antigens in primary and metastatic brain tumors]. The expression of the Ber-EP4 epithelial antigen is shown to be a valuable criterion for differential diagnosis of primary and metastatic brain tumors. An important role for immunological typing of brain tumors belongs to verification of the acid glial fibrillar protein, synaptophysin, vimentine, common leucocytic antigen and melanoma HMB-45 antigen. The use of the above antibodies spectrum is most valid both for differential diagnosis of metastatic and primary brain tumors and for specification of histogenetic origin of different poorly differentiated intracranial tumors.
9930883: !synaptophysin Co-localization of synaptophysin with different neuroendocrine hormones in the human gastrointestinal tract. Colocalisation of synaptophysin has been studied in different neuroendocrine cell types in histologically normal mucosa from human gastrointestinal tract (corpus, antrum, duodenum, ileum and colon) using double-immunofluorescence stainings. Numerous synaptophysin immunoreactive cells were seen in the antrum, while a smaller number were found in the intestinal tract. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was strong in the antrum but weak in the intestine. In the intestinal colocalisation studies the synaptophysin immunoreactivity was enhanced by using the tyramide amplification method. Synaptophysin and chromogranin A were colocalised but the latter occurred mainly basally, whereas synaptophysin was found to occur diffusely throughout the cytoplasm. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity occurred in the serotonin cells throughout the gastrointestinal tract, and in the antral gastrin and somatostatin cells. In the intestinal tract only a small fraction of somatostatin, gastrin, cholecystokinin, enteroglucagon, enteroglucagon/ peptide tyrosine tyrosine displayed synaptophysin immunoreactivity. In the gastrointestinal tract (except the antrum), chromogranin A is a better general neuroendocrine marker than synaptophysin. The functional role of synaptophysin is unclear but it may be involved in the intracellular transport and release of hormones. Based on the distribution background of synaptophysin, it seems to be of greater importance in the antrum than in the intestinal tract as a whole.
9930572: !synaptophysin Extrarenal rhabdoid tumors of soft tissue: a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 18 cases. Rhabdoid tumor is a well-accepted clincopathologic entity among childhood renal neoplasms; similar tumors have been described in extrarenal locations. We present the clinicopathologic profile and the immunohistochemical features of a series of soft tissue rhabdoid tumors. Twenty-eight cases coded as extrarenal rhabdoid tumor (ERRT), RT, possible ERRT, and "large cell sarcoma" were retrieved from the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology soft tissue registry. The tumors were reclassified according to strict criteria by light microscopy, clinical information, immunohistochemistry, and, in some cases, electron microscopy. Soft tissue rhabdoid tumor (STRT) was defined as (1) a tumor composed of noncohesive single cells, clusters, or sheets of large tumor cells with abundant glassy eosinophilic cytoplasm, an eccentric vesicular nucleus, and an extremely large nucleolus; (2) positivity for vimentin and/or cytokeratin or other epithelial markers by immunostaining; and (3) exclusion of other tumor types with rhabdoid inclusions (melanoma, other sarcomas, carcinoma). Eighteen cases met our criteria for soft tissue rhabdoid tumors. The median patient age was 13 years (range, 6 months to 56 years). Ninety-four percent of STRT cases were positive for vimentin and 59% for pan-cytokeratin. Sixty-three percent and 60% were positive for CAM 5.2 and EMA, respectively. Seventy-nine percent stained for at least one epithelial marker; 76% stained for both vimentin and epithelial markers simultaneously. Forty-two percent stained for MSA, and 14% for CEA and SMA. CD99, synaptophysin, CD57 (Leu-7), NSE, and focal S100 protein were identified in 75%, 66%, 56%, 54%, and 31% of the STRT cases, respectively. All STRT cases examined were negative for HMB-45, chromogranin, BER-EP4, desmin, myoglobin, CD34, and GFAP. Follow-up examination in 61% of the STRT patients revealed that 64% of patients died of disease within a median follow-up interval of 19 months (range, 4 months to 5 years); 82% had metastases to lung, lymph nodes, or liver; 22% had local recurrences before metastasis; and 18% were alive without known disease status (median, 5.5 years). Soft tissue rhabdoid tumor is a highly aggressive sarcoma, predominantly of childhood. Besides having nearly consistent coexpression of vimentin and epithelial markers, STRTs show positivity for multiple neural/neuroectodermal markers that overlap with those of primitive neuroectodermal tumor.
9928832: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical study of Purkinje cells in a case of hereditary cerebellar cortical atrophy. We report an immunohistochemical study of Purkinje cells located in the molecular layer (ectopic Purkinje cells) and in the Purkinje cell layer (orthotopic Purkinje cells) of a patient who died young and had been diagnosed with hereditary cerebellar cortical atrophy from both clinical and neuropathological findings. All the ectopic and orthotopic Purkinje cells were immunoreactive with an anti-calbindin-D antibody, confirming that these stained cells were Purkinje cells. The perikarya of some ectopic and orthotopic Purkinje cells were stained by an antibody to phosphorylated neurofilament. In contrast, Purkinje cells of three normal controls did not react with this antibody. This finding of an abnormal accumulation of phosphorylated neurofilaments in the perikarya may be due to abnormal phosphorylation. Moreover, the regions around the cell bodies of some ectopic and orthotopic Purkinje cells were intensely immunoreactive with an antibody to synaptophysin, which suggests an abnormal increase in presynaptic terminals. It is suggested that ectopia of Purkinje cells, accumulation of phosphorylated neurofilament in the perikarya and an abnormal increase in presynaptic terminals around the soma of the Purkinje cells may be relevant to the pathophysiology of Purkinje cell degeneration in this case. In addition, the relationship between phosphorylated neurofilament and synaptophysin reactivity is discussed.
9924430: !synaptophysin Chromogranin A gene expression in non-small cell lung carcinomas. Evidence for the existence of neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation in non-small cell lung carcinomas (NSCLCs) is at present based on histochemical, ultrastructural, and immunohistochemical data. The aim of this study was to investigate the extent of NE differentiation in NSCLCs as revealed by mRNA analysis. Different techniques including immunohistochemistry (IHC), northern blot analysis (NBA), and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were employed in parallel to reveal the panendocrine marker chromogranin A (CgA). The data were related to pathological, immunocytochemical (PGP 9.5, synaptophysin, Leu-7 and neuron-specific enolase), and prognostic indicators. Forty surgically resected cases of NSCLC (24 squamous cell carcinomas, 12 ordinary type adenocarcinomas, 3 bronchiolo-alveolar carcinomas, and 1 anaplastic large cell carcinoma), in which fresh frozen material was available for mRNA analysis, were collected. CgA immunoreactivity was present in five cases (12.5 per cent), generally confined to a minority of the neoplastic cell population. By RT-PCR, CgA mRNA was found in 20 cases (50 per cent), including the five tumours positive by IHC. A statistically significant correlation was found between the two techniques. By NBA, no CgA mRNA expression was detected. Leu-7 immunoreactivity was present in 15 per cent of cases, NSE in 52.5 per cent, synaptophysin in 10 per cent, and PGP 9.5 in 82.5 per cent. In NSCLC, no correlations were found between CgA production, as detected by IHC or RT-PCR methods, and the histological type, stage, grade and proliferative activity of tumours, or the disease-free interval. It is concluded that CgA gene expression can be revealed in NSCLC at both mRNA and protein levels and that RT-PCR is a valuable tool for identifying NE differentiated NSCLCs. Our data suggest that NE differentiation does not represent an independent prognostic factor in surgically resected NSCLCs.
9889259: !synaptophysin Detection of synaptophysin-producing cells in human thymus by immunohistochemistry and nonradioactive in situ hybridization. We investigated human thymic tissue by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization for the presence of synaptophysin-producing cells. Our results indicate that anti-synaptophysin antibody detected immunoreactive material in nerve fibers around vessels located in major thymic septa, in a relevant number of cortical epithelial cells, and in scattered epithelial cells in the medulla. The epithelial nature of synaptophysin-positive cells was documented by the co-expression of cytokeratins as revealed by double immunofluorescence. In situ hybridization studies revealed the presence of synaptophysin mRNA in cells mainly located in the cortex, the specific fluorescent signals being localized in the cell cytoplasm. Western blot analysis using an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody revealed an immunoreactive band of about 38 kD in the extracts from unfractionated thymic tissue and from epithelial cell-enriched fractions. No staining was observed in isolated thymocytes. The expression of synaptophysin in epithelial cells of the thymic cortex suggests that this protein may be involved in secretory activities related to T-cell maturation.
9881859: !synaptophysin Hippocampal and cortical growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA in schizophrenia. Growth-associated protein-43 is involved in maturational and plasticity-associated processes, and changes in growth-associated protein-43 expression are a marker of altered plasticity following experimental and neuropathological lesions. Using in situ hybridization, we have investigated growth-associated protein-43 mRNA in the medial temporal lobe and cerebral cortex in 11 normal subjects and 11 matched subjects with schizophrenia, a disorder in which perturbed neurodevelopment and aberrant plasticity are implicated. In the schizophrenia group, growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA was decreased in the medial temporal lobe, primary visual cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus, but was unaltered in the superior temporal and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices. Correlations of growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA signal between areas were stronger and more numerous in the schizophrenics than in the controls, suggesting a more global regulation of growth-associated protein-43 expression. Finally, the ratio of growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA to synaptophysin messenger RNA--a putative index of the production of new synapses--was decreased in the medial temporal lobe in the schizophrenics. Our findings imply that neuronal plasticity as indexed by growth-associated protein-43 expression is impaired, and perhaps aberrantly regulated, in schizophrenia. The data support the emerging view that the disease pathophysiology is one which affects the hippocampal and cortical circuitry and that the abnormalities are reflected in the altered expression of specific neuronal genes.
9881293: !synaptophysin The ontogenic appearance of tyrosine hydroxylase-, serotonin-, gamma-aminobutyric acid-, calcitonin gene-related peptide-, substance P-, and synaptophysin-immunoreactivity in rat pituitary gland. The initial appearance of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-, serotonin (5-HT)-, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-, calcitonin gene-related peptide- (CGRP), substance P-, and synaptophysin-immunoreactivity in the rat pituitary gland, and in the related brain regions was investigated. Several groups of TH-immunoreactive neurons were first detected in the brain stem on day E17, and in the hypothalamus on day E18, followed by TH-immunoreactivity in the median eminence and infundibulum on E19-E20. TH-positive fibers appeared in the posterior lobe on day E20 and in the intermediate lobe on day P0. 5-HT-immunoreactivity was first detected on day E17 in neurons and nerve fibers in the brain stem and in the median eminence, respectively. On day E18, a few 5-HT-immunoreactive fibers were detected in the posterior lobe of the pituitary, although they were consistently seen in the infundibulum from day E19. In newborn rats, some 5-HT-immunoreactive fibers, but no neurons, were seen in the hypothalamus. GABA immunoreactivity appeared on day E17 in several nerve fibers of the infundibulum and the posterior lobe. Some neurons in the cortex and ventral hypothalamus transiently expressed GABA-immunoreactivity on day E17. In newborn rats, a plexus of GABA-immunoreactive fibers was detected for the first time in the intermediate lobe. No CGRP-immunoreactive fibers could be detected in the prenatal pituitary. On day P10, CGRP-immunoreactive fibers were first observed in the anterior lobe. Later their number considerably increased, while only sporadic fibers could be found in the intermediate or posterior lobes. No substance P-immunoreactivity could be detected in any of the lobes in the embryonic or developing postnatal rat pituitary, instead the adult anterior lobe occasionally showed some substance P-immunoreactive fibers. Synaptophysin-immunoreactivity was first detected in the posterior lobe on day E20, followed shortly by its expression in the intermediate lobe in newborn rats. The time course of GABA and 5-HT expression revealed in the present study suggests that these transmitters, which are initially expressed in the developing pituitary clearly before synaptic maturation, may act as trophic molecules during the prenatal period.
9878817: !synaptophysin Behavioural analysis and susceptibility to CNS injury of four inbred strains of mice. Interpretation of data from gene targeting studies can be confounded by the inherent traits of the background inbred strains used in the generation of transgenic and null mutant mice. We have therefore compared the behaviour and response to CNS injury of four inbred strains commonly used in molecular genetic studies to produce models of neurological disease. Adult, male 129/Ola, BALB/c, C57BL/6 and FVB/N mice (2-4 months) were initially subjected to behavioural tests that comprised a neurological examination, determination of motor function and cognitive testing in the Morris water maze. Also the response to CNS injury following an acute kainic acid (KA) challenge (30 mg kg-1, i.p.) was determined. The 129/Ola and BALB/c strains showed significant motor deficits when compared with the C57BL/6 and FVB/N strains. In contrast, only the FVB/N strain showed evidence of apparent cognitive impairments in the water maze as evidenced by increased pathlengths to locate the escape platforms and impaired performance in a probe trial. In addition, the FVB/N strain showed the most severe seizure response and mortality rate (62%) following administration of KA (30 mg kg-1, i.p.). These behavioural changes were also associated with a greater degree of cell body and synaptophysin loss in the pyramidal CA3 hippocampal cell layer and astrogliosis 72-h post-dose. These data suggest that the FVB/N strain may not be the most suitable background strain for the development of new transgenic mice for the study of genes implicated in the learning and memory process.
9878786: !synaptophysin Postnatal development of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the rat nucleus tractus solitarii and caudal ventrolateral medulla. Synaptophysin (SY) is a major integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles. In the present study, SY immunohistochemistry was used to investigate the postnatal development of the rat nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) and nucleus ambiguus/ventrolateral medulla (NA/VLM). Whatever the age of the animal, SY immunoreactivity showed a typical pattern of punctate staining reminiscent of presynaptic terminal labeling. In the NTS and the NA/VLM, SY immunoreactive puncta were few at birth and increased in number during the first postnatal days. These changes were quantified by measuring the volumetric fraction occupied by SY immunoreactive puncta at various postnatal ages. Using volumetric fraction data, an index of the total volume occupied SY immunoreactivity in each region was then calculated. Between birth and adulthood, this index increased by 6-fold in the NTS and by 7-fold in the NA/VLM, suggesting that most of the synaptic development of these regions occurs postnatally.
9878698: !synaptophysin Presence of molecular chaperones, heat shock cognate (Hsc) 70 and heat shock proteins (Hsp) 40, in the postsynaptic structures of rat brain. The synaptic localization of molecular chaperones, heat shock cognate protein 70 (Hsc70) and Hsp40, was investigated immunohistochemically in the normal rat brain. Postsynaptic density (PSD) fractions contained a constitutive form of HSP70, heat shock cognate protein 70 (Hsc70 or p73) but not inducible form of HSP70 (p72). The immunoreactivities of Hsc70 (p73) were distributed throughout the rat brain, in neuronal somata, dendrites and axons. Their immunoreactivity in neurons was localized in the cytoplasmic matrix, dendrites, and spines at the electron microscopic level. Presynaptic terminals, but less frequently than postsynaptic staining, were also reactive. Postsynaptic areas immediately beneath the synaptic contact or PSDs were immunoreactive for Hsc70. The Hsp40 was highly concentrated in PSD fractions. The staining of Hsp40 immunoreactivity was punctate and distributed widely in the brain. Hsp40 immunoreactivity was localized in dendritic spines, especially in the subsynaptic web, with weak staining of PSDs at the electron microscopic level. Double immunofluorescent staining and confocal microscopy revealed that Hsc70 and Hsp40 were co-localized on somata and neuronal processes of cultured cerebral neurons, on which synaptophysin immunoreactive spots were scattered. These results suggest that Hsp40 and Hsc70 are co-localized at postsynaptic sites and postsynaptic chaperone activity may be mediated by these two heat shock proteins.
9875262: !synaptophysin VASE-containing N-CAM isoforms are increased in the hippocampus in bipolar disorder but not schizophrenia. The neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) is a cell recognition molecule that is involved in cellular migration, synaptic plasticity, and CNS development. In schizophrenia, a 105- to 115-kDa N-CAM protein is increased in CSF and in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. The variable alternatively spliced exon (VASE) of N-CAM is developmentally regulated and can be spliced into any of the major 120-, 140-, and 180-kDa N-CAM isoforms. We determined that the variable alternative spliced exon of N-CAM (VASE) also is increased in bipolar disorder by quantitative Western immunoblot. VASE immunoreactive proteins (triplet bands around 140 kDa and a single band around 145 kDa) were identified in soluble and membrane brain extracts and quantified in the hippocampus. Soluble VASE 140 kDa was increased in the hippocampus of patients with bipolar disorder as compared to controls, patients with schizophrenia, and suicide cases. Membrane-extracted VASE 140 and 145 kDa were unchanged in the same groups. Multiple 145-kDa VASE-immunoreactive proteins that also reacted to an N-CAM antibody were separated by isoelectric focusing and electrophoresis followed by western immunoblotting; however, the VASE 140-kDa proteins were only weakly N-CAM immunoreactive. By immunohistochemistry, VASE colocalized with GFAP-positive astrocytes in the hippocampus. VASE immunostaining was also observed in the cytoplasm of CA4 pyramidal neurons that were positive for phosphorylated high molecular weight neurofilament and synaptophysin terminals. Thus no differences in VASE were found in patients with schizophrenia, but there was a marked increase of VASE immunoreactive proteins in bipolar disorder. It is possible that abnormal regulation of N-CAM proteins results in differing patterns of abnormal expression in neuropsychiatric disorders.
9875148: !synaptophysin Studies on the innervation of human renal allografts. Kidneys are innervated by a plexus of nerves around the renal artery, which is disrupted by transplantation. This is a report of a comparison of the nerves in human renal allografts and normal kidneys. There were many sympathetic ganglia around normal renal arteries but none around transplanted vessels, although equal numbers of ganglia were present in hilar tissues of normal and transplanted kidneys. An immunohistological study with an antibody to synaptophysin showed that the number of synapses in transplanted ganglia was severely reduced. Immunohistological studies on allograft kidneys using antibodies to various neurofilament proteins and the Schwann cell marker S100 showed a marked reduction in neurofilament proteins shortly after transplantation with subsequent partial recovery, and a lesser reduction in S100. Renal allografts have structurally abnormal innervation but are not completely denervated.
9874806: !synaptophysin Neurons in the dorsal column white matter of the spinal cord: complex neuropil in an unexpected location. It is common to think of gray matter as the site of integration in neural circuits and white matter as the wires that connect different groups of neurons. The dorsal column (DC) white matter, for example, is the spinal cord axonal pathway through which a topographic map of the body is conveyed to the somatosensory cortex. We now describe a network of neurons located along the midline of the DCs. The neurons are present in several mammals, including primates and birds, and have a profuse dendritic arbor that expresses both the neuron-specific marker, microtubule-associated protein-2, and the neurokinin-1 receptor, a target of the neuropeptide, substance P. Electron microscopy and double immunostaining for synaptophysin and a marker of gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic terminals documented a rich synaptic input to these neurons. Finally, injection of a gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor antagonist or of substance P into the cerebrospinal fluid of the rat spinal cord induced Fos expression and internalization of the neurokinin-1 receptor in these neurons, respectively, indicating that the DC neurons are under tonic inhibitory control and can respond to neurotransmitters that circulate in the cerebrospinal fluid.
19519645: !synaptophysin Neuropathological study of cerebellar degeneration in prion disease. In order to clarify the relationship between cerebellar degeneration and prion protein (PrP) accumulation, 17 cases of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and three cases of Gerstmann-Sträussler syndrome (GSS) were analyzed neuropathologically. Immunohistochemical staining for PrP showed synaptic-type deposits in all of the CJD cases. The punctate PrP stains in CJD patients were almost identical with those of synaptophysin, suggesting that PrP had accumulated in the synaptic structures. Synapses damage due to PrP accumulation seemed to develop prior to granule cell loss. PrP accumulation was inversely correlated with granule cell loss. The degree of atrophy in the molecular layer was compatible with granule cell loss. The nodulus showed severe PrP accumulation when compared with other sites in the cerebellum. How-ever, in GSS cases, the loss of Purkinje cells and dentate nucleus neurons was obvious. Further, immunohisto-chemical staining for PrP demonstrated Kuru plaque-type and synaptic-type depositions in the molecular layer, the granular cell layer, and the dentate nucleus, which was different from CJD cases.
9870679: !synaptophysin Pagetoid Merkel cell carcinoma: epidermal origin of the tumor. We report a case of intraepidermal Merkel cell carcinoma which occurred on the face of a 76-year-old white male. This slow-growing tumor was mostly confined in the epidermis and pilosebaceous apparatus where tumor cells spread in a pagetoid fashion forming tumor cell nests. Histologically it resembled a superficial spreading melanoma. A heavy lymphocytic infiltration was seen beneath the epidermal lesion as is often seen in pagetoid melanomas. Histochemical and ultrastructural features such as the presence of cytokeratin 20, synaptophysin, neuron specific enolase, desmosomes, and dense cored granules confirmed the diagnosis of Merkel cell carcinoma. Occasional mitotic cells and many apoptotic cells were found in the tumor. Dylon positive, amyloid depositions were seen in the lower epidermis and papillary dermis; they were probably derived from apoptotic tumor cells. It was thought that apoptosis limited the speed of growth of this tumor. We believe that this is probably the most convincing case of intraepidermal Merkel cell carcinoma originating from epidermal Merkel cells or its precursors (stem cells).
9867254: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the rat pituitary: alterations after 6-hydroxydopamine treatment. Synaptophysin (SN) is a synaptic-vesicle-associated membrane protein whose presence is indicative of intact, functional synapses. This study examines the presence of SN in pituitary gland innervation after neurotoxin-induced denervation followed by reinnervation. Immunostaining of rat pituitary neurointermediate lobe tissue for SN reveals a pattern of dot-like densities in the intermediate lobe and intensely stained dispersed regions in the neural lobe of normal animals. In rats treated with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), a catecholamine neurotoxin, by peripheral injection, there is a significant depletion of the SN immunostaining in the intermediate lobe, as well as a significant reduction of SN immunoreactivity in the neural lobe, in animals studied 1 wk after drug treatment, with computer analysis of the tissue sections. At 3 wk after 6-OHDA, there is a partial recovery of immunoreactivity for SN in the neural lobe in many tissue sections, and the intermediate lobe also contains only relatively sparse staining for the synaptic protein. Computer analysis revealed that at 3 wk after 6-OHDA, both lobes still had reduced SN immunoreactivity, but the difference in levels measured did not achieve statistical significance. These results contrast with the prior finding of significant recovery of immunoreactivity for GAP-43, a growth and regeneration-associated protein, in intermediate lobe innervation of rats treated with the same drug regimen. We suggest that 6-OHDA treatment damages synaptic vesicle integrity in both the intermediate and neural lobes of the pituitary, and that recovery is in progress, but not complete at 3 wk after the drug is administered.
9864099: !synaptophysin Peripheral neuroblastoma in a young Beagle dog. A peripheral neuroblastoma was found in the abdominal cavity of a young male beagle dog. The large tumor mass involved the left kidney and both adrenal glands. Histologically, a major portion of the neoplasm consisted of lobulated sheets of small round cells with hyperchromatic nuclei mixed with polygonal cells and neuropil. Small clusters of polygonal cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm and a trabecular growth pattern were observed adjacent to some of the tumor lobules. Small, round neoplastic cells metastasized to lumbar lymph nodes and also to the adrenal glands. The neoplastic cells were positive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and neurofilament protein. Electron micrographs revealed intracytoplasmic dense core granules, microtubules, intermediate filaments, and desmosomes in the cytoplasm of the neoplastic cells.
9863516: !synaptophysin Epiperikaryal synaptophysin reactivity in the normal human central nervous system. An epiperikaryal synaptophysin immunoreactivity has been regarded as an indicator of neoplastic or otherwise abnormal neurons and this staining property serves as an important criterion to distinguish between normal and abnormal neurons. In the present study we have investigated the epiperikaryal synaptophysin reactivity in various regions of the normal human central nervous system by using autopsy materials from 11 subjects aged 3 months-86 years. We found a definite but variable staining of the brainstem and spinal cord motor neurons as well as the cerebellar Purkinje cells. A particular strong and consistent reactivity was seen in neurons of the cerebellar nuclei in which also axons and dendrites were labelled to a variable extent. This type of neuronal staining was never observed in the cerebrum. We therefore conclude that the employment of this staining property as a criterion for abnormal neurons should be used with caution in the cerebellum, brainstem, and spinal cord whereas it may be used more safely in the cerebrum.
9857998: !synaptophysin Analysis of neuroendocrine markers, HER2 and CEA before and after chemotherapy in patients with stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer: a Cancer and Leukemia Group B study. Several studies have suggested that biochemical or molecular markers examined in non-small cell lung cancer carry prognostic or treatment response information. Non-small cell lung cancer patients whose tumors have neuroendocrine (NE) features may be more responsive to chemotherapy. In addition, increased expression of HER2 (c-erbB-2), a membrane-bound receptor with tyrosine kinase activity, has been associated with shortened survival. The Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) performed a study of patients with stage IIIA (N2 nodes positive) non-small cell lung cancer in which patients received initial chemotherapy followed by surgery, then post-operative therapy consisting of sequential chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Since all patients underwent mediastinoscopy, this provided an opportunity to compare pre- and post-chemotherapy tumor specimens to test the hypothesis that these proteins would predict treatment response. In particular, we hypothesized that the post-chemotherapy specimens would be enriched for NE marker negative cells because of the increased sensitivity of NE positive cells to chemotherapy. We performed immunohistochemical analysis for a panel of NE markers [neuron-specific enolase (NSE), Leu-7, chromogranin A (ChrA), synaptophysin (Syn)], HER2 and CEA to determine if there was an effect of therapy on the percentage of cells expressing these markers. Secondary endpoints were a correlation with chemotherapy response and survival. Slides were scored for intensity (0-4) and percentage of cells positive (0-4). Of 61 eligible patients, there were 38 with both pre- and post-chemotherapy specimens. When both intensity of staining and percentage of positive cells were considered, post-chemotherapy specimens had a higher percentage of positive NE markers compared with pre-chemotherapy. In addition, there was no correlation between NE marker, HER2 or CEA expression (prior to or post treatment) and response to chemotherapy or survival. These data do not support the hypothesis that NE positive tumor cells are preferentially killed by chemotherapy in patients with stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer.
9845752: !synaptophysin Primary ependymoma of the mediastinum: a clinicopathologic study of three cases. Primary mediastinal ependymomas are unusual tumors, with only two case reports previously reported in the literature. In this study, we review our experience with three cases of primary mediastinal ependymomas, including the clinical, histopathologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features. The three patients in this study were white women with a mean age of 50 years (age range, 36 to 71 years). Presenting symptoms were nonspecific; radiographically, all lesions were circumscribed posterior mediastinal masses without evidence of bone involvement. There was no evidence of central nervous system, sacral, or pelvic ependymoma. All tumors were completely resected, ranged in size from 5 to 7 cm (mean, 6 cm), and exhibited glistening pseudocapsules. Two tumors had a solid, tan-gray cut surface and one lesion was cystic with a mural tumor nodule. All neoplasms showed histologic features of conventional cellular ependymomas with perivascular pseudorosettes and occasional true ependymal rosettes. Germ cell components were not present in any case and immunohistochemical analysis showed glial fibrillary acidic protein, S-100, and patchy cytokeratin immunoreactivity in all three cases as well as absence of reactivity for HMB 45, chromogranin, and synaptophysin. Ultrastructural features included multipart "zipper-like" junctions, intracytoplasmic lumina containing microvilli, occasional cytoplasmic basal bodies, and apical cilia. A microscopic metastasis was present in a regional lymph node in one case at the time of resection; however, there is no evidence of recurrence or distant metastasis in any of the cases during the postoperative period (mean length of follow-up, 64 months). Ependymomas rarely occur in the mediastinum and have a predilection for the posterior mediastinum. The paravertebral location, microscopic identification of adjacent sympathetic ganglia, and lack of teratomatous or other germ cell components suggest that mediastinal ependymomas are likely derived from paravertebral ependymal rests. Primary mediastinal ependymomas are characterized by a prolonged and indolent clinical course. Metastasis to regional lymph nodes may occur, but distant metastases are unusual in our experience. Complete surgical excision seems to offer the best chance for long-term survival.
9839773: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunohistochemistry densitometry measurement in resected human hippocampus: implication for the etiology of hippocampal sclerosis. Synaptophysin (SY) is a protein expressed at presynaptic vesicles. SY immunohistochemistry (IHC) was undertaken in surgically resected hippocampal specimens from 25 patients with intractable epilepsy. All were investigated with chronic ictal EEG videotelemetry, which showed a temporal onset in each case, and all had normal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The density of reaction product of SY IHC was used to generate optical density (OD) measurements as an estimate of synaptic density in CA1 and CA4 fields (ODCA1 and ODCA4), and inner third and outer two-thirds of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (ODIML and ODOML). There was significant correlation between ODCA1 (r=0.619, P=0.001) and ODCA4 (r=0.639, P=0.001) and onset age of epilepsy. There was no correlation between ODCA1 and duration of epilepsy. There was correlation between ODCA4 and duration (r=-0.412, P=0.041), but partial correlations showed no significant correlation between ODCA4 and duration when controlling for onset, although correlation between ODCA4 and onset when controlling for duration remained significant (r=0.536, P < 0.01). Univariate ANOVA revealed onset age to be the only predictor of ODCA1 and ODCA4. Chronological age and duration were not predictors. There was no correlation between ODIML or ODOML and either onset age or duration. ODIML and ODOML were not predicted by onset age, duration or chronological age. These findings support the hypothesis that the major cause of hippocampal sclerosis is an age specific insult rather than the result of repeated seizures.
9832257: !synaptophysin Infratentorial dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT) associated with Arnold-Chiari malformation. Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT), a benign neoplasm, is now a well recognized clinicopathological entity. We report the second case of DNT in the cerebellum occurring in a 20-year-old male presenting with ataxia. He also had Arnold-Chiari malformation of the adult type. Histologically the tumor was a "simple" DNT having the specific "glioneuronal" element, namely oligodendrocyte-like cells (OLCs), mucoid change and floating neurons (Purkinje cells). A striking feature was the perpendicular arrangement of the neuropil columns extending from the pial surface to white matter similar to those seen in supratentorial examples. On immunstaining some of the OLCs were positive for synaptophysin and negative for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), glucocerebroside, tau and MAP-2. The neuropil was synaptophysin-positive and focally positive for MAP-2 and GFAP as well. The Purkinje cells were morphologically normal but malaligned and were positive for phosphorylated neurofilament suggesting secondary dysplastic changes. A transition of the lesion into relatively normal cerebellum preserving the folial architecture was observed. The histological and immunochemical features of the DNT in cerebellum suggests its possible origin from the pluripotential external granular layer.
9826113: !synaptophysin Correlation of nicotinic binding with neurochemical markers in Alzheimer's disease. The loss of neocortical synapses that occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been shown to correlate with cognitive decline. In addition, marked losses in the cholinergic system in AD, specifically choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and high affinity presynaptic neuronal nicotinic cholinergic receptors (nAChRs), have also been described. We hypothesized that in AD, the loss of [3H]-ligand binding to nAChRs, which are largely presynaptic, would correlate with changes in two other presynaptic markers: synaptophysin (Syn), a measure of synaptic density, and ChAT activity. The midfrontal (MF) cortex of 36 autopsy confirmed (NIA and CERAD criteria) AD patients (mean death age +/- SD 80.1 +/- 8.4 years) who met NINDS-ADRDA criteria for a clinical diagnosis of probable or possible AD, and 11 nondemented controls (mean death age +/- SD 77.9 +/- 8.0) were examined. Synapse counts were quantified by a dotimmunobinding assay for Syn. ChAT activity was assessed by standard biochemical assays. Nicotinic cholinergic receptor binding was assayed using the high affinity nicotinic agonist [3H]-(+/-)-epibatidine ([3H]-EPI). The mean +/- SD Syn in AD (83.4 +/- 31.9 arbitrary units (AU)/mg protein) was significantly lower than controls (126.1 +/- 19.9, p = 0.0003; t-test). The mean ChAT activity in AD (139.0 +/- 75.6 nmol ACh/hr/100 mg protein) was significantly lower than controls (219.6 +/- 70.8, p = 0.004). The mean [3H]-EPI total binding in AD (6.2 +/- 2.8 fmol/mg protein) was significantly lower than controls (14.8 +/- 3.2; p < 0.0001). Syn correlated with [3H]-EPI binding in AD (r = 0.48, p = 0.006; Pearson) but ChAT did not (r = -0.20, p = 0.34). We conclude that loss of high affinity nAChR binding correlates with loss of synapses in AD. The lack of correlation between [3H]-EPI binding and ChAT activity suggests that the targeted receptor populations may not be located exclusively on cholinergic neurons.
9825942: !synaptophysin Glial tumors in the MNU rat model: induction of pure and mixed gliomas that do not require typical missense mutations of p53. Gliomas were induced in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats by continuous exposure to 100 ppm of N-nitrosmethylurea (MNU) in drinking water. Latency periods for such tumors were 20 and 50 weeks following completion of exposure intervals of 20, 15, and 10 weeks, respectively. Based on histomorphology and the pattern of GFAP immunoreactivity, a large percentage of MNU-induced tumors (>40%) were anaplastic mixed gliomas, having both neoplastic astrocytic and oligodendroglial components. Typical oligodendrogliomas and astrocytomas also occurred less frequently. Unlike the majority of tumors induced by ethylnitrosourea (ENU), MNU yielded glial tumors that did not express synaptophysin. Anaplastic mixed gliomas and glioblastoma multiforme (GBMs) had no missense p53 mutations in the commonly mutated exons 4 through 8 and did not overexpress wild-type p53, suggesting that MNU-induced oncogenesis in rat brain tumors may not require inactivation/alteration of the p53 tumor suppressor gene. The K-ras gene was also analyzed and found to have no activating mutations in brain tumors. This model is suitable for studying genetic events leading to the majority of gliomas that apparently express functional p53.
9809645: !synaptophysin Melanocortin and MCH precursor-derived NEI effects on striatum-midbrain co-cultures. The possibility of developmental effects of POMC-derived melanocortins and analogs on neurons of fetal rat brain regions exhibiting marked developmental melanocortin receptor expression, was studied in serum-free co-cultures of gestational day 18 striatal and mesencephalic cells, and compared with NEI and NGE. These two peptide fragments of the melanin concentrating hormone precursor, occurring in brain areas devoid of POMC terminals, cross-react with alpha-MSH antibodies; NEI elicits grooming similar to alpha-MSH. Neurofilament protein (NF), growth-associated protein (GAP-43) and synaptophysin of the synaptosomal fraction were determined by ELISA as markers for neuritogenesis, growth cones, and nerve terminal differentiation. Cell survival was analyzed by MTT assay, proportions of major cell types by immunocytochemistry. alpha-Melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH, effective concentration 250-2500 nM), the analog Nle4-, D-Phe7-alpha-MSH (NDP, 3.1-750 nM), and NEI (250 nM) increased NF in 3 day cultures by 11%, 17%, and 22%, respectively, whereas ACTH(1-24) and ACTH(1-39) (25 2500 nM) were ineffective. In 11 day cultures, alpha-MSH (250-750 nM), but not NDP, ACTH(1-24) or ACTH(1-39), increased synaptosomal synaptophysin by 11%. GAP-43 and cell survival remained unaffected. These data indicate that selected melanocortins as well as NEI can influence differentiation of neural processes in brain neurons.
9808442: !synaptophysin Periosteal Ewing-like adamantinoma. We report a Ewing-like adamantinoma of the periosteal region of the right tibia in a 15-year-old boy. The tumour was well demarcated but unencapsulated and showed cortical bone erosion. Histologically, the neoplastic cells were arranged in trabecular and cord-like patterns with fibrous, hyalinized, and myxoid stroma. Cellular atypia was mild, and mitotic figures were rarely seen. Many tumour cells expressed wide keratin, epithelial membrane antigen, leu 7, synaptophysin, Ewing's sarcoma-related antigen O13, and some were positive for neuron-specific antigen, vimentin, and CD68. The tumour was negative for S-100 protein, desmin, alpha-smooth muscle actin, and muscle-specific actin. Flow cytometric analysis showed that the tumour was aneuploid. After wide excision the patient has been well for the 16 months since diagnosis.
9808124: !synaptophysin Desmoplastic small round cell tumor: II: an ultrastructural and immunohistochemical study with emphasis on new immunohistochemical markers. In order to investigate the histogenesis and facilitate the diagnosis of desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT), 39 cases were studied by immunohistochemical methods using a large battery of antibodies directed against a wide variety of epithelial, mesenchymal, and neural-associated proteins. Sixteen of these tumors were also studied by electron microscopy. Thirty-seven of 39 cases reacted for cytokeratin using a "cocktail" of 3 monoclonal antibodies (CAM 5.2/AE1/AE3), 39/39 for desmin, 24/25 for epithelial membrane antigen, 22/27 for vimentin, 18/25 for neuron-specific enolase, 10/15 for CD57 (Leu-7), 3/19 for synaptophysin, 1/22 for chromogranin, 3/19 for muscle-specific actin, 3/16 for alpha-smooth-muscle actin, 11/16 for CD15 (Leu-M1), 5/12 for CA-125, 6/17 for CD99, 9/10 for MOC-31, 2/6 for NB84, 5/7 for Ber-EP4, and 8/9 for the Wilms tumor (WT1) protein. No staining was obtained in any of the cases tested for cytokeratin 5/6 or 20, neurofilament proteins, glial fibrillary acidic protein, peripherin, CA19-9, thrombomodulin, alphafetoprotein, carcinoembryonic antigen, TAG-72 (B72.3), placental alkaline phosphatase, S-100 protein, HMB-45, myoglobin, or for the two myogenic regulatory proteins myogenin and MyoD1. A frequent ultrastructural finding was the presence of juxtanuclear aggregates of intermediate filaments, but microfilaments with densities or Z-band-like material suggestive of either smooth or skeletal muscle differentiation were not seen in any case. Dendritic-like processes containing microtubules and dense core granules were seen in four tumors and all of these tumors reacted for at least one of the neural markers investigated. Although ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies confirmed previous observations that DSRCTs present epithelial, mesenchymal, and neural phenotypes, a great variation was found in the frequency of expression of the different markers used to demonstrate each line of cell differentiation. The absence of expression of cytokeratin 5/6 and thrombomodulin together with positive staining for CD15, MOC-31, and Ber-EP4 argues against the possible mesothelial origin that has been suggested for this tumor. Additionally since none of the tumors reacted for myogenin or MyoD1, desmin expression in DSRCT cannot be regarded as evidence of skeletal muscle differentiation. Although the histogenesis of DSRCT remains unknown, it is believed that this tumor originates from a progenitor cell with potential for multiphenotypic differentiation.
9804926: !synaptophysin Rapid conversion of drebrin isoforms during synapse formation in primary culture of cortical neurons. Easier methods to evaluate synapse formation in cultured neurons are desirable to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of synaptic development. We focused on drebrin, which changes from embryonic-type to adult-type isoform during postnatal development. The adult-type isoform of drebrin was detected by Western blotting after seventh day in primary cultured cortical neurons and the expression was coincidental with that of synaptophysin. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction could demonstrate reversal of the predominant drebrin mRNA isoform from embryonic type to adult type between 8 and 13 days of culture. This is an easy and quick method to evaluate synapse formation in vitro.
9804653: !synaptophysin Enhanced neocortical neural sprouting, synaptogenesis, and behavioral recovery with D-amphetamine therapy after neocortical infarction in rats. D-Amphetamine administration increases behavioral recovery after various cortical lesions including cortical ablations, contusions, and focal ischemia in animals and after stroke in humans. The purpose of the present study was to test the enhanced behavioral recovery and increased expression of proteins involved in neurite growth and synaptogenesis in D-amphetamine-treated rats compared with vehicle-treated controls after a focal neocortical infarct.
9797002: !synaptophysin Histopathological and ultrastructural features of feline hereditary cerebellar cortical atrophy: a novel animal model of human spinocerebellar degeneration. Human spinocerebellar degeneration is one of the intractable diseases. We studied the detailed neuropathology of cats with hereditary cerebellar degeneration obtained from the experimental breeding. The findings included almost total loss of Purkinje cells with an increase in Bergmann's glia in the cerebellar hemisphere, preservation of some Purkinje cells in the vermis and moderate neuronal depletion of the olive nucleus. Cerebellar and pontine nuclei were normal. The cerebrum and spinal cord as well as the peripheral nervous system appeared normal. Electron microscopic examination revealed swelling of the distal dendrites of Purkinje cells in the less-affected nodule of the vermis, and clusters of presynaptic boutons without any synaptic contact in the severely affected folia where Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites disappeared. Prolonged existence of presynapses in the molecular and Purkinje cell layers was confirmed by positive immunoreactivity to anti-synaptophysin. Quantitative analysis using electron microscopy demonstrated an apparent increase in the density and mean size of presynapses in the molecular layer of the severely affected folia. These findings indicate that degeneration of Purkinje cells started at the most distal part of the dendrite in this animal model of cerebellar degeneration, and that presynapses, axon terminals of the granular cells and basket cells can exist for a long time even after complete degeneration of the Purkinje cells. Further investigation of this novel animal model may promote a better understanding of pathogenesis of human hereditary cerebellar degeneration.
9796994: !synaptophysin Congenital olivopontocerebellar atrophy: report of two siblings with paleo- and neocerebellar atrophy. We report two sisters with congenital olivopontocerebellar atrophy, including immunohistochemical studies of autopsy brain tissue. Both cases showed microcephaly with disproportionately marked hypoplasia of the posterior fossa structures including pons, inferior olivary nuclei, and cerebellum. Microscopically, the pons was atrophic with near total loss of pontine nuclei and transverse pontocerebellar tracts (inferior and middle cerebellar peduncles). The medulla showed absent inferior olivary and arcuate nuclei. The cerebellum showed hypoplasia with rudimentary dentate nuclei, profound loss of Purkinje cells and external granule cell layer, a sparse internal granule cell layer of the entire dorsal vermis and the dorsal portions of the lateral folia, as well as markedly reduced underlying axon fibers in the white matter with marked astrogliosis. These features were highlighted by immunohistochemical study using antibodies against Purkinje cell epitopes, synaptophysin, neurofilament, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and tuberin. The cerebral hemispheres were unremarkable. Our cases are characterized by a pattern of diffuse posterior cerebellar involvement that has rarely been described in previous reports. An autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance is suggested. The abnormalities may result from antenatal degeneration or atrophy of neurons in the involved sites rather than hypoplasia or developmental arrest starting in the second and third month of late embryonic life.
9796733: !synaptophysin Primary, pure, large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the urinary bladder. We report what to our knowledge is the first case in the English-language literature of a primary, pure, undifferentiated large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the urinary bladder. To date, only one case of a large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma was reported, and it was associated with an adenocarcinoma most likely of urachal origin. On the other hand, slightly more than 100 cases of undifferentiated small-cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder were reported, approximately one-half of which were associated with poorly differentiated transitional-cell carcinoma of the conventional type. The patient in our case was a 73-year-old man with a history of prostatic cancer treated with radiation therapy. He presented with hematuria, leading to the discovery of a solitary tumor on the dorsal wall of the urinary bladder. A diagnosis of large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma was made, supported by immunohistochemical reactivity for chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin; a variety of other hormonal markers of neuroendocrine tumors were negative. The radical cystoprostatectomy and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy specimen showed a transmurally invasive tumor, without regional lymph node metastases. The patient died 2 months after surgery, and the autopsy revealed disseminated metastases histologically identical to the urinary bladder neoplasm. Awareness of the occurrence of large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the urinary bladder seems to be important because of the possible aggressive outcome associated with this tumor and because of differential diagnostic considerations, which include malignant lymphoma and metastasis from another primary, especially in tumors occurring in a pure form.
9795234: !synaptophysin Effect of chronic haloperidol treatment on synaptic protein mRNAs in the rat brain. Chronic haloperidol treatment caused significant decreases in the levels of synaptotagmin I and IV, synaptobrevin II, syntaxin 1A and Rab 3A mRNAs in the nucleus accumbens but not in the prefrontal cortex medial field, striatum, substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. No significant changes in SNAP 25 and synaptophysin mRNA levels were observed in any brain region examined. The reduced expression of synaptic proteins may be related to haloperidol-induced depolarization block of mesolimbic dopamine neurons.
9793203: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural characterization of central neurocytomas using collagen gel culture. Central neurocytoma is a rare brain tumor with neuronal differentiation. Cultured central neurocytoma cells are poorly described because of the tumor's scarcity. Two central neurocytomas were cultured using a monolayer culture for first few passages, and then a portion of each specimen was cultured in a collagen gel. Immunostaining for synaptophysin or glial fibrillary acidic protein performed on the primary culture revealed the presence of cells expressing synaptophysin and cells expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein. Cells expressing synaptophysin tended to disappear in passage 2, whereas the cells expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein remained. Ultrastructurally, samples in passage 5 obtained from the collagen gel cultures revealed neuron-like cells with prominent nucleoli, cell processes containing dense core vesicles and clear vesicles, and synapse-like structures. By contrast, samples obtained from passage 5 of monolayer cultures failed to reveal ultrastructural neuronal characteristics. These results suggest that spatial cell growth and the presence of collagen, i.e., extracellular matrix, may be necessary to retain neuronal differentiation in a central neurocytoma.
9792158: !synaptophysin Neuron-specific enolase and chromogranin A as markers of neuroendocrine tumours. Circulating neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and chromogranin A (CgA) were measured in 128 patients with neuroendocrine tumours (NET) to compare their sensitivity and specificity, to investigate factors associated with elevated serum levels and to determine the usefulness of these markers in the follow-up of NET patients. NSE (Cispack NSE, Cis Bio International, Gif-sur-Yvette, France; normal <12.5 microg l(-1)), and chromogranin A (CgA-Riact, Cis Bio International, normal <100 microg l(-1)) were measured in 128 patients without renal insufficiency. There were 99 patients with gastroenteropancreatic (GEP) NET, 19 with medullary thyroid carcinoma and ten with phaeochromocytoma. Fifty-three patients with non-NET were studied as controls. Serum NSE and CgA levels were elevated in 48 (38%) and 76 (59%) of the 128 NET patients respectively. In all groups of NET patients, CgA proved to be more sensitive than NSE. NSE and CgA had a specificity of 73% and 68% respectively. Immunostaining for NSE was positive in three out of eight controls with elevated CgA levels, whereas immunostaining for CgA and synaptophysin was negative in all cases. Elevated CgA levels were significantly associated with two independent parameters, namely the presence of other secretions (P = 0.0001) and a heavy tumour burden (P = 0.001). Elevated NSE levels were exclusively associated with poor tumour differentiation (P = 0.01). Among six patients with NET followed for 11-37 months, CgA appeared to be a better marker of tumour evolution than NSE. We suggest that CgA ought to be the only general marker screened in NET patients.
9790966: !synaptophysin Differential expression of rat brain synaptic proteins in development and aging. We have previously reported the differential involvement of synaptic proteins in Alzheimer's disease (AD). As AD is an aging-associated disease, in the present study we examined the developmental and aging-related changes in synaptic proteins such as synaptophysin, synaptobrevin, synaptotagmin, synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25), syntaxin 1/HPC-1 and drebrin in the rat brain. Immunoblot analyses of brain extracts from embryonic day 19 (E19) to postnatal 96-week-old rats indicated that the protein level of synaptophysin and synaptobrevin increased after birth, being highest at 24 weeks, and then decreased with aging. Synaptotagmin was detected at E19, with levels increasing after birth to 96 weeks. SNAP-25 levels were highest at 4 weeks, and then decreased with aging. Syntaxin 1/HPC-1 levels were high at E19 and 1 week, decreasing rapidly from 2 weeks onwards, and drebrin levels were highest at E19 and 1 week, and decreased during aging. The present results suggest that the expression of each synaptic protein is differentially regulated in development and aging.
9790863: !synaptophysin Differential extraction of proteins from paraformaldehyde-fixed cells: lessons from synaptophysin and other membrane proteins. While investigating the localization of synaptophysin in PC12 cells using immunofluorescence microscopy, we noticed a striking difference in its apparent subcellular distribution depending on whether digitonin or Triton X-100 was used as permeabilization agent of paraformaldehyde (PFA)-fixed cells. We found that this difference was due to epitope inaccessibility in the digitonin-treated cells combined with an almost quantitative extraction of the antigen on Triton X-100 permeabilization. Both phenomena were differential with respect to the various synaptophysin-containing compartments. The extraction of antigen from PFA-fixed cells was also seen with other membrane proteins but not with cytosolic proteins and proteins in the lumen of the secretory pathway. Significantly, some of the membrane proteins were extracted from the PFA-fixed cells in higher-molecular-weight forms which we believe represent their in vivo oligomeric states. The implications of our observations are discussed with respect to the method of immunofluorescence microscopy and also to the possible use of paraformaldehyde as an in vivo crosslinker for the study of membrane protein quaternary structure.
9790862: !synaptophysin Biogenesis of synaptic-like microvesicles in perforated PC12 cells. We have established a system that reconstitutes the biogenesis of synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs) in perforated cells of the rat neuroendocrine cell line PC12. The system is based on the biotinylation of synaptophysin, a marker of synaptic vesicles and SLMVs. Biotinylation is performed at 18 degrees C, a temperature at which formation of SLMVs is blocked and biotinylated synaptophysin accumulates in the SLMV donor compartment. The biotinylated PC12 cells are then perforated by scraping and incubated at 37 degrees C in the presence of ATP and cytosolic proteins, conditions required for SLMV biogenesis. After the perforated-cell reaction, the newly formed SLMVs are isolated by differential centrifugation followed by either glycerol gradient centrifugation or a simple single-glycerol-step centrifugation. The latter allows the analysis of many perforated-cell reactions in parallel and, hence, the dissection of the molecular machinery mediating SLMV biogenesis. Using this system, we have found that clathrin, dynamin, phosphatidylinositol transfer protein, and SH3P4 are involved in SLMV biogenesis.
9790110: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin with lymphoepithelioma-like features. We report a case of primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin (PNECS) mimicking a lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma of the skin (LELCS) with respect to both cytomorphology and the presence of a dense lymphoplasmacytic stroma. The tumor occurred in the left forearm of a 86-year-old woman, and its history was marked by aggressive behavior, with metastases to lymph nodes and to visceral sites within 1.5 years of diagnosis. The neoplastic epithelial cells had an immunophenotypic profile typical of PNECS, reacting for cytokeratin 20 and other low-molecular weight cytokeratins, neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament protein, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A. In addition, they were immunoreactive for epithelial membrane antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen, and S-100 protein, as observed in LELCS of supposed adnexal differentiation. The tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes were mostly of T-lineage, with a predominance of CD8+ cells. We believe the case is a morphologic variant of PNECS, retaining its aggressive behavior and high metastatic potential, and should not be confused with true LELCS, which has a more favorable outcome. Immunohistochemistry is paramount in establishing the diagnosis. Lymphoid infiltration, even if prominent, does not seem to be of favorable prognostic significance in such a context.
9786413: !synaptophysin Cellular terrain surrounding sympathetic nerve pathways in the rat orbit: comparisons of orbital connective tissue and smooth muscle cell phenotypes. Sympathetic axons are abundant within some orbital tissues but are absent from others. This study investigated cellular phenotypes of tissues containing sympathetic nerves en passage and compared these with phenotypes in regions devoid of sympathetic nerves and with smooth muscle targets. Two primary orbital smooth muscle targets, the tarsal muscle and orbital muscle, contained many synaptophysin-immunoreactive nerves. Target cells had ultrastructural features typical of smooth muscle and were immunoreactive for alpha-smooth muscle actin, smooth muscle myosin heavy chain, desmin, vinculin, and laminin, but not non-muscle myosin, vimentin, fibronectin, or type IV collagen; nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Periorbital sheath devoid of sympathetic nerves contained elongated fibroblasts that were immunoreactive for vimentin, non-muscle myosin, and fibronectin, but not for alpha-smooth muscle actin, smooth muscle myosin heavy chain, vinculin, desmin, laminin, or type IV collagen, and did not express NGF mRNA. Regions of periorbital sheath containing sympathetic nerves had few synaptophysin-immunoreactive varicosities. Cells in this region contained myofilaments, ribosomes, and rough endoplasmic reticulum and were larger than tarsal muscle cells. They expressed NGF mRNA and showed a unique immunophenotype, reacting for vimentin, alpha-smooth muscle actin and myosin heavy chain, desmin, vinculin, laminin, and type IV collagen. This phenotype reflects both fibroblast and smooth muscle features similar to myofibroblasts or transdifferentiated smooth muscle described in other tissues. The spatial association between these cells and sympathetic nerves suggests that they may be involved in axon guidance or maintenance.
9786246: !synaptophysin Characterization of a primary central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor and derivative cell line: immunophenotype and neoplastic properties. Primary central nervous system (CNS) atypical teratoid/malignant rhabdoid tumors (ATT/RhT) occur during early childhood and are almost invariably fatal. Expression of multiple phenotypes in ATT/RhT suggests the presence of an undifferentiated progenitor with the potential to differentiate along multiple lines. These properties have made it difficult to characterize the etiology and histogenesis of these tumors and complicate efforts to develop targeted therapies. This paper characterizes the immunophenotype of a human CNS ATT/RhT and describes the properties of a derivative cell line (Atrt95) which retained morphological and immunochemical characteristics of the parent tumor including diverse differentiation. Most tumor cells were strongly immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin and A2B5. Scattered, large tumor cells that showed a rhabdoid phenotype were immunoreactive for synaptophysin. The morphology of cultured Atrt95 cells was heterogeneous, but often fit into 1 of 3 classes that appeared to correspond to cell populations observed within the parent tumor including: 1) tightly-packed small-cell colonies, 2) large, well-spread highly motile cells and 3) arrays of elongated cells. In vitro assays demonstrated that growth of the entire culture was anchorage-dependent but not serum-dependent. Transplantation of Atrt95 cells into the rat spinal cord resulted in tumor growth and CNS invasion. Preliminary cytogenetics study revealed complex aneuploidy but no apparent monosomy or deletions of chromosome 22. The immunophenotype of this neoplasm and derivative cell line is consistent with a primitive glioneuronal lineage and its in vitro characteristics are that of an invasive malignancy similar to the naturally occurring tumor. This unique cell line (Atrt95) provides a valuable model to study the biology and genetics of the CNS ATT/RhT.
9786245: !synaptophysin Neocortical synapse density and Braak stage in the Lewy body variant of Alzheimer disease: a comparison with classic Alzheimer disease and normal aging. Substantial numbers of cortical and subcortical Lewy bodies are seen in approximately one quarter of patients whose brains show sufficient histopathologic changes for a neuropathologic diagnosis of definite Alzheimer disease (AD). This subset of cases has been named the Lewy body variant of AD (LBV). Despite comparable dementia and the presence of neocortical senile plaques in LBV patients, the overall burden of neuropathologic changes, in particular neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), is less than in classic AD. While NFT frequency correlates with dementia severity in classic AD, the cognitive impairment in patients with LBV cannot be completely explained by such changes. Since several studies have suggested a role for synapse loss in relation to dementia severity in classic AD, we decided to investigate the role of synapse loss as a candidate for the cognitive impairment of LBV. The Braak staging method is based upon the distribution and severity of neurofibrillary changes, and one therefore would expect LBV cases to be assigned to lower Braak stages. In the present study we assigned a Braak stage to 14 LBV cases, 31 classic AD cases, and a group of 10 non-demented aged controls. We compared the severity of synapse loss as determined by ELISA immunoassay for synaptophysin and Braak stage among the three diagnostic groups. When compared to normal controls, synaptophysin concentrations were statistically significantly lower in both demented groups. There was comparable synapse loss in LBV and AD despite significantly lower Braak stages in the LBV cases. These results suggest a major role for loss of synapses as the substrate of cognitive impairment in LBV.
9779292: !synaptophysin Myoid cells and neuroendocrine markers in myasthenic thymuses. We have studied myoid cells in normal and myasthenic thymuses as well as in thymomas. For the presence of neuroendocrine markers-producing cells and identification of synaptophysin (Syn) the immunohistochemical method and immunoblot analysis were used. Myoid cells can be demonstrated in the thymus of myasthenic patients in high number. These cells occur in the vicinity of Hassall's bodies but also within them. Some regenerated Hassall's bodies displayed majority of myoid cells with their concentric arrangement around the centrally situated lacunar-like cell with nuclei of monocytogenic origin. Such phenomenon may suggest cooperation of myoid cells and their epithelial transitional forms with monocytogenic cells in various thymic hormone production. It is likely that myoid cells are the source of some thymic epithelial cells. According to some authors, thymomatous epithelial cells and skeletal muscle share a common epitope defined by a monoclonal antibody (mAb), whereas thymic epithelial cells possess acetylocholine receptor (AChR) on their surface. The epithelial cells of some thymomas express also desmin. In normal thymuses of children, Syn and chromogranin A (Chg A) were demonstrated in some cells of Hassall's bodies by immunohistochemical method. In addition, antibodies to Syn stained nerve structures surrounding the thymic blood vessels. In myasthenic thymuses, Syn expression was in cortical and medullary epithelial cells, in myoid cells and only scanty and focal in keratinized epithelial cells of Hassall's bodies. The epithelial cells of some thymomas also express Syn. In some thymuses of all groups investigated in this study Chg A was seen in single cells of Hassall's bodies and focally in cortical epithelial cells. Our results show that in normal thymuses of cardiac surgery patients and in the adult myasthenic thymuses antibody raised against Syn recognized protein with molecular weight of 48,000 but not normal (38,000) Syn. It remains to be elucidated if the overexpression of synaptophysin-like protein in myasthenic thymuses is a compensatory phenomenon to the defect in normal synaptic function.
9779291: !synaptophysin Epithelial-mesenchymal cell interactions and participation of the neuroendocrine markers in tumor development. Immunohistochemical study. Existence of the organ stem cell population seems to decide on ability of the tissue to regenerate and, likewise, on carcinogenesis. The source of the organ specific stem cells may be perivascular mesenchyma of thin-walled vascular channels. Our previous study on the breast cancer indicates that the perivascular mesenchyma of thin-walled vessels appears to be source of myoid cells (myofibroblasts) from which cancer cells arise. Similar results have been observed in the cancers of lung, salivary gland and colon, investigated in the current study. The perivascular cells of thin-walled channels are the source of myoid cells with expression of synaptophysin (Syn) and/or chromogranin A (Chg A), and from these cells neoplastic cells could originate. Syn and/or Chg A positive neoplastic cells were particularly well visible in connection with the vascular channels on the peripheries of tumors while other parts of tumors were only weak positive or negative for those neuroendocrine markers. Similarly as in breast cancers, the S100-protein positive dendritic cells with various of distribution were seen, expressing intimate connection with neoplastic cells. The epithelial pearls especially abundant in non-small cell lung carcinomas demonstrated immunohistochemical analogy to Hassall's bodies: they had monocytogenic cell inside and they displayed thymosin alpha 1 (TA1), as well as mucin secretion and minute calcification. Some epithelial cells expressed desmin and Syn. All types of investigated cancers demonstrated TA1. Results of our present study suggest that the perivascular cells have a differentiation defect. Such defect may initiate abnormal stromal environment, commonly observed in neogenesis, however, the presence of thymic growth factors may favor tumor growth.
9778114: !synaptophysin Small cell (oat cell) carcinoma of the breast. A case of small cell (oat cell) carcinoma, which represents both the most distinctive and the least common type of breast carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation and usually shows the most aggressive behavior, is described. Radical mastectomy was performed on a 56-year-old female for a 10 cm tumor located in the outer part of the right breast with cutaneous ulceration Microscopically, the tumor predominantly consisted of a diffuse proliferation of small, round to ovoid cells with hyperchromatic nuclei and ill-defined, scant cytoplasm that was reminiscent of oat cell carcinoma of the lung. There were foci of invasive ductal carcinoma and ductal carcinoma in situ. Small cell carcinoma areas constituted approximately 90% of the neoplasm. The patient had axillary lymph node metastasis. The small tumor cells were argyrophilic and positive for CAM5.2, carcinoembryonic antigen, neuron-specific enolase, Leu-7, chromogranin A and synaptophysin. Flow cytometric analysis showed an aneuploid DNA content. The patient was alive and well without disease 4 years after surgery. Small cell carcinomas of the breast may exhibit a spectrum of malignancy that is comparable to similar tumors at better known primary sites.
9777979: !synaptophysin Papillary glioneuronal tumor: a new variant of mixed neuronal-glial neoplasm. We describe the clinicopathologic features of nine cases of a unique papillary glioneuronal tumor (PGNT) exhibiting astrocytic as well as extensive and varied neuronal differentiation. The four male and five female patients studied ranged in age from 11 to 52 years (mean 27.7 years). They either presented with mild neurologic symptoms or were asymptomatic. Magnetic resonance imaging showed demarcated cystic, 1.5-cm to 7-cm contrast-enhancing masses; five involved the temporal lobe, two the parietal, and two the frontal. All but one were totally resected. No recurrence was noted despite a follow-up period of 3 years. Two microscopic components were evident: 1) compact pseudopapillae composed of hyalinized vessels covered by a single layer of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes and 2) synaptophysin-positive neuronal cells of varying size, including neurocytes, ganglioid cells, and ganglion cells within neuropil. Immunostains for chromogranin-A were negative, as was in situ hybridization for chromogranin-A mRNA. Ultrastructurally, neuronal cells featured microtubule-containing processes and aberrant synaptic terminals, but dense core granules were rare. Overall, cellularity was moderate and atypia was minimal. No mitotic activity or necrosis was noted. The proportions of the two components varied, but essential morphologic findings were identical in all cases. In that the clinical, radiographic, and morphologic characteristics of PGNT are distinctive, it appears to represent a previously undescribed form of mixed neuronal-glial tumor of the central nervous system.
9776077: !synaptophysin Preganglionic fibers in the rat hypogastric nerve project bilaterally to pelvic ganglia. Stimulation of the hypogastric nerve (HGN) often evokes bilateral responses in some pelvic organs. Retrograde labeling studies indicate that axons of postganglionic neurons often cross to the opposite side. However, there is little information available as to whether preganglionic fibers in the HGN have a contralateral projection to pelvic ganglia. A retrograde tracer was injected into the left major pelvic ganglion (MPG) in rats receiving various lesions of preganglionic nerves (HGN and pelvic nerve, PN). The lumbar spinal cord was then examined for location and number of dye-filled neurons. In a second approach, the incidence of synaptophysin immunoreactivity (SN-IR) perineuronal profiles (baskets) was examined in the MPG and in the accessory pelvic ganglia (APG) after nerve lesions. Labeled neuronal profiles were found in spinal cord nuclei (Lumbar1-2) after dye injection of the MPG in animals with an intact contralateral HGN. Cutting both HGNs virtually eliminated dye labeling in the lumbar cord, as did severing commissural branches (CB) between pelvic ganglia (leaving the contralateral HGN intact). Some SN-IR baskets were found in the left APG when only the contralateral HGN was intact, but baskets were rare when all four preganglionic nerves were cut. It could not be determined whether the HGN projects to the contralateral MPG, since SN-IR baskets were numerous in the MPG even when all four nerves were cut. This study has shown that some preganglionic fibers in the HGN synapse on neurons in contralateral pelvic ganglia. Both the APG and MPG receive contralateral innervation, but it is likely that neurons in the APG are the primary target of this input. Thus, in addition to crossing postganglionic fibers, a portion of the bilateral control of pelvic tissues is accomplished by preganglionic fibers which target autonomic neurons in contralateral ganglia.
9775396: !synaptophysin Expression of neuronal markers in oligodendrogliomas: an immunohistochemical study. The oligodendroglioma has been considered to be a tumour showing oligodendrocyte differentiation, but studies of the expression of oligodendrocyte markers have not conclusively demonstrated this and the pattern of differentiation of this tumour remains uncertain. Recent studies have suggested that some oligodendrogliomas may show neuronal differentiation. The aim of this study was to determine whether there was evidence of neuronal differentiation in a series of oligodendrogliomas, and, if so, to determine whether this identified a biologically or clinically distinct group. Immunohistochemistry was carried out on paraffin sections using antibodies to synaptophysin, phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated neurofilament proteins. An archival series of 32 oligodendrogliomas had been previously characterized for histological features, histological grade, Ki-67 labelling index, apoptosis index and prognosis. Six per cent of tumours showed expression of synaptophysin. Thirty-one per cent of cases showed expression of neurofilament proteins with an antibody to non-phosphorylated epitopes, but no cases were positive with antibodies to phosphorylated neurofilament epitopes. Tumours showing expression of neuronal markers did not show a difference in the distribution of histological grade or GFAP expression from those which did not express these markers, and there was no difference in labelling indices or prognosis between the two groups. In conclusion, a subset of oligodendrogliomas showed expression of neuronal lineage markers; this is discussed in relation to histogenesis and differential diagnosis. The expression of such markers did not identify a biologically or clinically distinct subgroup.
9762398: !synaptophysin [Atypical carcinoid tumor of the thymus]. We report a male patient with atypical carcinoid tumor diagnosed by anterior mediastinotomy and biopsy after a mass was observed by chance on a chest film. The presence of neuroendocrine markers, notably chromogranin, cytokeratin, synapto-physin and neuro-specific enolase, facilitated diagnosis. Because the tumor was infiltrative, full surgical excision and radiotherapy to the mediastinum (50 Gy) were provided. We describe the incidence, clinical presentation, diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of these tumors.
9761455: !synaptophysin Intracerebroventricular administration of quinolinic acid induces a selective decrease of inositol(1,4,5)-trisphosphate receptor in rat brain. [3H]inositol(1,4,5)-trisphosphate (IP3) binding studies have shown decreased [3H]IP3 binding to brain tissue in several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's and Huntington's diseases. In addition, previous results obtained from brains of Alzheimer patients indicated a reduction of IP3-receptor protein correlated to neuronal loss. The neurotoxic effect of the glutamate receptor agonist quinolinic acid (QUIN) was therefore examined with respect to the level of IP3-receptor immunoreactivity in rat brain. Neuronal lesions were estimated with antibodies to marker proteins for striatal medium-sized spiny neurons (dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr 32,000; DARPP-32), synaptic vesicles (synaptophysin), mitochondria (phosphate-activated glutaminase; PAG) and glial cells (glial fibrillary acidic protein; GFAP). Injection of QUIN into rat neostriatum induced a massive loss of striatal medium-sized spiny neurons, and led to a comparable loss of IP3-receptor and PAG immunoreactivity, suggesting a neuronal localisation of both these proteins. In an effort to induce less pronounced excitotoxic damage, intracerebroventricular infusion of QUIN was performed. Following this lesion, the neostriatum showed a negligible loss of DARPP-32 immunoreactivity (-11+/-5%), but contained only 43+/-3% of IP3-receptor immunoreactivity levels compared to controls. In the hippocampus, cerebellum and entorhinal cortex, the IP3-receptor loss was less pronounced. The decrease in the level of IP3-receptor immunoreactivity appears to be selective with respect to the other proteins studied, and the IP3-receptor thus shows extreme sensitivity to QUIN neurotoxicity in the neostriatum.
9760144: !synaptophysin Localization of a novel septin protein, hCDCrel-1, in neurons of human brain. Synaptic function is critical for cell-cell communication and the characterization of proteins that function during vesicle formation, transport and fusion events will yield further insight into the mechanisms of synaptic transmission. We have cloned and characterized a gene product expressed in human brain called hCDCrel-1. This protein is a new member of the septin family of gene products that functions during cytokinesis in lower eukaryotes. In this study we characterize the expression of the hCDCrel-1 gene and localize the hCDCrel-1 protein to neurons in adult human brain. hCDCrel-1 co-purifies with SNAP-25 and synaptophysin marked synaptosomes, suggesting a novel function for this gene family in the brain. Our data indicate that members of the septin family of proteins may function in synaptic vesicle transport, fusion or recycling events in the human brain.
9756352: !synaptophysin Reduced O-glycosylated clathrin assembly protein AP180: implication for synaptic vesicle recycling dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease. Synapse loss is one of the neuropathologies in Alzheimer's disease (AD) that may play a crucial role in the mechanism of its distinct cognitive impairment and dementia. In a previous study [18], a significant reduction of O-glycosylated clathrin assembly protein AP180 was observed in neocortex of AD. The reduction correlated with the density of neurofibrillary tangles. In this study we further determine that the O-GlcNAc/AP180 ratio is not changed, but the level of AP180 protein decreases in AD. Furthermore, whereas the level of neurofilament (NF-M) remains relatively unchanged, another clathrin assembly protein, AP-2, is also reduced in AD along with a small loss of synaptophysin. Our findings suggest that synaptic vesicle recycling dysfunction may be involved in the pathology of synapse loss in AD.
9753184: !synaptophysin Brain Ac39/physophilin: cloning, coexpression and colocalization with synaptophysin. Physophilin is an oligomeric protein that binds the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin constituting a complex that has been hypothesized to form the exocytotic fusion pore. Microsequencing of several physophilin peptides putatively identified this protein as the Ac39 subunit of the V-ATPase. Ac39 has recently been shown to be present in a synaptosomal complex which, in addition to synaptophysin, includes the bulk of synaptobrevin II, and subunits c and Ac115 of the V0 sector of the V-ATPase. We have cloned physophilin from mouse brain and found a differential region of 12 amino acids when compared with the previously reported sequence of Ac39 from bovine adrenal medulla. RT-PCR cloning from the bovine adrenal medulla demonstrates that sequencing errors occurred in the previous cloning study, and shows that the amino acid sequences of physophilin and Ac39 are completely identical. In situ hybridization in rat brain reveals a largely neuronal distribution of Ac39/physophilin mRNA which spatio-temporally correlates with those of subunit c and synaptophysin. Immunohistochemical analysis shows that Ac39/physophilin is mostly concentrated in the neuropil with a pattern identical to subunit A and very similar to synaptophysin. Double-labelling immunofluorescence shows a complete colocalization of Ac39/physophilin with subunit A and a partial colocalization with synaptophysin in the neuropil. Our findings bring anatomical support for the in vivo occurrence of the synaptophysin-Ac39/physophilin interaction and further suggest a coordinated transcription of V-ATPase and synaptophysin genes. A putative role of Ac39/physophilin in the inactivation of the V-ATPase by disassembly of its V1 sector is also discussed.
9753183: !synaptophysin Immortalized gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons secrete gamma-aminobutyric acid-evidence for an autocrine regulation. The immortalized hypothalamic neuronal cell lines GT1-1 and GT1-7 represent unique model systems to investigate the physiological control of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, key proteins of regulated exocytosis, e.g. synaptotagmin, synaptobrevin and SNAP-25 (synaptosomal associated protein of 25 kDa) were found in GT1 neurons. In addition, GT1 neurons contained synaptophysin, a marker protein for small synaptic vesicles (SSVs) which are responsible for the storage of neurotransmitters such as gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Upon subcellular fractionation, a lighter vesicle population characterized by synaptophysin separated from a denser vesicle population containing GnRH. Both vesicle populations contained synaptobrevin and synaptotagmin. Besides GnRH, GT1 neurons expressed glutamic acid decarboxylase at the mRNA-level and synthesized GABA. More importantly, GT1 neurons took up and stored 3H-GABA. The stored GABA was released after stimulation with increasing K+ concentrations and by alpha-latrotoxin. Reducing the extracellular Ca2+-concentration abolished stimulated secretion, indicating that GABA was released by regulated exocytosis. Hormone secretion from GT1 neurons is controlled by GABA via GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors reflecting the situation in vivo. Our data provide the first evidence that GT1 neurons possess a second regulated secretory pathway sustained by SSVs storing and releasing GABA. The released GABA influences GnRH secretion by an auto- or paracrine loop.
9751142: !synaptophysin Developmental changes in localization of NMDA receptor subunits in primary cultures of cortical neurons. Immunoblot analysis, using antibodies against distinct N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor subunits, illustrated that the NR2A and NR2B subunit proteins have developmental profiles in cultured cortical neurons similar to those seen in vivo. NR1 and NR2B subunits display high levels of expression within the first week. In contrast, the NR2A subunit is barely detectable at 7 days in vitro (DIV) and then gradually increased to mature levels at DIV21. Immunocytochemical analysis indicated that NMDA receptor subunits cluster in the dendrites and soma of cortical neurons. Clusters of NR1 and NR2B subunits were observed as early as DIV3, while NR2A clusters were rarely observed before DIV10. At DIV18, NR2B clusters partially co-localize with those of NR2A subunits, but NR2B clusters always co-localize with those of NR1 subunits. Synapse formation, as indicated by the presence of presynaptic synaptophysin staining, was observed as early as 48-72 h after plating. However, in several neurons at ages less than DIV5 where synapses were scarce, NR2B and NR1 clusters were abundant. Furthermore, while NR2B subunit clusters were seen both at synaptic and extrasynaptic sites, NR2A clusters occurred almost exclusively in front of synaptophysin-labelled boutons. This result was supported by electrophysiological recording of NMDA-mediated synaptic activity [NMDA-excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs)] in developing neurons. At DIV6, but not at DIV12, CP101, 606, a NR1/NR2B receptor antagonist, antagonized spontaneously occurring NMDA-EPSCs. Our data indicate that excitatory synapse formation occurs when NMDA receptors comprise NR1 and NR2B subunits, and that NR2A subunits cluster preferentially at synaptic sites.
9748630: !synaptophysin Differential ultrastructural distribution of synapsin and synaptophysin proximal to a ligation in bovine splenic nerve. Synaptophysin and synapsin, closely correlated on synaptic vesicles in terminals, may show a differential distribution at synapse formation and maturation. In order to disclose the fine structural details of these differences, synapsin and synaptophysin distribution was studied by immunocytochemistry on ligated bovine splenic axons in vitro and compared with terminals in the vas deferens. In the synaptic differentiations taking place proximally synapsin could only be detected on the accumulating elements of the axonal reticulum. Large dense granules and clusters of small synaptic vesicles were negative. Synaptophysin was restricted to these clusters. In the vas deferens, co-localization of synapsin and synaptophysin could be seen on small vesicles. From their formation small synaptic vesicles carry synaptophysin. Synapsin may be involved in the dynamic membrane changes taking place at the ligation. At a functional terminal, synapsin shifts to small synaptic vesicles.
9747658: !synaptophysin Sensitivity of cross-reacting antihuman antibodies in formalin-fixed porcine skin: including antibodies to proliferation antigens and cytokeratins with specificity in the skin. Although no animal is a perfect skin model for the study of toxicological and therapeutic agents, structurally the pig may be superior to even non-human primates. Because our work involves effects of toxicological and therapeutic agents on the skin, we wanted to identify stains which may prove useful as well as determine cross-reactivity of some newer antihuman antibodies. We performed a battery of formalin-fixed skin from weanling pigs and minipigs. The battery of antibodies included LCA, CD3, OPD-4, CD34, UCHL-1, L-26, KP-1, MAC-387, Factor XIIIa, Leu-7, S-100 protein, HMB-45, GFAP, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, ubiquitin, vimentin, type IV collagen, laminin, fibronectin, Factor VIII related antigen, Desmin-M, smooth muscle actin, cytokeratin 7, cytokeratin 20, AEI/AE3, CAM 5.2, EMA, GCDFP, Ki-67, and PCNA. Immunohistochemical stains for CD3, Leu-7, S-100 protein, type IV collagen, laminin, Factor VIII related antigen, GFAP, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, ubiquitin, smooth muscle actin, vimentin, Desmin-M, cytokeratin 7, cytokeratin 20, AE1/AE3, CAM 5.2, Ki-67 and PCNA showed consistent cross-reactivity. In formalin-fixed tissue, only antibodies to lymphoreticular cells showed poor cross-reactivity. A high percentage of the remaining antibodies did show good cross-reactivity but with some interesting similarities and differences in specificity.
9744767: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation and nerves in human adrenal cortex and cortical lesions. Neuroendocrine differentiation and nerve distribution were studied in sections from human cortex (n=11) and cortical lesions (hyperplasias, n=9; adenomas, n=13; carcinomas, n=14) with four markers, namely chromogranin A(CgA), synaptophysin (SYN), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 and small synaptic vesicle protein (SV)2. All but two cases expressed neuroendocrine differentiation. NSE was the most commonly occurring marker and the NSE immunoreactive cells were detected in normal cortex, mainly in zona glomerulosa, as well as in adenomas and carcinomas. SYN and PGP 9.5 immunoreactive cells were especially prominent in the carcinomas, while SV2 immunoreactive cells were seen mainly in normal cortex. The difference in distribution pattern of the neuroendocrine markers between adenomas and carcinomas was not so distinct that it can be used for histopathological diagnosis. The significance of neuroendocrine differentiation in cortex and cortical lesions is uncertain, but may reflect an involvement in special hormonal functions. No obvious relationship was found between the clinical syndromes and the degree of neuroendocrine differentiation. Three of the neuroendocrine markers also visualized nerve structures. PGP 9.5, which is regarded as the most 'general' nerve marker, visualized more nerve structures than did the other markers. Normal cortex contained most immunoreactive nerves, whereas they were less numerous in hyperplasias and sparse or even absent in the neoplasms. The nerves appeared among the parenchymal cells but were particularly prominent around vessels. The results suggest that the cortical nerves influence not only the regulation of the blood supply but also the hormonal regulation at the cellular level.
9744424: !synaptophysin Glutamate antagonism during secondary deafferentation enhances cognition and axo-dendritic integrity after traumatic brain injury. The combination of central fluid percussion traumatic brain injury (TBI) followed 24 h later by a bilateral entorhinal cortical deafferentation (BEC) produces profound cognitive morbidity. We recently showed that MK-801 given prior to TBI in this insult improved spatial memory for up to 15 days. In the present study we examine whether MK-801 treatment of the BEC component in the combined insult model affects cognitive recovery. Two strategies for drug treatment were tested. Fifteen minutes prior to the BEC lesion in the combined insult, rats were given i.p. doses of either 3 mg/kg (acute group) or 1 mg/kg (chronic group) MK-801. The acute group received no further injections, whereas the chronic group received 1 mg/kg MK-801 i.p. twice a day for 2 days post-BEC lesion. Two additional groups of animals received BEC lesion alone and either acute or chronic MK-801 treatment identical with the combined insult cases. Each group was then assessed for spatial memory deficits with the Morris water maze at days 11-15 and 60-64 postinjury. Both acute and chronic MK-801 treatment in the combined insult group significantly reduced spatial memory deficits at 15 days postinjury relative to untreated injured cases (P < .01). This reduction appeared more robust at 15 days and persisted for up to 64 days in the chronically treated group (P < .05). By contrast, neither acute nor chronic MK-801 treatment affected memory performance with the BEC insult alone. Immunocytochemical localization of parvalbumin showed that chronic administration of MK-801 in the combined insult cases attenuated the injury-induced dendritic atrophy of inhibitory neurons in the dentate gyrus and area CA1. Synaptophysin immunobinding revealed that chronic MK-801 treatment of the BEC component of the combined insult normalized the distribution of presynaptic terminals within the dentate gyrus. These results suggest that cognitive deficits produced by head trauma involving both neuroexcitation and deafferentation can be attenuated with chronic application of glutamatergic antagonists during the period of deafferentation injury and that this attenuation is correlated with axo-dendritic integrity.
9744317: !synaptophysin Immunohistologic analysis of gastrointestinal and pulmonary carcinoid tumors. Carcinoid tumors are potentially malignant neoplasms that arise in various body sites, including the lung and gastrointestinal tract. Those that appear cytologically atypical are more likely to behave aggressively than more typical carcinoid tumors. However, in the absence of cytological atypia or large tumor size, it is difficult to predict the biology of an individual tumor, because some lesions metastasize, whereas others do not. This study had four aims: (1) To study the expression pattern of p53, Ki-67, NCAM, and S-100 in carcinoid tumors and to relate these expression patterns to classical histopathologic features and to tumor location. (2) To identify nonhistological markers that might more accurately predict the early behavior of carcinoid tumors. (3) To determine whether sustentacular cells are present in carcinoid tumors arising in tissues derived from different embryological derivatives. (4) To determine the synaptophysin and chromogranin immunoreactivity in neuroendocrine tumors arising in various locations. The immunostaining reactions were quantitatively scored by three observers. Only 3 of the 39 tumors (all histologically atypical) were strongly positive for Ki-67; two of these were also strongly p53 immunoreactive. NCAM immunostaining differed according to the site of origin: 76.5% of foregut lesions, 58% of the midgut lesions, and 20% of hindgut lesions were positive. S-100 immunostaining ranged from 41% in foregut lesions to 50% in both the hindgut- and midgut-derived tumors. S-100-positive sustentacular cells were present in 20.5% of carcinoid tumors. All tumors stained with antibodies against synaptophysin. In contrast, 100% of midgut, 60% of hindgut, and 88% of foregut tumors were chromogranin positive. Carcinoid tumors tend to have low proliferative rates. p53 immunostaining tends to be strongly positive in tumors that are histologically atypical, but it is negative in typical carcinoid tumors arising in the gastrointestinal tract and lungs. Immunostaining reactions with antibodies to NCAM, S-100, and chromogranin differ depending on the site of origin. Synaptophysin stains 100% of carcinoid tumors regardless of their site of origin. In contrast, antibodies to chromogranin fail to stain 40% of hindgut tumors and 12% of foregut carcinoid tumors. S-100-positive sustentacular cells are present in foregut and midgut tumors but not in hindgut tumors.
9742154: !synaptophysin Spinal cord neuronal precursors generate multiple neuronal phenotypes in culture. Neuronal restricted precursors (NRPs) () can generate multiple neurotransmitter phenotypes during maturation in culture. Undifferentiated E-NCAM+ (embryonic neural cell adhesion molecule) immunoreactive NRPs are mitotically active and electrically immature, and they express only a subset of neuronal markers. Fully mature cells are postmitotic, process-bearing cells that are neurofilament-M and synaptophysin immunoreactive, and they synthesize and respond to different subsets of neurotransmitter molecules. Mature neurons that synthesize and respond to glycine, glutamate, GABA, dopamine, and acetylcholine can be identified by immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, and calcium imaging in mass cultures. Individual NRPs also generate heterogeneous progeny as assessed by neurotransmitter response and synthesis, demonstrating the multipotent nature of the precursor cells. Differentiation can be modulated by sonic hedgehog (Shh) and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2/4 molecules. Shh acts as a mitogen and inhibits differentiation (including cholinergic differentiation). BMP-2 and BMP-4, in contrast, inhibit cell division and promote differentiation (including cholinergic differentiation). Thus, a single neuronal precursor cell can differentiate into multiple classes of neurons, and this differentiation can be modulated by environmental signals.
9741482: !synaptophysin Early synaptogenesis in vitro: role of axon target distance. In contrast to some previous reports suggesting a delay in synapse formation in vitro, we found that under ideal conditions, most hippocampal and hypothalamic rat neurons were synaptically coupled after 3 or 4 days in vitro. Synaptophysin immunocytochemistry revealed strongly stained presynaptic boutons by 3 days in vitro. Studies with time-lapse laser confocal imaging of FM1-43 revealed that axonal boutons were recycling their synaptic vesicles, an indication of synapse formation, as early as 3 days after plating. To test the hypothesis that neurite outgrowth was enhanced in high-density cultures, thereby increasing the probability of synapse formation, neurons were transfected with the jellyfish green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene. After 2 days in high-density cultures, green fluorescent neurites were about three times longer than in sister neurons plated in low-density cultures. Even in single dishes, GFP-transfected cells in contact with other neurons had neurites that were at least three times longer and grew faster than more isolated cells. Neurons grew longer neurites (+51%) when growing on surface membranes of heat-killed neurons than on polylysine, underlining the importance of plasma membrane contact. Calcium imaging with fura-2 and whole cell recording showed that both GABA and glutamate presynaptic release occurred after 3 or 4 days in vitro in high-density cultures but was absent in low-density cultures at this time. Together, these morphological, cytochemical, and physiological data suggest that the distance an axon must grow to find a postsynaptic partner plays a substantial role in the timing of synapse formation. Although other factors in vitro may also play a role, the distance to a postsynaptic target, which defines the interval during which an axon grows to its target, can probably account for much of the difference in timing of synapse formation previously reported in vitro. A short intercell distance may increase the concentration of limited amounts of trophic factors available to a nearby cell, and once contact is made, a neuronal membrane provides a superior substrate for neuritic elongation.
9739145: !synaptophysin Physical training modifies the age-related decrease of GAP-43 and synaptophysin in the hippocampal formation in C57BL/6J mouse. We investigated the effect of a moderate amount of prolonged physical training initiated at 3 months of age on the expression of GAP-43 and synaptophysin in the hippocampal formation. C57BL/6J mice were divided into three groups which were trained (24 months old), sedentary (24 months old) and young (3 months old). From 3 months of age on, mice of trained group were treated with voluntary running wheel for 1 h each day (5 days per week) until 24 months of age (21 months running), whereas mice of sedentary group were put in immobilized wheels for the same time. Using immunohistochemistry and image analysis system, GAP-43 and synaptophysin were analysed quantitatively in the CA1, CA3 areas and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. As compared with young mice, the densities of GAP-43 and synaptophysin immunostaining showed a significant decrease in the hippocampal formation in sedentary group (P<0.01). After 21 months of running, the densities of GAP-43 and synaptophysin immunostaining significantly increased in the examined areas of the hippocampal formation in trained mice compared to their age-matched sedentary controls (P<0.05, 0.01). These results indicate that a moderate amount of prolonged physical training could modify the age-related decrease of the expression of GAP-43 and synaptophysin in the hippocampal formation, and that the increased expression of GAP-43 and synaptophysin might be associated with the anatomical sprouting and synaptogenesis.
9737244: !synaptophysin Nephroblastoma-like tumors in patients with testicular germ cell tumors. Nephroblastoma-like tumors (NLTs) developed in metastatic sites in nine men with testicular germ cell tumors (GCTs). These tumors had a characteristic "triphasic" admixture of primitive tubular structures, sometimes with a glomeruloid pattern, blastema and stroma. Skeletal muscle differentiation was apparent in two cases. Specific neuroendocrine markers (synaptophysin and chromogranin A) were negative. All patients were treated by surgical excision. Six patients were alive with no evidence of disease from 4 to 12 years after diagnosis of GCT and NLT. One patient was alive with disease 6 years after diagnosis of GCT and 3 years after diagnosis of NLT. One man who also had metastatic primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) had short survival, and one patient died of postoperative infection. We conclude that patients with testicular GCTs in whom NLTs develop in metastatic sites often experience prolonged survival. Surgical excision appears to be adequate treatment for NLT arising in metastatic testicular GCT in most patients. It is important to distinguish NLTs from PNETs in metastatic GCTs because of the more aggressive course and the frequently fatal outcome of the latter.
9737241: !synaptophysin Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor of the central nervous system: a highly malignant tumor of infancy and childhood frequently mistaken for medulloblastoma: a Pediatric Oncology Group study. Fifty-five patients with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumors of the central nervous system were studied to define the clinical and pathologic features of this newly described neoplasm. The lesion occurred primarily in children younger than 2 (mean age at diagnosis, 17 months). The neoplasms were located in the posterior fossa (36 patients) and the supratentorial compartment (17 patients) or were multifocal in both compartments (2 patients) at presentation. Histologically, the tumors were composed of small cells and large, pale cells in a jumbled architectural arrangement. The small cell component resembled medulloblastoma and occasionally had cords of cells in a mucinous background, simulating chordoma. The cytoplasm of the larger cells was conspicuous with a somewhat "rhabdoid" appearance, although rhabdoid features were not always prominent. Epithelioid features in the form of poorly formed glands or Flexner-Wintersteiner rosettes were noted in a minority of lesions. The neoplasms showed striking polyphenotypic immunoreactivity, including that for vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, epithelial membrane antigen, cytokeratins, synaptophysin, chromogranin, and smooth muscle actin. Using a probe for chromosome 22, seven of eight scorable cases showed a solitary signal by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) consistent with monosomy 22. The eighth scorable case showed three signals by fluorescence in situ hybridization and had a translocation involving chromosome 22 reported by conventional cytogenetics. In contrast to patients with medulloblastoma, the neoplasm with which these lesions are often confused, the outcome of the patients was uniformly poor. The mean postoperative survival of patients with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumors was only 11 months. Local recurrence, seeding of the cerebrospinal fluid pathways, or both, were common terminal events. This study underscores the distinctive clinical, histopathologic, immunohistochemical, and cytogenetic character of this unusually aggressive tumor.
9737237: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation is a common feature of thymic carcinoma. Immunohistochemical evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation in the form of reactivity for synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, and/or chromogranin was found in 11 of 19 (58%) thymic carcinomas having the typical morphologic features of that tumor type. Four of these 19 cases were studied ultrastructurally, and neuroendocrine-type cytoplasmic dense-core granules were found in two. In contrast, 84 thymomas were negative for these markers, except for a focal immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase in areas of medullary differentiation in half of the lymphocyte-rich tumors. The results of this study show that in the thymus, similar to most other organs, neuroendocrine differentiation is not limited to tumors with an identifiable neuroendocrine appearance in hematoxylin-eosin-stained slides, such as carcinoid tumor and small cell carcinoma, but rather that it represents a common event shared by the major types of malignant epithelial tumors of that organ.
9736648: !synaptophysin TrkB and neurotrophin-4 are important for development and maintenance of sympathetic preganglionic neurons innervating the adrenal medulla. The adrenal medulla receives its major presynaptic input from sympathetic preganglionic neurons that are located in the intermediolateral (IML) column of the thoracic spinal cord. The neurotrophic factor concept would predict that these IML neurons receive trophic support from chromaffin cells in the adrenal medulla. We show here that adrenal chromaffin cells in the adult rat store neurotrophin (NT)-4, but do not synthesize or store detectable levels of BDNF or NT-3, respectively. Preganglionic neurons to the adrenal medulla identified by retrograde tracing with fast blue or Fluoro-Gold (FG) express TrkB mRNA. After unilateral destruction of the adrenal medulla, 24% of IML neurons, i.e., all neurons that are preganglionic to the adrenal medulla in spinal cord segments T7-T10, disappear. Administration of NT-4 in gelfoams (6 microgram) implanted into the medullectomized adrenal gland rescued all preganglionic neurons as evidenced by their presence after 4 weeks. NT-3 and cytochrome C were not effective. The action of NT-4 is accompanied by massive sprouting of axons in the vicinity of the NT-4 source as monitored by staining for acetylcholinesterase and synaptophysin immunoreactivity, suggesting that NT-4 may enlarge the terminal field of preganglionic nerves and enhance their access to trophic factors. Analysis of TrkB-deficient mice revealed degenerative changes in axon terminals on chromaffin cells. Furthermore, numbers of FG-labeled IML neurons in spinal cord segments T7-T10 of NT-4-deficient adult mice were significantly reduced. These data are consistent with the notion that NT-4 from chromaffin cells operates through TrkB receptors to regulate development and maintenance of the preganglionic innervation of the adrenal medulla.
9733904: !synaptophysin Expression of neurotrophins and neurotrophin receptors in the cerebellum of mutant weaver and lurcher mice. To test the hypothesis whether a failure to express neurotrophins or a neurotrophin receptor might underlie the pathology observed in mutant mice with degeneration of regionally distinct subpopulations of neurons, the expression of BDNF, NT-3, TrkB, TrkC and synaptophysin mRNA was examined in the cerebellum of mutant lurcher (lc/+) and weaver (wv/+)/(wv/wv) mice. To identify the expression patterns of individual neurons, we used in situ hybridization with digoxigenin labeled ribonucleotide probes. RT-PCR of cerebellar mRNA for BDNF, NT-3, TrkB and TrkC (GAPDH as internal standard) was performed in parallel. Although especially in homozygous (wv/wv) weaver mice the normal anatomical order and number of the cerebellar neurons is grossly disturbed, residual Purkinje and granule neurons of both mutants displayed a normal expression pattern of the neurotrophins examined. Thus, the affected animals showed no significant signal decrease compared to healthy littermates or C3H mice. Our results suggest that the loss of specific neuron populations in the cerebellum of either mutant occurs via mechanisms either independent or downstream of the neurotrophins examined in this study.
9730157: !synaptophysin Undifferentiated carcinoma of the liver with neuroendocrine features: a case report. Undifferentiated carcinoma of the liver is very rare. A 54-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for a detailed examination of multiple liver tumors. These tumors were high or low echoic on ultrasonography, but not enhanced by contrast medium in dynamic computed tomography. A fine-needle aspiration biopsy specimen of the tumor showed undifferentiated carcinoma. The serum level of neuron-specific enolase was high (357 ng/ml) and the immunohistochemical stain of the biopsy specimen was positive for synaptophysin. We diagnosed the patient as having undifferentiated carcinoma of the liver with neuroendocrine features. The patient was treated with combined systemic chemotherapy: etoposide 100 mg/m2/day for three days plus cisplatin 80 mg/m2/day on day one. He achieved a partial response, the duration of which was 7+ months. The serum neuron-specific enolase levels were decreased to the normal range after chemotherapy. Primary liver carcinoma with neuroendocrine features is extremely rare, but in a suspicious case it is important to measure the serum levels of neuroendocrine markers and make a histological confirmation, because chemotherapy may be effective for this disease.
9726369: !synaptophysin Beta1 integrin deficiency impairs migration and differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cell derived neurons. Cell-matrix interaction plays an important role during neuronal development, which is demonstrated by comparing wild type (D3)- and beta1 integrin-deficient (G201) embryonic stem cell derived neurons. In D3 preparations complex networks of functionally coupled neurons with bi- and multipolar morphologies develop. In contrast, neuronal differentiation is retarded in G201 derived neurons, recognised by limited migration and restricted morphological differentiation. Furthermore, beta1 integrin deficiency causes a delay in expression of major neurotransmitters like GABA and glutamate as well as of synaptophysin. These findings indicate a prominent role of beta1 integrin for both morphological and chemical differentiation.
9723951: !synaptophysin Receptors involved in nerve-mediated vasoconstriction in small arteries of the rat hepatic mesentery. 1. We have investigated the neurotransmitters and receptor subtypes involved in nerve-mediated vasoconstriction in small arteries of the rat hepatic mesentery. 2. A dense sympathetic innervation was demonstrated using catecholamine histochemistry and antibodies against the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. 3. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) demonstrated very strong expression of the alpha1A-adrenergic, neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1, P2X1- and P2X4-purinergic receptors, moderate expression of the alpha2B-adrenergic receptor and the purinergic P2X5- and P2X7-receptors and weak expression of the alpha1B-, alpha1D-, alpha2A- and alpha2C-adrenergic receptors and the P2X2- and P2X3-purinergic receptors. NPY2 and P2X6 receptor expression was absent. 4. Electrical field stimulation (10 Hz, 10 s) produced contractions which were abolished by tetrodotoxin (10(-6) M) and/or guanethidine (GE, 5 x 10(-6) M) and a combination of benextramine (10(-5) M) and alpha,beta-methylene ATP, (alpha,beta-mATP, 3 x 10(-6) M) or PPADS (10(-5) M). Selective alpah1-adrenergic receptor antagonists showed the potency order of prazosin > WB-4101 > 5-methyl-urapidil > BMY 7378. Yohimbine (10(-8) M, 10(-7) M), alpha,beta-mATP (3 x 10(-6) M) and PPADS (10(-5) M) each enhanced the response to nerve stimulation. 5. Some experiments demonstrated a slow neurogenic contraction which was abolished by GE or the selective NPY1 receptor antagonist 1229U91 (6 x 10(-7) M). 6. We conclude that nerve-mediated vasoconstriction results from the activation of postsynaptic alpha,beta-adrenergic and P2X-purinergic receptors and under some conditions, NPY1 receptors. Neurotransmitter release is modulated by presynaptic alpha2-adrenergic receptors and possibly also P2X-purinoceptors. The major postsynaptic subtypes involved were well predicted by mRNA expression as measured by RT-PCR, suggesting that this technique may be a useful adjunct to studies aimed at identifying functional receptor subtypes.
9723201: !synaptophysin Gap junctions and nerve terminals among stromal cells in human fallopian tube ampullary mucosa. The purpose of the present study is to investigate the ultrastructure and immunohistochemistry of the stromal cells and terminal nerve fibers in human fallopian tube ampullar mucosa to achieve a detailed characterization of this tissue to permit a better assessment of possible functions. Tissues were obtained during surgery or at autopsy from 26 patients. Specimens were studied by the conventional histologic technique, immunohistochemistry (Cx43, synaptophysin, neurofilament proteins, and S-100 protein), and electron microscopy. Gap junction and nerve terminal frequency between stromal cells were studied by direct assessment on ultrathin sections in the transmission electron microscope. Gap junctions were observed between the cytoplasmic processes of subepithelial stromal cells. There were approximately 23 gap junctions per 73 nucleated stromal spindle cells. Immunohistochemistry using Cx43 antibody confirmed the dot-like distribution of gap junctions. The frequent and intimate association of stromal cell processes with nerve terminals was also demonstrated. Nerve terminals were immunostained by antibodies to nerve-specific molecules and ultrastructurally as axonal profiles containing dense-cored granules or empty vesicles. Analysis of nerve terminal frequency revealed 18 nerve profiles containing 51 axonal profiles per 73 nucleated stromal spindle cells. The present paper documents the participation of autonomic nerve endings and gap junctions in the stromal cell network in human fallopian tube stroma. Similarities to the unique anatomical unit referred to as the 'neuro-reticular complex' in bone marrow tissue (Yamazaki and Allen, 1990) are discussed.
9721920: !synaptophysin Evidence for a role for synaptophysin in expression of long-term potentiation in rat dentate gyrus. Maintenance of long-term potentiation in perforant path-granule cell synapses is accompanied by increased glutamate release. Here we investigate the role of synaptophysin in release and in expression of long-term potentiation in dentate gyrus. We report that long-term potentiation was accompanied by increased endogenous glutamate release and increased tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptophysin, but these changes were attenuated when long-term potentiation was inhibited by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor tyrphostin AG879 or by the NMDA antagonist D-aminophosphonovalerate. In vitro analysis revealed that KCl-induced glutamate release was abolished in synaptosomes prepared in the presence of antisynaptophysin. The data suggest a role for synaptophysin in release and indicate that activation of tyrosine kinase and synaptophysin phosphorylation contribute to long-term potentiation perhaps by modulating glutamate release.
9720507: !synaptophysin Inhibin A is a sensitive and specific marker for testicular sex cord-stromal tumors. We compared the expression of inhibin A, chromogranin, synaptophysin, S-100 protein, cytokeratins AE1/AE3, 7, and 20, and estrogen and progesterone receptors in testicular sex cord-stromal tumors: 11 Sertoli cell tumors, 3 Sertoli cell adenomas (nodules), 26 benign Leydig cell tumors, 7 malignant Leydig cell tumors (defined clinically by metastatic behavior), and a variety of germ cell tumors. Inhibin was the most sensitive marker, expressed in 91% of the Sertoli cell tumors and 100% of the Sertoli cell adenomas and Leydig cell tumors. The non-neoplastic Sertoli and Leydig cells invariably stained for inhibin. Conversely, no germ cell tumors were immunoreactive. One testicular tumor of the adrenogenital syndrome was immunoreactive. Neuroendocrine marker immunoreactivity was variable. Chromogranin was expressed in the non-neoplastic Sertoli and Leydig cells, 82% of the Sertoli cell tumors, 92% of the benign Leydig cell tumors, and 43% of the malignant Leydig cell tumors. Synaptophysin was expressed in the non-neoplastic Sertoli and Leydig cells, 45% of the Sertoll cell tumors, and 70% of the Leydig cell tumors, in approximately similar proportions between the benign and malignant Leydig cell tumors. S-100 protein was expressed in 64% of the Sertoli cell tumors, 8% of the benign Leydig cell tumors, and none of the malignant Leydig cell tumors. Cytokeratins AE1/AE3 were expressed in 64% of the Sertoli cell tumors and 42% of the Leydig cell tumors, with similar proportions in the benign and malignant cases. Estrogen and progesterone receptor expression were identified in 24 and 39% of benign and malignant Leydig cell tumors, respectively. We conclude that inhibin is a characteristic marker for Sertoli and Leydig cells and that it serves to differentiate testicular sex cord-stromal tumors from germ cell tumors.
9717129: !synaptophysin Histopathological and immunohistochemical studies of intracranial nervous-system tumours in four cattle. Intracranial nervous-system tumours were diagnosed in three of 1092 bovine necropsy specimens submitted to the Department of Veterinary Pathology, Obihiro University between April 1983 and March 1996. A fourth case was a referral from the Department of Veterinary Pathology, Rakuno Gakuen University. Histopathological examination revealed four types of tumour: intracranial malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour (MPNST), choroid plexus papilloma, differentiated fibrillary astrocytoma and anaplastic (malignant) astrocytoma. Immunohistochemically, the intracranial MPNST was strongly positive for S-100 protein and vimentin, and in places weakly positive for glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP). The choroid plexus papilloma was strongly positive for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), keratin, S-100 protein and vimentin, and positive for GFAP in places. The cytoplasm and fibrous component in the differentiated fibrillary astrocytoma were strongly positive for S-100 protein and GFAP. The anaplastic (malignant) astrocytoma was strongly positive for vimentin, S-100 protein and keratin in the cytoplasm and fibrous processes, and weakly positive for GFAP and EMA in places. Myelin basic protein (MBP) and synaptophysin showed a weak positive reaction in the marginal areas of the tumour.
9716672: !synaptophysin Qualitative and quantitative analysis of synapses in Hirschsprung's disease. In Hirschsprung's disease (HD), certain intestinal nervous plexuses are absent. Sprouting nerve endings contain different amounts of synaptophysin (SY), a protein and main constituent of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) storage compartments. Due to the lack of specific markers for synapses, a qualitative analysis of nerve endings of intestinal segments affected by HD has not yet been undertaken. For this study, resected colorectal specimens from patients with HD (n = 8, mean age 2.1 years) were investigated in parallel for AChE, SY, and content of small synaptic vesicles by biochemical, immunohistochemical, and electronmicroscopic means. In the microdissected muscular layer, reduced SY (1.4 microgram/mg total protein, normal 24 +/- 0.3) was observed. Immunohistochemistry showed in affected tissues reduced numbers of SY-positive nerve fibers and nerve endings, which in turn were thickened and distorted, in both the muscle proper and the muscularis mucosae. Combining both morphologic and biochemical findings, in HD the number of cholinergic vesicles in the remaining nerve endings seems to be increased as measured by SY, a marker molecule specific for synaptic vesicles. Our data also suggest that nerve endings in HD may contain high concentrations of cholinergic vesicles, paralleling the known high amounts of acetylcholine and AChE found in intestinal segments of patients with HD.
9712909: !synaptophysin Neuronal Ca2+ sensor 1, the mammalian homologue of frequenin, is expressed in chromaffin and PC12 cells and regulates neurosecretion from dense-core granules. Neuronal Ca2+ sensor 1 (NCS-1) is the mammalian homologue of the Ca2+-binding protein frequenin previously implicated in regulation of neurotransmission in Drosophila (Pongs, O., Lindemeier, J., Zhu, X. R., Theil, T., Endelkamp, D., Krah-Jentgens, I., Lambrecht, H.-G., Koch, K. W., Schwemer, J., Rivosecchi, R., Mallart, A., Galceran, J. , Canal, I., Barbas, J. A., and Ferrus, A. (1993) Neuron 11, 15-28). NCS-1 has been considered to be expressed only in neurons, but we show that NCS-1 expression can be detected in bovine adrenal chromaffin and PC12 cells, two widely studied model neuroendocrine cells. NCS-1 was present in both cytosolic and membrane fractions including purified chromaffin granules, and in immunofluorescence, its distribution overlapped with peripheral punctate staining seen with the synaptic-like microvesicle marker synaptophysin in PC12 cells. The possible functional role of NCS-1 in exocytosis of dense-core granules was tested using transient transfection in PC12 cells and assay of co-transfected growth hormone (GH) release. Overexpression of NCS-1 increased evoked GH release in intact cells in response to ATP. No effect of overexpression was seen on GH release because of Ca2+ in permeabilized cells suggesting that NCS-1 may have a regulatory but not direct role in neurosecretion.
9712424: !synaptophysin Small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses. Small cell neuroendocrine carcinomas (SNECs) of the sinonasal tract are extremely uncommon tumors. We reviewed the clinicopathologic features of six cases of this neoplasm. There was no sex preponderance with three females and three males and a mean age at presentation of 51 years (range, 38 to 68). Two patients had disease limited to the nasal cavity, and in four the tumor involved the nasal cavity and maxillary or ethmoid sinuses. Involvement of the orbit was present in two patients. Surgery was the primary treatment. After a mean follow-up of 37 months, one patient died of local disease and liver metastases, four were alive with recurrent or metastatic disease, and one died of unrelated causes. The tumors were composed of sheets, nests, and trabeculae with extensive areas of necrosis and hemorrhage. The individual cells were small to intermediate in size and had scanty cytoplasm. The nuclei were oval or round and hyperchromatic with absent or inconspicuous nucleoli. Nuclear molding and crush artefact were present in five cases. All tumors had a high mitotic rate with frequent abnormal mitotic figures. All cases stained for Cam 5.2, neuron-specific enolase, and chromogranin. Five cases were positive for AE1:AE3, and four for synaptophysin. No case stained for S-100 protein, or neurofilaments. O-13 stained one case. No case contained EBV-RNA. SNECs of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses are aggressive tumors with pathological features similar to those of anaplastic small cell carcinomas of the lung. They exhibit morphological and immunophenotypic features different from olfactory neuroblastoma and should be distinguished from this tumor.
9708916: !synaptophysin Structure and expression of mitsugumin29 gene. Recently mitsugumin29 unique to the triad junction in skeletal muscle was identified as a novel member of the synaptophysin family; the members of this family have four transmembrane segments and are distributed on intracellular vesicles. In this study, we isolated and analyzed mouse mitsugumin29 cDNA and genomic DNA containing the gene. The mitsugumin29 gene mapped to the mouse chromosome 3 F3-H2 is closely related to the synaptophysin gene in exon-intron organization, which indicates their intimate relationship in molecular evolution. RNA blot hybridization and immunoblot analysis revealed that mitsugumin29 is expressed abundantly in skeletal muscle and at lower levels in the kidney. Immunofluorescence microscopy demonstrated that mitsugumin29 exists specifically in cytoplasmic regions of the proximal and distal tubule cells in the kidney. The results obtained may suggest that mitsugumin29 is involved in the formation of specialized endoplasmic reticulum systems in skeletal muscle and renal tubule cells.
9702862: !synaptophysin Ganglion cells in Ewing's sarcoma following chemotherapy: a case report. A case of Ewing's sarcoma of the bone, arising in the right radius of a 12-year-old girl, which showed unique histologic features after pre-operative treatment, is reported. The light microscopic features of a biopsy sample were those of a small round cell tumor showing positive immunoreaction with antibodies against the product of the MIC 2 gene (O13), neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament, and synaptophysin, but no morphological differentiation. The patient received combined intensive multi-drug chemotherapy and radiation before surgery. Examination of the surgical specimen showed that the tumor was less cellular than that in the biopsy specimen, and was composed mainly of loosely textured large cells mimicking ganglion cells, occasionally forming Homer-Wright rosettes. An immunohistochemical study revealed that neural differentiation was enhanced. Immunoreactivity for Leu-7 also became positive. Although the patient underwent postoperative chemotherapy, she died of multiple lung and bone metastases 30 months after the diagnosis. Autopsy showed that metastatic foci were made up of densely packed small round cells like those seen in the biopsy samples, but associated with prominent Homer-Wright rosettes. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of a tumor being replaced almost entirely by ganglion cells after pre-operative chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
9701020: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast with Merkel cell carcinoma-like features. A case of neuroendocrine carcinoma of the breast with Merkel cell carcinoma-like features occurring in a 38-year-old female is described. A 2.5 x 2.5 x 1.3 cm tumor in the upper-outer quadrant of the right breast was ill-defined, yellowish white and rubbery. Microscopically, the tumor was characterized by a diffuse proliferation of non-cohesive round cells. The tumor cells had round nuclei with finely dispersed chromatin and inconspicuous nucleoli. The cytoplasm was generally scant, pale to eosinophilic, and argyrophilic. There were scattered foci of small nests or intraductal proliferations. Immunohistochemically, many tumor cells showed positive reaction for CAM5.2, vimentin, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin. The tumor was also positive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), Leu-7, calcitonin, S-100 protein, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Flow cytometric analysis showed that the tumor was DNA diploid. An axillary lymph node was positive for metastasis. The patient was well, without disease, for 6 years after mastectomy. It is suggested that the tumor might originate from ductal cells and show Merkel cell carcinoma-like neuroendocrine differentiation.
9700577: !synaptophysin Expression of neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and Leu-7 in lung cancer cell lines. Recent reports indicate that Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC) responds favorably to chemotherapy, and this response is associated with the expression of neuroendocrine (NE) markers. However, the currently available reports on the expression of NE markers in SCLC and Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) are highly inconsistent and need to be reevaluated. Therefore, we have undertaken the current study to clearly define the expression of NE markers in SCLC and NSCLC using representative cell lines. We studied the NE markers, chromogranin A, Neuron specific enolase (NSE), Leu-7 and synaptophysin using various immunochemical and molecular biological methods. By employing Western blotting method, we found that both SCLC and NSCLC cells express large amounts of NSE and chromogranin A. The natural killer cell surface associated antigen (Leu-7) was expressed specifically only by SCLC cell lines. This finding was further confirmed by immunofluorescence staining of the SCLC cells. We could not detect any synaptophysin levels in any of the above cell types by Western blotting technique. Therefore, we employed reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT.PCR) to study the expression of synaptophysin mRNA and found that both SCLC and NSCLC cells express it, albeit in different amounts.
9700057: !synaptophysin The deep muscular plexus of the pig duodenum: a histochemical and ultrastructural study with special reference to the interstitial cells. The aim of the present study was to describe the deep muscular plexus of the pig duodenum and to characterize its cellular components. Numerous nerve varicosities have been detected in the deep muscular plexus using anti-synaptophysin antibodies. Nerve fibres were also detected here in the outer circular muscle layer, whereas no nerve fibres were observed in the inner circular muscle layer. In the deep muscular plexus, nerve fibres projected to interstitial cells which were characterized at the ultrastructural level. The interstitial cells were of two kinds: the interstitial fibroblastic-like cells (FLC) and the interstitial dense cells (IDC), both of which were interposed between nerve fibres and smooth muscle cells. The FLC were characterized by their elongated bipolar shape, the lack of basal lamina, a well-developed endoplasmic reticulum, a Golgi apparatus, and intermediate filaments. They were closely apposed to axon terminals containing small clear synaptic vesicles and/or dense-cored vesicles. They were frequently connected to each other and to smooth muscle cells of the inner and outer circular layer by desmosomes and more rarely by gap junctions. The IDC are myoid-like cells. They had a stellate appearance and were characterized by a dense cell body, numerous caveolae, and a discontinuous basal lamina. The IDC were always closely apposed to nerve fibres and were connected to smooth muscle cells by desmosomes and small gap junctions. The present results show the unique pattern of cellular organization of the deep muscular plexus of the pig small intestine. They suggest that the interstitial cells in the deep muscular plexus are involved in the integration and transmission of nervous inputs from myenteric neurons to the inner and outer circular muscle layers. The clear-cut distinction observed here between the two types of interstitial cells (fibroblastic and myoid-like) suggests that the interstitial cells of each type may also be involved in some other specific activity, which still remains to be determined.
9699153: !synaptophysin Expression of Rab3A GTPase and other synaptic proteins is induced in differentiated NT2N neurons. Postmitotic NT2N cells, which are derived from human NT2 teratocarcinoma cells by treatment with retinoic acid (RA) and mitotic inhibitors, are viewed as a good in vitro model for mature neurons of the human central nervous system. Although NT2N cells exhibit many morphological and biochemical characteristics of neurons, the expression of key protein components involved in regulated exocytosis have not been firmly established. Here we show by immunoblot analysis that mature morphologically differentiated NT2N cells contain readily detectable quantities of the synaptic vesicle-associated proteins, synaptobrevin, synapsin, and synaptophysin. They also express the presynaptic plasma membrane protein, SNAP-25, and a Rab GTPase implicated in the control of Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, Rab3A. These proteins were not detected in untreated NT2 cells or cells exposed to RA for only 6 d. The induction of an array of proteins known to be involved in the docking and fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane provides further support for the validity of NT2N cells as a model for human cortical neurons and suggests that these cells may be useful for in vitro molecular studies of the Ca(2+)-regulated exocytic pathway in nerve terminals.
9694576: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine properties of adrenocortical cells. Recent data suggest that adrenocortical cells under pathological as well as under physiological conditions show neuroendocrine properties. Within the normal adrenal, this neuroendocrine differentiation seems to be restricted to cells of the zona glomerulosa and might be important for an autocrine regulation of adrenocortical function. In addition, such neuroendocrine differentiation is a common phenomenon in adrenocortical carcinomas and is therefore of clinical importance. In our studies, the expression of neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) could be shown in the zona glomerulosa of the normal human adrenal and in the human adrenocortical cell line NCI-H295 that also produces synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle associated protein. In this chapter, data on neuroendocrine characteristics of adrenocortical cells are summarized and discussed.
9693930: !synaptophysin Unusual features of metastatic atypical carcinoid of the larynx. This report describes a case of atypical carcinoid of the larynx with metastatic tumor to cervical lymph nodes showing features similar to paraganglioma. Immunohistochemically, both the primary and metastatic tumor were positive for epithelial membrane antigen, cytokeratin, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin, calcitonin and carcinoembryonic antigen. The sustentacular cells in pseudo-cell ball ("Zellballen") formations were shown by a positive S-100 marker. Electron microscopic analysis revealed numerous neuroendocrine granules measuring 150-250 nm in diameter. Clinical features, histological appearance, histochemical, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural findings, as well as differential diagnosis are discussed.
9692851: !synaptophysin Determination of synapsin I and synaptophysin in body fluids by two-site enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Two-site enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) have been established for the specific and sensitive determination of two membrane proteins of the small synaptic vesicles (SSV), namely: peripheral synapsin I and integral synaptophysin. The ELISA used highly specific capture monoclonal antibodies (mAB) and polyclonal antibodies (pAB) as detectors. For synapsin I, the mAB were newly generated, whereas for synaptophysin, the commercially available mAB SY38 was applied. In order to calibrate the ELISA and to raise pAB, both proteins were purified in the mg-range. Synapsin I was purified by conventional means from human and porcine brain and synaptophysin was purified by immunoaffinity chromatography from porcine brain. Using the ELISA, neither synapsin I nor synaptophysin could be determined in serum or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from healthy donors or patients suffering various neurological disorders or pheochromocytomas. For this reason, the degradation of both proteins in serum and CSF was investigated. With the exception of synaptophysin measured in serum, both proteins exhibited fast rates of degradation. Despite the negative results in human body fluids, the two ELISA are appropriate for the quantification of these membrane proteins in neuronal or neuroendocrine cell extracts or preparations of SSV.
9684589: !synaptophysin Exfoliative cytology of neuroendocrine small cell carcinoma of the endometrium. A report of two cases. In the female genital tract, neuroendocrine small cell carcinoma can occur in the endometrium as well as the cervix, ovary and vagina. This tumor has a high propensity for systemic spread and a poor prognosis. Small cell carcinoma of the endometrium is cytologically identical to its counterparts in the lung and other sites. Its characteristic appearance in a cervicovaginal smear should raise concern about small cell carcinoma. Other tumors of the uterus should be considered in the differential diagnosis, including adenocarcinoma with neuroendocrine features, small cell nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, endometrial stromal sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, primitive neuroectodermal tumor, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and metastatic breast carcinoma.
9681813: !synaptophysin Primary hepatic carcinoid tumor with a paranuclear clear zone: a case report. Carcinoid tumors having distinct paranuclear clear zones seen on hematoxylin and eosin stain are rare and few cases have been reported in the literature. Furthermore, primary hepatic carcinoid tumor with a paranuclear clear zone is extremely rare. We recently experienced a case from a 48-year-old man who presented a large single mass, 12 cm in largest diameter, in the right lobe of the liver. Histologically, the tumor revealed characteristic organoid pattern with central hyaline degeneration. The tumor cells had a prominent paranuclear vacuolated dear zone. On immunohistochemistry, tumor cells were diffusely positive for synaptophysin and focally stained for chromogranin A. Ultrastructural examination revealed paranuclear aggregation of intermediate filaments and membrane-bound clear vesicles, which corresponded to the paranuclear vacuolated clear zone.
9681646: !synaptophysin A comparative immunohistochemical study of pancreatic islets in laboratory animals (rats, dogs, minipigs, nonhuman primates). The aim of the present study was to distinguish and describe the patterns of distribution of pancreatic islets within the pancreas of four species of laboratory animals, including rats, dogs, minipigs and monkeys, and furthermore, to identify immunohistochemically various islet cell types and characterize their content. Histopathological examinations were performed on sections stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and immunostained using rabbit polyclonal antibodies (pAb) against insulin, glucagon, pancreatic polypeptide (PP), somatostatin, chromogranin A, keratin, bombesin and gastrin, or mouse monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against synaptophysin, Leu-7 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in three-step rabbit immunoperoxidase (PAP) and streptavidin/peroxidase (StreptABC/HRP) reactions. Positive immunohistochemical reactions were observed in the pancreatic islets of all animal species with all antibodies, except with anti-bombesin and anti-gastrin antibodies. Our results revealed that: 1) there is species specific regional arrangement of islets in the pancreas, 2) each species presents a characteristic distribution of cells producing different hormones. 3) immunoreactivity with immunohistochemical markers varies between species and/or age. The present comparative immunohistochemical study could be helpful for answering questions which are important for understanding some of the intricate mechanisms that govern the integrated function of the endocrine pancreas.
9679147: !synaptophysin Bassoon, a novel zinc-finger CAG/glutamine-repeat protein selectively localized at the active zone of presynaptic nerve terminals. The molecular architecture of the cytomatrix of presynaptic nerve terminals is poorly understood. Here we show that Bassoon, a novel protein of >400,000 Mr, is a new component of the presynaptic cytoskeleton. The murine bassoon gene maps to chromosome 9F. A comparison with the corresponding rat cDNA identified 10 exons within its protein-coding region. The Bassoon protein is predicted to contain two double-zinc fingers, several coiled-coil domains, and a stretch of polyglutamines (24 and 11 residues in rat and mouse, respectively). In some human proteins, e.g., Huntingtin, abnormal amplification of such poly-glutamine regions causes late-onset neurodegeneration. Bassoon is highly enriched in synaptic protein preparations. In cultured hippocampal neurons, Bassoon colocalizes with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin and Piccolo, a presynaptic cytomatrix component. At the ultrastructural level, Bassoon is detected in axon terminals of hippocampal neurons where it is highly concentrated in the vicinity of the active zone. Immunogold labeling of synaptosomes revealed that Bassoon is associated with material interspersed between clear synaptic vesicles, and biochemical studies suggest a tight association with cytoskeletal structures. These data indicate that Bassoon is a strong candidate to be involved in cytomatrix organization at the site of neurotransmitter release.
9678515: !synaptophysin Purkinje cells in olivopontocerebellar atrophy and granule cell-type cerebellar degeneration: an immunohistochemical study. We carried out immunohistochemical studies on cerebellar Purkinje cells in sporadic olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA) and in granule cell-type cerebellar degeneration (gc-CD). The cell bodies, axons and dendrites including spiny branchlets and dendritic spines of normal Purkinje cells were intensely stained by the antibody against P400 glycoprotein/inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor protein (P400/IP3R). The staining pattern of OPCA Purkinje cells was heterogeneous: some were negative, while others were stained with various intensities. Although a small number of P400/IP3R-positive Purkinje cells in OPCA were similar to the normal ones, the immunoreaction products in OPCA Purkinje cells disappeared from the dendritic spines and spiny branchlets toward the cell bodies. Some of OPCA Purkinje cells were stained by the antibodies to phosphorylated neurofilament proteins (pNFP), synaptophysin and alphaB-crystallin. Normal Purkinje cells did not express pNFP, synaptophysin or alphaB-crystallin. By contrast, the staining pattern of the Purkinje cells of gc-CD case was uniform: almost all the Purkinje cells expressed P400/IP3R in cell bodies, axons and dendrites, but not in the dendritic spines and spiny branchlets. Our data suggest that the function of OPCA Purkinje cells is impaired from the peripheral dendrites toward the cell bodies, and that the presence of aberrant phosphorylation of neurofilament proteins, synaptophysin and alphaB-crystallin may be related to the degeneration of Purkinje cells in OPCA. In the gc-CD, our results suggest that the lack of P400/IP3R immunoreactivity in dendritic spines and spiny branchlets of the Purkinje cells is related to the loss of inputs from the granule cells as well as the result of maldevelopment of the Purkinje cells.
9676745: !synaptophysin Fast axonal transport of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) in cholinergic neurons in the rat sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve, as a part of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), has been used to study axonal transport for decades. It contains motor, sensory as well as autonomic axons. The present study has concentrated on the axonal transport of the synaptic vesicle acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), using the "stop-flow/nerve crush" method. After blocking fast axonal transport by means of a crush, distinct accumulations of various synaptic vesicle proteins, including VAChT, and peptides developed during the first hour after crush-operation and marked increases were observed up to 8 h post-operative. Semiquantitative analysis, using cytofluorimetric scanning (CFS) of immuno-incubated sections, revealed a rapid rate of accumulation proximal to the crush, and that the ratio between distal accumulations (organelles in retrograde transport) and proximal accumulations (organelles in anterograde transport) was about 40%. Most synaptic vesicle proteins were colocalized in the axons proximal to the crush. VAChT-immunoreactive axons were also immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). Autonomic axons with VAChT also contained VIP-LI. The results demonstrate (1) that VAChT, as well as other synaptic vesicle proteins, is transported with fast axonal transport in motor axons as well as in autonomic post-ganglionic neurons in this nerve, (2) VAChT colocalized in motor axons with SV2 as well as with synaptophysin, indicating storage in the same axonal particle, (3) in the autonomic postganglionic sympathetic cholinergic fibres, VAChT colocalized with VIP, but VIP-LI was present in rather large granular structures while VAChT-LI was present mostly as small granular elements, (4) in motor as well as in autonomic axons ChAT-LI was present in VAChT-positive axons, and (5) the ratio of recycling (retrogradely accumulated) VAChT-IR was about 40%, in contrast to the recycling fraction of synaptophysin that was about 70%.
9674024: !synaptophysin [Central neurocytoma]. A central neurocytoma (CN) is a rare tumor, of neuronal origin, well-differentiated and found intraventricularly. It mainly affects young adults. Firm diagnosis is made on immunohistochemical (IHQ) and ultrastructural studies, since on optic microscopy it is similar in appearance to an oligodendroglioma or to an ependymoma.
9672191: !synaptophysin Differentiation in paediatric peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumours of bone. A critical contribution to its assessment. Differentiation was studied in 73 paediatric peripheral primitive neurorectodermal tumours (pPNETs) of bone observed during 1974 through 1992. The presence of rosettes, pseudorosettes, and/or a rosette-like arrangement of tumour cells (the morphological neural marker, MNM) occurred in 29% of these cases. NSE and N-CAM were expressed by nearly all tumours; synaptophysin was present in 30% of cases, not significantly associated with the MNM status. Neuroendocrine (NE) markers were present in 25% (chromogranin B, secretogranin II) to 40% (chromogranin A, 7B2 protein) of cases. Focal expression of cytokeratins, S100 protein and/or desmin was also noted in a minority of cases. In univariate statistical analysis, only the presence of MNM conferred a significantly higher (about twofold) risk of death than its absence. This study demonstrates the occurrence of at least one immunocytochemical N and/or NE differentiation marker in all pPNETs of bone and a focal expression of cytokeratins, S100 protein and/or desmin in a minority of cases. Synaptophysin and MNM were present each in less than 1/3 of the cases, and no association was noted between them. Statistical analyses highlighted the prognostic role of MNM per se and discourage the sole use of immunocytochemistry in the assessment of neuroectodermal differentiation for prognostic purposes in paediatric pPNETs of bone.
9671670: !synaptophysin Differential regulation of synaptic vesicle protein genes by target and synaptic activity. Differentiation of presynaptic nerve terminals involves changes in gene expression; these may be regulated by synaptic transmission and/or by contact with the target muscle. To gain insight into the control of presynaptic differentiation, we examined the regulation by target and synaptic activity of synaptic vesicle protein (SVP) genes in the chick ciliary ganglion (CG). In the CG, two SVP genes, synaptotagmin I (syt I) and synaptophysin II (syp II), are coordinately upregulated at the time of target contact. To test the hypothesis that this upregulation is induced by target contact, we examined mRNA levels of syt I and syp II in CGs from embryos in which one eye had been removed before axon outgrowth. As expected, target removal prevented the normal upregulation of syt I mRNA in the deprived ganglion. In contrast, and unexpectedly, syp II mRNA upregulation was not affected. The target dependence of syt I upregulation was not attributable to nerve-muscle transmission, because blockade of this transmission had no effect on SVP mRNA levels. Surprisingly, blockade of synapses onto CG neurons from the brain also did not affect syt I mRNA levels but increased levels of syp II mRNA. We conclude that contact with target induces upregulation of syt I mRNA, which is the case for spinal motor neurons. However, the normal upregulation of syp II mRNA is not controlled by the same signal(s). Instead, our results suggest that these two SVP genes are differentially regulated, both by target contact and by blockade of synaptic transmission.
9671284: !synaptophysin Amyloid beta protein is internalized selectively by hippocampal field CA1 and causes neurons to accumulate amyloidogenic carboxyterminal fragments of the amyloid precursor protein. A critical issue concerning Alzheimer's disease is its selectivity, which leads to cellular degeneration in certain brain areas but not in others, and whether this pathogenic selectivity involves products of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Here, we show that the amyloid beta protein Abeta1-42 is accumulated gradually and is retained intact by field CA1, but not by other subdivisions, of organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. In contrast, the slightly shorter Abeta1-40 peptide was not sequestered selectively. Sequestration of Abeta1-42 was followed by the build-up of carboxyterminal fragments of the endogenous precursor protein that were identified by immunoprecipitation. Unlike the peptide uptake, this induction appeared to be stochastic at the cellular level. In addition, the APP fragments were distributed more broadly within the CA1 pyramidal neurons than the sequestered Abeta1-42, and they appeared to be localized to synaptic terminals in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the subfield CA3. Concentrations of synaptophysin, a presynaptic marker, decreased as the number of neurons producing amyloidogenic species increased. These results indicate that exogenous Abeta1-42 sets into motion a sequence that involves 1) selective uptake of the peptide by vulnerable cells at risk in Alzheimer's disease, 2) markedly enhanced production of amyloidogenic precursor material, and 3) slow deterioration of central synapses.
9670829: !synaptophysin Teratocarcinosarcoma of the paranasal sinuses: a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study. We report four cases of sinonasal teratocarcinosarcoma (SNTCS), a rare malignant tumor that displays combined features of an immature or malignant teratoma and a carcinosarcoma. The patients, three men and one woman, were all adults ranging in age from 21 to 69 years who presented with nasal obstruction and epistaxis. The tumors were typically composed of round cells and short spindle cells with neuroectodermal/rosette-like structures. Also seen were foci of fetal-like squamous epithelium, glandular epithelium, immature mesenchyme, immature cartilage, and neuronal differentiation. Immunohistochemistry performed in three cases showed expression of vimentin, CD99 (MIC2), and neuron-specific enolase in most cells, and focal expression of cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, alpha fetoprotein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, chromogranin, and synaptophysin. The tumors were consistently negative for beta human chorionic gonadotrophin, neurofilament protein, and leukocyte common antigen. The entities considered in the differential diagnosis were poorly differentiated carcinomas, sarcomas, and olfactory neuroblastoma. We suggest that these neoplasms arise from a primitive cell capable of organized divergent differentiation.
9666689: !synaptophysin [Small cell carcinoma of the kidney. A case report]. We report a case of small cell carcinoma of the kidney in a 61-year-old female. Chief complaints were left lumbago, gross hematuria and high fever. The computed tomography revealed a large invasive tumor in the left renal pelvis with renal pedicle lymph nodes swelling. Systemic chemotherapy with methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin (M-VAC) showed a considerable effect and left nephrectomy was performed. But she died within 3 months postoperatively. Histologically, the tumor was composed of hyperchromatic small cells with increased N/C ratio. Immunohistochemical studies revealed positive staining for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, NSE, EMA, cytokeratin, and argyrophilic (Grimelius) silver impregnation stain. Electron microscopy revealed neurosecretory granules also. In conclusion, the present case was diagnosed as small cell carcinoma of the kidney with only 12 similar cases reported in the world literature.
9665483: !synaptophysin Multiple neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas in von Hippel-Lindau disease patients: histopathological and molecular genetic analysis. Although pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) in von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease have been reported, their pathological features have not been characterized. In addition, it is unknown whether alterations of the VHL gene are responsible for pancreatic NET development. To evaluate NETs in VHL patients, we performed histopathological analysis of 30 pancreatic tumors in 14 patients. In addition, DNA from NETs and normal pancreatic tissue from 6 patients with documented germ-line VHL gene mutations was studied for allelic deletions of the second copy of the VHL gene by fluorescence in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction-based single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis. Morphologically, the tumors were characterized by solid, trabecular, and/or glandular architecture and prominent stromal collagen bands. Sixty percent of the tumors revealed at least focally clear-cell cytology. All tumors were positive for panendocrine immunohistochemistry markers (chromogranin A and/or synaptophysin); 35% of NETs demonstrated focal positivity for pancreatic polypeptide, somatostatin, insulin, and/or glucagon; and no immunostaining for pancreatic and gastrointestinal hormones was observed in 65% of tumors. Dense core neurosecretory granules were evident by electron microscopic examination, and the clear cells additionally revealed abundant intracytoplasmic lipid. All NETs that were subjected to genetic analysis showed allelic loss of the second copy of the VHL gene. We conclude that multiple, nonfunctional pancreatic NETs occur in VHL patients. Stromal collagen bands and clear-cell morphology are important histological features of VHL-associated NETs. The presence of allelic deletions of the VHL gene in pancreatic NETs provides direct molecular evidence for a role of the gene in their tumorigenesis and establishes NET as an independent tumor type of VHL disease.
9664117: !synaptophysin Molecular characterization and liposomal transfection of a p53-mutated cell line established from a poorly differentiated leiomyosarcoma. A human cell line LMS6-93 has been established from a leiomyosarcoma (LMS). Characteristics for ultrastructure, growth characteristics, cell cycle distribution, karyotype, protein expression detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC), p53 mutational status and liposomal transfection behaviour were studied and determined. The primary tumor was clearly positive for á-smooth muscle type actin and desmin in moderately differentiated areas and indicated a loss of myogenic differentiation in other regions and therefore was classified as a poorly differentiated LMS. The cell line LMS6-93 contains mainly polymorphic spindle shaped or polygonal tumor cells which possess the characteristics of primitive mesenchymal cells, based on their morphology and positive reaction with an antibody to vimentin. IHC staining for S100, synaptophysin A, NSE, neurofilament proteins and cytokeratins were negative. Cytogenetic analysis revealed in the cell line diploid karyotypes comparatively close to several structural and numerical aberrations for chromosomes 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 12, 14, 17, 18, 20, 22, and Y. IHC positivity was found for the tumor suppressor protein Rb and the oncogene product MDM2. In a p53 mutational analysis a 1 bp insertional mutation in exon 6 (G insertion in codon 215) was detected and confirmed in the original primary tumor. The other p53 allele appears to be wild-type as indicated in Western hybridization. Using different cationic lipid formulations complexed with a reporter expression vector (GFP) successful transfection into LMS6-93 cells was observed. The highest transfection rates (20-30% GFP expression in the viable cell population) were obtained with lipofectin. These results suggest that LMS6-93 functions as a good in vitro model for transfection studies on an LMS cell line carrying a heterozygous p53-frameshift mutation.
9658328: !synaptophysin Two synchronous solid and cystic tumors of the pancreas. We report a 17-year-old woman who had two synchronous solid and cystic tumors of the pancreas (SCTP) detected by abdominal echography and computed tomography. There was a 6 x 5 cm mass in the pancreatic body and a 3 x 3 cm mass in the tail, with the two lesions being separate. No distal metastases were detected. The resected tumors consisted of solid and cystic components and both were well demarcated with fibrous capsules. The larger tumor was predominantly solid and the smaller one was mostly hemorrhagic. On microscopy, the tumor cells were small, eosinophilic, and arranged, in part, like pseudorosettes. The tumor cells were immunohistochemically positive for alpha-1 antitrypsin, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin. The final diagnosis was SCTP arising synchronously and independently at two sites. As far as we know, only one case of multicentric SCTP has been reported previously. Local recurrence of SCTP suggests the possibility of multicentric occurrence, and we believe that reports of such cases may increase in the future with advances in echography and computed tomography.
9635682: !synaptophysin Distinction of basaloid squamous cell carcinoma from adenoid cystic and small cell undifferentiated carcinoma by immunohistochemistry. Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma (BSCC) is a recently recognized variant of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) with a predilection to occur in the tongue base, hypopharynx, and supraglottic larynx. In smal biopsy specimens, these tumors can be difficult to distinguish from small cell undifferentiated carcinoma (SCUC) and adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC). Monoclonal antibodies reactive with cytokeratin (AE1/AE3, 34betaE12, Cam 5.2) as well as a variety of other cellular antigens (vimentin, actin, desmin, chromogranin, synaptophysin, CD57, neuron-specific enolase [NSE], and S100) were used in an immunoperoxidase method with paraffin-embedded tissue to phenotypically characterize 23 cases of BSCC, 10 cases of SCUC, and 15 cases of ACC. The neoplastic cells in 22 of the 23 cases of BSCC reacted with the high-molecular-weight cytokeratin antibody 34betaE12, whereas no reactivity was seen in any of the 10 cases of SCUC. This pattern of 34betaE12 reactivity more consistently differentiated BSCC from SCUC than did reactivity with the neuroendocrine markers chromogranin, synaptophysin, CD57, and NSE. These findings show that immunoperoxidase stains performed on paraffin-embedded tissue are potentially useful in establishing a diagnosis of basaloid squamous cell carcinoma.
9651004: !synaptophysin Developmental changes in human cerebellum: expression of intracellular calcium receptors, calcium-binding proteins, and phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein. Few recent data are available on the development of the precise projection maps of the cerebellar cortex in humans. To address this topic, we studied temporal and spatial distribution of several antigens involved in calcium (Ca)-dependent processes: the intracellular Ca receptors, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1) and ryanodine receptor (RyR); the Ca-binding proteins, calbindin D-28k (CB), parvalbumin (PV), and synaptophysin; and phosphorylated (SMI 31) and nonphosphorylated (SMI 32) forms of neurofilament protein. All antigens were studied in the human cerebellum during intrauterine development. The results of this study show that immunocytochemical markers appeared in the following sequence: CB and both forms ofneurofilament protein were observed at 4-5 gestational weeks (g.w.), PV appeared in the external granular layer and in a few Purkinje cells at 11 g.w., a diffuse immunostaining for IP3R1 and synaptophysin were observed at 13 g.w., whereas RyR was observed at 17-18 g.w. From 24 g.w. on, Purkinje cells expressed all four examined markers of intracellular Ca signaling as well as two forms of neurofilament protein. At the same time, compartmentation of the Purkinje cell layer was detected with three intracellular Ca-signaling molecules (IP3R1, CB, and PV) and with SMI 32. These results indicate that the developmentally regulated expression of antigens studied here may play a role in establishing a highly regular organization of terminal fields in the human cerebellar cortex. Moreover, the initial expression of these antigens is correlated temporally with other developmental processes in the cerebellum, such as cellular maturation, revealed by the immunoreaction to cytoskeletal protein, and synaptogenesis, revealed by immunoreaction to synaptophysin.
9650758: !synaptophysin Mixed dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor and ganglioglioma. We report a case of a 15-year-old girl with new onset seizures, who had a mixed dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT) and ganglioglioma of the right parieto-occipital lobe. The tumor appeared well demarcated and exhibited a low T1 and a high T2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging. Architecturally it was in large part intracortical and multinodular, but also featured a leptomeningeal component. The former corresponded to DNT, a proliferation of oligodendroglia-like cells (OLCs) arranged in nodules, as well as comprising a diffuse internodular element featuring "floating neurons" in a mucoid matrix. The leptomeningeal portion of the lesion was a ganglioglioma consisting of large neurons and astrocytes in association with marked desmoplasia. Spatially, the two components abutted one another but appeared distinct. Immunohistochemistry showed the neurons of the ganglioglioma to be positive for class III beta-tubulin, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A, whereas the astrocytic cells stained only for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Most OLCs in the DNT were positive for S-100 protein. This apparently mixed lesion suggests that a close histogenetic relationship exists between DNT and ganglioglioma. We postulate that the pluripotential progenitor cells residing in the subpial granular layer may have given rise to the cortical DNT and to the leptomeningeal ganglioglioma. To our knowledge, this is the first detailed histological, immunochemical and ultrastructural report of a mixed DNT and ganglioglioma.
9650750: !synaptophysin Phenytoin alters Purkinje cell axon morphology and targeting in vitro. In adult mice, administration of the anticonvulsive drug phenytoin caused focal swellings along the Purkinje cell axon correlated with ataxia and incoordination of movements. In our model, we used murine cerebellar slice cultures to study the influence of phenytoin on postnatal Purkinje cell axon differentiation. Almost all of our untreated cultures developed to mature-like cerebellar tissue. Immunohistochemistry with anti-calbindin-D28k or UCHTI (anti-CD3) antibodies revealed numerous Purkinje cell axons in the white matter. In the area of the deep cerebellar nuclei, immunolabelled axons formed a large axonal plexus. The few neurofilament-positive neurons in this area were densely covered with Purkinje cell axon terminals. The synaptophysin immunoreactivity revealed connections between the terminals and the neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei. Treatment of cerebellar slice cultures with phenytoin (10-80 microM) for 10-16 days resulted in focal swellings of different size along the axon. The number of swellings increased with an increasing dosage. At concentrations of 40 microM phenytoin, Purkinje cell axons seemed to be unable to invade the deep cerebellar nuclei, but numerous aberrant, recurrent collaterals could be detected immunohistochemically with the two specific Purkinje cell antibodies. Possible cytotoxic effects after treatment, such as dendritic degeneration and a decrease in the number of immunolabelled Purkinje cells, were observed above 40 microM phenytoin. These data suggest that the response of juvenile Purkinje cells is dependent upon the dosage of the antiepileptic drug because of morphological alterations as well as a misrouting of previously established connections.
9648885: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicle protein SV2B, but not SV2A, is predominantly expressed and associated with microvesicles in rat pinealocytes. Microvesicles are endocrine counterparts of neuronal synaptic vesicles, and accumulate and secrete classic neurotransmitters. In mammalian pinealocytes, microvesicles accumulate L-glutamate through a vesicular glutamate transporter and secrete it through exocytosis. To characterize the molecular organization of microvesicles in more detail, we investigated in this study the expression and localization of synaptic vesicle protein 2 (SV2) in rat pinealocytes. RT-PCR analysis indicated that transcripts specific for two isoforms, SV2A, a ubiquitous form present in neuronal and endocrine cells, and SV2B, a neuron-specific form, are amplified in pineal RNAs. Northern blotting with specific transcripts indicated that the mRNA for SV2B is predominantly expressed, whereas that for SV2A is below the detection limit. Site-specific antibodies against SV2B recognized a single 72-kDa polypeptide in the pineal membrane fraction, whereas anti-SV2A antibodies did not recognize any polypeptides. Immunohistochemical analysis of cultured cells indicated that SV2B is expressed in pinealocytes but not in other types of cells. SV2B is present in somata and is especially rich in processes, which are filled with microvesicles. SV2B is colocalized with synaptophysin and synaptotagmin, markers for microvesicles. Immunoelectron microscopy indicated that SV2B is associated with microvesicles. These results indicated that SV2B, but not SV2A, is expressed in rat pinealocytes and associated with microvesicles. As SV2B is also expressed in cultured alphaTC6 clonal pancreatic a cells, SV2B is not a protein specific for neurons.
9648883: !synaptophysin Expression pattern of synucleins (non-Abeta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein/alpha-synuclein) during murine brain development. The non-Abeta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (NACP) is predominantly a neuron-specific presynaptic protein that may play a central role in neurodegeneration because NACP fragments are found in Alzheimer's disease amyloid and a mutation in the NACP gene is associated with familial Parkinson's disease. In addition, NACP may play an important role during synaptogenesis and CNS development. To understand better the patterns of NACP expression during development, we analyzed the levels of this protein as well as the levels of another synaptic protein (synaptophysin) by ribonuclease protection assay, western blotting, and immunocytochemistry in fetal, juvenile, and adult mouse brain. From embryonic day 12 to 15, there was a slight increase, which was then followed by a more dramatic increase at later time points. Immunocytochemical staining for NACP increases throughout these stages as well. Although NACP appeared early in CNS development, synaptophysin levels started to rise at a later stage. These findings support the contention that NACP might be important for CNS development. Furthermore, the cytosolic component of NACP precedes the particulate component in development, indicating that a redistribution of the protein to the membrane fraction may be important for events later in neuronal development and in synaptogenesis.
9648160: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the gall-bladder with intestinal metaplastic epithelium. A case of small cell carcinoma of the gall-bladder is described. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin and neuronspecific enolase, which suggests that they derived from neuroendocrine cells. The overlying and surrounding epithelium of the tumor showed intestinal metaplasia including goblet cells, pseudopyloric glands, Paneth's cells, and chromogranin A and synaptophysin-positive endocrine cells. Definite adenocarcinoma was absent. The endocrine cells in the epithelium were more numerous in the vicinity of the tumor. The present case supports the supposition that endocrine cell tumor (including small cell carcinoma) of the gall-bladder may develop from endocrine cells of the intestinal metaplastic lesion.
9554957: !synaptophysin Selective loss of hippocampal long-term potentiation, but not depression, following fluid percussion injury. We investigated the early effects of in vivo fluid percussion injury (FPI) on hippocampal synaptic potentials and excitability. In vitro field potential recordings and immunocytochemistry were performed in the CA1 region in slices from naïve, post-FPI, or sham-operated rats. The following electrophysiological and morphological parameters were affected following FPI: (1) threshold for population spike generation was increased suggesting that post-FPI neurons were hypoexcitable; (2) long-term potentiation (LTP) could not be induced in injured hippocampi; (3) GFAP and inducible NO synthase (iNOS) immunoreactivity were enhanced post-FPI; and (4) following injury, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was enhanced in CA1 stratum radiatum. The effects of FPI on synaptic plasticity were LTP-specific, since long-term depression (LTD) could be equally induced and maintained in post-FPI, sham-operated and control slices. Sham-operated slices were characterized by synaptic excitability indistinguishable from naïve controls, but displayed decreased ability for LTP production and expressed high levels of iNOS. We conclude that FPI causes a selective loss of LTP, possibly due to a previous potentiation induced by trauma as reflected by the increased expression of synaptic proteins. Sham surgical procedures were, however, not without effects on long-term potentiation itself; the latter effects appear to be mediated by an increased production of NO. Our study demonstrates for the first time that hippocampal slices can be used to investigate the correlates of in vivo FPI. Furthermore, we describe LTP-specific deficits in post-traumatic brain injury, suggesting that FPI can selectively erase one of the two main NMDA-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus.
9593853: !synaptophysin Pattern of synaptophysin immunoreactivity within mesencephalic grafts following transplantation in a parkinsonian primate model. The majority of investigations into the degree of restoration of neural circuitry following transplantation of the embryonic ventral mesencephalon to the striatum have focused upon the particular neurochemical subtypes of the fibers exchanged between graft and host. Visualization of neurites of specific neurotransmitter type while informative regarding the specificity of graft-host interactions, vastly underrepresents overall synaptogenesis as it may occur in the grafting situation. The present approach of using a molecular marker characteristic of all normal, functional synapses provides broader information about the synaptic remodeling that occurs after tissue grafting. Synaptophysin (SY), an integral membrane protein of the synaptic vesicle, is a reliable marker of nerve terminal differentiation. Immunohistochemical staining with antibodies directed against SY and the dopamine synthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was used to assess overall synaptic differentiation as well as the relationship between SY immunoreactivity and the distribution of grafted dopamine (DA) neurons and processes in mesencephalic grafts and mesencephalic-striatal co-grafts implanted in the striatum of MPTP-treated African green monkeys. Grafted embryonic cerebellar tissue was used as a comparison graft type that does not normally exchange prominent direct projections with striatum. Dense pericellular arrays of SY-positive terminals were associated with TH-positive neurons in mesencephalic grafts. In mixed mesencephalic-striatal co-grafts, TH-positive fiber patches within the striatal portion of the graft demonstrated a high degree of correspondence with SY immunoreactivity. In contrast, grafts of cerebellar tissue did not display the same pattern of prominent pericellular arrays of SY staining. These observations suggest that functional synapses are abundantly present within grafted mesencephalon, and that these contacts are enriched in areas of the graft occupied by DA neurons. Implantation of an inappropriate striatal target, the cerebellum, results in visibly diminished innervation. The pattern of SY labeling observed suggests that tissue grafts are extensively innervated, probably both from extrinsic and intrinsic sources, and that the pattern and density of this innervation corresponds to the appropriateness of the graft-host interaction.
9629521: !synaptophysin Neurochemical dissection of synaptic pathology in Alzheimer's disease. Synaptic pathology has attained increasing attention as being central in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To address the question whether synaptic pathology in AD involves the whole synapse, or is limited to specific components thereof, we studied three different synaptic vesicle proteins (rab3a, synaptotagmin, synaptophysin) and also the presynaptic membrane protein GAP-43 and the postsynaptic protein neurogranin. The material included postmortem brain tissue (frontal cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum) from 8 patients with early-onset AD (EAD), 11 patients with late-onset AD (LAD), 6 patients with vascular dementia (VAD), and 9 control subjects. A reduction of all synaptic proteins was found in AD, more pronounced in EAD than in LAD, in both the frontal cortex (EAD 30% to 70% vs. LAD 82% to 88% of control value) and hippocampus (EAD 22% to 82% vs. LAD 76% to 89% of control value), whereas only minor changes were found in VAD. The finding that all synaptic proteins were reduced in AD suggests a degeneration and loss of whole synaptic elements that are more pronounced in EAD than in LAD.
9629369: !synaptophysin [Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor. Case report]. Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT) is a relatively new neuroepithelial neoplasm that was first described by Daumas-Duport et al. in 1988. It was incorporated in the revised World Health Organization classification of brain tumors in 1993. The authors present the first case of DNT reported in the Latin-American literature. A 16-year-old woman had been found at age of five years to have complex partial seizures accompanied by secondary generalization. She was treated with various anti-epileptic drugs but always with incomplete control of seizures activity. Neurological examination was normal. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a lesion in the left temporal lobe. She underwent a craniotomy with complete resection of the tumor. Histological study showed atypical neuroglial proliferation characteristic of DNT. Monoclonal antibody immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein and S-100 protein confirmed the glial component, and neuronal specific enolase and synaptophysin emphasized the neuronal component.
9618545: !synaptophysin Activity differentially regulates the surface expression of synaptic AMPA and NMDA glutamate receptors. Distinct subtypes of glutamate receptors often are colocalized at individual excitatory synapses in the mammalian brain yet appear to subserve distinct functions. To address whether neuronal activity may differentially regulate the surface expression at synapses of two specific subtypes of ionotropic glutamate receptors we epitope-tagged an AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid) receptor subunit (GluR1) and an NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor subunit (NR1) on their extracellular termini and expressed these proteins in cultured hippocampal neurons using recombinant adenoviruses. Both receptor subtypes were appropriately targeted to the synaptic plasma membrane as defined by colocalization with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. Increasing activity in the network of cultured cells by prolonged blockade of inhibitory synapses with the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor antagonist picrotoxin caused an activity-dependent and NMDA receptor-dependent decrease in surface expression of GluR1, but not NR1, at synapses. Consistent with this observation identical treatment of noninfected cultures decreased the contribution of endogenous AMPA receptors to synaptic currents relative to endogenous NMDA receptors. These results indicate that neuronal activity can differentially regulate the surface expression of AMPA and NMDA receptors at individual synapses.
9593967: !synaptophysin Widespread expression of ecto-apyrase (CD39) in the central nervous system. We have shown that ecto-apyrase protein is expressed in primary neurons and astrocytes in cell culture (T.-F. Wang, P.A. Rosenberg, G. Guidotti, 1997. Mol. Brain Res. 1997, 47: 295-302). Here we present immunohistochemical studies showing that ecto-apyrase protein is widely distributed in rat brain, as it is present in neurons of the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum as well as in glial cells and endothelial cells. Ecto-apyrase is enriched in brain postsynaptic density membrane fractions and is localized in proximity to synaptophysin, the marker of synaptic vesicles. These results together with the observation that P2 purinergic receptors are present throughout the brain suggest that ecto-apyrase is involved in regulating synaptic transmission mediated by extracellular ATP.
9593817: !synaptophysin Occurrence of a N-terminal proteolytic fragment of neurocan, not a C-terminal half, in a perineuronal net in the adult rat cerebrum. Neurocan is a nervous tissue-unique chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) whose expression and proteolytic cleavage are developmentally regulated. In the adult rat brain, neurocan is completely cleaved into some proteoglycan fragments including the C-terminal half known as neurocan-C and a N-terminal fragment with a 130 kDa core glycoprotein (neurocan-130). We describe here the differential distribution of these two neurocan-derived CSPGs in the adult rat cerebrum and the occurrence of neurocan-130 as a new member of a perineuronal net-constituting molecule. At the light microscopic level, neurocan-130 exhibited pericellular localization around a subset of neurons in addition to diffuse distribution in the neuropil. In contrast, neurocan-C was distributed only diffusely in the neuropil. Double staining with anti-neurocan-130 and anti-synaptophysin antibodies suggested that neurocan-130 was localized in the vicinity of the synapses, but not at the synapses. Immunoelectron microscopy showed that neurocan-130 was mainly localized in the cytoplasm of glial cell processes, the so-called glial perineuronal net, encompassing the cell bodies of certain neurons. The presence of neurocan-130 in a limited number of glial cells may reflect some functional heterogeneity of the glia.
9625303: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical expression of tyrosine kinase (Trk) receptor proteins in mature neuronal cell tumors of the central nervous system. The interactions of neurotrophins with the Trk family of tyrosine kinase receptors result in growth and maturational changes in neuronal cells. Although the histogenesis of brain tumors composed of mature neuronal cells is still not completely understood, neurotrophins and Trk receptors may be involved in the evolution, maturation, and persistence of these tumors. The clinical and anatomic pathological features of 8 primary neuronal cell tumors (ganglioglioma: 3 cases, cerebral neurocytoma: 3 cases, intraventricular neurocytoma: 2 cases) occurring in the central nervous system (CNS) have been examined. In addition to routine histological examinations, immunohistochemistry was used to evaluate the expression of neurotrophin receptors (TrkA, TrkB) and of neuronal differentiation markers such as neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A. While neither TrkA nor TrkB expression was demonstrated in 2 intraventricular neurocytomas, the remaining 6 tumors did show positive immunohistochemical staining for TrkA and/or TrkB proteins; for TrkA protein, ganglionic cells showed membraneous or cytoplasmic staining, while small non-ganglionic neuronal cells with scant cytoplasm occasionally showed positive cytoplasmic immunoreactivity. For TrkB protein, small non-ganglionic neuronal cells showed a more intense immunoreaction than ganglionic cells. Gangliogliomas with high TrkA and TrkB expression showed higher levels of neuronal differentiation, as demonstrated by the neuron-specific enolase and neurofilament immunoreactivity. The existence of neurotrophin receptors in the tumor cells thus suggests that neurotrophic influence are involved in the evolution and subsequent cellular maturation in neuronal cell tumors of the CNS.
9624623: !synaptophysin Distribution of synaptic vesicle proteins within single retinotectal axons of Xenopus tadpoles. In the developing retinotectal projection, retinal axon arbor structure changes rapidly within the target tectal neuropil at stages when the visual system functions to process visual information. In vivo imaging of single retinotectal axon arbors shows that up to 50% of the arbor branch length can be restructured within 8 h and short branchtips have average lifetimes of 10 min. To determine if presynaptic sites are restricted to the relatively stable part of the arbor or if they are also located on the more dynamic portions of the arbor, punctate staining of synaptic vesicle proteins (SVP) synapsin 1 and synaptophysin was mapped within individual retinal axons using double-label confocal immunocytochemistry. We report that SVP puncta were distributed throughout the retinotectal axon arbor. Notably, short branchtips, which are known to be extremely dynamic, contain the presynaptic machinery necessary for synaptic transmission. These data support a model in which activity-dependent mechanisms can influence presynaptic axon arbor morphology by modifying the rate of dynamic rearrangements of axonal branchtips.
9621365: !synaptophysin [Clear cell ependymoma--a case report]. A case of intraaxial clear cell ependymoma is reported. A 46-year-old man complained of right hemiparesis. CT scan showed a mass lesion on the median plane with a huge cyst in the left frontal lobe. MRI showed an iso-low intensity mass by T1-weighted image. The tumor was heterogeneously enhanced by Gd-DTPA and the wall was enhanced as well. Angiogram revealed a tumor stain from the right internal carotid artery. The main mass of the tumor was totally removed but the cystic wall was left removed. Histopathological examination revealed clear cell ependymoma. Immunohistochemical examination revealed that, although vimentin and NSE were positive, GFAP, synaptophysin and S-100 were negative. Ultrastructual examination revealed cilia, microvilli and desmosomal junctions. The patient fully recovered after operation and showed no sign of recurrence after an year of follow-up. Clear cell ependymoma is a rare variant of ependymoma. Ultrastructual examination was more useful than immunohistochemical examination for diagnosis.
9617921: !synaptophysin SNAP-25 deficit and hippocampal connectivity in schizophrenia. Regional abnormalities of brain connectivity may be an important substrate for the expression of schizophrenia, a severe form of mental illness. Brain imaging and postmortem morphometric studies indicate hippocampal structure is abnormal in schizophrenia. To study molecular components of hippocampal connectivity the presynaptic proteins SNAP-25 and synaptophysin were assayed in postmortem samples. Immunocytochemical studies indicated reduced SNAP-25 immunoreactivity in schizophrenia compared to controls, particularly in the terminal fields of entorhinal cortex projections. Although there were no overall changes in synaptophysin immunoreactivity, in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus synaptophysin immunoreactivity was increased in schizophrenia. These results indicate that disconnection of a subset of hippocampal circuitry from the entorhinal cortex, as well as intrinsic changes in hippocampal connectivity, may contribute to the mechanism of illness in schizophrenia.
9615384: !synaptophysin Pancreatic endocrine tumor with signet ring cell features: a case report with novel ultrastructural observations. The case of a malignant pancreatic endocrine neoplasm with an unusual signet ring cell appearance is reported. The tumor was resected from a 30-year-old man with a 4.0-cm tumor in the body of the pancreas diagnosed by computerized tomographic (CT) scan. The resected tumor had a unique morphology characterized by numerous mucin-negative, signet ring cells, which were argyrophilic and immunoreactive for cytokeratin (CAM 5.2), chromogranin, synaptophysin, neuron specific enolase, and gastrin. Dense-core neurosecretory-type granules and numerous cytoplasmic lamellar inclusions were identified by electron microscopy. These inclusion bodies consisted of multilayered concentric osmiophilic lamellae (myelin figures), which most likely represent an abnormal accumulation of degenerating organelles. Two years later, the patient developed an abdominal recurrence of the tumor, confirming its malignant behavior. This case expands the spectrum of pancreatic endocrine tumors to include an aggressive signet ring cell tumor with a novel ultrastructural basis.
9610624: !synaptophysin Malignant mixed Müllerian tumor (homologous type) of the adnexa with neuroendocrine differentiation: a case report. Malignant mixed müllerian tumors (MMMT) are unusual neoplasms occurring mostly in the uterus. In the ovary, they are very rare and represent fewer than 1% of all ovarian malignancies; in the salpinx, they are even rarer than those of the ovary. We report a carcinosarcoma of the left adnexa having features of neuroendocrine differentiation in a 69-year-old female. The tumor contained both adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma having dear cell change admixed with an undifferentiated malignant mesenchymal component. The sarcoma components consisted of spindle cells, small-round cells and bizarre giant cells mimicking rhabdomyoblast. Almost all of the carcinomatous glandular components and some foci of the squamous cell and undifferentiated carcinomatous components were focal positive for S-100 protein, chromogranin, neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin and Leu-7. Electron microscopy revealed membrane-bound neurosecretory granules in the cytoplasm of some glandular epithelial cells. Histologically, the tumor involved the left adnexa, abdominal peritoneum, surface of the bladder dome, omentum and left external iliac lymph node (stage IIIc).
9607706: !synaptophysin Behavioural, physiological and morphological analysis of a line of apolipoprotein E knockout mouse. Using apolipoprotein E knockout mice derived from the Maeda source [Piedrahita J. A. et al. (1992) Proc. natn. Acad Sci. US.A. 89, 4471 4475], we have studied the influence of apolipoprotein E gene deletion on normal CNS function by neurological tests and water maze learning, hippocampal ultrastructure assessed by quantitative immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy, CNS plasticity, i.e. hippocampal long-term potentiation and amygdaloid kindling, and CNS repair, i.e. synaptic recovery in the hippocampus following deafferentation. In each study there was little difference between the apolipoprotein E knockout mice and wild-type controls of similar age and genetic background. Apolipoprotein E knockout mice aged eight months demonstrated accurate spatial learning and normal neurological function. Synaptophysin and microtubule-associated protein 2 immunohistochemistry and electron microscopic analysis of these animals revealed that the hippocampal synaptic and dendritic densities were similar between genotypes. The induction and maintenance of kindled seizures and hippocampal long-term potentiation were indistinguishable between groups. Finally, unilateral entorhinal cortex lesions produced a marked loss of hippocampal synaptophysin immunoreactivity in both groups and a marked up-regulation of apolipoprotein E in the wild-type group. Both apolipoprotein E knockout and wild-type groups showed immunohistochemical evidence of reactive synaptogenesis, although the apolipoprotein E knockout group may have initially shown greater synaptic loss. It is suggested that either apolipoprotein E is of no importance in the maintenance of synaptic integrity and in processes of CNS plasticity and repair, or more likely, alternative (apolipo)proteins may compensate for the loss of apolipoprotein E in the knockout animals.
9560466: !synaptophysin Neuronal differentiation is accompanied by NSP-C expression. Neuroendocrine-specific protein (NSP) reticulons are expressed in neural and neuroendocrine tissues and cell cultures derived therefrom, while most other cell types lack NSP-reticulons. Three major subtypes have been identified so far, designated NSP-A, NSP-B, and NSP-C. We have investigated the correlation between the degree of neuronal differentiation, determined by morphological and biochemical criteria, and NSP-reticulon subtype expression. For this purpose, several human neuroblastoma cell lines, exhibiting different degrees of neuronal differentiation, were examined immuno(cyto)chemically. It became obvious that the expression of NSP-C, as detected by immunofluorescence microscopy and Western blotting, is most prominent in cell lines with a high degree of neuronal differentiation, such as LA-N-5. Such highly differentiated cells also express other neural and neuroendocrine markers, such as neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), neurofilament proteins, synaptophysin, and chromogranin. NSP-A was observed in all cell lines to a different extent. However, no clear correlation was observed with the degree of neuronal differentiation as defined by other neuronal and neuroendocrine markers or morphology. NSP-B could not be detected. The induction of neuronal differentiation with nerve growth factor, dbcAMP, and retinoic acid in the rat pheochromocytoma cell line PC12 and the human teratocarcinoma cell line hNT2, respectively, induced the expression of NSP-A and NSP-C in these cell lines parallel to the induction of neurofilament protein expression. It is concluded that NSP-C expression, in particular, is strongly correlated with neuronal differentiation.
9605345: !synaptophysin Cortical cholinergic dysfunction after human head injury. Loss of cholinergic neurotransmission is implicated in memory impairment and cognitive dysfunction after head injury. The aim of the present study was to investigate presynaptic markers, particularly in relation to cholinergic neurotransmission in human postmortem brain from patients who died following a head injury and age-matched controls. Choline acetyltransferase activity and high-affinity nicotinic receptor binding sites were assayed in the inferior temporal gyrus, cingulate gyrus, and superior parietal cortex of 16 head-injured patients and 8 controls. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was determined in the left cingulate gyrus from the same patient groups. In the head-injured group, choline acetyltransferase activity was consistently reduced in each cortical region compared to control subjects. The presence of a subdural haematoma and a prolonged survival period after head injury tended to be associated with lower choline acetyltransferase activity. In contrast to the marked reduction in choline acetyltransferase activity, nicotine receptor binding was unchanged in head-injured compared to control patients. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the cingulate gyrus was reduced by approximately 30% (p < 0.05) in the head-injured group compared to controls. Correlation of choline acetyltransferase activity with synaptophysin immunoreactivity indicated there is a deficit of cholinergic presynaptic terminals in postmortem human brain following head injury.
9542600: !synaptophysin Neurocytoma/rhabdomyoma (myoneurocytoma) of the cerebellum. An unusual case of cerebellar neurocytoma with rhabdomyomatous differentiation in a 6-year-old boy is reported. Immunocytochemical and ultrastructural features of the tumour were studied. Abortive synapse formation, the presence of clear vesicles and synaptophysin immunoreactivity of the tumour cells indicated its intermediate neuronal differentiation, while the presence of myoblasts and myotubes and immunolabelling by desmin confirmed the rhabdomyomatous differentiation. In addition, the mesenchymal cells variably expressed neurofilament protein and glial fibrillary acidic protein, suggesting inductive interaction between the neuroectodermal and ectomesenchymal elements and persistence of the pleuripotential nature of the cells along the rhombic area of the brain stem.
9527892: !synaptophysin Temporal cortex synaptophysin mRNA is reduced in Alzheimer's disease and is negatively correlated with the severity of dementia. We measured synaptophysin mRNA in neocortical tissue from 7 prospectively assessed, pathologically verified normal individuals, 17 subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 13 subjects with a non-AD dementia. In temporal cortex (Brodmann area 21), synaptophysin mRNA was decreased in AD and non-AD dementia groups compared to controls. The loss was also present relative to polyadenylated mRNA content. Synaptophysin mRNA signal correlated negatively with the degree of dementia and negatively with the pathological severity of AD. In occipital cortex (Brodmann area 17) there were no differences between groups nor clinicopathological correlations. These data extend the evidence for a regional synaptic pathology in AD which affects synaptic protein gene expression by temporal cortex neurons.
9600680: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical study of centenarian brains: a comparison. To evaluate the pathology of centenarian brains, which would reflect the ultimate stage of the aging process, 13 centenarians (M:F=1:12; mean+/-SD, 101.5+/-1.5 years) from the consecutive autopsy series were studied. None had severe dementia compatible with Alzheimer's disease (AD). As younger controls, 20 nondemented (ND) individuals (79.8+/-3.2 years) and 20 AD patients (80.8+/-3.0 years) were selected. In addition to the routine examination including methenamine-Bodian staining, an immunohistochemical study was performed, using antibodies to amyloid beta protein, tau, ubiquitin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), synaptophysin, and Ki-MIP (a marker of the microglial and perivascular cells). No centenarian subjects satisfied the neuropathological criteria for definite AD. The densities of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) were significantly lower in almost all examined subdivisions than the AD patients, and tended to be higher than the ND subjects. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy of the centenarian was less severe than the AD patients, as well as the proliterations of GFAP-positive astrocytes and Ki-MIP-positive microglial cells, and the loss of synaptic terminal density. The relative mildness of the age-related morphological changes in the centenarians compared with the AD patients supports the idea that AD would not be the ultimate condition of the aging process, but would develop through the switching to the pathological process.
9600600: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, biochemical and in vitro studies of a pineocytoma. Using both tumor specimen and cultured tumor cells, we have studied the differentiation of a pineocytoma by light and electron microscopy (EM) and immunohistochemical demonstration of glial, neuronal and neuroendocrine markers. Only interstitial cells were labeled with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein and anti-S100 protein antibodies. Synaptophysin, neurofilaments and tau labeling was found in cells forming the pineocytomatous rosettes. Some cells also bound the anti-tryptophan hydroxylase antibody (TPOH), but no staining was seen after application of anti-chromogranin A or S-antigen antibodies. EM provided evidence for neurosensory differentiation demonstrating the presence of vesicle-crowned rodlets, cilia (9+0) and fibrous filaments. In culture, tumor cells proliferated slowly and showed positive immunolabeling for vimentin and TPOH. Expression of mRNA coding for TPOH, serotonin N-acetyltransferase, hydroxyindole-O-methyl-transferase and c-myc was found in the tumor using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. These results demonstrate neuronal differentiation of this pineocytoma and suggest that the neoplastic pineal cells are capable of synthesizing serotonin and melatonin.
9600596: !synaptophysin Prognostic implication of histopathological, immunohistochemical and clinical features of oligodendrogliomas: a study of 89 cases. Histopathological, immunohistochemical and clinical parameters were correlated with survival in 89 cases of oligodendroglioma (65 patients with grade II and 24 patients with grade III of the WHO classification). Median survival time and 5-year survival rate were 3.5 years and 76% for patients with oligodendroglioma grade II and 0.875 years and 23% for patients with oligodendroglioma grade III. The tumor biopsy specimens were immunohistochemically analyzed for Ki 67 (MIB-1), vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and synaptophysin. MIB-1 nuclear labeling index ranged from 0.0% to 33.4%; vimentin-immunoreactive tumor cells were found in 25 cases. MIB-1 nuclear labeling index and vimentin immunoreaction showed a significant statistical correlation to the 5-year survival rate of the patients. Tumors with vimentin expression (n=25) and/or high MIB-1 labeling index (n=26) had a poorer prognosis than tumors lacking vimentin expression (n=57) and/or displaying a low MIB-1 labeling index (n=56). The expression of immunoreactivity for GFAP (n=53), NSE (n=23) and synaptophysin (n=15) appeared to be of no prognostic relevance. Patients with gross total tumor resection (n=47) had a median survival time and 5-year survival rate of 3.3 years and 84% compared to 1.2 years and 42% for patients with subtotal resection (n=41). The comparison between patients who underwent surgery alone (n=53) and those who had surgery plus postoperative radiation therapy showed no significant survival benefit from postoperative radiation therapy. In conclusion, tumor grade, MIB-1 labeling index, expression of vimentin and the extent of surgery are shown to be of prognostic relevance for patients with oligodendroglioma.
9600389: !synaptophysin Temporospatial relationships between macroglia and microglia during in vitro differentiation of murine stem cells. Embryonic stem (ES) cells of the permanent line BLC6 derived from a 129/Sv Gat mouse blastocyst were differentiated as spheroid aggregates (embryoid bodies, EBs) in the presence of retionic acid. After 2 days in suspension, EBs were plated on gelatine-coated glass coverslips and cultivated for 5, 9, and 16 days post plating (DPP) in normal medium. In this study we investigated whether the well-known retinoic acid-induced differentiation of ES cells into neurons (identified by immunostaining for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin) was accompanied by cells expressing astroglial (GFAP), oligodendroglial (O4), and microglial (5C6, galectin-3) markers. Whereas differentiation of neurons was closely related to their centrifugal migration towards the periphery of the EBs, the maturation of neuroglia followed a strict time-dependent manner. At 5 DPP, only neurons but no cells expressing glia-specific markers, were observed. At 9 DPP, GFAP-positive and O4-positive macroglial cells appeared. At 16 DPP, microglial cells (5C6-positive and galectin-3-positive) occurred. The established dynamic of relationships between neuronal and nonneuronal cells shows that the model of EBs is similar to the sequence differentiation of the nervous tissue. Thus, enabling in vivo observation of neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia, the model of EBs provides a basis for further investigations on the relationships between neurons and neuroglia under various experimental conditions.
9600225: !synaptophysin Loss of cholinergic synapses on the spinal motor neurons of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The expression of vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) was examined immunohistochemically in the cholinergic synapses on the spinal motor neuron of the patient with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (SALS). VAChT immunoreactive synapses were depleted on surviving motor neurons in SALS, while synaptophysin immunoreactivity was undiminished on the same neurons. This discrepancy suggests that in SALS, loss of cholinergic input on lower motor neurons is an early event, and may be part of the cause of death of those motor neurons.
9600213: !synaptophysin Dystrophic neurites of senile plaques are defective in proteins involved in exocytosis and neurotransmission. Dystrophic neurites are major components of neuritic (both immature and mature) senile plaques in Alzheimer disease. Previous studies have shown strong immunoreactivity for different neuropeptides, and chromogranin A, a protein associated with dense-core vesicles, in dystrophic neurites. In the present study, antibodies to synaptophysin, synapsin, Rab3a and synaptotagmin (synaptic vesicle proteins), and SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kD) and syntaxin (presynaptic plasma membrane proteins) have been used to learn about the dystrophic neurite equipment of proteins that are necessary for the docking and fusion of synaptic vesicles, and then for exocytosis and neurotransmission. The present results have shown that, although most neuritic senile plaques have chromogranin A- and SNAP-25-immunoreactive dystrophic neurites, only a percentage of them contain synaptophysin, and a minority contain synaptotagmin and Rab3a. Dystrophic neurites do not contain synapsin and syntaxin. These results show that dystrophic neurites of senile plaques are defective in proteins that control exocytosis and neurotransmission.
9598683: !synaptophysin Frontal cortical synaptophysin in Lewy body diseases: relation to Alzheimer's disease and dementia. Dementia in Alzheimer's disease correlates closely with loss of neocortical synapses. Similar synaptic loss has been shown in patients whose Alzheimer's disease is also associated with neocortical and brain stem Lewy bodies. The aim was to determine if dementia in Lewy body disease was associated with diminished concentrations of midfrontal cortex synaptophysin.
9597205: !synaptophysin Neuromuscular relaxants in non-cardiac surgery after cardiomyoplasty. Dynamic cardiomyoplasty is a therapeutic alternative to heart transplantation in irreversible cardiac insufficiency. Little information exists about the use of muscle relaxants in patients with cardiomyoplasty. In particular, it is not clear if the muscle flap is responsive to neuromuscular blockers. The purpose of this report is to describe the safe use of vecuronium in a patient with cardiomyoplasty.
9595863: !synaptophysin Desmoplastic cerebral astrocytoma of infancy: a case report. We report a case of desmoplastic cerebral astrocytoma of infancy (DCAI), in a 7-month-old boy. DCAI belongs to a group of recently described central nervous system (CNS) tumors, which also includes desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma (DIG), pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT), all characterized by relatively favorable prognosis and occurring mostly in children and young adults. DCAI is a rare neoplasm arising in the cerebral hemispheres within the first two years of life, and histologically is characterized by dense fibrous desmoplasia. In our case, CT scan presents a massive partially cystic tumor of the left cerebral hemisphere with an enlargement of the ventricular system. Histologically, the tumor was composed of cells arranged in fascicles and whorls forming storiform pattern. Immunohistochemical stainings for glial fibrillary acidic protein proved glial histogenesis of this tumor, while no cells were unequivocally immunopositive for neuron specific enolase, neurofilament proteins and synaptophysin what excludes a diagnosis of DIG--a similar entity but containing also a neuronal elements. Our studies, comprising a complete clinical, radiological, histopathological and immunohistochemical data, correspond to a cases of DCAI published before and it is the first one described in Poland.
9595859: !synaptophysin The pattern of synaptophysin changes during the maturation of the amygdaloid body and hippocampal hilus in the rat. Synaptophysin is an integral membrane protein associated with small, electron-lucent synaptic vesicles. Immunohistochemistry for this protein is a sensitive method to study subtle changes in synaptic density and distribution in various brain regions. In the present study, the synaptogenesis was examined in the rat basolateral amygdala in comparison with the hippocampal hilus, from the day of birth to adulthood. A total of 41 brains at various ages starting from P0 to P90 (P--postnatal day) were examined. After perfusional fixation the brains were frozen and cut in the coronal plane and stained either with cresyl violet or standard immunohistochemical methods using the anti-synaptophysin antibody. Synaptophysin positive granules appeared just after birth in both structures, but their number was very low (about 0.28 x 10(6) and 0.13 x 10(6) per mm3 in the amygdala and hippocampus, respectively). In the basolateral amygdala the number of synapses increased rapidly reaching the maximum at P14 (1.6 x 10(6) per mm3) followed by about 45% decrease in number up to P30 and later being stabile. In the hippocampus two increases of the synaptogenesis were observed. The first at P7 (about 1.7 x 10(6) of synapses per 1 mm3) which was followed by dramatic decrease up to 0.7 x 10(6) per mm3 at P14. The second increase appeared later (about P90) and reached 1.7 x 10(6) per mm3. After that time the density of synapses was stabile. It may be supposed that the first characteristic wave of synaptogenesis observed in the hippocampus and amygdaloid body is due to the overproduction of synapses observed at that time in other cortical regions. The late wave of synaptogenesis found in the hippocampus is related to the great plasticity of the interneuronal connections in this period of development.
9591731: !synaptophysin Oncocytic adrenocortical neoplasms: a report of seven cases and review of the literature. Oncocytic neoplasms of the adrenal gland are rare. We describe the clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical findings of seven oncocytic adrenocortical neoplasms, five oncocytomas, and two oncocytic neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential. Three tumors were studied using electron microscopy. These neoplasms occurred in five women and two men (median age, 55 years) with no clinical evidence that the neoplasms were functional. The size of the neoplasms varied from 5.0 cm to 13.5 cm. Histologically, each neoplasm was composed exclusively of oncocytes. The oncocytomas had very low or absent mitotic activity and no evidence of necrosis. The two oncocytic neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential had increased mitotic activity and necrosis but no evidence of invasion or metastases. Nuclear atypia, either focal or generalized, was found in all neoplasms. Immunohistochemical studies performed using fixed, paraffin-embedded sections showed strong reactivity with the mitochondrial antibody mES-13 in all neoplasms. Four of five oncocytomas and one oncocytic neoplasm of uncertain malignant potential expressed keratin, predominantly keratin 18, as shown using the CAM 5.2 and AE3 antibodies. Two neuroendocrine-associated markers, neuron specific enolase and synaptophysin, were positive in seven and five neoplasms, respectively. However, all neoplasms were negative for the other neuroendocrine markers tested, including chromogranin A, tyrosine hydroxylase, and dopamine beta-hydroxylase, as well as for epithelial membrane antigen, S100, and p53. Using the MIB-1 (Ki-67) antibody, proliferative activity was increased in both oncocytic neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential. All six patients with available clinical follow-up data are alive without evidence disease, although the follow-up interval is relatively short (< 2 years) for the two patients with oncocytic neoplasms of uncertain malignant potential. We conclude that oncocytic adrenocortical neoplasms are nonfunctional tumors that can become large before they are detected by radiologic studies. The majority of neoplasms are benign and should not be misdiagnosed as carcinoma.
9591724: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin staining in normal brain: importance for diagnosis of ganglioglioma. Neuronal and mixed glioneuronal tumors traditionally have comprised a very small percentage of intrinsic central nervous system neoplasms, although they are somewhat more common among juvenile brain tumors and in the temporal lobe. Neuronal differentiation increasingly is recognized in pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma, intraventricular neurocytoma, and subependymal giant cell astrocytoma. However, the diagnostic distinctions between subtle ganglioglioma (with rare neurons) and infiltrating glioma with entrapped neurons and between infiltrating oligodendroglioma and parenchymal neurocytoma are problematic but may be clinically important. Recently, it was proposed that perisomatic synaptophysin immunostaining in the human central nervous system reliably and selectively discriminates neoplastic from nonneoplastic neurons. Using this criterion, the number of brain stem and spinal cord gangliogliomas could be increased substantially. We canvassed synaptophysin immunostaining patterns in the normal brain stem, cerebellum, and forebrain, and found that synaptophysin-positive neurons are distributed broadly in the normal human brain. In disturbed neocortical tissue, such as near vascular malformations, synaptophysin-positive neurons and irregular white-matter synaptophysin immunostaining are visualized. Although synaptophysin-positive neurons are found in gangliogliomas and archipelagos of synaptophysin reactivity are found in neurocytomas, these patterns clearly are not pathognomonic for glioneuronal tumors and must be interpreted with caution whenever other histologic or ultrastructural evidence of neuronal differentiation is lacking.
9590552: !synaptophysin Multiple neurotrophic signals converge in surviving CA1 neurons of the gerbil hippocampus following transient forebrain ischemia. Delayed cell death involving the CA1 area of the hippocampus was produced following 5 minutes of transient forebrain ischemia in gerbils. Cell death mainly affected CA1 pyramidal neurons, whereas parvalbumin-immunoreactive (parv-ir) cells were spared. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was observed in the strata oriens and radiatum of CA1 for months, although immunoreactivity decreased in gerbils surviving 1 year post-ischemia. Golgi studies disclosed a few pyramidal neurons with dendrites, variably covered with dendritic spines, in the CA1 area of 1-year surviving gerbils. In the normal gerbil, the majority of CA1 neurons expressed brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), tyrosine protein kinase C (TrkC), fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (Flg), transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), and epidermal growth factor-receptor (EGF-R), but only a minority of cells were tyrosine protein kinase B (TrkB)-immunoreactive. Marked reduction in the number of BDNF-, TrkC-, Flg-, TGF-alpha-, and EGF-R-ir cells was observed in CA1 from 24 hours to 1 year after ischemia. In contrast, TrkB-ir cells survived the ischemic insult. Double-labeling immunohistochemistry disclosed that about 90% of surviving BDNF-ir and 85% of TrkB-ir neurons co-localized parvalbumin in the CA1 area. In control gerbils, only about 5% of BDNF-ir cells in CA1 co-expressed TrkB. However, TrkB co-localized in about 95% of surviving BDNF-ir neurons in CA1 in ischemic gerbils. In addition, parvalbumin was co-expressed in about 90% of TrkC-, 95% Flg-, and 85% EGF-R-ir surviving neurons in the stratum pyramidale of CA1. Finally, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) was expressed by reactive astrocytes from day 4 onwards. These data show that the subpopulation of TrkB-/parv-ir neurons in CA1 survive the ischemic episode and that multiple neurotrophic signals converge in surviving neurons of the gerbil hippocampus following transient forebrain ischemia.
9590550: !synaptophysin Distribution of TAG-1 and synaptophysin in the developing cerebellar cortex: relationship to Purkinje cell dendritic development. During postnatal cerebellar development, differentiating Purkinje cell (PC) dendrites extend towards the pial surface and progressively contact immature granule cell parallel fiber (PF) axons in the deep external granule layer (EGL), thus forming a zone of synaptic contact called the molecular layer (ML). The neuronal cell adhesion molecule, TAG-1, is transiently expressed on PF axons in the deep EGL (Yamamoto et al. [1986] J. Neurosci. 12:3576-3594). To determine the spatiotemporal relationship between Purkinje cell dendritic differentiation and the cessation of TAG-1 expression, sagittal sections from developing rat cerebellum were double-labeled for TAG-1 and the Purkinje cell-specific marker, calbindin, by using indirect immunofluorescence. At postnatal day 2 (P2) and P5, confocal microscopy revealed that TAG-1 immunoreactivity began above the furthest superficial extent of the Purkinje cell apical dendritic cap. By P10, PC dendrites penetrated partially into the TAG-1-positive deep EGL, creating a narrow region of overlap in TAG-1/calbindin staining at the deep EGL/ML border. In contrast, at P15 and P20, TAG-1 staining began directly above the furthest superficial extent of the Purkinje cell dendrites, with little or no overlap in TAG-1/calbindin staining. Staining for the synaptic vesicle glycoprotein, synaptophysin, was dim throughout most of the TAG-1-positive deep EGL, although bright synaptophysin immunoreactivity was observed throughout the ML. Overlap in TAG-1/synaptophysin staining was observed primarily at the deep EGL/ML border, suggesting that robust expression of synaptophysin in granule cells does not begin until after contact with Purkinje cell dendrites has been initiated. Our results suggest that factors present in the developing ML may influence the cessation of TAG-1 expression and the initiation of synaptophysin expression at the border region between the ML and the deep EGL.
9589900: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the cat cochlear nuclei. The presence of synaptophysin, a presynaptic Ca2+ binding glycoprotein, has been analyzed in the cochlear nucleus complex of the adult cat using an antisynaptophysin monoclonal antibody. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was differently distributed between regions of cochlear nuclei. Terminal boutons contacting directly with neurons (cell bodies and dendrites) or in the neuropil of ventral and dorsal cochlear nuclei appeared immunostained. In the ventral cochlear nucleus, synaptophysin-labelled boutons were clearly defined in contact with spherical, globular, multipolar, octopus and cochlear-nerve root neurons. However, the dorsal cochlear nucleus showed a dense immunostained network of synaptophysin-labelled puncta, inside which some neuron cell bodies were observed. The present findings show a differential distribution of synaptophysin-immunostained boutons between the ventral and the dorsal cochlear nuclei of the cat. The present description of the different synaptophysin-labelled terminal boutons in the cochlear nuclei complex and their pattern of distribution, will be useful for further studies on development, degeneration or regeneration of the peripheral auditory pathway.
9588694: !synaptophysin Components of the neuronal exocytotic machinery in the anterior pituitary of the ovariectomised ewe and the effects of oestrogen in gonadotropes as studied with confocal microscopy. We have investigated exocytotic proteins in ovine pituitary cells and sought to identify changes in expression of these proteins related to the effects of estrogen on luteinising hormone (LH) secretion in the ovariectomised ewe. Sheep were treated with either oestradiol benzoate, or oil (i.m.) and blood samples collected for LH assay. Pituitaries were perfusion-fixed and dual-label immunohistochemistry was performed to identify hormone-secreting cells, and colocalise synaptic proteins within different cell types. Synaptophysin, SNAP-25, VAMP-2, rab3A, Munc-18-1, alpha/beta-SNAP, csp, and secretogranin II were detected in gonadotropes and somatotropes. Lactotropes were positive for SNAP-25 and synaptophysin (other synaptic proteins not investigated). Synaptotagmin I was detected in gonadotropes and lactotropes, but not somatotropes. Synaptophysin, SNAP-25, synaptotagmins I, II and III, VAMP-2, rab3A, Munc-18-1, alpha/beta-SNAP, csp, and secretogranin II were detected in nerve fibres of the posterior lobe. Membrane staining for SNAP-25 and weak cytoplasmic labelling for both synaptotagmin I and secretogranin II were detected in the intermediate lobe. Syntaxin and complexin II antibodies did not label any region of the ovine pituitary. Oestrogen treatment, to induce a pre-ovulatory-like LH surge, caused migration of LH-containing secretory granules toward the plasma membrane of gonadotropes, but did not alter the percentage of gonadotropes expressing each exocytotic protein. Oestrogen treatment caused a similar redistribution of csp and secretogranin II staining in gonadotropes. We conclude that synaptic protein expression is not altered in the anterior pituitary at the time when LH secretion is maximal. The ubiquitous distribution of many exocytotic proteins suggests that all hormone-secreting cells of the pituitary gland contain the same, or similar exocytotic machinery, but distinct 'activating factors' are required to selectively trigger the secretion of individual hormones.
9535898: !synaptophysin The cytoplasmic tail of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter contains a synaptic vesicle targeting signal. The human homologue of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (hVAChT) and the neuronal isoform of the vesicular monoamine transporter (hVMAT2) are differentially targeted to two populations of regulated secretory organelles when expressed in PC12 cells. Western blot analysis of subcellular fractions from sucrose equilibrium density gradients and glycerol velocity gradients of homogenates from stably transfected cells revealed hVAChT immunoreactivity in fractions that contain synaptophysin, a marker of synaptic vesicles, while hVMAT2 immunoreactivity was confined to heavy fractions containing chromogranin B, a marker of large dense core vesicles. In cells treated with nerve growth factor, hVAChT immunoreactivity alone co-localized with synaptophysin and was abundantly expressed on synaptic vesicle clusters. Chimeras between hVMAT2 and hVAChT were utilized to identify the domain of hVAChT required for its expression on synaptic vesicles and which would shift the expression of hVMAT2 from large dense core vesicles to synaptic vesicles. Biochemical, immunocytochemical, and electron microscopic analyses revealed that a chimera in which the cytoplasmic tail of hVMAT2 was replaced with hVAChT sequences was now preferentially targeted to synaptic vesicles. In addition, hVAChT expression on synaptic vesicles was nearly abolished when the hVMAT2 cytoplasmic tail was present. Thus, structural information resides within the terminal cytoplasmic domain of VAChT, which specifically targets it to synaptic vesicles.
9512495: !synaptophysin Mitsugumin29, a novel synaptophysin family member from the triad junction in skeletal muscle. In skeletal muscle, excitation-contraction (E-C) coupling requires the conversion of the depolarization signal of the invaginated surface membrane, namely the transverse (T-) tubule, to Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). Signal transduction occurs at the junctional complex between the T-tubule and SR, designated as the triad junction, which contains two components essential for E-C coupling, namely the dihydropyridine receptor as the T-tubular voltage sensor and the ryanodine receptor as the SR Ca2+-release channel. However, functional expression of the two receptors seemed to constitute neither the signal-transduction system nor the junction between the surface and intracellular membranes in cultured cells, suggesting that some as-yet-unidentified molecules participate in both the machinery. In addition, the molecular basis of the formation of the triad junction is totally unknown. It is therefore important to examine the components localized to the triad junction. Here we report the identification using monoclonal antibody and primary structure by cDNA cloning of mitsugumin29, a novel transmembrane protein from the triad junction in skeletal muscle. This protein is homologous in amino acid sequence and shares characteristic structural features with the members of the synaptophysin family. The subcellular distribution and protein structure suggest that mitsugumin29 is involved in communication between the T-tubular and junctional SR membranes.
9580174: !synaptophysin Olfactory neuroblastoma is not related to the Ewing family of tumors: absence of EWS/FLI1 gene fusion and MIC2 expression. The relationship of olfactory neuroblastoma to the Ewing sarcoma family of tumors remains controversial due to its variable histopathology and to conflicting or inconsistent cytogenetic, immunophenotypic, and molecular data. To address this issue, we performed a morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular study of 20 olfactory neuroblastomas. Morphologically, the tumors consisted of nests of primitive small, round, blue cells, usually set in a background of neurofibrillary stroma. Immunohistochemical stains revealed strong reactivity for neuroendocrine markers (synaptophysin, chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase) and only focal staining for cytokeratins in two cases. Immunostaining with antibody O13 to the Ewing sarcoma-associated MIC2 antigen was uniformly negative (0 of 17). Amplifiable RNA was extracted from paraffin-embedded tissue blocks of 11 cases, and no evidence of the chimeric EWS/FLI transcript, characteristic of Ewing sarcoma, was found in any case. The EWS gene was not rearranged using Southern blot analysis in one additional case in which high molecular weight DNA was available. These results disagree with the proposed classification of olfactory neuroblastoma in the Ewing sarcoma family of tumors and suggest that therapy developed for the latter tumor group may not be biologically rational for olfactory neuroblastoma.
9578642: !synaptophysin [The distribution of intermediate filaments, histiocytic antigens and neural crest-related antigens in the adult dental pulp. An immunocytochemical approach]. Ten human healthy teeth were extracted for orthodontic or surgical purposes and processed for histological and immunocytochemical examination with the streptavidin-biotin-peroxidase method. Highly purified antibodies were used to reveal the distribution of intermediate filaments (vimentin, desmin, alpha-smooth muscle actin), histiocytic antigens (alpha-1-antitrypsin, lysozyme), neural and neural-crest-associated antigens (neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin-A, S-100, synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, neurofilaments) in the adult pulp tissue.
9578390: !synaptophysin The neuronal organization of the supracapsular part of the stria terminalis in the rat: the dorsal component of the extended amygdala. In the present normal anatomical light and electron microscopic study in the rat, histochemical (Nissl, Timm, Golgi) or immunocytochemical (microtubule-associated protein type 2, glutamate decarboxylase, glutamate receptor subunit 1, synaptophysin) stains were used to analyse neurons embedded within the stria terminalis and their associated neuropil. These cells are closely related to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the centromedial amygdala, and have been termed the "supracapsular part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis". The largest part of this neuronal complex is located in the ventrolateral part of the stria, where it appears as a round or oval "lateral pocket" in virtually any type of light microscopic preparation because of its collection of neuronal cell bodies and dense neuropil, in addition to a lacework of unmyelinated axons. A much smaller but still distinct "medial pocket" is located in the medial corner of the stria. The large lateral subdivision of the supracapsular stria terminalis is directly continuous with the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and extends to the central amygdaloid nucleus, containing a column of neurons that is only broken up into cell clusters at the most caudal levels of the stria as it drops vertically toward the amygdala. The considerably smaller medial subdivision appears, in turn, to be directly continuous with the medial part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. The medial column tapers off more rapidly than the lateral part, so that as the middle levels are approached, only small interrupted clusters of cells are seen. Solitary neurons can also be found in practically every part of the stria terminalis except among the ventrally located axons of the commissural component. Most of the neurons are small to medium in size, as viewed in transverse sections of the stria, but larger neurons are also encountered. In sections parallel to the stria, many neurons are fusiform in appearance. The dendrites are often aligned in a longitudinal fashion; many of the dendrites related to the cells in the lateral pocket are moderately to densely spined, whereas those in the medial pocket are more sparsely spined. The neuropil in both the lateral and medial pockets is characterized by boutons, bundles of unmyelinated axons, and dendrites. Based on their vesicle content, the boutons are divided into three major types: (A) round or slightly oval, agranular vesicles of uniform size; (B) pleomorphic, agranular vesicles, many of which are flattened; and (C) pleomorphic agranular vesicles, some of which are considerably larger than the ones in type B boutons. Type A boutons establish contacts with both dendritic spines and shafts, whereas types B and C usually contact dendritic shafts and sometimes somata. These synaptic components are similar to those described earlier for the central and medial amygdaloid nuclei. Overall, our results support the contention advanced in 1923 by Johnston [J. comp. Neurol. 35, 337481] that the cells accompanying the stria terminalis are interconnecting columns of a macrostructure encompassing the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and centromedial amygdala. More recently, it has been appreciated that columns of neurons below the globus pallidus also belong to this macrostructure [Alheid G. F. et al. (1995) In The Rat Nervous System, 2nd edn, pp. 495 578, Academic, San Diego; de Olmos J. S. et al. (1985) In The Rat Nervous System, pp. 223-334, Academic, Sydney], which has been named the "extended amygdala".
9547226: !synaptophysin Increased synaptic sprouting in response to estrogen via an apolipoprotein E-dependent mechanism: implications for Alzheimer's disease. Estrogen replacement therapy appears to delay the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the mechanisms for this action are incompletely known. We show how the enhancement of synaptic sprouting by estradiol (E2) in response to an entorhinal cortex (EC) lesion model of AD may operate via an apolipoprotein E (apoE)-dependent mechanism. In wild-type (WT) mice, ovariectomy decreased commissural/associational sprouting to the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, with synaptophysin (SYN) as a marker. E2 replacement returned SYN in the inner layer to levels of EC-lesioned, ovary-bearing controls and increased the area of compensatory synaptogenesis in the outer molecular layer. In EC-lesioned apoE-knock-out (KO) mice, however, E2 did not enhance sprouting. We also examined apoJ (clusterin) mRNA, which is implicated in AD by its presence in senile plaques, its transport of Abeta across the blood-brain barrier, and its induction by neurodegenerative lesioning. ApoJ mRNA levels were increased by E2 replacement in EC-lesioned WT mice but not in apoE-KO mice. These data suggest a mechanism for the protective effects of estrogens on AD and provide a link between two important risk factors in the etiology of AD, the apoE epsilon4 genotype and an estrogen-deficient state. This is also the first evidence that SYN, a presynaptic protein involved in neurotransmitter release, is regulated by E2 in the adult brain, and that apoE is necessary for the induction of apoJ mRNA by E2 in brain injury.
9569027: !synaptophysin Stable reintroduction of wild-type P53 (MTmp53ts) causes the induction of apoptosis and neuroendocrine-like differentiation in human ductal pancreatic carcinoma cells. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is one of the major causes of cancer mortality in the industrialized world, having among the poorest prognosis of any malignancy. Mutations or alterations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene/protein are observed in 50-70% of these cancers, yet little information is available regarding the phenotypic effects of restoration of wild-type (wt) p53 function in pancreatic ductal carcinoma cells. The consequences of stable reintroduction of wt p53 on apoptosis and differentiation was examined in a poorly differentiated pancreatic carcinoma cell line (Panc-1), possessing only mutant (mt) p53 (codon 273 mutation). Cells were transfected with a temperature-sensitive mouse p53val135 (tsp53) vector under additional control of a genetically-modified metallothionein promoter. This tsp53 has a 'mt' phenotype at 37.5 degrees C, and a 'wt' phenotype at 32.5 degrees C and the presence of 100 microM ZnCl2. Stable expression of wt p53 caused upregulation of the p21/WAF1 gene, and G1 growth arrest as shown by flow cytometry and BrdU labeling. Additionally, apoptosis was induced 8-12 post-induction in the majority of the cells (60-70%), as demonstrated by morphological changes, in situ TdT labeling and internucleosomal laddering. However, a subpopulation (30%) of the transfectants survived this apoptotic fate. Unlike the epithelial parental Panc-1 cells, these cells exhibited the appearance of a neuroendocrine-like phenotype with extensive branch-like processes, and marked cytoplasmic and cytoskeletal immunostaining for tau-2, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A. These studies suggest that stable and regulated expression of wt p53 can have multiple phenotypic consequences (apoptosis and altered differentiation to a neuroendocrine-like phenotype) in poorly-differentiated pancreatic carcinoma cells.
9566229: !synaptophysin Update of the gene discovery program in Schistosoma mansoni with the expressed sequence tag approach. Continuing the Schistosoma mansoni Genome Project 363 new templates were sequenced generating 205 more ESTs corresponding to 91 genes. Seventy four of these genes (81%) had not previously been described in S. mansoni. Among the newly discovered genes there are several of significant biological interest such as synaptophysin, NIFs-like and rho-GDP dissociation inhibitor.
9563788: !synaptophysin Production of trophoblastic hormones by transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder: association to tumor stage and grade. Cancer registration statistics of economically advanced countries indicate that bladder carcinoma incidence ranks fourth in men and eighth in women, but a reliable tumor marker for predicting the disease course is still lacking. We designed an immunohistochemical study to comprehensively assess the trophoblastic hormone production profile of transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder. Moreover, we correlated histological differentiation and tumor stages with marker expression and, finally, evaluated a potential tumor origin of hCGbeta core-fragment (hCGbetacf). To this end, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissues from 104 patients with urothelial neoplasms of various histological grades (23 GI, 24 GII, and 38 GIII) and stage (19pTis, 21pTa, 29pT1, and 35pT2-T4) were analyzed by the immunoperoxidase technique using our own well-characterized monoclonal antibodies against the glycoprotein hormones human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and its derivatives hCGalpha, hCGbeta, hCGbetacf, luteinizing hormone (LH, LHbeta), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH, FSHbeta), and the protein hormones placental lactogen (hPL) and growth hormone (hGH-V/N). Overall, trophoblastic hormone immunoreactivity was found in 36% of TCC. Detailed analysis showed 35% hCGbeta, 17% hCGbetacf, 9% hCGalpha, 4% hCG, and 2% hPL-positive cases. The tumors produced neither GH-N, placental GH-V, nor the pituitary gonadotropins FSH/FSHbeta and LH/LHbeta. Marker positivity significantly increased with high-grade lesions (26% GI- v 55% GIII-TCC) and advanced tumor stages (24% pTa v 63% > or = pT2). Hormone immunoreactivity was frequently observed in highly proliferating areas. Our findings, together with recent structural and clinical studies, strongly suggest that these hormones, or derivates thereof, might act as local tumor growth factors. Normal urothelium, urothelial papillomas, and carcinoma in situ showed no positive reactions. All tumors producing hCG-derived molecules were negative for the concommitantly analyzed neuroendocrine markers chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase (NSE). In summary, one third of TCC ectopically produce trophoblastic hormones, which is specifically correlated with stage and grade. Apart from hCGbeta (97% of the marker-positive cases), the intracellular occurrence of hCGbetacf, apparently the second most frequently produced marker, was surprising, and there was also a lesser degree free hCGalpha and intact holo-hormone expression. The placental protein hormones PL and GH-V are not appropriate tumor marker candidates. Finally, our histogenetic findings support a metaplastic origin of the hCG producing choriocarcinomatous phenotype of some TCC.
9563781: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in thymic epithelial tumors with special reference to thymic carcinoma and atypical thymoma. To determine the neuroendocrine (NE) features of thymic epithelial tumor, immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy studies were performed on eight NE tumors (thymic carcinoids) and 26 non-NE tumors (nine thymic carcinomas, five atypical thymomas, and 12 thymomas other than lymphocytic thymoma). Immunohistochemical studies were performed with antibodies against general markers for NE cells (synaptophysin, alpha subunit of a guanine nucleotide-binding protein, Go, and small-cell lung carcinoma cluster 1 antigen), and a broad panel of antibodies for hormonal substances. Thymic carcinoid showed synchronous diffuse immunoreactivity for the three NE markers and contained cells that were positive for a variety of hormonal products: human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) alpha-subunit (eight of eight), hCG beta-subunit (three of eight), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) (three of eight), calcitonin (two of eight), calcitonin gene-related peptide (two of eight), and serotonin (one of eight). Conversely, although positivity for NE markers was neither synchronous nor diffuse in non-NE tumors, seven of nine thymic carcinomas, three of five atypical thymomas (focal or dispersed distribution), and none of the five thymomas were positive for at least two of these NE markers. A small number of neoplastic cells were positive for hCGalpha-subunit or ACTH in three thymic carcinomas and one atypical thymoma. Ultrastructurally, dense core granules (DCG) were much more frequent in thymic carcinoid, but several DCG-like granules were identified in 12 of 13 non-NE tumors with or without immunoexpression of NE markers. The presence of focal or dispersed NE cells in thymic carcinoma and atypical thymoma may reflect multidirectional differentiation within the tumor, which, like cytological atypia, epithelial CD5 expression, and lack of immature T cell infiltration, may be another feature of this group at thymic tumors.
9560014: !synaptophysin Characterizations of heterotopic neurons in the spinal cord of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients. This report concerns a comparative immunocytochemical, ultrastructural and morphometric investigation on heterotopic neurons in the white matter of the spinal cords of 19 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 18 age-matched neurologically normal individuals. The study revealed that the heterotopic neurons were scattered in the white matter, often adjacent to gray matter, that they immunoreacted with the antibody to synaptophysin, and that there were synaptic apparatuses on the surface of their somata and their neuronal processes. Bunina bodies and ubiquitin-positive inclusions such as Lewy body-like inclusions and skein-like inclusions, characteristic of anterior horn neurons of ALS, were present in the cytoplasm of the patients' heterotopic neurons in the anterior or lateral column of the white matter. These findings suggest that heterotopic neurons in the anterior or lateral column have the characteristics of alpha motor neurons. The average number of heterotopic neurons observed in ALS patients was generally less than in normal subjects. This reduction was correlated with the severity of neuronal loss. The heterotopic neurons in ALS were less susceptible to the degenerative process as compared with spinal cord anterior horn cells. We assume that in this disease the heterotopic neurons may be degenerated and their number diminished after or concomitantly with the depletion of anterior horn neurons.
9557772: !synaptophysin Human olfactory mucosa in schizophrenia. Recent evidence indicates that developmental anomalies may underlie some symptoms of schizophrenia, while psychophysical studies have demonstrated olfactory deficits in this disease. The postmortem olfactory mucosa of elderly schizophrenic patients was examined to characterize the molecular phenotype of this tissue. The distribution of developmentally regulated cytoskeletal proteins, a synaptic vesicle protein, a neural marker protein, a receptor for trophic molecules, axonal guidance and cell migration proteins, and neuronal and glial cytoskeletal proteins of various degrees of phosphorylation was examined by immunohistochemistry. Both schizophrenic and control subjects exhibited dystrophic neurites that were immunoreactive for synaptophysin, microtubule-associated proteins (MAP1B), and neurofilament proteins. No major histochemical or morphologic differences in either the expression or distribution of these proteins were observed in the olfactory epithelium of schizophrenic compared to control subjects. These studies indicated that dystrophic neurites frequently occurred in the olfactory mucosa of both schizophrenics and neurologically normal adults. The absence of major immunocytochemical abnormalities suggested that olfactory deficits in schizophrenia may be due to more subtle cellular or molecular differences or to abnormalities in olfactory regions of the central nervous system rather than in the olfactory epithelium.
9556802: !synaptophysin [Primary primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the urinary bladder. Clinicopathologic case report and differential small cell tumor diagnosis of this site]. We report a rare case of primary primitive neuroectodermal tumour of the bladder in an adult. A huge tumour with extensions into pelvic and retroperitoneal tissue was found radiologically in a 62-year-old man. The patient did not complain about remarkable clinical symptoms until 4 days before admission to hospital. Histology of diagnostic transurethral tumour resection showed a small round-cell tumour with focal necrosis and scattered Homer-Wright rosettes. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that tumour cells stained positively with 013, a monoclonal antibody which recognizes the membrane glycoprotein p30/32MIC2. Focally, tumour cells stained positively for vimentin, NSE, S-100 protein and synaptophysin. The patient died 3 weeks later because of fulminant pulmonary embolism and autopsy revealed a huge, partly exophytic but mainly endophytic tumour of the bladder with extensions into the rectum and retroperitoneal tissue. The differential diagnosis of small round-cell tumours in this location is discussed.
9556033: !synaptophysin Selective outgrowth and differential tropism of amacrine and photoreceptor axons to cell targets during early development in vitro. The axonal guidance and outgrowth in retinal neurons were investigated in cultures of pure retinal neurons (control) or in cocultures with heterologous BC3H-1 cells. Under control conditions, only about 10% of retinal neurons developed axons; coculturing with BC3H-1 cells induced early axonal outgrowth and guidance to BC3H-1 cells in most amacrine neurons. Both mechanisms were dependent on laminin and neural cell-adhesion molecules (N-CAMs) released by BC3H-1 cells, because they were prevented by antibodies directed against these molecules. The protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, staurosporine, reduced the effect of laminin on amacrine axonal outgrowth, suggesting that this effect was mediated by PKC. The occurrence of structures resembling synaptic boutons and the expression of synaptophysin at the amacrine axon ends of heterologous connections suggested that amacrine axons establish true synaptic contacts rather than simply overlapping with the BC3H-1 cells. In contrast to the heterologous contacts with BC3H-1 cells, the amacrine-amacrine axonal contacts observed in the cocultures were independent of laminin and N-CAM. Axonal outgrowth occurred in about 10% of the photoreceptors and was not affected by BC3H-1 cells or by substratum pretreatment with laminin or N-CAM. These results show that different mechanisms affect axonal outgrowth and guidance in amacrine and photoreceptor neurons in vitro, and they suggest that similar mechanisms could contribute to the development of the scaffold of axon pathways in the retina in vivo.
9555018: !synaptophysin The development of synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity in the lumbosacral enlargement of the spinal cord of the opossum Monodelphis domestica. The presence of synaptophysin in the lumbosacral enlargement of developing opossums, Monodelphis domestica, was studied immunohistochemically at the light microscopic level. In newborn, synaptophysin-labeling was observed in the presumptive white matter, presumably in growing axons, and was scant in the ventrolateral gray matter. Over the next 3 weeks the labeling filled the gray matter following a general ventrodorsal gradient. Labeling was found in the white matter until the fifth week. Synaptogenesis in the lumbosacral enlargement of the opossum thus occurs mostly postnatally, when many descending axons have already reached that level. It is particularly intense in the ventral horn when the hindlimbs begin to move, and in the dorsal horn when sensorimotor reflexes can be elicited.
9548430: !synaptophysin Primary mucosal melanomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses. A clinicopathological analysis of 14 cases. We present 14 patients with primary sinonasal melanomas (SM) identified from 1984-1997 in our archives (11/14 lateral nose, 1/14 nasal septum, 2/14 paranasal sinuses; 8M/6F, mean age 67.7 years, range 39-88 years). Survival was poor (median 9 months) with death related to extensive local disease and/or widespread hematogenous metastases. The following histological subtypes were identified in descending order: amelanotic small blue cell, pleomorphic, epithelioid, spindle cell and myxoid. High mitotic rate and vascular invasion, absence of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and regression were features shared by all SM. Negative staining of B- and T-cell markers, LCA, neuroendocrine markers such as NSE, chromogranin and synaptophysin, and CK-negativity excluded olfactory neuroblastoma, small cell undifferentiated carcinoma, and lymphoma. S-100 protein was expressed in all SM, but demonstrated variable staining intensity with areas of complete negativity. HMB45 was strongly and uniformly (>80%) expressed in all undifferentiated small blue cell SM. The pigmented SM were predominantly HMB45-negative. The strong HMB45 staining in amelanotic small blue cell SM is explained by the reaction of HMB45 antibody with an oncofetal antigen found in immature melanosomes. In these poorly differentiated amelanotic malignant melanomas, antibody to HMB45 proved to be a superb diagnostic marker. We therefore strongly advocate the inclusion of HMB45 antibody in the panel of antibodies for initial work-up of undifferentiated mucosal neoplasms, since a negative S-100 stain in small biopsy material may result in incorrect classification of these neoplasms.
9547871: !synaptophysin Case report: pineocytoma in a male Fischer 344 rat. An enlarged pineal gland was observed in a 112-wk-old male Fischer 344 rat from the low-dose treatment group in a 2-yr bioassay. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections of the gland were stained with hematoxylin and eosin along with the immunohistochemical biomarkers synaptophysin, placental alkaline phosphatase, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and vimentin. Based on its histomorphological features and on positive staining with synaptophysin, the lesion was diagnosed as a malignant pineal gland parenchymal cell tumor or pineocytoma of incidental origin.
9545136: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumor in a two-month-old black and white Colobus monkey. A 2-month-old male black and white Colobus monkey (Colobus guereza kikuyuensis) was euthanatized because of progressive physical deterioration, rear limb paralysis, lymphadenopathy, and the presence of facial and retroperitoneal lumbar masses. At necropsy, soft white masses were present in and around lumbar vertebrae, the subcutis of the face, multiple lymph nodes, and the fourth ventricle of the brain. Histologic and immunohistochemical analysis of these masses revealed a primitive neoplasm with both neuronal and glial differentiation, consistent with a primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) with bipotential differentiation. The extracranial tumors were synaptophysin (SYN)-positive, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-negative, and neurofilament protein (NFP)-negative, while the intracranial tumor was SYN-positive, GFAP-positive, and NFP-negative.
9539212: !synaptophysin Synaptic numbers across cortical laminae and cognitive performance of the rat during ageing. In this study, we have investigated the changes in the number of individual presynaptic boutons in the neocortex of rats and correlated them with cognitive performance. Brown Norway x Fischer 344 F1 hybrid rats, aged from one to 24 months, were used. Using synaptophysin as a marker for presynaptic boutons, we found that in the parietal II region of the neocortex an age-related decrease in the density of immunostained punctae representing presynaptic boutons occurred. Regression analysis showed that this decline in the number of presynaptic boutons correlates with ageing (r=0.495, P<0.05). Interestingly, we found that this age-related depletion of presynaptic boutons was more intense in the deeper cortical lamina, such as laminae V and VI (mean decrease of 18%), than in the superficial laminae (mean decrease of 8% in laminae I-IV). Using the Morris water maze test, we observed that young rats acquired the task at twice the speed of aged animals (48.9 +/- 9.0 s and 91.0 +/- 4.9 s for young and aged animals, respectively). Furthermore, at the end of the training period, the aged cohort still showed significantly higher escape latencies in the Morris water maze. The present findings support the concept that the decline in cognitive performances in ageing is related to the loss of synapses in the cerebral cortex.
9535127: !synaptophysin A study of cell death in Werdnig Hoffmann disease brain. We examined the occurrence of apoptotic cell death in the autopsied brains of four patients with Werdnig Hoffmann disease (WH), using TdT-mediated DIG-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and immunohistochemistry for apoptosis-related proteins. Three of the four patients, aged over 6 months, exhibited TUNEL-positive cells in the lateral nuclei of the thalamus, and one of the three patients also had TUNEL-positive cells in the cerebral cortex. The labeled nuclei did not show characteristic features such as nuclear fragmentation or apoptotic bodies, and synaptophysin-positive granules were observed around some of the TUNEL-positive cells, although none of the antibodies against glial markers could visualize TUNEL-positive cells. TUNEL-positive cells were not observed in other regions examined, including the spinal cord, medulla and cerebellum or in the brains of three age-matched controls. There were neither immunopositive structures for bcl-2 or p53 nor alteration of in situ expression of bcl-xs/l or bax in any subject, and the TUNEL-positive cells lacked immunopositivity against apoptosis-related proteins. The presence of these TUNEL-positive cells might suggest latent neurodegeneration in the thalamus before central chromatolysis of neurons or neuronal loss appears, although it is not clear whether apoptotic cell death is involved in this degenerative process.
9521839: !synaptophysin Formation of postsynaptic-like membranes during differentiation of embryonic stem cells in vitro. To analyze the formation of neuromuscular junctions, mouse pluripotent embryonic stem (ES) cells were differentiated via embryoid bodies into skeletal muscle and neuronal cells. The developmentally controlled expression of skeletal muscle-specific genes coding for myf5, myogenin, myoD and myf6, alpha 1 subunit of the L-type calcium channel, cell adhesion molecule M-cadherin, and neuron-specific genes encoding the 68-, 160-, and 200-kDa neurofilament proteins, synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, brain-specific proteoglycan neurocan, and microtubule-associated protein tau was demonstrated by RT-PCR analysis. In addition, genes specifically expressed at neuromuscular junctions, the gamma- and epsilon-subunits of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) and the extracellular matrix protein S-laminin, were found. At the terminal differentiation stage characterized by the formation of multinucleated spontaneously contracting myotubes, the myogenic regulatory gene myf6 and the AChR epsilon-subunit gene, both specifically expressed in mature adult skeletal muscle, were found to be coexpressed. Only the terminally differentiated myotubes showed a clustering of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChR) and a colocalization with agrin and synaptophysin. The formation of AChRs was also demonstrated on a functional level by using the patch clamp technique. Taken together, our results showed that during ES cell differentiation in vitro neuron- and muscle-specific genes are expressed in a developmentally controlled manner, resulting in the formation of postsynaptic-like membranes. Thus, the embryonic stem cell differentiation model will be helpful for studying cellular interactions at neuromuscular junctions by "loss of function" analysis in vitro.
9517852: !synaptophysin Class III beta-tubulin isotype (beta III) in the adrenal medulla: III. Differential expression of neuronal and glial antigens identifies two distinct populations of neuronal and glial-like (sustentacular) cells in the PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cell line maintained in a Gelfoam matrix system. The rat PC12 pheochromocytoma cell line provides an established system for the study of neuronal differentiation. To our knowledge, glial differentiation has not been reported in this cell line.
9512004: !synaptophysin Prenatal hippocampal granule cells in primary cell culture form mossy fiber boutons at pyramidal cell dendrites. Mossy fiber boutons are the sites of synaptic signalling between hippocampal granule and pyramidal neurons. We studied the formation and localization of these terminals during development of prenatal hippocampal neurons in primary culture. Using the synaptic vesicle membrane proteins synaptophysin and synaptoporin as markers we observed that both proteins were mainly localized in perikarya and processes of fetal hippocampal neurons during the first days in vitro (DIV). Following DIV 6 synaptophysin was present in small terminals. After DIV 20 in addition large terminals immunoreactive for synaptophysin and synaptoporin were found, which were identified by electron microscopy as mossy fiber boutons impinging on pyramidal neuron dendrites. Synaptic vesicles and endosomes in the mossy fiber boutons were labeled when incubated with exogenous horseradish peroxidase, indicating that they were competent for exo-endocytosis. Taken together, our data show that hippocampal granule neurons grown in dissociated primary cultures form mossy fiber boutons containing synaptophysin and synaptoporin at pyramidal cell dendrites. Since the composition and the characteristic morphology of mossy fiber boutons formed in vitro is the same as observed in vivo we conclude that their development follows an intrinsic program.
9511990: !synaptophysin Developmentally regulated O-acetylated sialoglycans in the central nervous system revealed by a new monoclonal antibody 493D4 recognizing a wide range of O-acetylated glycoconjugates. We have previously detected an alkali-labile and developmentally regulated antigen in rat embryonic cerebral cortex, which may be 9-O-acetylsialylated GT3 ganglioside (Hirabayashi Y, Hirota M, Suzuki Y, Matsumoto M, Obata K, Ando S (1989) Neurosci Lett 106:193-98). In this study we established a mouse monoclonal antibody, 493D4, that recognizes 9-O-acetyl GT3 ganglioside, but not non-O-acetyl gangliosides. This antibody also reacted with 9-O-acetyl GD3 to a much lesser extent. By using this antibody, we found that O-acetyl GT3 as well as O-acetyl GD3 were expressed strongly in fetal murine cerebral cortex and decreased to an undetectable level after birth. With the assistance of TLC-immunostaining using 493D4 together with Q-Sepharose column chromatography, O-acetyl gangliosides of bovine brain were purified and the structural analysis showed the presence of O-acetyl GD3, O-acetyl LD1, O-acetyl GD2 and O-acetyl GD1b in the adult brain as extremely minor components. Interestingly, the antibody 493D4 could detect O-acetyl sialoglycoproteins in rat brain tissues. One of the major immunoreactive proteins was shown to be synaptophysin, an integral membrane protein specifically present in synaptic vesicles. This monoclonal antibody was therefore useful for sensitive detection of both O-acetylated gangliosides and glycoproteins with O-acetylated sialic acids.
9511169: !synaptophysin An aluminum-induced increase in GFAP is attenuated by some chelators. Enhanced expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) has been shown to be associated with gliosis, a generic response of the CNS to neural injury. The effects of aluminum (Al) on regional GFAP concentrations were evaluated to determine potential sites of Al-induced neural injury. Rabbits received 20 Al (100 mumol/kg) or sodium lactate injections over 1 month. Frontal cortical GFAP increased (approximately twofold above control) in Al-loaded rabbits; whereas hippocampal and cerebellar GFAP concentrations were not affected. Frontal cortical synaptophysin, neurofilament 68, and myelin basic protein concentrations were then examined in an attempt to determine cell-specific targets of Al neurotoxicity. These proteins were not affected by Al. The ability of chelators to influence brain Al concentrations and the Al effect on GFAP were assessed. Desferrioxamine (DFO) and six 3-hydroxypyridin-4-ones (CPs) were given 12 times, over 1 month, to Al-loaded rabbits. CP24 significantly reduced brain Al. CP93, CP52, and CP24 significantly reduced frontal cortical GFAP. The data suggest an Al-induced gliosis consequent to subtle damage in the frontal cortex and a protective role of some chelators against this CNS injury.
9510436: !synaptophysin Postnatal developmental changes in NSE and NNE mRNA expression in the rat pineal gland: in situ hybridization histochemistry. By in situ hybridization, neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and non-neuronal enolase (NNE) mRNAs were examined in the rat pineal gland at the postnatal developmental and adult stages. The distributions of hybridized signals were analyzed in comparison with immunohistochemical staining of synaptophysin (SYN), which is a marker for pinealocytes. In SYN-positive areas that were observed throughout postnatal developmental and adult stages, we detected both NSE and NNE signals, which increased simultaneously during early postnatal development and thereafter became stationary. Quantitative analysis revealed that NNE signals were 2- to 3-fold greater in number than NSE signals at any given stage. This predominant expression pattern of NNE differed from that in neurons, which usually showed both signals at similar levels and seemed to reflect the difference in physiological function from neurons. During the early postnatal stages, a cord-like arrangement of cells without distinct SYN staining was observed. This arrangement was the thickest at postnatal day 0 and became dispersed and thinner with development, showing a relationship with formation of vascularized connective tissue stroma. By in situ hybridization, many of the constituent cells showed weak NNE signals but no distinct NSE signals. However, some cells also showed weak NSE signals, suggesting heterogeneity of these cells. The characteristic NSE and NNE expression patterns in the pineal gland cells clarified in this study might provide a basis for further studies of the differentiation and function of the pineal gland.
9500774: !synaptophysin Monoclonal antibody NB84 in the differential diagnosis of neuroblastoma and other small round cell tumors. Two hundred fifty-five well-characterized formaldehyde-fixed and paraffin-embedded small round cell tumors mainly from children and young adults including 105 neuroblastomas were immunohistochemically analyzed with the NB84 monoclonal antibody raised to neuroblastoma cells. Most of the undifferentiated neuroblastomas (21 of 22) and all 83 differentiated neuroblastomas reacted with NB84, but none of these tumors were CD99 positive. Compared with synaptophysin, NB84 was more sensitive, although less specific, in the identification of neuroblastoma in formaldehyde-fixed tissue. In addition to neuroblastoma, skeletal and extraskeletal Ewing's sarcoma and medulloblastoma showed NB84 reactivity in approximately 20% of cases, and 50% of desmoplastic small round cell tumors showed positive cells, usually in smaller numbers than the neuroblastomas. The NB84 reactivity was seen slightly more commonly in morphologically defined (rosette-positive) cases of peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors than in Ewing's sarcoma. However, the NB84 positivity did not correlate with the expression of other neural markers (neurofilament proteins, CD57, and synaptophysin) in these tumors. All other small round cell tumors including rhabdomyosarcomas, Wilms' tumors, and lymphomas were NB84 negative. In the case of NB84-positive tumors other than neuroblastoma, their specific reactivity for other markers was useful (Ewing's sarcoma CD99 positive, desmoplastic small round cell tumor desmin and keratin positive). The NB84 monoclonal antibody is a useful reagent to separate neuroblastoma from other small round cell tumors. In problem cases it is best used in a panel together with other markers that address the significant differential diagnostic alternatives.
9500236: !synaptophysin Comparative immunohistochemical study of stellate cells in normal canine and equine adenohypophyses and in pituitary tumours. The presence and distribution of S100 protein (alpha and beta subunits), cytokeratin polypeptides, glial fibrillary acidic protein, neurofilaments, vimentin, neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin, HLA class II DR antigen, and pituitary hormones (prolactin, adrenocorticotropic hormone and human chorionic gonadotrophin) in stellate cells were studied immunohistochemically in four normal canine pituitary glands, five canine pituitary adenomas, two canine pituitary carcinomas and two equine pituitary adenomas (with surrounding normal glandular tissue). Stellate cells of the pars distalis and pars intermedia of canine and equine adenohypophyses showed a strong reaction with antibodies against S100 protein subunits alpha and beta. They also reacted with antibody against high and low molecular weight cytokeratins, but not with those against other intermediate filament proteins, neuroendocrine markers, the HLA-class II DR antigen or the pituitary hormones. Other populations of cells expressing both subunits of the S100 protein were polygonal cells of the pars distalis of the adenohypophysis (horse) and marginal epithelial cells of the pars intermedia of the adenohypophysis (dog and horse). Some pituitary tumours had S100-immunoreactive cells with a distribution of alpha and beta subunits that differed between the two species. Some canine tumours (one adenoma and one carcinoma) expressed only the alpha subunit, but both of the equine adenomas expressed alpha and beta protein subunits. Some of the S100-immunoreactive tumour cells reacted with RCK-102 (cytokeratins 5+8) antibody in the dog but not in the horse. The results suggested that canine and equine stellate cells of the adenohypophysis are more closely related to epithelial than to glial cells, as is the case in cattle, sheep and goats but not human beings or mice. No subpopulation of cells of bone marrow origin could be identified among canine stellate cells, as they lack MHC class II antigen. The results also suggested that the presence of S100-immunoreactive cells is more striking in canine and equine tumours than in human tumours.
9497078: !synaptophysin Developmental pattern of cell type-specific calretinin immunoreactivity in the postnatal gerbil pineal gland. The postnatal development of immunoreactivity for the neuronal calcium-binding protein calretinin in the pineal gland of the Mongolian gerbil was investigated using immunostaining of serial semithin sections. Calretinin-positive pineal cells could readily be visualized from the day of birth (P0) onwards and coexpressed the intermediate filament (IF) protein vimentin. During the first half of the first postnatal week, many of the calretinin-/vimentin-positive cells were also immunopositive for synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and thus corresponded to pinealocytes. However, the expression of calretinin in pinealocytes was only transitory and declined towards the end of the first postnatal week. Thereafter, calretinin immunoreactivity became restricted to vimentin-positive interstitial glial cells. Therefore, in the gerbil pineal gland, calretinin obviously is not required in mature pinealocytes but instead serves as yet unknown functions in interstitial cells. The unusual calretinin expression pattern adds to the notion that pineal interstitial cells differ from glial cells of other brain regions. This conclusion is also underlined by our present detection of the neuronal marker protein PGP 9.5 in interstitial cells during postnatal development.
9490269: !synaptophysin Keratin subsets and monoclonal antibody HBME-1 in chordoma: immunohistochemical differential diagnosis between tumors simulating chordoma. Thirty-five chordomas and more than 100 other tumors that have to be considered in the differential diagnosis, were immunohistochemically analyzed using a panel of antibodies including those to subsets of keratins (K), HBME-1, a monoclonal antibody recognizing an unknown antigen on mesothelial cells, and neuroendocrine markers. The patterns of immunoreactivities in chordoma were compared with those in renal cell carcinoma, colorectal mucinous adenocarcinoma, pituitary adenoma, skeletal chondrosarcoma, and extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma (ESMC). Chordomas were consistently positive for keratin cocktail AE1/AE3, and for the individual keratins K8 and K19, and nearly always positive for K5, but they showed negative or only sporadic reactivity for K7 and K20. The keratin K8 and K19 reactivity was retained in those chordomas showing solid sheets of epithelioid, spindle cells, or cartilaginous metaplasia, and in one of two cases showing overtly sarcomatous transformation. In comparison, keratins were never present in skeletal chondrosarcoma, although K8 and to a lesser extent K19 were seen in occasional cases of ESMC with chordoid features. HBME-1 reacted strongly with chordoma and skeletal chondrosarcoma but was almost never positive in renal or colorectal carcinoma. These carcinomas lacked K5-reactivity, in contrast to chordoma. Chordomas were also consistently positive for neuron-specific enolase and occasionally focally for synaptophysin, but never for chromogranin. In contrast, pituitary adenomas regularly expressed the full spectrum of neuroendocrine markers and differed from chordoma by having a narrower repertoire of keratins, often showing negative or focal keratin 8- or AE1/AE3 reactivity and being almost always K19-negative. These findings indicate that chordoma can be immunohistochemically separated from tumors that can resemble it. Immunohistochemistry is especially useful in the diagnosis of small biopsy specimens that offer limited material for morphological observation.
9478003: !synaptophysin Neurite outgrowth from bipolar and horizontal cells after experimental retinal detachment. To study the responses of horizontal cells and rod bipolar cells, the second-order neurons in the retina, to the degeneration induced by experimental retinal detachment.
9483574: !synaptophysin AMPA receptor protein in developing rat brain: glutamate receptor-1 expression and localization change at regional, cellular, and subcellular levels with maturation. We tested the hypothesis that the regional, cellular, and synaptic localizations of the glutamate receptor 1 (GluR 1) subunit of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor are regulated developmentally in rat brain. By immunoblotting, GluR1 was first detected in whole brain at embryonic day E15.5, and levels increased progressively during late embryonic (E20) and early postnatal (P2-P11) days. Regionally, GluR1 increased in cerebral cortex but decreased in striatum with postnatal maturation. These changes occurred in the presence of increased presynaptic maturation, as determined by synaptophysin detection. By immunocytochemistry, distinct cellular populations showed different temporal profiles of GluR1 expression during postnatal maturation. The neocortex and hippocampus showed a progressive maturation-related enrichment of GluR1, whereas the striatum showed a gradual reduction in GluR1 during maturation. In cerebellum, GluR1 protein was expressed transiently at restricted times postnatally by granule cells (P0-P11) and Purkinje cells (P13-P19), but by P21 and thereafter these neurons had sparse GluR1 immunoreactivity. By immunoelectron microscopy. GluR1 was found in neurites, specifically in both dendritic and axon terminal components of developing synapses. GluR1 was clustered at the plasma membrane of apparent growth cone appositions, neuronal cell bodies, and dendrites of developing neurons. The presence of GluR1 at presynaptic sites dissipated with synaptic maturation, as GluR1 became confined to the somatodendritic compartment as maturation progressed. We conclude that the regional expression as well as the cellular and synaptic localizations of the GluR1 are developmentally regulated and are different in immature and mature brain. Differences in glutamate receptor expression and synaptic localization in immature and mature brain may be relevant to the phenomenon that the perinatal and adult brain differ in their regional vulnerability to hypoxia-ischemia and excitotoxicity.
9473581: !synaptophysin Developmental pattern of cell type-specific calretinin immunoreactivity in the postnatal gerbil pineal gland. The postnatal development of immunoreactivity for the neuronal calcium-binding protein calretinin in the pineal gland of the Mongolian gerbil was investigated using immunostaining of serial semithin sections. Calretinin-positive pineal cells could readily be visualized from the day of birth (P0) onwards and coexpressed the intermediate filament (IF) protein vimentin. During the first half of the first postnatal week, many of the calretinin-/vimentin-positive cells were also immunopositive for synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and thus corresponded to pinealocytes. However, the expression of calretinin in pinealocytes was only transitory and declined towards the end of the first postnatal week. Thereafter, calretinin immunoreactivity became restricted to vimentin-positive interstitial glial cells. Therefore, in the gerbil pineal gland, calretinin obviously is not required in mature pinealocytes but instead serves as yet unknown functions in interstitial cells. The unusual calretinin expression pattern adds to the notion that pineal interstitial cells differ from glial cells of other brain regions. This conclusion is also underlined by our present detection of the neuronal marker protein PGP 9.5 in interstitial cells during postnatal development.
9472720: !synaptophysin Synaptobrevin isoforms in secretory granules and synaptic-like microvesicles in anterior pituitary cells. A set of synaptic proteins have been shown to be essential for the life cycle and exocytosis of synaptic vesicles at the nerve terminal. Recently, these proteins have also been identified in certain endocrine cells. Here we analysed the presence and location of some of these synaptic proteins in anterior pituitary cells. Immunoblotting data demonstrated that Rab3a, synaptotagmin, cellubrevin, synaptobrevin 2, syntaxin 1, SNAP-25 and synaptophysin were well represented in anterior pituitary cells as well as in the corticotroph cell line AtT-20. Cellubrevin was the most abundant synaptobrevin isoform present in pituitary cells. Moreover, both cellubrevin and synaptobrevin 2 took part of a protein complex involved in the fusion process in adenohypophyseal cells. Immunocytochemical and subcellular fractionation showed that cellubrevin, synaptobrevin 2, Rab3a and synaptotagmin were located in both secretory granules and synaptic-like microvesicles fractions. In contrast, SNAP-25 and syntaxin 1 were mainly associated with plasma membrane fractions. Therefore, these results suggest similar secretory mechanisms for synaptic vesicles and secretory organelles in both neuronal and endocrine cells.
9419350: !synaptophysin Two distinct populations of synaptic-like vesicles from rat brain. In nonneuronal cells, several plasma membrane proteins such as exofacial enzymes, receptors, and ion channels recycle between their intracellular compartment(s) and the cell surface via an endosomal pathway. In neurons, however, this pathway has not been extensively characterized. In particular, it remains unclear whether or not it is related to the recycling of small synaptic vesicles, the major pathway of membrane traffic in nerve terminals. To approach this problem, we purified and studied a vesicular fraction from rat brain synaptosomes. Two distinct populations of vesicles with different buoyant densities and sedimentation coefficients were detected in this fraction by sucrose gradient centrifugation and Western blot analysis of the individual proteins. Both populations contain proteins that are markers of synaptic vesicles, namely, SV2, synaptotagmin, synaptophysin, secretory carrier membrane proteins (SCAMPs), synaptobrevin, and rab3a. A striking difference between the two populations is the presence of arginine aminopeptidase activity (a previously suggested marker for the regulated endosomal recycling pathway) exclusively in the lighter less-dense vesicles. The same two vesicular populations were also detected in the preparation of clathrin-coated vesicles isolated from whole rat brain or purified synaptosomes after removal of their clathrin coats by incubation at pH 8.5. We conclude, therefore, that both types of vesicles recycle in synaptosomes via a clathrin-mediated pathway. These data present experimental evidence for biochemical heterogeneity of synaptic-like vesicles in rat brain.
9466562: !synaptophysin Abnormal accumulation of NACP/alpha-synuclein in neurodegenerative disorders. The precursor of the non-Abeta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NACP) (also known as a-synuclein) is a presynaptic terminal molecule that accumulates in the plaques of Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies have shown that a mutation in NACP is associated with familial Parkinson's disease, and that Lewy bodies are immunoreactive with antibodies against this molecule. To clarify the patterns of accumulation and differences in abnormal compartmentalization, we studied NACP immunoreactivity using double immunolabeling and laser scanning confocal microscopy in the cortex of patients with various neurodegenerative disorders. In Lewy body variant of Alzheimer's disease, diffuse Lewy body disease, and Parkinson's disease, NACP was found to immunolabel cortical Lewy bodies, abnormal neurites, and dystrophic neurites in the plaques. Double-labeling studies showed that all three of these neuropathological structures also contained ubiquitin, synaptophysin, and neurofilament (but not tau) immunoreactivity. In contrast, neurofibrillary tangles, neuropil threads, Pick bodies, ballooned neurons, and glial tangles (most of which were tau positive) were NACP negative. These results support the view that NACP specifically accumulates in diseases related to Lewy bodies such as Lewy body variant of Alzheimer's disease, diffuse Lewy body disease, and Parkinson's disease and suggests a role for this synaptic protein in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration.
9463579: !synaptophysin Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumour with ganglioneuroma-like areas arising in the cauda equina. Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumour (pPNET or peripheral neuroepithelioma) is one of the malignant small round cell tumours of peripheral nerves, soft tissues and bones, but rarely originates in the spinal canal. We report an example of pPNET arising in the cauda equina of a 14-year-old Japanese boy. At surgery, a well-demarcated tumour measuring 2 x 4 cm in diameter and involving one of the nerve roots of the cauda equina was located within the intradural space with no evidence of extradural extension. Microscopically the tumour was made up of sheets of closely packed small round cells, associated with ganglioneuroma-like islands. Immunohistochemically, the small round tumour cells were intensely positive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), an MIC2 gene product (O13) and beta 2-microglobulin, whereas the foci with ganglion cell-like cells reacted positively to NSE, synaptophysin and beta 2-microglobulin but were negative for O13. A chimeric transcript of the EWS/FLI-1 fusion gene detected by a nested reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction using formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue justified the diagnosis of pPNET. Only 6 cases of PNET in the cauda equina have been described in the literature, and this is the first case of a pPNET with ganglio-neuroma-like areas. This finding suggests that the primitive tumour cells of pPNET may respond to unknown inductive effects and express a ganglion cell-like morphology.
9460170: !synaptophysin Interactions of persistent environmental organohalogens with the thyroid hormone system: mechanisms and possible consequences for animal and human health. Several classes of environmental contaminants have been claimed or suggested to possess endocrine-disrupting potency, which may result in reproductive problems and developmental disorders. In this paper the focus is on the multiple and interactive mechanisms of interference of persistent polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (PHAHs) and their metabolites with the thyroid hormone system. Evidence suggests that pure congeners or mixtures of PHAHs directly interfere with the thyroid gland; with thyroid hormone metabolizing enzymes, such as uridine-diphosphate-glucuronyl transferases (UGTs), iodothyronine deiodinases (IDs), and sulfotransferases (SULTs) in liver and brain; and with the plasma transport system of thyroid hormones in experimental animals and their offspring. Changes in thyroid hormone levels in conjunction with high PHAH exposure was also observed in captive as well as free ranging wildlife species and in humans. Maternal exposure to PHAHs during pregnancy resulted in a considerable fetal transfer of hydroxylated PHAHs, which are known to compete with thyroxine (T4) for plasma transthyretin (TTR) binding sites, and thus may be transported to the fetus with those carrier proteins that normally mediate the delivery of T4 to the fetus. Concomitant changes in thyroid hormone concentrations in plasma and in brain tissue were observed in fetal and neonatal stages of development, when sufficient thyroid hormone levels are essential for normal brain development. Alterations in structural and functional neurochemical parameters, such as glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), synaptophysin, calcineurin, and serotonergic neurotransmitters, were observed in the same offspring up to postnatal day 90. In addition, some changes in locomotor and cognitive indices of behavior were observed in rat offspring, following in utero and lactational exposure to PHAHs. Alterations in thyroid hormone levels and subtle changes in neurobehavioral performance were also observed in human infants exposed in utero and through lactation to relatively high levels of PHAHs. Overall these studies indicate that persistent PHAHs can disrupt the thyroid hormone system at a multitude of interaction sites, which may have a profound impact on normal brain development in experimental animals, wildlife species, and human infants.
9437018: !synaptophysin Presynaptic localization of Kv1.4-containing A-type potassium channels near excitatory synapses in the hippocampus. Mammalian Shaker voltage-gated potassium channels that contain the Kv1.4 subunit exhibit rapid activation and prominent inactivation processes, which enable these channels to integrate brief (approximiately milliseconds) depolarizations over time intervals of up to tens of seconds. In the hippocampus, Kv1.4 immunoreactivity is detected at greatest density in two regions: (1) the middle molecular layer (MML), where perforant path axons synapse with dentate granule cells, and (2) the stratum lucidum (SL) of CA3, where the mossy fibers travel in tight fasciculi and form en passante synapses onto CA3 pyramidal cells. We have studied the localization of Kv1.4 within these regions in detail. First, we compared the distribution of Kv1.4 and synaptophysin (a synaptic vesicle protein primarily localized near termini) under confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. In the MML, Kv1.4 and synaptophysin immunofluorescence appeared to overlap. In the SL, however, Kv1.4 and synaptophysin staining was detected in nonoverlapping, irregular patches ( approximately 5-10 micro m in diameter). Ultrastructural studies of these two regions revealed that Kv1.4 immunoreactivity was absent from the surface membranes of cell bodies and dendrites and occurred prominently on axons, including axonal "necks" near termini. Small excitatory synaptic boutons also were labeled in the MML; by contrast, the mossy fiber synaptic expansions in the SL were not stained. These localizations may enable Kv1.4-containing channels to regulate the process of neurotransmitter release at these excitatory synapses.
9348493: !synaptophysin Pheochromocytoma in dogs: 61 cases (1984-1995). This report presents the clinical, laboratory, imaging, and pathologic findings in 61 dogs with pheochromocytoma by retrospective evaluation of medical records. Pheochromocytomas were diagnosed by histopathologic examination of tissue specimens in all dogs. Special stains (chromogranin A and synaptophysin) also were used to confirm the chromaffin cell origin of the tumors. Epidemiologic findings were in agreement with previous studies, indicating that pheochromocytomas affect middle-aged to older dogs with no apparent gender or breed predilection. The tumor was considered clinical in 21 dogs (34%), was responsible for abnormalities related to a space-occupying mass in 7 dogs (11%), and was an incidental finding in 35 dogs (57%). The hematologic and biochemical findings were nonspecific. Hypertension was detected in 10 of 23 (43%) dogs tested, but all hypertensive dogs had concurrent diseases that may have contributed to hypertension. Abdominal ultrasonography was the most commonly used imaging procedure, with a mass detected in the region of the adrenal glands in 20 of 40 (50%) dogs examined. In 4 of the 20 dogs (20%), invasion of the caudal vena cava was identified. Surgery was performed in 17 dogs (28%) with immediate death or euthanasia of 5 dogs. Survival after surgery ranged from 1 day to 3.25 years. Pheochromocytomas were locally invasive in 39% of affected dogs and produced metastases in 13% of the cases. Common sites for metastases included regional lymph nodes, liver, lung, kidney, spleen, and bone. A high frequency of concurrent neoplasia (54%), including endocrine neoplasia, was identified.
9458138: !synaptophysin Results after surgery in undifferentiated large cell carcinoma of the lung: the role of neuroendocrine expression. The objective of this study was to define the incidence of light microscopically undifferentiated large cell carcinomas, to analyze tumor stages, types of resections necessary and postsurgical survival. Additionally we tried to evaluate whether or not neuroendocrine expression influences the biological behavior of these tumors.
9452957: !synaptophysin Hamster pulmonary endocrine cells with positive immunostaining for calbindin-D28K. We have examined the distribution of calcium-binding proteins (CaBPs) in adult and fetal lungs of Syrian golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) using immunostaining with confocal laser microscopy and electron microscopy. Single and grouped (neuroepithelial body; NEB) endocrine cells were distributed from bronchi to alveolar ducts in the adult lung. Serial frozen sections immunostained for CaBPs in combination with immunostaining for endocrine markers such as calcitonin gene-related peptide, serotonin, PGP9.5, and synaptophysin revealed that positive immunostaining for calbindin-D28K (CB-D28K) was seen in single endocrine cells and NEBs. However, other so-called EF-hand family CaBPs, parvalbumin and calretinin, were not detected. Electron microscopically, positive immunoreaction for CB-D28K was mainly in the organelle-free cytoplasmic matrix of endocrine cells, and partly in nuclei and associated with secretory granules and endoplasmic reticulum. In fetal developing lungs, endocrine cells appeared first on gestational day 13, and they were positive for all the endocrine markers used. However, pulmonary endocrine cells were positively immunostained for CB-D28K from gestational days 15 and 16 onward. In summary, our observations suggest that CB-D28K is a useful marker for endocrine cells of the lung, and CB-D28K could function as a mediator of endocrine stimulation or calcium homeostasis in pulmonary endocrine cells.
9369530: !synaptophysin Exocytotic proteins in enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells of the rat stomach. Proteins participating in vesicular docking and fusion have been identified in the nervous system. Such proteins appear to be important for the molecular regulation of exocytosis also in non-neuronal cells. The enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells of the gastric acid-secreting (oxyntic) mucosa secrete histamine and chromogranin A-derived peptides, such as pancreastatin. Using immunohistochemistry, we have examined whether the ECL cells of the rat stomach, identified with antibodies to histidine decarboxylase (HDC, the histamine-forming enzyme), express the same exocytotic proteins as neurons. The ECL cells displayed immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, synaptotagmin III, vesicle-associated membrane protein-2 (VAMP-2), cysteine string protein (CSP), vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT-2), synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), syntaxin, and Munc-18, but not for synaptotagmin I/II and VAMP-1. Synaptophysin and VMAT-2 could be detected not only in the ECL cells, but also in a population of HDC-negative cells. The demonstration of synaptotagmin III in only a limited number of ECL cells suggests the existence of a subpopulation of ECL cells. The results show that several exocytotic proteins, previously identified in neurons, are present in rat stomach ECL cells. Hence, proteins engaged in vesicular docking and in the fusion of granule/vesicle membrane with plasma membrane seem to exist in both neurons and endocrine cells.
9383825: !synaptophysin Clear cell neoplasms and pseudoneoplastic lesions of the central nervous system. Mass lesions of the central nervous system (CNS) that may assume a clear cell appearance are diverse in nature. Primary conditions in this category include oligodendroglioma, hemangioblastoma, germinoma (seminoma), clear cell and chordoid meningioma, pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma, and lipid-rich glioblastoma. These proliferations usually can be identified by attention to clinical presentation, topographic location, radiographic details, and histological nuances. Occasionally, however, electron microscopy or immunohistological analysis may be necessary. A recommended panel of reagents for the evaluation of clear cell primary CNS lesions include antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic proteins, S-100 protein, epithelial membrane antigen, vimentin, keratins, placental-like alkaline phosphatase, and synaptophysin. This article reviews the salient clinicopathologic attributes of such proliferations, elaborates a practical approach to their diagnosis, and discusses important differential diagnostic considerations. The latter include malformative lesions, infarcts, inflammatory conditions, and secondary lymphomas, carcinomas, and melanomas.
9444356: !synaptophysin Chronological and immunohistochemical observations of cerebellar dysplasia and vermis defect in the hereditary cerebellar vermis defect (CVD) rat. Hereditary cerebellar vermis defect (CVD) rats, a new neurological mutant, developed both cerebellar vermis defect and cerebellar dysplasia. Developmental alterations in the cerebellum of the CVD rats were studied chronologically and immunohistochemically. The earliest architectural abnormality was a maldevelopment of the inferior cerebellar peduncle from embryonic day 17 (E17), leading to an indistinct separation between the cerebellum and the pons. From E19, the CVD rats lacked vermis development and, therefore, the cerebellar hemispheres were fused. After birth, Purkinje cells and external granule cells (EGCs) penetrated into the pontine tissue, but retained their normal position until postnatal day 10. Cerebellar lamination began to be disturbed due to abnormal perivascular aggregations of the EGCs, resulting in convoluted and occasionally perivascular lamination. There were no Bergmann glia in the heterotopic cerebellum of the pons, and abnormally arranged Bergmann glia were observed in the mildly disorganized cerebellar hemispheres. Immunohistochemistry for calbindin revealed that abnormal orientation of the Purkinje cells might be related to the perivascular EGCs. Parvalbumin-immunopositive microneurons were seen only in the disarranged molecular layers, and synaptophysin-immunopositive cerebellar glomeruli were present in the afflicted internal granular layers. These findings suggest that perivascular EGCs may play an important role in cerebellar dysplasia and the developmental plasticity in the altered cerebellogenesis.
9428903: !synaptophysin Ganglioglioma of the pineal region: case report and review of the literature. Ganglioglioma is a lesion rarely encountered in the pineal region. Only six cases have been published to our knowledge.
9428382: !synaptophysin Neurohormonal stimulation of histamine release from neuroendocrine cells of the human adenomatous prostate. Neuroendocrine cells (NE) constitute a population of highly specialized cells in prostatic glands; histamine has never been described in these cells. This article shows the presence and the regulation of release of histamine in NE.
9427500: !synaptophysin Differential regulation of genes encoding synaptic proteins by the Oct-2 transcription factor. In order to investigate the effect of the Oct-2 POU family transcription factor on the regulation of genes encoding synaptic proteins, we have used cell lines in which the level of Oct-2 has been greatly reduced using an antisense approach. The reduced Oct-2 level results in enhanced expression of SNAP-25 and synapsin I, indicating that the genes encoding these proteins are normally repressed by Oct-2 in neuronal cells. In contrast, no alteration was observed in the levels of the synaptic proteins, synaptophysin and synaptotagmin. Although the neuronal forms of Oct-2 can repress the synapsin I promoter in co-transfection experiments, indicating that they have a direct effect on the expression of this gene, they have no effect on the activity of the SNAP-25 promoter, indicating that the effect of Oct-2 on this gene is likely to be indirect. These effects are discussed in terms of the differential effect of Oct-2 and the related POU family transcription factor Brn-3a, on the promoters of genes encoding different synaptic proteins.
9386006: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptophysin in sprouting neurons after entorhinal lesion in the rat. Expression of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin was studied in lesion-induced sprouting neurons of the contralateral entorhinal cortex and in the contralateral dentate gyrus using immunocytochemistry at the light- and electron-microscopic level. Perikaryal immunoreactivity for synaptophysin was found between 8 and 10 days postlesion. Light microscopy revealed that synaptophysin immunostaining was present in almost all neurons of layers II and III of the contralateral medial entorhinal cortex. These neurons give rise to the sprouting, crossed temporodentate pathway. In addition, some hilar neurons of the contralateral dentate gyrus, which are the parent cells of sprouting commissural fibers, were immunostained for synaptophysin. Transient immunostaining for synaptophysin was observed within cell bodies and dendrites. Additionally, the cell bodies were outlined by immunoreactive puncta, identified by electron microscopy as nerve terminals. Our results revealed that sprouting neurons express the major synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin during reactive synaptogenesis in a pattern that reflects biosynthesis and sorting of this protein as seen in developing neurons during synapse formation.
9416693: !synaptophysin Utility of 123C3 monoclonal antibody against CD56 (NCAM) for the diagnosis of small cell carcinomas on paraffin sections. CD56 is immunohistochemically detectable in virtually all small cell carcinomas on frozen sections. The authors retrospectively tested the usefulness of the monoclonal antibody 123C3 against CD56 to differentiate pulmonary and extrapulmonary small cell carcinomas from nonneuroendocrine non-small cell carcinomas by paraffin-section immunohistochemistry after antigen retrieval. The study included 70 small cell carcinomas and 344 primary and metastatic nonneuroendocrine carcinomas of various primary sites. The staining results were compared with specific neuroendocrine markers (CD57, Chromogranin A, Synaptophysin). The monoclonal antibody 123C3 diffusely stained most small cell carcinomas with a strong membranous pattern (sensitivity: 0.99). The staining intensity was not diminished in areas with crush artifacts or after decalcification. The neuroendocrine markers had a combined sensitivity of only 0.44 for small cell carcinomas. With regard to nonneuroendocrine carcinomas, the 123C3 antibody stained 7 of 28 ovarian carcinomas, 6 of 30 renal cell carcinomas, 2 of 10 endometrial carcinomas, two of three nonneuroendocrine large cell carcinomas of the lung, 1 of 38 adenocarcinomas, and 4 of 52 squamous cell carcinomas of the lung. Urothelial carcinomas, hepatocellular carcinomas, squamous carcinomas of the head/neck and cervix uteri, as well as adenocarcinomas of the breast, stomach, colon, pancreas, and prostate, showed no immunoreactivity for CD56. The specificities of 123C3 and the combined neuroendocrine markers for small cell carcinomas were 0.94 and 0.95, respectively. The authors conclude that monoclonal antibody 123C3 might be useful for the immunohistochemical differentiation of small cell carcinomas from nonneuroendocrine carcinomas on paraffin sections, especially in small and crushed biopsy specimens.
9416489: !synaptophysin Primary alveolar soft-part sarcoma of the mediastinum: a clinicopathological and immunohistochemical study of two cases. Primary alveolar soft part sarcomas originating within the thoracic cavity are rare. The cases herein described highlight the ubiquitous distribution of this neoplasm and the importance of considering this tumour in the differential diagnosis of mediastinal tumours.
9407936: !synaptophysin Potential prognostic value of C-erbB-2 expression in medulloblastomas in very young children. The expression of the c-erbB-2 oncogene was studied in childhood medulloblastoma to evaluate its prognostic value, which has been claimed previously.
9383209: !synaptophysin Intraneuronal trafficking and distribution of amphiphysin and synaptojanin in the rat peripheral nervous system and the spinal cord. Amphiphysin and synaptojanin are two nerve terminal proteins with a putative role in synaptic vesicle endocytosis and recycling. We have investigated the intraneuronal dynamics and distribution of these two proteins, using nerve crush techniques in combination with immunofluorescence, cytofluorimetric scanning (CFS), confocal laser scanning microscopy and immuno-electron microscopy (EM). Accumulations of amphiphysin and synaptojanin immunoreactivities at the crush site were detected as short as 1 h after the lesion, indicating that a pool of these two partially cytosolic proteins moves along the axon by fast axoplasmic transport. The amount of proximal accumulation increased linearly between 1 and 8 h. CFS analysis demonstrated that only 30% of fast anterogradely transported amphiphysin and synaptojanin was returned by fast retrograde transport, in contrast to the 70% value observed for synaptophysin, a transmembrane protein. This indicates that the majority of amphiphysin and synaptojanin is degraded/metabolized in the nerve terminals. Immuno-EM showed that both amphiphysin and synaptojanin are primarily associated with heterogeneous membrane profiles in the crushed sciatic nerve and the immunoperoxidase reaction product is concentrated in the nerve terminal cytomatrix of the spinal cord. Both proteins were differentially distributed in subsets of nerve terminals, indicating heterogeneous expression in neurons.
9362509: !synaptophysin Differential localization of vesicular acetylcholine and monoamine transporters in PC12 cells but not CHO cells. Previous studies have indicated that neuro-endocrine cells store monoamines and acetylcholine (ACh) in different secretory vesicles, suggesting that the transport proteins responsible for packaging these neurotransmitters sort to distinct vesicular compartments. Molecular cloning has recently demonstrated that the vesicular transporters for monoamines and ACh show strong sequence similarity, and studies of the vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs) indicate preferential localization to large dense core vesicles (LDCVs) rather than synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs) in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. We now report the localization of the closely related vesicular ACh transporter (VAChT). In PC12 cells, VAChT differs from the VMATs by immunofluorescence and fractionates almost exclusively to SLMVs and endosomes by equilibrium sedimentation. Immunoisolation further demonstrates colocalization with synaptophysin on SLMVs as well as other compartments. However, small amounts of VAChT also occur on LDCVs. Thus, VAChT differs in localization from the VMATs, which sort predominantly to LDCVs. In addition, we demonstrate ACh transport activity in stable PC12 transformants overexpressing VAChT. Since previous work has suggested that VAChT expression confers little if any transport activity in non-neural cells, we also determined its localization in transfected CHO fibroblasts. In CHO cells, VAChT localizes to the same endosomal compartment as the VMATs by immunofluorescence, density gradient fractionation, and immunoisolation with an antibody to the transferrin receptor. We have also detected ACh transport activity in the transfected CHO cells, indicating that localization to SLMVs is not required for function. In summary, VAChT differs in localization from the VMATs in PC12 cells but not CHO cells.
9406125: !synaptophysin Distribution of synaptic boutons around identified neurones lying in the cardiac plexus of the guinea-pig. Neurones in the cardiac plexus of the guinea-pig were subdivided into three groups according to their electrophysiological properties and subsequently labelled with neurobiotin. Preparations were counterstained with antibodies to synaptophysin to reveal boutons containing synaptic vesicles. Two of the three groups of cells which, in the electrophysiological studies were found to receive excitatory synaptic inputs were associated with numerous synaptophysin positive boutons. Cells of the other group, which did not appear to receive any synaptic inputs were associated with fewer synaptophysin positive boutons. Wholemount preparations were double stained with antibodies to Protein Gene Product 9.5 and synaptophysin. This revealed most neurones, along with vesicle filled boutons. Ganglia generally contained less than 10 neurones with a range between one and over 30. In wholemount preparations it was found that about 90% of the cells were associated with a large number of synaptophysin positive boutons whilst the remaining cells were associated with very few synaptophysin positive boutons. These results are consistent with the idea that a proportion of cardiac ganglion cells fail to receive a synaptic input and suggest that by staining wholemount preparations of guinea-pig cardiac plexus with antibodies to synaptophysin it is possible to differentiate between groups of cells which receive a synaptic input and those which fail to receive a synaptic input. Approximately 10% of intrinsic cardiac neurones appear to lack a synaptic input.
9402471: !synaptophysin De novo acquisition of neuronal polarity in retinoic acid-induced embryonal carcinoma cells. The mouse embryonal carcinoma cell line PCC7-Mz1 represents an advantageous model to study acquisition of polarity by neurons. During the first two days after differentiation is induced by the addition of retinoic acid, the neuronal derivatives develop extensions which for at least four more days do not differ from each other in growth characteristics, morphology, and marker expression. Beginning around differentiation day 6 and following the relocation of the nucleus from a central to a polar position in the cell soma, the morphology and marker expression changes dramatically: expression of MAP2 diminishes and eventually disappears in the thinner neurite (future axon), which originates at the nucleated pole, but remains strong in the branched, broad based neurite(s). The opposite changes in expression are observed for synaptophysin, together with a clustering of the vesicle protein in varicosity-like areas. Complete segregation of expression of the two markers is achieved around day 12, shortly followed by dendrite-specific location of MAP2 mRNA and the ability to generate and conduct action potentials. Our studies add several aspects to the process of neuronal polarity acquisition, as it was previously studied in primary cultures of embryonic neurons: (i) we monitored neuronal differentiation from the birth of neurons, rather than from later and less defined maturation stages, (ii) cell nucleus relocation may be associated with the induction of neuronal polarity, and (iii) functional competence of neurons is closely associated with previous acquisition of polarity. Acquisition of polarity by PCC7-Mz1 neuronal derivatives probably refers to de novo acquisition rather than to reestablishment of polarity.
9401744: !synaptophysin Immunolocalization of the receptor tyrosine kinase EphA4 in the adult rat central nervous system. EphA4 is a receptor tyrosine kinase of the Eph family previously designated Cek8 in chicken, Tyro1 in rat, and Sek1 in mouse, which is preferentially expressed in the embryonic and adult nervous system. We have mapped the distribution of EphA4 in the adult rat brain and spinal cord using a polyclonal antibody raised against a synthetic carboxy-terminal peptide. Immunoblotting experiments revealed that EphA4 is widely distributed in various regions of the adult rat brain. At the light microscopic level, intense immunoreactivity was apparent in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, matrix compartment of the neostriatum, cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain, cerebellar Purkinje cells, and substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord. Among white matter tracts, EphA4 expression was detected in the corpus callosum, fornix, and posterior portion of the anterior commissure, but not in the lateral olfactory tract, mammillothalamic tract, or optic chiasm. Interestingly, expression in the optic chiasm is high at postnatal day 6, but decreases with the maturation of this structure. While in some regions of the neuropil neuronal cell bodies were prominently labeled, in others EphA4 immunoreactivity was detected in a punctate pattern. This punctuate staining did not coincide with synaptophysin localization. At the electron microscopic level, EphA4 immunoreactivity was observed in dendrites in the gray matter, particularly associated with dendritic spines, and in myelinated axons, but not their myelin sheaths in the white matter. The widespread distribution and diverse subcellular compartmentalization of EphA4 suggest that this receptor is important for the maintenance of multiple structures in the adult nervous system.
9392487: !synaptophysin Localization and functional role of synaptotagmin III in insulin secretory vesicles in pancreatic beta-cells. Pancreatic beta-cells secrete insulin by Ca2+-triggered exocytosis of insulin-containing large dense-core vesicles. Synaptotagmin is a Ca2+/phospholipid-binding protein and is a good candidate for the Ca2+ sensor for exocytosis of synaptic vesicles in neurons. In the present study, we generated a polyclonal antibody against synaptotagmin III, and found that synaptotagmin III immunoreactivity was present at high levels in insulin-containing pancreatic islet cells and insulin-secreting clonal MIN6 cells. In subcellular fractionations of MIN6 cells, synaptotagmin III was recovered in the vesicular fractions containing both insulin and vesicle-associated membrane protein-2 (VAMP-2), but not in synaptophysin-positive fractions. The secretory vesicles immunoprecipitated by anti-VAMP-2 antibody contained synaptotagmin III and insulin. In addition, treatment of streptolysin-O-permeabilized MIN6 cells with anti-synaptotagmin III antibody significantly inhibited Ca2+-triggered insulin secretion. These results indicate that synaptotagmin III is localized in insulin-containing dense-core vesicles in pancreatic beta-cells, and further strongly suggest that synaptotagmin III is the Ca2+ sensor in the exocytosis of insulin secretory vesicles.
9390767: !synaptophysin Starburst cholinergic amacrine cells in the tree shrew retina. In all mammalian retinae studied to date, starburst cholinergic amacrine cells are a consistently occurring cell type. Here, we show that the cone-dominated retina of the tree shrew also has starburst cells with the characteristic radially symmetric branching pattern known from other species. Dendritic field sizes increase from 150 microm in the central retina to 300 microm in the retinal periphery. The characteristic morphology is established early during postnatal development. Labelling the starburst cholinergic cells with an antibody against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) reveals two dendritic strata in the inner plexiform layer and two corresponding soma populations in the inner nuclear layer (orthotopic) and ganglion cell layer (displaced). These features are present in the adult and in early postnatal stages. In the adult, the density of the orthotopic population as well as the displaced population peaks in the central retina at about 2,200 cells/mm2 and has a peripheral minimum of 400 cells/mm2. These properties are qualitatively similar to those of starburst cells in rod-dominated retinae. In contrast to findings in other mammals, we did not see gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 kDa (GAD65) immunoreactivity in tree shrew starburst cells. These cells also appear to lack synaptophysin, a ubiquitous synaptic vesicle protein detected in the starburst cells of some other mammals. However, synaptoporin, a homologous synaptic vesicle protein, appears to be present in tree shrew starburst cells.
9390154: !synaptophysin Thymic carcinoid. Report of a case with diagnosis by fine needle aspiration biopsy. Fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) affords a less expensive, less morbid approach to masses within the complex anatomy of the mediastinum as opposed to surgical biopsy. Given the current state of computed tomography guidance and the available cell block preparations and ancillary studies, definitive diagnosis of mediastinal tumors is possible.
9389539: !synaptophysin Functional importance of synaptobrevin and SNAP-25 during exocytosis of histamine by rat gastric enterochromaffin-like cells. Gastric enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells release histamine upon stimulation with gastrin in a calcium-dependent manner. The intracellular mechanisms and proteins mediating exocytosis of histamine-containing vesicles in ECL cells have not been determined yet. We used immunocytochemistry to show the localization of SNAP-25 (synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa) and synaptobrevin VAMP (vesicle-associated membrane protein) in ECL cells of the rat gastric mucosa and in isolated, highly enriched ECL cells, which were identified with an antibody directed against the marker enzyme histidine decarboxylase. Immunoblots of isolated ECL cells demonstrated the presence of SNAP-25, synaptobrevin, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and syntaxin. Histamine release from isolated ECL cells permeabilized with 8 microM digitonin (2 min) was stimulated approximately 2.5-fold upon exposure to calcium (30 microM; 10-min incubation). Preincubation with 1 microM tetanus toxin light chain for 15 min attenuated calcium-induced histamine release by 40-50% and almost completely cleaved synaptobrevin. Botulinum neurotoxin A (100 nM) totally blocked calcium-induced histamine release and cleaved SNAP-25. We conclude that synaptobrevin, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, SNAP-25, and syntaxin are present in gastric ECL cells. Inhibition of histamine secretion by clostridial neurotoxins associated with the cleavage of synaptobrevin and SNAP-25 implicates the functional importance of these proteins in the docking and fusion of histamine vesicles.
9386775: !synaptophysin Neural antigens in oligodendrogliomas and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors. Oligodendrogliomas and dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNT) are frequently associated with epilepsies and share the presence of oligodendroglia-like cells with small round nuclei and optically empty perinuclear halos. The two entities may be difficult to discriminate in small surgical specimens and the origin and differentiation of the oligodendroglia-like cells has been controversial. To better characterize and distinguish the two entities we examined 25 oligodendrogliomas and 16 DNT immunohistochemically for the presence of the proliferation-associated Ki-67 antigen and the following neural antigens: the alpha 1 subunit of the GABAA receptor (GABAR), N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 (NR1), glutamate decarboxylase, neuronal nuclei antigen (NeuN), the embryonal form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (E-NCAM), synaptophysin, neurofilament protein (NFP), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Labeling indices for the Ki-67 antigens were generally less than 1% in both entities. In oligodendrogliomas, more than 50% of the tumors contained NR1- or E-NCAM-positive oligodendroglia-like cells, whereas NeuN-positive tumor cells were never observed. In DNT, NeuN- and NR1-positive tumor cells were present in 44% of the cases each; E-NCAM positivity was less frequent (19%). In both entities, immunoreactivity of oligodendroglia-like cells for GABAR and glutamate decarboxylase was rare and positivity for synaptophysin and neurofilament protein was absent. Some GFAP-positive tumor cells were present in approximately 70% of the cases in both entities. Except for the striking difference in NeuN positivity, the immunohistochemical profiles of oligodendroglia-like cells in DNT and oligodendrogliomas largely overlap and the differential diagnosis continues to rest mainly on conventional histopathological features. The NR1 positivity and the recently reported generation of action potentials in oligodendroglioma cells are consistent with neuronal differentiation and may contribute to the high epileptogenic potential of oligodendrogliomas.
9386774: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma: an immunohistochemical, ultrastructural and cell culture study. To clarify the histogenesis and differentiation potential of central neurocytoma, a pathological investigation of seven tumors from three patients was conducted using immunohistochemistry and ultrastructural analysis in addition to systematic in vitro studies. Six tumors were studied immunohistochemically and five were examined ultrastructurally. All cases that were immunostained were positive for synaptophysin in nuclear-free neuropil islands. In five tumors, a few tumor cells, in addition to reactive astrocytes, were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Vimentin staining was also positive in a few tumor cells of five specimens. Neurofilament staining was always negative. All cases for which ultrastructure was examined showed various synaptic abnormalities. Cultured cells were subdivided into three distinct tumor cell types: neuronal cells which stained for neurofilament proteins with neurosecretory granules; small flat undifferentiated cells with a high nuclear-cytoplasmic ratio and scant cytoplasmic organelles; and small round or multipolar astrocytic cells with 10-nm intermediate filaments which stained for GFAP. Our tissue culture studies disclosed that cultured neurocytoma cells form a cellular mosaic similar to subependymal plate layers that are composed of mitotically active cells, neurons and glia.
9370057: !synaptophysin Maternal protein restriction early in rat pregnancy alters brain development in the progeny. We assessed the effects of a dietary protein restriction (5% vs. 20% casein in diet) initiated at conception and imposed during the first 2 weeks of rat gestation on postnatal brain development. At the end of the malnutrition period, protein-restricted animals exhibited significantly smaller fetal body weight and brain cortical thickness than controls. At birth and thereafter, body weight was normalized in the progeny. Similarly, brain weight and cytoarchitecture were normal in postnatal animals. In contrast, we observed, during the first 2 postnatal weeks, several abnormalities of brain development which affected all the studied areas for most of the studied parameters: (i) delayed astrocytogenesis as shown by a reduced GFAP staining; (ii) delayed production of hyaluronan in the extracellular matrix studied with binding of biotinylated hyaluronectin; (iii) abnormal neuronal differentiation as shown by reduced expression of MAP-5 and increased expression of MAP-1; (iv) abnormal synaptogenesis as shown by the increased expression of synaptophysin in the basal ganglia; (v) decreased programmed cell death. In adult prenatally protein-restricted animals, all the above parameters were normalized excepted MAP-1 labeling which remained high. In addition, we observed slight alterations of the ventilatory response to hypoxia in adult animals. The present study demonstrates that early protein malnutrition during embryonic development induces multiple, transient alterations of brain development. However, the almost complete normalization in adults of brain architecture and differentiation as well as our physiological data strongly suggest a remarkable plasticity of the developing brain following an early aggression.
9368840: !synaptophysin Collateral projections from striatonigral neurons to substance P receptor-expressing intrinsic neurons in the striatum of the rat. It is well known that striatonigral neurons produce substance P (SP); however, no SP receptor (SPR) has so far been found in the substantia nigra. On the other hand, a previous study in the rat striatum indicated that SPR was expressed only in cholinergic or somatostatinergic intrinsic neurons (Kaneko et al. [1993] Brain Res. 631:297-303). Thus, it was assumed that SP produced by striatonigral neurons might be released through their intrastriatal axon collaterals to act upon intrinsic neurons in the striatum. To confirm this assumption, the distribution of axon collaterals of striatonigral neurons was examined in the striatum of the rat. The experiments were performed on brain slices by combining retrograde labeling with tetramethylrhodamine-dextran amine, electrophysiological recording, intracellular staining with biocytin, and immunocytochemistry for SPR. The distribution of axons of cholinergic striatal neurons (a group of SP-negative intrinsic striatal neurons) was also examined. It was observed that 16% of varicosities of intrastriatal axon collaterals of striatonigral neurons, as well as 6% of axonal varicosities of cholinergic neurons, were in close apposition to dendrites and cell bodies of SPR-immunoreactive striatal neurons. Since SPR-immunoreactive striatal neurons constituted only 2.7% of the total population of striatal neurons (Kaneko et al. [1993] Brain Res. 631:297-303), it appeared that axonal varicosities of striatonigral neurons were preferentially apposed to SPR-immunoreactive striatal neurons and that the varicosities in close apposition to SPR-immunoreactive neurons were derived more frequently from striatonigral neurons than from cholinergic interneurons. Confocal laser scanning microscopy indicated that axonal varicosities in close apposition to SPR-immunoreactive cells showed synaptophysin immunoreactivity, a marker of synaptic vesicles. In intrastriatal axons of striatonigral neurons, it was further revealed from electron microscopy that axonal varicosities in close apposition to SPR-immunoreactive dendrites, at least a part of them, made synapses of the symmetric type. Striatonigral neurons might release SP preferentially around cholinergic or somatostatinergic intrinsic neurons to regulate them through SP-SPR interactions.
9364547: !synaptophysin Immunoelectron-microscopic localization of synaptophysin in the organ of Corti of the guinea pig. Synaptophysin has been localized previously in the mammalian cochlea at the light-microscopic level and in few reports by electron microscopy using either a preincubation procedure or the avidin-biotin reaction. Here we present results of the electron-microscopic analysis for postembedding immunoreactivity of synaptophysin in the cochlea of the guinea pig of LR-White-embedded samples. Strong synaptophysin immunoreactivity is located in the cytoplasm of the efferent nerve endings at the base of inner and outer hair cells. Besides this, some antibodies to synaptophysin were also identified in the cytoplasm of outer hair cells. To get more information about the cellular content of synaptophysin, the density of the immunoreaction per square micrometer was determined for the outer hair cells of the second turn of the cochlea counting the gold particles in numerous ultrathin sections. The role of synaptophysin identified in the cytoplasm of outer hair cells is discussed.
9364456: !synaptophysin Increased expression of peripheral benzodiazepine receptors in the facial nucleus following motor neuron axotomy. Peripheral benzodiazepine receptors (PBRs) are expressed in a variety of tissues but are normally found at low levels in the brain. Following various types of nerve injury, a reactive gliosis results that exhibits a high expression of this receptor. To further characterize the expression of PBRs following neuronal injury, we evaluated PBR expression in the facial nucleus following facial nerve axotomy (FNA). Injury to a peripheral nerve results in a complex series of metabolic and morphological changes around the injured neuron. Transections of the facial nerve results in a rapid activation of both astrocytes and microglia around axotomized motor neurons. FNA resulted in an increase in the staining for both astrocytes (glial fibrillary acidic protein) and activated microglia (OX42). There was also a reduction in synaptic contacts with the motor nucleus as evidenced by reduced staining for the synaptic marker, synaptophysin. In sections labeled with [3H]-PK11195, the subsequent autoradiograms displayed marked increases in the labeling for PBRs. This increase was observed at 5, 7 and 10 days after nerve transection. The increase was primarily in the level of expression (Bmax), with no change in the affinity of the ligand (Kd). The increase in PBR expression after FNA supports the hypothesis that PBRs can be used as a sensitive marker for CNS injury.
9363452: !synaptophysin Clinicopathological characteristics of peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumour of skin and subcutaneous tissue. To study the clinical and pathological features of primary malignant peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumours (PNETs) of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, to discuss the differential diagnosis, and to review the existing literature on these tumours.
9360054: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemistry on the Thinprep processor. For cytologic specimens, the vast majority of immunocytochemical studies (ICC) are performed on non-gynecologic specimens for diagnostic purposes, and they can be performed on unstained or previously stained direct smears. Although the ThinPrep processor (TPP) has been approved for the preparation of non-gynecologic specimens, there is scant literature describing the utility of ICC methodology on cytology specimens fixed and processed by this method.
9354327: !synaptophysin Activity regulates the synaptic localization of the NMDA receptor in hippocampal neurons. We describe here a novel effect of activity on the subcellular distribution of NMDA receptors in hippocampal neurons in culture. In spontaneously active neurons, NMDA receptors were clustered at a few synaptic and nonsynaptic sites. Chronic blockade of NMDA receptor activity induced a 380% increase in the number of NMDA receptor clusters and a shift to a more synaptic distribution. This effect was reversible. The distributions of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin, the AMPA-type glutamate receptor subunit GluR1, and the putative NMDA receptor clustering protein PSD-95 were not affected by blockade. Regulation of the synaptic localization of NMDA receptors by activity may define a novel mechanism by which input controls a neuron's ability to modify its synapses.
9352109: !synaptophysin Developmental expression of synaptophysin, synapsin I and syntaxin in the rat retina. Expression of synaptophysin, synapsin I and syntaxin was studied immunocytochemically in the developing rat retina using indirect immunoperoxidase technique. In the inner plexiform layer (IPL), syntaxin immunoreactivity appeared at postnatal day 1 (P1) whereas synaptophysin and synapsin I staining were first observed at P2. In the outer plexiform layer (OPL), synaptophysin appeared at P4, while synapsin I and syntaxin appeared at P8. In the case of synaptophysin, a punctate pattern of staining was observed from the time of its appearance (P4) in the OPL and from P12 onwards in the IPL. Synapsin I and syntaxin immunoreactivity in the OPL were of a low intensity throughout the development and in the adult stage. These findings are discussed in relation to synaptogenesis in the rat retina.
9344658: !synaptophysin Sequence-based exon prediction around the synaptophysin locus reveals a gene-rich area containing novel genes in human proximal Xp. The human Xp11.23-p11.22 interval has been implicated in several inherited diseases including Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome; three forms of X-linked hypercalciuric nephrolithiaisis; and the eye disorders retinitis pigmentosa 2, congenital stationary night blindness, and Aland Island eye disease. In constructing YAC contigs spanning Xp11. 23-p11.22, we have previously shown that the region around the synaptophysin (SYP) gene is refractory to cloning in YACs, but highly stable in cosmids. Preliminary analysis of the latter suggested that this might reflect a high density of coding sequences and we therefore undertook the complete sequencing of a SYP-containing cosmid. Sequence data were extensively analyzed using computer programs such as CENSOR (to mask repeats), BLAST (for homology searches), and GRAIL and GENE-ID (to predict exons). This revealed the presence of 29 putative exons, organized into three genes, in addition to the 7 exons of the complete SYP coding region, all mapping within a 44-kb interval. Two genes are novel, one (CACNA1F) showing high homology to alpha1 subunits of calcium channels, the other (LMO6) encoding a product with significant similarity to LIM-domain proteins. RT-PCR and Northern blot studies confirmed that these loci are indeed transcribed. The third locus is the previously described, but not previously localized, A4 differentiation-dependent gene. Given that the intron-exon boundaries predicted by the analysis are consistent with previous information where available, we have been able to suggest the genomic organization of the novel genes with some confidence. The region has an elevated GC content (>53%), and we identified CpG islands associated with the 5' ends of SYP, A4, and LMO6. The order of loci was Xpter-A4-LMO6-SYP-CACNA1F-Xcen, with intergenic distances ranging from approximately 300 bp to approximately 5 kb. The density of transcribed sequences in this area (>80%) is comparable to that found in the highly gene-rich chromosomal band Xq28. Further studies may aid our understanding of the long-range organization surrounding such gene-enriched regions.
9343331: !synaptophysin Congenital oligodendroglioma: a case report of a 34th-gestational week fetus with immunohistochemical study and review of the literature. A case of congenital oligodendroglioma occurring in a 34th-gestational week fetus is reported. The tumor was necrotic, hemorrhagic, and gelatinous. It covered the basal part of the brain, and almost the entire cerebellum was replaced by the tumor. The tumor cells had small, round, hyperchromatic nuclei and watery clear cytoplasm, and were arranged in a paved or alveolar pattern. Immunohistochemically, S100 protein, myelin-basic protein, neuron-specific enolase and Leu 7 were weakly positive for the cytoplasm, but glial fibrilliary acidic protein, synaptophysin, neurofilament, desmin, and vimentin were negative. Many tumor cell nuclei were positive for mutant p53 protein, and the labeling index was 85%. But there was no genetic alteration in exons 4 to 9 of p53 gene from the peripheral blood. The apoptosis index was 1.5%. Considering the p53 labeling index and the apoptosis index together, this congenital oligodendroglioma may be regarded as potentially malignant despite the benign morphological features.
9341934: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical and ultrastructural study of pericapillary rosettes in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This report concerns a comparative immunocytochemical and ultrastructural investigation on pericapillary rosettes (PR) in the lumbar spinal cords of 21 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 18 age-matched neurologically normal individuals. The purpose of the study was to determine the alteration of PR in relation to the neuronal loss in ALS. The PR were almost always positively immunostained for phosphorylated neurofilament, and some PR immunoreacted with antibodies to synaptophysin and beta-amyloid precursor protein. This finding suggests that axonal transport, whether fast or slow, is impaired in the terminal portion of the axon that reaches the capillaries. Some PR were also positively immunostained by the antibody against ubiquitin, anti-calbindin-D 28 K antibody, anti-parvalbumin antibody and the antibody to superoxide dismutase 1. Morphometrically, the number of PR in the anterior horns and lateral column was markedly diminished in ALS compared with controls. At the ultrastructural level, the PR consisted mostly of unmyelinated degenerated axons, and were frequently found outside the basal laminae of the endothelial cell and of the astrocytic foot processes on the opposite side of the capillary, and less often in the space between the two basal laminae. The data indicate that the fate of PR is intimately associated with the neuronal loss of the anterior horn cells and with degenerative change of nerve fibers extending from their mother neurons to the capillaries.
9337775: !synaptophysin Reduction of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the prefrontal cortex of subjects with schizophrenia. Regional and diagnostic specificity. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that the prefrontal cortex is a site of dysfunction in schizophrenia. However, the apparent absence of gross structural abnormalities in this area suggests that the pathophysiological characteristics of schizophrenia may involve more subtle disturbances in prefrontal cortical circuitry, such as alterations in synaptic connectivity and transmission. In this study, immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, an integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, was used to assess the integrity of cortical synaptic circuitry in schizophrenia.
9335002: !synaptophysin Synapse alteration in hippocampal CA3 field following entorhinal cortex lesion. To model one aspect of the neurodegeneration observed in Alzheimer's disease and to investigate the synaptic alteration of the hippocampus associated with entorhinal cortex lesion, ibotenic acid was used to produce selective unilateral neuronal loss in rat entorhinal cortex. Immunohistological and microdensitometrical analyses confirmed ibotenic acid lesion of the entorhinal cortex after 3 months and showed a decrease of synaptophysin-immunoreactive substances in the stratum lucidum of the CA3 field. This study demonstrates that entorhinal cortex lesion can lead to synaptic alterations and cause damage to presynaptic terminals with projecting area in the disruption of the entorhinal cortex hippocampus relay passage.
9331295: !synaptophysin Unusual histologic types of high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia. High-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (HGPIN) is the most likely precursor proliferation of peripheral zone, moderately to poorly differentiated prostatic adenocarcinomas. The usual cell type of the epithelial lining of HGPIN is a glandular epithelial cell with characteristic nuclear abnormalities. Here we report nine cases of unusual types of HGPIN, including three cases of signet-ring cell HGPIN, one case of small cell neuroendocrine HGPIN, and five cases of HGPIN with distinctive mucinous features. The three examples of signet-ring cell PIN were all associated with an invasive primary signet-ring cell carcinoma of the prostate. The HGPIN assumed a classical tufted and micropapillary architectural growth pattern, with the constituent cells exhibiting a morphologic appearance identical to that of the invasive signet-ring cells. The intraepithelial and invasive signet-ring cells were mucin negative and were immunoreactive for prostate-specific antigen (PSA). A fourth case displayed a mixed intraepithelial glandular-small cell neoplastic proliferation, where intraepithelial small cells were histologically identical to surrounding invasive small cell carcinoma cells. The small cell HGPIN and invasive small cell carcinoma cells were positive for the neuroendocrine markers chromogranin, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase. In five cases, mucinous distension of HGPIN glands, producing a flat pattern of the epithelial lining layer, comprised the third unusual pattern of HGPIN. These blue mucinous secretions were readily detected by hematoxylin and eosin staining and were composed of both neutral (periodic acid-Schiff-positive) and acidic (alcian blue-positive) mucins. Herein we document the existence of an intraepithelial proliferation of neoplastic cell types-small cell neuroendocrine and signet-ring cell-that are usually considered as stromal-invasive cells in the prostate. The presence of these rare prostatic cell types in both HGPIN and invasive carcinoma provides further support for a close relationship between HGPIN and invasive carcinoma of the prostate. All three unusual types of HGPIN-signet-ring cell, small cell neuroendocrine, and mucinous-are important to diagnostically recognize because of the strength of association of HGPIN with invasive carcinoma.
9310961: !synaptophysin HMB-45 and tuberin in hamartomas associated with tuberous sclerosis. Tuberous sclerosis (TSC) is an autosomal dominant condition characterized by various hamartomas. To assess whether these hamartomas have common features, we immunohistochemically analyzed an autopsy case of TSC with subependymal giant cell astrocytoma, hamartomatous lymphangioleiomyomatosis in the lungs and uterus, and angiomyolipomas in the liver, bilateral kidneys, parametrium, and a lymph node, using the specific antibodies for tuberin (the gene product of TSC2) and HMB-45 (a monoclonal antibody specific for human melanoma). Tuberin was ubiquitously expressed in the normal organs. It was negative or very weakly expressed in the hamartomas. In contrast, HMB-45 was commonly observed in the hamartomas except for the lesions in the brain. The subependymal giant cell astrocytoma was composed of cells immunoreactive for synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and S-100 protein but negative for HMB-45 and tuberin. The suppression of tuberin in the brain tumor and visceral hamartomas and an abnormal expression of HMB-45 in the visceral hamartomas were observed. We conclude that the hamartomas associated with TSC have common phenotypic and etiologic expressions and that the genes responsible for both tuberin and the antigen recognized by HMB-45 have important roles in the pathogenesis of these hamartomas.
9303529: !synaptophysin Development of nicotinic receptor clusters and innervation accompanying the change in muscle phenotype in the mouse esophagus. During development, the external muscle of the mouse esophagus undergoes a transdifferentiation from smooth to striated muscle (Patapoutian et al. [1995] Science 270:1818-1821). We now report on the development of the innervation accompanying the change in phenotype of the external muscle of the mouse esophagus. The phenotype of the muscle was monitored by using light and electron microscopy. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors were localised by using a fluorescence conjugate of alpha-bungarotoxin, and neural elements were localised by using antisera to synaptophysin (a synaptic vesicle protein that was used to label all nerve terminals), the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). CGRP and VAChT were co-localised in the terminals of vagal motoneurons that innervate the external muscle, and NOS and VIP were co-localised in intrinsic (enteric) neurons, which provide some terminals that are associated with motor endplates. Cells exhibiting striations were first observed in the outer layers of the most rostral regions of the esophagus of embryonic day 15 (E15) mice. Clusters of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors were also first observed at the rostral end of the esophagus of E15 mice, and developed in a rostrocaudal progression that coincided with the appearance of striations within the muscle cells. Synaptophysin-, VAChT- and NOS-immunoreactive nerve terminals were present within the external muscle prior to the formation of receptor clusters, and their appearance did not follow any apparent rostrocaudal sequence. Surprisingly, not all of the receptor clusters at E15 had synaptophysin- and VAChT-immunoreactive nerve terminals closely associated with them. However, from E18 on, almost all of the clusters had synaptophysin-immunoreactive nerve terminals in close association. At late embryonic and early postnatal stages, there was a rostrocaudal gradient in the proportion of receptor clusters having VAChT-immunoreactive nerve terminals associated with them. Nerve terminals associated with nicotinic receptor clusters did not show detectable CGRP-immunoreactivity until one to two weeks after the appearance of synaptophysin- and VAChT-immunoreactivity. The NOS-immunoreactive neurons did not show detectable VIP-immunoreactivity until three days after NOS could be detected. These results show that the appearance of clusters of nicotinic receptors in the external muscle of the esophagus coincides with the expression of a striated muscle phenotype, but not with the presence of ingrowing nerve terminals. However, many of the receptor clusters that were observed first were apparently uninnervated.
9302085: !synaptophysin Age-related abnormalities in expression of mRNAs encoding synapsin 1A, synapsin 1B, and synaptophysin in the temporal cortex of schizophrenics. Synaptic abnormalities have been implicated in schizophrenia. In order to investigate synaptic pathology in schizophrenia, we examined levels of mRNAs encoding synaptophysin, synapsin 1A and synapsin 1B in the left temporal cortex from schizophrenics (n = 24) and from normal control individuals with no history of psychiatric illness (n = 10). Levels of synaptic mRNAs in the left superior temporal and left middle temporal gyrus declined significantly with age in schizophrenics, but not in controls. Dividing the diagnostic groups according to age (below and above 75 years), the data revealed that in "young" schizophrenics (age <75 years) levels of the three synaptic mRNAs in the left superior and left middle temporal gyri were approximately two times higher than in the age-matched controls. In the "old" schizophrenics (age >75 years) the levels of synaptic mRNAs in temporal cortex did not differ from age-matched controls. These findings further support the hypothesis that developmental synaptic abnormalities may be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
9298877: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in 32 cases of so-called sclerosing hemangioma of the lung: identified by immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. Thirty-two cases of so-called sclerosing hemangioma of the lung observed by light microscopy were further studied by electron microscopy and/or immunohistochemistry. Three histologic patterns were seen: hemangioma-like, papillary, and solid. The only significant component representing the nature of the lesion is characteristic round cells within the stroma in all these patterns, whereas the surface cells lining the papillary projections or cystic spaces are normal or are hyperplastic bronchioloalveolar cells with a few neuroendocrine cells. Immunohistochemical findings showed that the "stromal cells" (tumor cells) were positive for neuroendocrine markers, namely, chromogranin A (19 of 22 cases), neuron-specific enolase (24 of 24), synaptophysin (six of 10), adrenocorticotropic hormone (14 of 15), growth hormone (14 of 15), calcitonin (11 of 15), and gastrin (11 of 14). Besides, some tumor cells were positive for epithelial membrane antigen (four of four), carcinoembryonic antigen (one of four), and vimentin (one of one). All tumor cells were negative for polyclonal antikeratin antibody (25 cases), AE1 (one case), and AE3 (one case). However, in contrast to the "stromal cells," the surface cells of the cystic spaces stained positively for keratin (25 of 25 cases), AE1 (one of one), AE3 (one of one), epithelial membrance antigen (four of four), and carcinoembryonic antigen (four of four); only a few of them expressed neruoendocrine markers. Both surface and tumor cells were negative for factor VIII-related antigen (25 cases), CD31 (one case), and alpha1-antitrypsin (25 cases). Ten cases further studied by electron microscopy and six examined by ultrastructural morphometry showed that the surface cells were mainly type 2 pneumocytes containing many lamellar bodies in the cytoplasm. Lying among them, neuroendocrine cells were occasionally seen. The stromal tumor cells had no lamellar body, but dense core granules (neurosecretory granules) and microtubules. In six cases, 92.3% (345 of 374) of tumor cells contained neurosecretory granules, which were pleomorphic and 73 to 1056 nm in diameter (mean, 302 nm). Two to 193 (mean, 12) neurosecretory granules were found in each tumor cell. Both immunohistochemical findings and ultrastructural evidence indicate that so-called sclerosing hemangioma of the lung is a benign lesion composed of neoplastic neuroendocrine cells with areas of sclerosis. A suggested name for this tumor is benign neuroendocrine tumor of the lung. The differentiation between this tumor and papillary adenoma, bronchioloalveolar carcinoma, or carcinoid tumor of the lung is discussed.
9298631: !synaptophysin Neurodegeneration and gliosis in transgenic mice overexpressing a carboxy-terminal fragment of Alzheimer amyloid-beta protein precursor. In order to study the properties of beta-amyloid in vivo, we generated a total of 28 transgenic founder mice that harbored the gene for the 17-amino acid signal sequence and the 99-amino acid carboxy-terminal fragment (CTF) of the human amyloid-beta protein precursor (beta APP) linked to the cytomegalovirus enhancer and chicken beta-actin promoter. Two of these founders, termed 0304 and 0809, exhibited decreased behavioral activity with gliosis and neurodegeneration in the hippocampus at 2.5 and 9 months of age. Both mice had also decreased levels of synaptophysin, a presynaptic marker, but no evidence for beta-amyloid deposition in their brains. Neurodegeneration in the hippocampus was transmitted to the offspring of mouse 0304, although the frequency was low (5 of 44 mice examined) and the time of onset of the disorder was rather later than that in the founder mouse. This is probably due to reduced levels of the transgene-derived products in the offspring of mouse 0304. The 0809 line failed to produce its offspring. The other remaining transgenic founders appeared normal and had lesser amounts of the CTF mRNA and protein in their brains than did 0304 and 0809 founders, though some mice died in earlier stages or exhibited hydrocephalus. These findings suggest that overexpression of the CTF of human beta APP has the potential to elicit neurodegeneration in vivo without appreciable production of beta-amyloid fibrils.
9295393: !synaptophysin Presynaptic versus postsynaptic localization of mu and delta opioid receptors in dorsal and ventral striatopallidal pathways. Parallel studies have demonstrated that enkephalin release from nerve terminals in the pallidum (globus pallidus and ventral pallidum) can be modulated by locally applied opioid drugs. To investigate further the mechanisms underlying these opioid effects, the present study examined the presynaptic and postsynaptic localization of delta (DOR1) and mu (MOR1) opioid receptors in the dorsal and ventral striatopallidal enkephalinergic system using fluorescence immunohistochemistry combined with anterograde and retrograde neuronal tracing techniques. DOR1 immunostaining patterns revealed primarily a postsynaptic localization of the receptor in pallidal cell bodies adjacent to enkephalin- or synaptophysin-positive fiber terminals. MOR1 immunostaining in the pallidum revealed both a presynaptic localization, as evidenced by punctate staining that co-localized with enkephalin and synaptophysin, and a postsynaptic localization, as evidenced by cytoplasmic staining of cells that were adjacent to enkephalin and synaptophysin immunoreactivities. Injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) or the retrograde tracer Texas Red-conjugated dextran amine (TRD) into the dorsal and ventral striatum resulted in labeling of striatopallidal fibers and pallidostriatal cell bodies, respectively. DOR1 immunostaining in the pallidum co-localized only with TRD and not PHA-L, whereas pallidal MOR1 immunostaining co-localized with PHA-L and not TRD. These results suggest that pallidal enkephalin release may be modulated by mu opioid receptors located presynaptically on striatopallidal enkephalinergic neurons and by delta opioid receptors located postsynaptically on pallidostriatal feedback neurons.
9294312: !synaptophysin [Cortical status marmoratus in a patient with a sequela of postnatal anoxic encephalopathy]. Status marmoratus (ST) of the basal ganglia and thalamus has been observed in cases of perinatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy and rarely of postnatal encephalopathy. In occasional cases, the cerebral cortex is also involved. Here, we reported a 22-year-old male with a sequela of postnatal anoxic encephalopathy. He had been bedridden with severe mental retardation since he suffered anoxic encephalopathy at 3 months of age. ST was found in the cerebral cortex as well as basal ganglia and thalamus. In addition to ST, the cerebral cortex and white matter were remarkably devastated. We also performed a preliminary immunohistochemical study to investigate the process of ST formation, using antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), myelin basic protein (MBP) and synaptophysin. MBP-positive abnormal myelinated fibers were identified in the ST areas, which were not colocalized with GFAP-immunopositivity. Synaptophysin was positive in the areas of ST, which were not stained with Holzer method. These results suggest that the myelination in the early infancy damage of basal ganglia and cerebral cortex could be implicated in the formation of ST.
9292701: !synaptophysin Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with numerous axonal spheroids in the corticospinal tract and massive degeneration of the cortex. A 53-year-old woman developed bulbar palsy, spastic quadriplegia, amyotrophy, and supranuclear ophthalmoplegia, and thereafter her condition was managed with mechanical ventilation for 1 year. Her total clinical course was 6 years. The autopsy examination revealed neuronal loss with reactive astrocytosis in the precentral cortex, thalamus, mammillary body, amygdala, putamen, globus pallidus, subthalamic nucleus, and the substantia nigra, in addition to degeneration of lower motor neurons, some of which contained Bunina bodies. Along the corticospinal tract, there were severe axonal loss and numerous axonal spheroids, which were positive for phosphorylated neurofilament, ubiquitin, and synaptophysin, and lipid-laden macrophages in the centrum semiovale to the crus cerebri. Ballooned neurons, which were positive for phosphorylated neurofilament, were occasionally seen in the frontal cortex. Although in the common form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) both upper and lower motor neurons are mainly involved, the corticospinal tract degeneration cannot be traced rostral to the pons. The noteworthy features in our patient were the precentral cortical degeneration and axonal spheroids in the corticospinal tract rostral to the pons. It remains unclear why axonal spheroids in the corticospinal tract and precentral cortical degeneration are not observed in most ALS cases. Whether their development depends on the clinical duration, mechanical ventilator management, or some other factors remains an open question.
9291938: !synaptophysin APPSw transgenic mice develop age-related A beta deposits and neuropil abnormalities, but no neuronal loss in CA1. The recent availability of transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer disease has allowed direct in vivo assessment of the molecular and neuropathological effects of cerebral amyloid deposition. We examined 16-month-old Tg(HuAPP695. K670N-M671L)2576 mice expressing human APP K670N-M671L (APPSw), which have amyloid deposition and behavioral deficits by 11 months of age. Transgene expression is predominantly neuronal, and results in amyloid deposits, comparable to human senile plaques, at terminal zones of transgene positive neurons in cortical and limbic regions. Amyloid deposits were associated with prominent gliosis and neuritic dystrophy, without neuronal loss in CA1, loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, or loss of messenger RNA for neuronal synaptic, cytoskeletal, or metabolic proteins. We conclude that A beta is not acutely neurotoxic, but can disrupt neuronal processes and provoke an inflammatory response.
9284836: !synaptophysin Effects of basic fibroblast growth factor on the differentiation, growth, and viability of a new human medulloblastoma cell line (UM-MB1). We presently report the effects of human recombinant basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) on a newly established medulloblastoma cell line, UM-MB1. This predominantly adherent cell line has a mean doubling time of 39.3 hours and was found, by karyotypic analysis, to be near triploid. UM-MB1 consists of undifferentiated cells expressing markers of neuronal lineage such as the three neurofilament subunits as well as neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and microtubule-associated proteins 1 and 5. In contrast, no immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein was evident. When exposed to nanomolar amounts of bFGF, UM-MB1 cells began to extend neurite-like processes with arborizations and growth-cone-like structures. In addition, UM-MB1 cells treated with bFGF exhibited ultrastructural alterations that reflect their enhanced differentiation as well as the increased expression of at least one of the neurofilament subunits as evidenced both immunocytochemically and on Western blots. Furthermore, bFGF significantly decreased UM-MB1 cell growth as well as induced their death. UM-MB1 cells treated with bFGF for several days displayed DNA cleavage, nuclear shrinkage, and chromatin condensation while retaining their cytoplasmic and mitochondrial membrane integrity, all early indices of apoptosis. After this, cell death was evident with the concomitant appearance of the classical apoptotic bodies. By flow cytometry, bFGF was found to increase the proportion of cells in G1 before inducing their death by apoptosis. In conclusion, UM-MB1 cells can, when appropriately stimulated, be induced to differentiate along their neuronal lineage pathway. Their differentiation induced by bFGF, although incomplete, appears to promote or inhibit the expression of apoptotic effectors or suppressors in these cells, respectively, so to induce their death by an apoptotic-like mechanism.
9282818: !synaptophysin Cortical cell loss in asymptomatic cats experimentally infected with feline immunodeficiency virus. Specific pathogen-free cats experimentally infected with feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) were used to evaluate the development of central nervous system changes during the asymptomatic stages of viral infection. The brains of asyptomatic cats were examined at postinoculation times ranging from 8 weeks to 3 years for changes in neuron density, glutamate receptor density, and synaptophysin immunoreactivity. At 2-3 years postinoculation a small decrease in neuronal density was found in layers 2-3 and layer 5 of the frontal cortex (-14.4%), parietal cortex (-18.1%), and striatum (-29.5%). The only other indications of pathology within these regions were a mild diffuse astrogliosis, occasional microglial nodules, and the accumulation of satellite cells around selected neurons. An average loss of large neurons of 56-68% was seen in the cortex of four random source cats euthanized with AIDS. These values contrasted with the absence of any significant cell loss in FIV-infected cats 18 weeks after inoculation or FIV-negative controls. The loss of neurons in the asymptomatic cats showed a significant positive correlation with a decrease in the blood CD4:CD8 ratios. Morphometric evaluation of synaptic terminal densities immunocytochemically stained with synaptophysin revealed a significant increase in the asymptomatic cats at 2-3 years postinoculation that correlated negatively with the CD4:CD8 ratios. Random source AIDS cats showed a 34% decrease in synaptophysin-immunoreactive profiles. Glutamate binding in the cortex did not change significantly in the asymptomatic cats (4-7% decline). Thus, experimentally infected specific pathogen-free cats show a loss of cortical neurons similar to what has been observed in postmortem studies of humans infected with HIV. The detection of neuronal loss during the asymptomatic stage of disease and the correlation with the peripheral CD4:CD8 cell ratios indicate that neurodegeneration may progress in parallel with peripheral disease.
9268123: !synaptophysin Comprehensive immunofluorescence and lectin binding analysis of intervibrissal fur innervation in the mystacial pad of the rat. The innervation of the intervibrissal fur in the mystacial pad of the rat and mouse was examined by immunofluorescence with a wide variety of antibodies for neuronal related structural proteins, enzymes, and peptides as well as for lectin binding histofluorescence with Griffonia simplicifolia (GSA). Anti-protein gene product 9.5 (PGP) immunofluorescence labeled all sets of axons and endings. The innervation in the upper dermis and epidermis was distributed through a four tiered dermal plexus. From deep to superficial, the second tier was the source of all apparent myelinated mechanoreceptors, the third tier of nearly all the peptidergic and GSA binding innervation, and the fourth tier of nonpeptidergic GSA negative innervation (peptide-/GSA-). Three types of mechanoreceptors-Merkel, transverse lanceolate, and longitudinal lanceolate endings-innervated guard hair follicles. All had similar labeling characteristics for 160 kDa and 200 kDa neurofilament subunits, peripherin, carbonic anhydrase, synaptophysin, and S100. Palisades of longitudinal lanceolate endings were part of piloneural complexes along circumferentially oriented sets of transverse lanceolate endings, peptidergic free nerve endings (FNEs), and peptide-/GSA- FNEs. The longitudinal lanceolate endings were the only mechanoreceptors in the mystacial pad that had detectable calcitonin gene-related peptide. The epidermis contained four types of unmyelinated endings: simple free nerve endings (FNEs), penicillate endings, cluster endings and bush endings. Only the simple FNEs were clearly peptidergic. Virtually all others were peptide-/ GSA-. Each bush ending was actually an intermingled cluster of endings formed by several unmyelinated axons and occasionally an Adelta axon. In contrast to the other unmyelinated innervation to the epidermis, bush endings labeled with an antibody against the Schwann cell protein S100. The necks and mouths of follicles, as well as superficial vasculature, were innervated by a mixture of unmyelinated peptidergic and/or GSA labeled sensory and sympathetic axons. Small presumptive sweat glands were innervated by three sets of peptidergic axons of which one was immunoreactive for somatostatin. Potential functions of the various sets of innervation are discussed.
9268122: !synaptophysin Comprehensive immunofluorescence and lectin binding analysis of vibrissal follicle sinus complex innervation in the mystacial pad of the rat. The innervation of the vibrissal follicle sinus complexes (FSCs) in the mystacial pad of the rat was examined by lectin binding histofluorescence with the B subunit of Griffonia simplicifolia (GSA) and by immunofluorescence with a wide variety of antibodies for neuronal related structural proteins, enzymes, and peptides. Only anti-protein gene product 9.5 labeled all sets of innervation. Several types of mechanoreceptors were distributed to specific different targets by medium to large caliber myelinated axons. All were positive for 200 kDa neurofilament subunit, peripherin, and carbonic anhydrase. Their endings expressed synaptophysin. Labeling for the 160 kDa neurofilament subunit, calbindin, and parvalbumin varied. Anti-Schwann cell protein S100 was completely co-extensive with the axons, terminal arbors, and endings of the mechanoreceptor afferents including Merkel innervation. At least 15 different sets of unmyelinated innervation were evident based upon distribution and labeling characteristics. They consisted of four basic types: 1) peptidergic; 2) GSA binding; 3) peptidergic and GSA binding; and 4) nonpeptidergic and GSA negative (peptide-/GSA-). Previous studies had not revealed that several major sets of unmyelinated innervation were peptide-/GSA-. The unmyelinated innervation had detectable peripherin but not 160 kDa or 200 kDa neurofilament subunits. GSA-positive axons uniquely lacked anti-S100 immunoreactivity. The dense circumferentially oriented unmyelinated innervation of the inner conical body contained major sets of peptide-/GSA- and GSA innervation as well as a smaller peptidergic GSA component. A small contingent of sympathetic and possibly parasympathetic innervation was affiliated with microvasculature in the FSCs. This study confirms and refutes some previous hypotheses about biochemical and morphological relationships between peripheral innervation and sensory ganglion cells.
9288643: !synaptophysin Empirical assessment of synapse numbers in primate neocortex. Reliable methods are needed to assess the impact of synaptic loss on brain function. In this empirical study we demonstrate a novel and efficient method using immunocytochemistry (ICC) and modern stereological techniques to quantify synapses in neocortex of adult primates (Macaca fascicularis). Systematic-uniform-random sections through forebrain from two 10-year-old monkeys were immunostained for estimation of synaptophysin-immunoreactive (synaptophysin-IR) presynaptic boutons (synapses). Adjacent sections were stained with cresyl violet for estimation of total number of neuronal cell bodies. The unbiased Cavalieri method was used to estimate total forebrain and neocortical volumes to a high level of precision (coefficient of error (CE) < or = 0.10)). Synapse-to-neuron ratios varied from 860 in frontal cortex to 2300 in parietal-temporal cortex. The combination of Cavalieri and optical disector methods provided a direct means of estimating approximately 1.25 trillion (x 10(12)) total synaptophysin-immunopositive boutons and approximately 1.01 billion (x 10(9)) cell bodies in neocortex, with low CEs (0.12). Time required to make precise estimates of total neocortical and forebrain volumes and total numbers of synapses and neurons in neocortex was approximately 2-3 h per case from stained sections. The approach is a direct and efficient technique to quantify total synapse and neuron numbers within a defined brain structure.
9269766: !synaptophysin Regulated secretion in platelets: identification of elements of the platelet exocytosis machinery. To further characterize the molecular mechanisms of platelet function, we have sought to identify some of the proteins that mediate the secretory events of the platelet release reaction. We report that platelets contain the general elements of the membrane transport apparatus: N-ethylmaleimide sensitive fusion protein (NSF), p115/transcytosis-associated protein (p115/TAP), and the soluble NSF attachment proteins (alpha- and, gamma-SNAP). The cDNAs encoding two of these proteins, alpha- and gamma-SNAP, have been cloned from a human platelet-derived cDNA library. Platelet membrane extracts possess SNAP receptor (SNARE) activity, suggesting that the class of proteins (SNAREs) proposed to provide the specificity for vesicle docking and membrane fusion are present in platelets. To identify these proteins, we have used specific antibodies against known SNAREs to probe platelet extracts. Syntaxin 2 and 4 can be readily detected in platelet membrane preparations and are shown to participate in 20 S complex formation. Syntaxin 1, 3, and 5 could not be detected. Other known SNARE and SNARE-associated proteins such as vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)/synaptobrevin 2, SNAP-25, synaptophysin, or synaptotagmin I could not be immunochemically detected in platelet membrane preparations. The presence of both the general transport proteins (NSF and SNAPs) and specific transport proteins (syntaxin 2 and 4) indicates that platelet exocytosis uses a molecular mechanism similar to other secretory cells such as neurons. However, the subcellular concentrations of these proteins suggest that, unlike neuronal secretion, granule-to plasma membrane docking may be the limiting step in platelet exocytosis.
9245793: !synaptophysin Suppression of KIF2 in PC12 cells alters the distribution of a growth cone nonsynaptic membrane receptor and inhibits neurite extension. In the present study, we present evidence about the cellular functions of KIF2, a kinesin-like superfamily member having a unique structure in that its motor domain is localized at the center of the molecule (Noda Y., Y. Sato-Yoshitake, S. Kondo, M. Nangaku, and N. Hirokawa. 1995. J. Cell Biol. 129:157-167.). Using subcellular fractionation techniques, isopicnic sucrose density centrifugation of microsomal fractions from developing rat cerebral cortex, and immunoisolation with KIF2 antibodies, we have now identified a type of nonsynaptic vesicle that associates with KIF2. This type of organelle lacks synaptic vesicle markers (synapsin, synaptophysin), amyloid precursor protein, GAP-43, or N-cadherin. On the other hand, it contains betagc, which is a novel variant of the beta subunit of the IGF-1 receptor, which is highly enriched in growth cone membranes. Both betagc and KIF2 are upregulated by NGF in PC12 cells and highly concentrated in growth cones of developing neurons. We have also analyzed the consequences of KIF2 suppression by antisense oligonucleotide treatment on nerve cell morphogenesis and the distribution of synaptic and nonsynaptic vesicle markers. KIF2 suppression results in a dramatic accumulation of betagc within the cell body and in its complete disappearance from growth cones; no alterations in the distribution of synapsin, synaptophysin, GAP-43, or amyloid percursor protein are detected in KIF2-suppressed neurons. Instead, all of them remained highly enriched at nerve terminals. KIF2 suppression also produces a dramatic inhibition of neurite outgrowth; this phenomenon occurs after betagc has disappeared from growth cones. Taken collectively, our results suggest an important role for KIF2 in neurite extension, a phenomenon that may be related with the anterograde transport of a type of nonsynaptic vesicle that contains as one of its components a growth cone membrane receptor for IGF-1, a growth factor implicated in nerve cell development.
9451803: !synaptophysin Localization of SH-PTP1 to synaptic vesicles: a possible role in neurotransmission. The tyrosine kinase pp60src is known to phosphorylate synaptophysin and in doing so may regulate neurotransmitter release. The tyrosyl phosphorylated state of synaptophysin is dependent on pp60src kinase and the unknown protein tyrosine phosphate phosphohydrolase (PTPase, EC 3.1.3.48). Here we report the protein tyrosine phosphate phosphohydrolase SH-PTP1, to associate with synaptic vesicles and interact with synaptophysin. These studies identify SH-PTP1 as a new member of the secretory machinery at the nerve terminal and suggest its involvement in neurotransmission.
9296301: !synaptophysin Magnocellular and parvocellular visual pathways are both affected in a macaque monkey model of glaucoma. Neurochemical changes in nerve cells were investigated in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex of macaque monkeys with experimentally induced glaucoma.
9294977: !synaptophysin Striatal synaptophysin levels are not indicative of dopaminergic supersensitivity. Recent evidence suggests that behavioral supersensitivity to dopamine (DA) agonists observed in chronic neuroleptic-treated animals might be related to changes in synaptic morphology and density. The aim of this study was to test this hypothesis using Western blotting to determine the striatal synaptophysin levels in rats chronically treated with haloperidol followed by sub-acute administration of a DA agonist. Chronic haloperidol treatment (1 mg/kg/day for 21 days) produced an 88% increase in striatal synaptophysin levels and a 73% increase in apomorphine-induced stereotypes. Sub-acute administration of the DA D-1 receptor agonist SKF38393 (10 mg/kg/day for 5 days) or the DA D-2 receptor agonist quinpirole (1 mg/kg/day for 5 days) did not modify the haloperidol-induced increase in striatal synaptophysin levels. However, sub-acute administration of SKF38393 attenuated (62%) haloperidol-induced stereotypies. We conclude that there is no direct relationship between stereotyped behavior and synaptophysin levels indicating that striatal synaptophysin levels are not a good marker of dopaminergic supersensitivity.
9286266: !synaptophysin Innervation of extraocular pulley smooth muscle in monkeys and humans. Soft pulleys stabilize paths and determine pulling directions of the extraocular muscles (EOMs). This study was conducted to characterize innervation of smooth muscles (SMs) supporting these pulleys.
9284203: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine stains and proliferative indices of prostatic adenocarcinomas in transurethral resection samples. To determine whether the quantification of certain neuroendocrine and proliferative markers would help in the prognostic evaluation of prostatic adenocarcinomas obtained during transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP).
9279569: !synaptophysin Primary spinal paragangliomas: a clinicopathological and immunohistochemical study of 30 cases. Extra-adrenal paragliomas are neoplasms which have been the subject of much debate regarding parameters to establish their biological behaviour. This study describes the clinicopathological and immunohistochemical features of 30 cases of spinal paragliomas.
9258263: !synaptophysin Loss of the presynaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin in hippocampus correlates with cognitive decline in Alzheimer disease. We tested the hypothesis that synaptic defects in the hippocampus of individuals with Alzheimer disease (AD) correlate with the severity of cognitive impairment. Three postmortem groups were studied: controls with normal and stable cognition; cognitively intact subjects with senile plaque densities diagnostic for possible AD (p-AD) and neurofibrillary changes characteristic of early AD (Braak stage III); and individuals with definite AD and neurofibrillary changes typical of incipient to severe AD (Braak stage III, V, or VI). Synaptophysin (a presynaptic vesicle protein) levels were quantified by immunoblotting of synaptic membrane fractions isolated from hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, caudate nucleus, and occipital cortex. Average synaptophysin levels were reduced in hippocampus when comparing definite AD to controls (55%, p < 0.0001), p-AD to control (25%, p < 0.005), and definite AD to p-AD (30%, p < 0.05), but levels in entorhinal cortex, occipital cortex, and caudate nucleus were either unchanged or less significantly altered than in hippocampus. By univariate analysis, hippocampal synaptophysin levels correlated with neuropsychological measurements, including Mini-mental state examination scores (r = 0.83, p < 0.0001) and Blessed scores (r = 0.74, P < 0.001), and with senile plaque densities (r = 0.89, p < 0.0001). We conclude that synaptic abnormalities in the hippocampus correlate with the severity of neuropathology and memory deficit in individuals with AD, and that this defect may predate neuropsychological evidence for cognitive impairment early in AD.
9255395: !synaptophysin Pseudopapillary neurocytoma of temporal lobe with glial differentiation. We present a case of cerebral neurocytoma with unusual pseudopapillary pattern, which was a predominant feature in the tumor and was characterized histologically by hyalinized vascular cores surrounded by a single or multilayered small round cells. Vascular hyalinization was also evident in the linear arborizing capillary networks in the cellular mass of the tumor. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were strongly positive for synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase except some cells lining the pseudopapillae, which showed immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin and S-100 protein. Ultrastructural examination revealed neuritic process of the tumor cells with occasional synaptic structures and neurosecretory granules. This report suggests that neurocytoma should be included in the differential diagnosis of papillary tumors in the central nervous system.
9255394: !synaptophysin Tuberous sclerosis in a 20-week gestation fetus: immunohistochemical study. We report an autopsy case of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) in a 20-week gestational age female fetus. The brain showed lesions suggestive of early cortical tubers and subependymal hamartomatous nodules. The large cells within these nodular clusters were variably immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin and negative for synaptophysin and neurofilament. Subependymal radial glia expressed both vimentin and GFAP, but subpial radial glia either did not express these markers (in contrast to an age-matched control) or were absent. Tuberin expression was noted in heterotopic neurons in the white matter and brain cells consistent with Cajal Retzius cells in the neocortical molecular layer, very weakly in superficial cortical neurons, neurons in the basal ganglia, Purkinje cells and external granular cells of cerebellum, cranial nerve nuclei neurons, occasional germinal matrix cells, ependymal cells, choroid plexus epithelium, and pituitary gland neuroendocrine cells; it was not seen within the cells of subependymal nodules. The pattern of tuberin immunoreactivity was similar to that which we have observed in older TSC patients. Proliferating cell labeling indexes were comparable in the germinal matrix of the TSC patient and an age-matched control. Abnormal subpial radial glia may be responsible for some of the neuronal migration abnormalities that appear to result in neocortical tubers.
9239749: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical localization of synaptic proteins at vesicular organelles in PC12 cells. The distribution of the three synaptic vesicle proteins SV2, synaptophysin and synaptotagmin, and of SNAP-25, a component of the docking and fusion complex, was investigated in PC12 cells by immunocytochemistry. Colloidal gold particle-bound secondary antibodies and a preembedding protocol were applied. Granules were labeled for SV2 and synaptotagmin but not for synaptophysin. Electron-lucent vesicles were labeled most intensively for synaptophysin but also for SV2 and to a lesser extent for synaptotagmin. The t-SNARE SNAP-25 was found at the plasma membrane but also at the surface of granules. Labeling of Golgi vesicles was observed for all antigens investigated. Also components of the endosomal pathway such as multivesicular bodies and multilamellar bodies were occasionally marked. The results suggest that the three membrane-integral synaptic vesicle proteins can have a differential distribution between electron-lucent vesicles (of which PC12 cells may possess more than one type) and granules. The membrane compartment of granules appears not to be an immediate precursor of that of electron-lucent vesicles.
9239748: !synaptophysin ATP-dependent formation of free synaptic vesicles from PC12 membranes in vitro. Synaptic vesicles are released from membranes during incubation at 37 degrees C in the presence of ATP (adenosine triphosphate). The donor membranes are a rapidly sedimenting fraction derived from the neuroendocrine cell line PC12 (pheochromocytoma 12). These starting membranes contain the synaptic vesicle proteins, synaptophysin and SV2, and the endosomal markers transferrin receptor and cation-independent MPR (mannose 6-phosphate receptor). Incubating the membranes in vitro increased the amount of organelles that migrate as synaptic vesicles in velocity sedimentation gradients. The synaptic vesicle fractions that contain both synaptophysin and SV2 do not contain endosomal markers. A synaptic vesicle increase in vitro is time-, cytosol-, ATP- and temperature-dependent and is inhibited by NEM (N-ethylmaleimide), BFA (brefeldin A) and aluminum fluoride, but not GTP gamma S (guanosine-5'O-C3-thiotriphosphate). The production of synaptic vesicles under these conditions is unlike the de novo generation of vesicles from endosomes (1). Incubation in vitro under the conditions described here may allow the final stages of synaptic vesicle formation, uncoating or undocking, to occur but not the initiation of formation de novo.
9239747: !synaptophysin Membrane composition of adrenergic large and small dense cored vesicles and of synaptic vesicles: consequences for their biogenesis. The membrane proteins of adrenergic large dense cored vesicles, in particular those of chromaffin granules, have been characterized in detail. With the exception of the nucleotide carrier all major peptides have been cloned. There has been a controversy whether these vesicles contain antigens like synaptophysin, synaptotagmin and VAMP or synaptobrevin found in high concentration in synaptic vesicles. One can now conclude that large dense core vesicles also contain these peptides although in lower concentrations. The biosynthesis of large dense core vesicles is analogous to that of other peptide secreting vesicles of the regulated pathway. One cannot yet definitely define the biosynthesis of small dense core vesicles which apparently have a very similar membrane composition to that of large dense core vesicles. They may form directly from large dense core vesicles when their membranes have been retrieved after exocytosis. These membranes may become sorted in an endosomal compartment where peptides may be deleted or added. Such an addition could be derived from synaptophysin-rich vesicles present in adrenergic axons. However small dense core vesicle peptides may also be transported axonally independent of large dense core vesicles. For proving one of these possibilities some crucial experiments have been suggested.
9240416: !synaptophysin Differential involvement of synaptic vesicle and presynaptic plasma membrane proteins in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive cognitive decline. Recent studies have shown that synaptic loss in the cortex is the major correlate of cognitive decline in AD. In the present study we assessed synaptic proteins such as synaptobrevin, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25), and syntaxin1/HPC-1 in control and AD brains to determine whether synaptic proteins are equally or differentially affected in AD. Western analysis showed that in AD levels of synaptobrevin and synaptophysin were decreased by some 30% from amounts in controls, while those of synaptotagmin, SNAP-25, and syntaxin 1/HPC-1 were decreased by only about 10%. As synaptobrevin and synaptophysin are localized mainly in transmitter-containing synaptic vesicles while SNAP-25 and syntaxin 1/HPC-1 are found in presynaptic plasma membranes, these results suggest differential involvement of synaptic components in AD.
12114635: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma-Like Adenomas of the Thyroid (PLAT): Incidental Lesions with Unusual Features in a Patient with Nodular Goiter. We discovered two well-demarcated nodules incidentally in a thyroid removed because of a nodular goiter. Histologically, the nodules showed a pattern of paraganglioma or so-called paraganglioma-like adenoma of the thyroid (PLAT), with lobules of polygonal and oval cells in a vascular stroma, but the immunohistochemical markers typical of paraganglioma, including chromogranin, synaptophysin, Leu 7 and 5-100, and thyroglobulin, characteristic of PLAT, were negative in the tumor cells. C-cell markers calcitonin and somatostatin were also negative. Stain for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), however, showed a distinctive pattern of reactivity within cells at the periphery of the lobules, whereas all tumor cells stained positively for keratins. Stain for carcinoembryonic antigen showed a focal interstitial pattern that corresponded to small intercellular spaces filled by microvilli identified ultrastructurally. This pattern of immunohistochemical staining has not been previously described in paraganglioma or in PLAT, and may have implications about the origin and nature of these controversial entities.
9257941: !synaptophysin Changes in protein synthesis and synthesis of the synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, in entorhinal cortex following induction of long-term potentiation in dentate gyrus: an age-related study in the rat. We have examined protein synthesis in entorhinal cortex following induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in perforant path-granule cell synapses. The data presented here indicate that there was an increase in [35S]methionine labelling of TCA-precipitated proteins and [35S]methionine labelling of synaptophysin in the ipsilateral entorhinal cortex 40 min after induction of LTP in dentate gyrus. Intraventricular injection of both the NMDA antagonist, D-amino-phosphonovalerate, and the protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin reduced protein synthesis though the decrease caused by anisomycin was much more profound. Both agents blocked induction of LTP and the increase in protein synthesis and synaptophysin synthesis which accompanied LTP. These data indicate a close coupling of increased protein synthesis in the entorhinal cortex and expression of LTP in the dentate gyrus. This coupling was further suggested by the absence of an LTP-associated increase in protein synthesis in aged animals, in which LTP was markedly attenuated. The possibility that these changes impact on morphological changes which accompany LTP is discussed.
9246673: !synaptophysin Chronic haloperidol treatment differentially affects the expression of synaptic and neuronal plasticity-associated genes. Synaptophysin is a protein used as a marker of presynaptic terminals. We previously showed that, in dorsolateral striatum of the rat, 2 weeks' haloperidol treatment up-regulated synaptophysin mRNA. We have now investigated the effects of 16 weeks' treatment with haloperidol on synaptophysin expression in dorsolateral striatum, frontoparietal cortex and hippocampus, in order to see if the implied haloperidol-induced synaptic plasticity persists. For comparison, in both the 2- and 16-week treatment groups we determined the mRNA abundance of the neuronal plasticity-associated gene GAP-43, and the housekeeping gene cyclophilin. Sixteen weeks' haloperidol administration increased synaptophysin mRNA in striatum and frontoparietal cortex but not in hippocampus. The increase was demonstrable both regionally and per neuron. A similar trend was seen for synaptophysin protein using immunoautoradiography-GAP-43 mRNA was elevated in frontoparietal cortex by 2 weeks' haloperidol but was not significantly changed in any area in the 16-week treatment group. Cyclophilin mRNA, a marker of overall gene expression, was unaffected by haloperidol. The persistent increase in synaptophysin expression supports the evidence that chronic antipsychotic drug treatment induces synaptic reorganisation in some striatal and cortical neuron populations, whereas the GAP-43 mRNA data suggest that haloperidol does not produce a sustained alteration of neuronal plasticity. Further study of plasticity-associated gene expression may be valuable in clarifying the long-term neuronal and synaptic changes produced by antipsychotics, and how these are related to the neurochemical effects of the drugs.
9240838: !synaptophysin Neuronal vacuolation and spinocerebellar degeneration in young Rottweiler dogs. With the recent epizootic of bovine spongiform encephalopathy in Europe, the differential diagnosis of neuronal vacuolation and spongiform change in other species has become critically important. Four Rottweiler puppies of both sexes, presented at 3-8 months of age, had clinical signs of generalized weakness and ataxia that started at 6 weeks of age. In all pups, neurologic examination detected an ataxia and tetraparesis, most severe in the pelvic limbs, and slowed proprioceptive placing reactions. Subsequently, there was rapid progressive neurologic deterioration, with severe placing deficits, knuckling, severe ataxia, and quadraparesis by 8 months of age. At necropsy, no gross lesions were observed. Microscopic lesions were restricted to the nervous system. The major lesion in all dogs was an intracytoplasmic neuronal vacuolation that was most prominent in the cerebellar roof nuclei and in nuclei of the extrapyramidal system. Similar vacuolation was found in neurons in both dorsal nerve root ganglia, myenteric plexus, and other ganglia of the autonomic nervous system. The single or multiple empty vacuoles were between 1 and 45 microm in diameter. A mild spongiform change was seen in the adjacent neuropil. Purkinje cell vacuolation and degeneration with segmental cell loss was seen in the oldest dog. In ventromedial and dorsolateral areas of the spinal cord white matter, there was mild bilaterally symmetrical axonal degeneration. Immunoblotting and immunocytochemical staining of the brain for protease-resistant scrapie prion protein was negative. All forms of vacuoles were negative for immunohistochemical staining with a variety of lectins. Ultrastructurally, the vacuoles were bound by a single membrane and contained granular material and sometimes membranous profiles. There was mild distension of the cytocavitary network but no unequivocal connection with the vacuoles was found. Axosomatic and axodendritic synapses in affected neurons were intact both ultrastructurally and with synaptophysin immunostaining. The clinicopathologic findings were different from those seen in the other neurologic diseases of Rottweilers. The age of the dogs, distribution and type of the lesions, ultrastructural findings, and negative immunoblotting most likely rule out the possibility of a scrapie agent-associated spongiform encephalopathy. However, the etiology of this new disease was not determined.
9236830: !synaptophysin Thyroid paraganglioma: a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of three cases. We report three cases of intrathyroidal paraganglioma. The patients were adult women without significant personal or family histories that presented with an asymptomatic thyroid nodule. The tumors were single, well-circumscribed solid masses, 2 cm in greatest diameter, located within one thyroid lobe. Microscopically, they were encapsulated and showed the typical nesting (Zellballen) pattern of paraganglioma in other sites. Two of the tumors were composed of small- to medium-sized cells with granular amphophilic cytoplasm, and the third consisted of relatively large cells having a similar staining quality. Immunohistochemically, all tumors showed positivity for neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin. S-100 protein-positive sustentacular cells were demonstrated in each case. Negative staining for epithelial markers, thyroglobulin, carcinoembryonic antigen, calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, serotonin, vimentin, and Congo red excluded other tumors that were considered in the differential diagnosis, such as medullary carcinoma, hyalinizing trabecular adenoma, atypical follicular adenoma, Hurthle-cell neoplasm, and metastatic carcinoid tumor. The patients were alive and well without evidence of recurrent disease at the time of the last follow-up. The previous literature on these tumors is discussed. We conclude that intrathyroidal paraganglioma exists and that this tumor can be distinguished from other similar-appearing neoplasms in this organ.
9236550: !synaptophysin Reduction of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the prefrontal cortex of subjects with schizophrenia. Regional and diagnostic specificity. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that the prefrontal cortex is a site of dysfunction in schizophrenia. However, the apparent absence of gross structural abnormalities in this area suggests that the pathophysiological characteristics of schizophrenia may involve more subtle disturbances in prefrontal cortical circuitry, such as alterations in synaptic connectivity and transmission. In this study, immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, an integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, was used to assess the integrity of cortical synaptic circuitry in schizophrenia.
9227695: !synaptophysin Alterations in glia and axons in the brains of Binswanger's disease patients. Although increasing attention is being paid to Binswanger's disease, a form of vascular dementia characterized by diffuse white matter lesions, only limited information is available on the pathological changes that occur in the glia and axons in the white matter. We therefore investigated the brains of patients with Binswanger's disease to gain further insight into its pathophysiology.
9202328: !synaptophysin L-aspartate but not the D form is secreted through microvesicle-mediated exocytosis and is sequestered through Na+-dependent transporter in rat pinealocytes. Rat pinealocytes accumulate glutamate in microvesicles and secrete it through exocytosis so as to transmit signals intercellularly. Glutamate is involved in the negative regulation of norepinephrine-stimulated melatonin production. In this study, we found that aspartate is also released from cultured rat pinealocytes during the exocytosis of glutamate. The release of aspartate was triggered by addition of KCI or A23187 (a Ca2+ ionophore) in the presence of Ca2+ and was proportional to the amount of L-glutamate released. Furthermore, the release of aspartate was inhibited by both botulinum neurotoxin type E and L- or N-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channel blockers. Bay K 8644, an agonist for the L-type Ca2+ channel, stimulated the release of aspartate 2.1-fold. Immunohistochemical analyses with antibodies against aspartate and synaptophysin revealed that aspartate is colocalized with synaptophysin in a cultured pinealocyte. HPLC with fluorometric detection indicated that the released aspartate is of the L form, although pinealocytes also contain the D form in their cytoplasm, corresponding to approximately 30% of the total free aspartate. Radiolabeled L-aspartate was taken up by the microsomal fraction from bovine pineal glands in a Na+-dependent manner. The Na+-dependent uptake of L-aspartate was strongly inhibited by L-cysteine sulfinate, beta-hydroxyaspartate, and L-serine-O-sulfate, inhibitors for the Na+-dependent glutamate/aspartate transporter on the plasma membrane. Na+-dependent sequestration of L-aspartate was also observed in cultured rat pinealocytes, which was inhibited similarly by these transporter inhibitors. These results strongly suggest that L-aspartate is released through microvesicle-mediated exocytosis from pinealocytes and is taken up again through the Na+-dependent transporter at the plasma membrane. The possible role of L-aspartate as an intercellular chemical transmitter in the pineal gland is discussed.
9199173: !synaptophysin Brain myosin V is a synaptic vesicle-associated motor protein: evidence for a Ca2+-dependent interaction with the synaptobrevin-synaptophysin complex. Brain myosin V is a member of a widely distributed class of unconventional myosins that may be of central importance to organelle trafficking in all eukaryotic cells. Molecular constituents that target this molecular motor to organelles have not been previously identified. Using a combination of immunopurification, extraction, cross-linking, and coprecipitation assays, we demonstrate that the tail domain of brain myosin V forms a stable complex with the synaptic vesicle membrane proteins, synaptobrevin II and synaptophysin. While myosin V was principally bound to synaptic vesicles during rest, this putative transport complex was promptly disassembled upon the depolarization-induced entry of Ca2+ into intact nerve endings. Coimmunoprecipitation assays further indicate that Ca2+ disrupts the in vitro binding of synaptobrevin II to synaptophysin in the presence but not in the absence of Mg2+. We conclude that hydrophilic forces reversibly couple the myosin V tail to a biochemically defined class of organelles in brain nerve terminals.
9237519: !synaptophysin Serotonin depletion during synaptogenesis leads to decreased synaptic density and learning deficits in the adult rat: a possible model of neurodevelopmental disorders with cognitive deficits. Studies in the past have revealed serotonin to play a role in regulating the development and maturation of the mammalian brain, largely through the release of the astroglial protein S-100beta. S-100beta plays a role in neurite extension, microtubule and dendritic stabilization and regulation of the growth associated protein GAP-43, all of which are key elements in the production of synapses. Depletion of serotonin, and thus of S-100beta, during synaptogenesis should lead to a loss of synapses and the behaviors dependent on those synapses. The current study was undertaken to test this hypothesis. In order to assess the influence of serotonin we have looked at the synaptic density in the adult after depletion, by using immunodensitometry of synaptic markers (synaptophysin and MAP-2) and by studying behaviors thought to be highly dependent on synaptic plasticity and density. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were depleted of serotonin on postnatal days (PND) 10-20 by treating with the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA; 100 mg/kg, s.c.). On PND's 30 and 62, animals were perfused for immunodensitometry. Littermates were used for behavioral testing. At PND 55-62, the animals were tested in an interchangeable maze with olfactory cues and in an eight-arm radial maze. Our results show a loss of both synaptic markers in the hippocampus on PND 30. At PND 62, the only remaining loss was of the dendritic marker MAP-2. The animals had deficits in both behaviors tested, suggestive of spacial learning deficits and of the failure to extinguish learned behaviors or to re-learn in a new set. Our findings show the long-term consequences of interfering with the role of serotonin in brain development on the morphology and function of the adult brain. These findings may have implications for human diseases, including schizophrenia, thought to be related to neurodevelopmental insults such as malnutrition, hypoxia, viruses or in utero drug exposure. Moreover, they provide further insights into the functioning of serotonin and S-100beta in development and aging.
9210520: !synaptophysin Purification and cDNA cloning of mouse BM89 antigen shows that it is identical with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. The BM89 antigen, first identified in porcine brain by means of a monoclonal antibody, is a neuron-specific molecule widely distributed in the mammalian central and peripheral nervous system (Merkouri and Matsas: Neuroscience 50:53-68, 1992). Here we describe the purification of BM89 antigen from porcine and mouse brain by immunoaffinity chromatography using, respectively, the previously described BM89 monoclonal antibody which belongs to the IgM class and a specific polyclonal antibody generated in the present study. This antibody was also used for the cDNA cloning of the BM89 antigen from mouse brain. cDNA sequencing revealed that the mouse BM89 antigen is identical with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin which is implicated in the control of regulated exocytosis and neurotransmitter release. Mouse BM89 antigen/synaptophysin exhibits, except for one extra amino acid, 100% identity with rat synaptophysin and substantial sequence identity with bovine (92.5% identity) and human (94.8% identity) synaptophysin, but only 59.8% identity with Torpedo synaptophysin. Northern and Western blot analyses confirmed that the mouse BM89 antigen/synaptophysin is expressed only in neural tissues.
9183691: !synaptophysin Neuritic differentiation and synaptogenesis in serum-free neuronal cultures of the rat cerebral cortex. To better understand the dynamics of the cellular processes involved in early neocortical development, we studied the neuritic differentiation and synaptogenesis of dispersed neurons grown in serum-free cultures under a wide variety of culture conditions. Microtubule-associated protein (MAP2), phosphorylated neurofilament (SMI 31) and synaptophysin immunocytochemistry was complemented with time-lapse studies. During the first week in vitro dissociated cortical neurons developed from roundish cells without processes to neurons with axons and differentiated dendrites, going through five distinct phases. The sequence of these phases was unaltered in a wide range of culturing methods, but the timing of the steps varied among cultures started with different cell densities. Synaptic terminals were first observed after 3-4 days in vitro, coincident with the beginning of dendritic differentiation. Synaptogenesis progressed at least until the end of the third week in vitro, despite a decline in cell density during the second week in vitro. The process of cellular differentiation of cerebral cortical neurons in vitro resembled the development of these cells in the intact tissue, suggesting that organized cell migration is not a prerequisite for the differentiation of single cortical neurons.
9379484: !synaptophysin A malignant astrocytoma containing simian virus 40 DNA in a macaque infected with simian immunodeficiency virus. Polyomaviruses have proven oncogenicity in nonhost experimental animals; however, studies concerning the association between human brain tumors and simian and human polyomaviruses have yielded inconclusive results. We examined the relationship of SV40 to a malignant astrocytoma found in the right frontal lobe of a pigtail macaque (Macaca nemestrina) infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). Consistent with the histologic diagnosis, the tumor was immunoreactive with antibodies to S-100 protein, vimentin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein, but negative for neurofilament protein, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, and chromogranin A. At the time of SIV inoculation, the animal was seropositive for SV40. Polymerase chain reaction assay of tumor DNA, but not normal brain DNA, yielded a 300 base-pair fragment corresponding to the carboxy-terminal coding region (C-terminus) of the large T antigen gene of SV40, suggesting an association with the tumor.
9228243: !synaptophysin Histopathological and immunohistochemical findings associated with a null mutation in the Norrie disease gene. To determine the clinical, histopathological, and immunohistochemical ocular changes associated with a null mutation in the Norrie disease protein (NDP) gene.
9213124: !synaptophysin Morphologic evidence for innervation of Deiters' and Hensen's cells in the guinea pig. The presence of nerve fibers and terminals among Deiters' and Hensen's cells of the organ of Corti of the adult guinea pig is demonstrated using immunostaining for synaptophysin and neurofilaments, acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, and transmission electron microscopy. These nerve terminals appeared to form chemical synapses with Deiters' and Hensen's cells. Nerve fibers and synapses were more common in the apical as compared to the basal cochlea. The terminals were often present on basal appendages of Hensen's cells, which were rich in mitochondria and often contained a Golgi apparatus and dense core vesicles. Electron microscopy and immunostaining for neurofilaments showed that most Hensen's cells in the apical cochlea received innervation. Few of the nerve fibers and terminals were positive for acetylcholinesterase, which suggests that they were not collaterals of cholinergic olivocochlear fibers. The density of these fibers, as shown by immunohistochemistry for neurofilaments, was far greater than previous reports of GABA-ergic fibers, which suggests that they were not GABA-ergic olivocochlear fibers. The role of such fibers and synapses with supporting cells of the outer hair cell area is unknown. Determination of the origins and functions of these fibers will provide new insights into cochlear structure and function.
9193726: !synaptophysin Developmental expression of neuronal and endocrine markers in the parathyroid glands of the rat. The parathyroid glands of the adult rat harbor a number of neuroendocrine markers, biologically active peptides and "classical" neuromessengers in addition to parathyroid hormone (PTH). Their appearance during parathyroid development is, however, not known. In the present study we have examined several neuroendocrine markers and neuromessengers in the parathyroid glands of the developing rat [embryonic stage 21(E21), newborn, 1, 2, 3, 4 week old, and adult rats] using immunocytochemistry. Chromogranin A- and PTH-mRNA were also examined by in situ hybridization and the mRNA levels were quantitated by computerized image analysis. Protein gene product 9.5- and synaptophysin-containing nerve fibers appeared already before birth and then gradually increased in number postnatally, and at the age of 4 weeks the nerve fibers were moderate in number to numerous. Nerve fibers containing calcitonin gene-related peptide, neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide also increased gradually in number, while galanin-, substance P- and tyrosine hydroxylase-containing fibers remained few throughout development. The glandular cells expressed chromogranin A, pancreastatin and PTH already before birth. The levels of chromogranin A- and PTH-mRNA were low at E21 and increased markedly at birth; chromogranin A mRNA levels had increased even more at 1 week postnatally. Three to 4 weeks after birth the levels of PTH- and chromogranin A mRNA again increased, then stabilized at a slightly lower level in the adult rat. Our findings demonstrate that the parathyroid glands of rat are already innervated and express PTH and chromogranin A before birth and that the density of peptide-containing nerve fibers changes during development. The stepwise increases of PTH- and chromogranin A mRNAs during development indicate marked changes in parathyroid activity occurring at birth and at weaning.
9193197: !synaptophysin Increased concentrations of presynaptic proteins in the cingulate cortex of subjects with schizophrenia. Cytoarchitectural and neurochemical studies demonstrate disorganization in the cerebral cortex in schizophrenia, which perhaps underlies the severe behavioral disturbances of the disease. This neuronal disarray should be accompanied by synaptic abnormalities. As such, presynaptic proteins have proved valuable indexes of synaptic density and their concentrations have correlated markedly with synaptic loss. Our study sought to determine whether abnormalities exist in the concentrations of presynaptic proteins in the postmortem cerebral cortex of subjects with schizophrenia.
9178948: !synaptophysin Evidence for the involvement of docosahexaenoic acid in cholinergic stimulated signal transduction at the synapse. [4,5-3H]Docosahexaenoic acid ([3H]DHA) or [9,10-3H]palmitic acid ([3H]PAM) was infused intravenously for 5 min to awake, adult male rats before and after treatment with arecoline (15 mg/kg, i.p.), a cholinergic agonist. Animals were killed 15 min post-infusion, the brains were rapidly removed and subcellular fractions were obtained after sucrose density centrifugation. In control animals, [3H]DHA and [3H]PAM were incorporated into the synaptosomal fractions, representing 50%-60% of total membrane label. Most remaining membrane label (30%-40%) was in the microsomal fraction. Both fractions contained the synaptic marker synaptophysin. The remaining 10% of radioactivity was in the myelin and mitochondrial fractions. Arecoline significantly increased [3H]DHA entry into the synaptosomal fractions by 100% and into the microsomal fraction by 50%. In these fractions 60%-65% of the [3H]DHA was in phospholipid, the rest corresponding to free fatty acid and diacylglycerol. In contrast, arecoline did not change [3H]PAM incorporation into any brain fraction. These results demonstrate that plasma [3H]DHA incorporation is selectively increased into synaptic membrane phospholipids of the rat brain in response to cholinergic activation. The increased incorporation of DHA but not of PAM into synaptic membranes in response to cholinergic stimulation indicates a primary role for DHA in phospholipid mediated signal transduction at the synapse involving activation of phospholipase A2 and/or C.
9165051: !synaptophysin Insulinoma cells contain an isoform of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II delta associated with insulin secretion vesicles. The Ca2+/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) is thought to play an important part in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. To determine which of the known subtypes (alpha, beta, gamma, delta) occur in insulin-secreting cells, we amplified all types of CaM kinase II by RT-PCR and found the beta3-, gamma-, delta2- and delta6-subtypes in RINm5F insulinoma cells. None of the other 8 delta-subtypes was present. Antibodies generated against the bacterially expressed association domain of the delta2-subtype recognized the recombinant gamma and delta-subtypes. In INS-1 and RINm5F cells, as well as freshly isolated rat islets, only a 55-kDa protein corresponding in size to the delta2-subtype expressed in NIH3T3 fibroblasts was detected. The delta2-subtype therefore appears to represent the predominant subtype of CaM kinase II present in insulin secreting cells. The enzyme was primarily associated with cytoskeletal structures, and very little was present in the soluble compartment or detergent soluble fraction in INS-1- or RINm5F-cells. An analysis of its subcellular distribution was performed by sucrose and Nycodenz density gradient fractionation of INS-1 cells and detection of CaM kinase II delta by immune blots. The enzyme codistributed with insulin used as a marker for secretory granules but not with the lighter synaptic-like microvesicles detected with an antibody against synaptophysin, plasma membranes (syntaxin 1), lysosomes (arylsulfatase), or mitochondria (cytochrome c oxidase). CaM kinase II delta2 thus is identified as the subtype associated with insulin secretory granules and is likely to be involved in insulin secretion.
9153666: !synaptophysin Sodium-dependent increase in quantal secretion induced by brevetoxin-3 in Ca2+-free medium is associated with depletion of synaptic vesicles and swelling of motor nerve terminals in situ. Brevetoxin-3 at nanomolar concentrations markedly enhanced spontaneous quantal transmitter release from neuromuscular junctions equilibrated in a Ca2+-free EGTA medium. After about 3 h, the sustained increase in miniature endplate potential frequency led to an exhaustion of transmitter release. This increase still occurred after loading the nerve terminals with the Ca2+ chelator bis-(aminophenoxy)ethanetetra-acetate or after pretreatment with various pharmacological agents known to prevent Ca2+ release from intracellular pools, but was completely prevented by the Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin. Brevetoxin-3 also increased miniature endplate potential frequency from junctions treated with botulinum type-A toxin, but to a smaller extent than at normal junctions. At normal junctions, brevetoxin-3 exposure for 2 h increased the three-dimensional projected area of living motor nerve terminals in situ by about 74% while at botulinum type-A poisoned junctions a similar toxin exposure caused only a 29% increase. Tetrodotoxin prevented such effects, indicating that they are related to both Na+ entry into the terminals and increased quantal transmitter release. Ultrastructural examination of nerve terminals from junctions exposed for 3 h to brevetoxin-3 revealed profound depletions of clear and large dense core synaptic vesicles and an increase in coated vesicles and axolemma infoldings. These results indicate that brevetoxin-3 impairs the recycling of clear synaptic vesicles and are consistent with our immunofluorescent observations showing that synaptophysin epitopes can be revealed without nerve terminal permeabilization. In contrast, no such changes were detected in nerve terminals poisoned with botulinum type-A toxin which, after 3 h exposure to brevetoxin-3, retained their synaptic vesicles and had a normal appearance. We conclude that tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ entry into motor nerve terminals induced by brevetoxin-3 triggers external Ca2+-independent asynchronous quantal transmitter release, blocks synaptic vesicle recycling and induces swelling of the terminals. We suggest that an excess of cytoplasmic Na+ per se can activate the asynchronous neurotransmitter release process.
9203548: !synaptophysin Evidence for recovery of spatial learning following entorhinal cortex lesions in mice. The influence of entorhinal cortex lesions on behaviour and concommitant changes in synaptophysin immunoreactivity (IR) in the denervated dentate gyrus was assessed. Male, C57/B6 mice received either bilateral (BI), unilateral (UNI), or no lesion (SHAM) to the entorhinal cortex. At various stages post-lesion the animals were evaluated in tests to examine neurological and cognitive (spatial and cued learning, Morris water maze) function. UNI lesioned animals from 6-36 days post-lesion showed no neurological nor marked cued learning deficit, yet a profound spatial learning deficit. However by 70 days post-lesion, spatial learning ability was clearly evident. In contrast, BI lesioned animals showed severe spatial learning deficits throughout the test period (6-70 days), cued learning was also impaired. In parallel groups of UNI lesioned mice, 6-36 days post-lesion there was a marked reduction (-40%) in synaptophysin IR in the dentate gyrus molecular layer. However by 70 days post-lesion a clear increase in this measure was noted. Changes in the expression of the growth associated protein, GAP43, were also noted over this period. Taken together, the present results suggest some recovery of spatial learning following unilateral entorhinal cortex lesions in mice. This behavioural recovery of a hippocampally dependant task may be associated with a recovery of function related to the synaptic remodelling and elevation of synapse number in the denervated hippocampus, as evidenced by changes in synaptophysin and GAP43 IR.
9129116: !synaptophysin Intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies of the substantia nigra in myotonic dystrophy. Immunohistochemical observations. We recently reported a significantly higher incidence of intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies (IIBs) of the substantia nigra in patients with myotonic dystrophy (MyD) than in age-matched controls. The changes are, per se, not specific, since a small percentage of disease and normal controls also showed similar inclusions. To elucidate the pathological significance of the inclusion in MyD, we studied immunohistochemical characteristics of IIBs of the substantia nigra in eight patients with MyD. Many IIBs showed moderately intense immunoreactivity for ubiquitin, microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 1 and MAP 2. However, the IIBs did not react with any of the following: anti-neurofilament protein antibodies (Abs) (68, 160 and 200 kDa), anti-neuron-specific enolase antibody (Ab), anti-tau Ab, anti-tubulin Abs (alpha and beta), anti-paired helical filament Ab, anti-actin Ab, anti-phosphorylated epitope of neurofilaments Ab, anti-synaptophysin Ab, anti-myelin basic protein Ab, anti-actin Ab and anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein Ab. Our results suggest that IIBs of the substantia nigra in MyD are related to an alteration of neuronal cytoskeleton metabolism affecting microtubular proteins in conjunction with activation of ubiquitin proteolytic systems.
9185679: !synaptophysin Brain derived neurotrophic factor induces a rapid upregulation of synaptophysin and tau proteins via the neurotrophin receptor TrkB in rat cerebellar granule cells. We have examined the effects of neurotrophins brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) on the expression of the maturation-specific proteins synaptophysin and tau, and the growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 in cerebellar granule cells. We find that BDNF but not NGF rapidly (within 2 h) upregulates levels of synaptophysin, tau and c-Fos correlating with expression of the neurotrophin receptor TrkB. The rapid increase in synaptophysin is not preceded by c-Fos elevation suggesting a post-transcriptional mechanism may be involved. In contrast, no upregulation of GAP-43 levels are seen within this time period. Phorbol ester mimics the effects of BDNF, indicating that protein kinase C (PKC) is either a component of, or feeds into the signalling mechanism. We conclude that BDNF, characterized to be survival promoting early in differentiation of cerebellar granule cells, enhances maturation at a later stage.
9227337: !synaptophysin A comparison of NSP-reticulons with conventional neuroendocrine markers in immunophenotyping of lung cancers. Neuroendocrine-specific protein (NSP)-reticulons are endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein complexes, which have been identified as markers for neuroendocrine differentiation. In this study, the expression of two members of the family of NSP-reticulons, NSP-A and NSP-C, have been investigated in different types of lung cancer and compared with the expression patterns of five conventional neuroendocrine markers, the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), synaptophysin, chromogranin A, Leu-7, and neurofilament proteins. NSP-A and NSP-C antibodies were reactive with most carcinoid tumour and small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) cases, while atypical carcinoid tumours showed a variable expression. In the total group of neuroendocrine tumours, a high concordance of expression was found between NSP-A and NSP-C, while their expression correlated well with NCAM and synaptophysin positivity. Chromogranin A, Leu-7, and neurofilament proteins were shown to be expressed to a limited extent in these neuroendocrine tumours. In a selected group of non-SCLCs known to exhibit neuroendocrine features, NSP-A expression was detected at much higher frequency than NSP-C. In virtually all NSP-A positive cases, this expression was associated with one or more of the other neuroendocrine markers. NSP-A expression showed a stronger correlation with conventional neuroendocrine markers than NCAM. In detecting neuroendocrine differentiation in non-SCLC, NSP-A is more sensitive than synaptophysin, chromogranin A, Leu-7, and neurofilament proteins. It is concluded that NSP-reticulons are valuable markers in the diagnosis of neuroendocrine differentiation in non-SCLC and should be used in conjunction with NCAM.
9192360: !synaptophysin Malignant aortic body tumor in a Holstein cow. A malignant aortic body tumor was observed in a 5-year-old female Holstein cow. The neoplastic mass, of 22 x 17 x 15 cm in size, was located at the base of the left atrium, having irregular lobular structures. The tumor cells had slightly eosinophilic cytoplasm, and a round or oval nucleus. Metastasis was only present in the premediastinal lymph node. The tumor cells exhibited intense immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and synaptophysin, and were moderately positive for chromogranin A. Electronmicroscopy revealed membrane-limited granules in the cytoplasm. The cultured cells were spindle in shape, and having projectional cytoplasm. They were intensely positive for NSE, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, and neurofilament (200 kD). Consequently, this case was diagnosed as a malignant aortic body tumor from the neuroecrodermal origin.
9185218: !synaptophysin "Polyphenotypic" tumors in the central nervous system: problems in nosology and classification. In recent years, there is increasing recognition of polyphenotypic high-grade malignancies in the non-central nervous system (CNS) tumor literature. Some of these tumors have been regarded as variants of primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) or as extrarenal malignant rhabdoid tumors (MRTs). This report concerns two posterior fossa neoplasms, both of which displayed a "polyphenotypic" expression of neural, epithelial, myogenic, and glial markers, including synaptophysin, neurofilament, vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, S-100, neuron-specific enolase, desmin, S antigen, MIC2, cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, and carcinoembryonic antigen. One tumor showed complex intercellular junctions, cytoplasmic intermediate filaments, well-developed rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, cilia, and neurosecretory granules. The other neoplasm showed pools of glycogen, desmosomes, and tonofilaments. The histological and ultrastructural appearances were inconsistent with glioma, PNET, meningioma, ependymoma, choroid plexus carcinoma, sarcoma, germ cell tumor, and other tumors in the World Health Organization classification. Although the polyphenotype raises the issue that these may represent variants of MRT or the atypical teratoid-rhabdoid tumor, the morphologic findings in the two cases were very dissimilar. Our two cases underscore the problems in nosology and classification of polyphenotypic tumors of the CNS. This is particularly significant, as therapeutic protocols for PNET, MRT, and non-CNS polyphenotypic tumors are different. We review the literature on polyphenotypic tumors and reiterate the difficulties in precise classification of these complex tumors.
9167720: !synaptophysin Hyalinizing trabecular adenoma of the thyroid. A report of two cases with cytologic, histologic and immunohistochemical findings. Hyalinizing trabecular adenoma (HTA) is a rare benign thyroid tumor that is easily confused with medullary carcinoma on surgical specimens and with papillary carcinoma on cytologic specimens.
9167705: !synaptophysin Fine needle aspiration cytology of metastatic olfactory neuroblastoma. Olfactory neuroblastoma (ONB) is an uncommon malignant neoplasm that originates in the upper nasal cavity. Cytomorphologic descriptions of ONB have been limited to isolated case reports. The features of a series of metastatic ONB diagnosed by fine needle aspiration (FNA) are described.
9163884: !synaptophysin Malignant cauda equina paraganglioma in a cat. An 11-year-old spayed female domestic long-haired cat presented for surgical removal of a slowly growing and deeply invasive 2.5 x 3.5-cm mass cranial to the base of the tail. Light microscopic examination of surgical biopsy specimens revealed an encapsulated mass composed of packets of polygonal cells of various sizes separated by a delicate fibrovascular stroma. Gömöri's reticulum stain revealed a characteristic endocrine or "Zellballen" pattern. Tumor cells contained diffuse positive reactivity to synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase, reactions consistent with a neuroendocrine neoplasm. S-100 protein-positive cells reminiscent of sustentacular (support) cells occurred singly or in small clusters within tumor packets. At postmortem examination 3 months later, a 9- x 5- x 4-cm multinodular raised tan mass involving the caudal pelvis, sacrum, and tail-head regions was found. The base of this neoplastic mass originated within the cauda equina region and involved approximately five caudal nerve roots. Numerous 1-3-mm metastatic nodules were identified disseminated throughout the pulmonary parenchyma. The tumor was diagnosed as a malignant paraganglioma of the cauda equina region with pulmonary metastasis.
9149103: !synaptophysin Localization of a 42-kDa inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate receptor protein in retina and change in expression after optic nerve injury. The mRNA and protein expression of a 42-kDa inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate receptor (InsP4R) was investigated in cryostat and paraffin sections from rat, porcine and bovine retina. InsP4R mRNA was localized by in situ hybridization in the ganglion cell layer, the inner nuclear cell layer and the outermost part of the outer nuclear cell layer. For immunocytochemistry, we used an antibody raised against a 19-amino-acid peptide (peptide-3) derived from previous microsequencing of proteolytic fragments of the porcine InsP4R (Stricker et al., FEBS Lett., 370 (1995) 236). The distribution of immunoreactivity was similar in all species investigated. Two cell types, most likely wide-field amacrine and retinal ganglion cells, were intensely stained. Prominent immunoreactivity in the on/off sublaminae of the inner plexiform layer and in the optic nerve layer indicates a pre- and/or post-synaptic localization of the protein. Moreover, significant InsP4R protein expression in the inner segment of photoreceptors points to a putative role of the second messenger InsP4 in signaling processes related to phototransduction. However, also the endfeet of Müller glia cells in the optic nerve layer were intensely stained. Optic nerve crush caused only minor changes in retinal InsP4R mRNA levels whereas InsP4R immunoreactivity was attenuated for more than 4 weeks in the photoreceptor inner segments, wide-field amacrine cells, and in retinal ganglion cells. The immunopositive sublaminae of the inner plexiform layer appeared to have shrunken. However, the signal intensity gradually recovered after 10 weeks. Since in parallel sections stained with a monoclonal antibody directed against the vesicular protein synaptophysin no changes were found, the alterations in InsP4R immunoreactivity induced by nerve injury are not due to a general decline in the expression of pre-synaptic proteins. We, therefore, hypothesize that the InsP4R might be linked to altered intracellular Ca2+ signaling after neuronal injury.
9144585: !synaptophysin Carbohydrate antigen 19-9 expression by folliculo-tubular structures of normal and neoplastic pituitary. We demonstrated immunohistochemically that follicular lining cells of anterior pituitary display carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) at their luminal surfaces. CA 19-9 was also demonstrated in the tubular structures of the intermediate lobe. Until now this antigen of exocrine ducts, such as pancreatic and salivary ducts, has not been demonstrated in endocrine tissue. Some CA19-9 positive follicular cells also showed endocrine markers such as chromogranin, synaptophysin and pituitary hormones. In pituitary adenomas, frequently-seen follicular structures showed immunohistochemical features similar to non-neoplastic follicles. Expression of CA19-9 in the adenohypophysis may be related to its origin from an anlage, the stomodeum shared with the parotid gland. The lining cells and mucin of Rathke's cleft cysts also revealed CA19-9. Accordingly, these cysts could have arisen from follicular cells with an exocrine ductal phenotype. The transitional cell tumor of Kepes also showed CA19-9 at the luminal surfaces of cells and in the mucin of large cysts. Given that smaller mucin-laden cysts appeared fairly frequently in adenomas, the transitional cell tumor may be a kind of pituitary adenoma with follicles in which many cells produce excessive mucin.
9143263: !synaptophysin Dementia with Lewy bodies versus pure Alzheimer disease: differences in cognition, neuropathology, cholinergic dysfunction, and synapse density. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second leading cause of cognitive impairment among the elderly. While it is usually accompanied by the neocortical neuritic plaques (NP) and entorhinal neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) characteristic of Alzheimer disease (AD), and so can be construed as a Lewy body variant of AD (LBV), it also occurs in pure form as diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD). We assessed cognitive status in 17 DLB patients (12 with LBV and 5 with DLBD) and compared the results with 12 AD subjects and 5 controls. We then sought to determine which neuropathologic abnormalities correlated with cognitive impairment. Among DLB cases, neocortical Lewy body (LB) counts, modified Braak stages of NFT burden in the entorhinal cortex, neocortical NP counts, and loss of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity all correlated with dementia severity. Unlike AD, neocortical NFT and anti-synaptophysin reactivity were uncorrelated with DLB dementia. Despite comparable LB counts and ChAT losses, the DLBD were significantly less demented than the LBV patients. We conclude that neocortical LB and ChAT depletion contribute to cognitive impairment in DLB and that concomitant AD pathology in LBV, represented by higher Braak stages and NP, promotes increased dementia severity compared with that encountered in DLBD.
9135092: !synaptophysin Cingulate cortex synaptic terminal proteins and neural cell adhesion molecule in schizophrenia. The neuronal organization and patterns of afferent innervation are abnormal in the cingulate cortex in schizophrenia, and associated changes in synaptic terminals could be present. A panel of monoclonal antibodies was defined with biochemical and fusion protein studies as detecting syntaxin (antibody SP6), synaptophysin (antibody SP4) and synaptosomal-associated protein-25 (antibody SP12). These antibodies and a polyclonal antibody reactive with neural cell adhesion molecule were used to investigate the cingulate cortex in schizophrenia. Immunocytochemistry indicated that syntaxin immunoreactivity had a considerably wider distribution than synaptophysin. Overall, multivariate analysis indicated increased synaptic terminal protein immunoreactivity in schizophrenia compared to controls (P=0.004). Controlled for age and post mortem interval, syntaxin immunoreactivity was significantly elevated in schizophrenia (P=0.004), and neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity was also elevated (P=0.05). The neural cell adhesion molecule to synaptophysin ratio was increased (P=0.005), possibly indicating the presence of less mature synapses in schizophrenia. Elevated syntaxin immunoreactivity is consistent with increased glutamatergic afferents to the cingulate cortex in schizophrenia, and combined with the neural cell adhesion molecule to synaptophysin ratio results suggests that synaptic function in this region in schizophrenia may be abnormal.
9096133: !synaptophysin Second messengers, trafficking-related proteins, and amino acid residues that contribute to the functional regulation of the rat brain GABA transporter GAT1. Recent evidence indicates that several members of the Na+-coupled transporter family are regulated, and this regulation in part occurs by redistribution of transporters between intracellular locations and the plasma membrane. We elucidate components of this process for both wild-type and mutant GABA transporters (GAT1) expressed in Xenopus oocytes using a combination of uptake assays, immunoblots, and electrophysiological measurements of membrane capacitance, transport-associated currents, and GAT1-specific charge movements. At low GAT1 expression levels, activators of protein kinase C (PKC) induce redistribution of GAT1 from intracellular vesicles to the plasma membrane; at higher GAT1 expression levels, activators of PKC fail to induce this redistribution. However, coinjection of total rat brain mRNA with GAT1 permits PKC-mediated modulation at high transporter expression levels. This effect of brain mRNA on modulation is mimicked by coinjection of syntaxin 1a mRNA and is eliminated by injecting synaptophysin or syntaxin antisense oligonucleotides. Additionally, botulinum toxins, which inactivate proteins involved in vesicle release and recycling, reduce basal GAT1 expression and prevent PKC-induced translocation. Mutant GAT1 proteins, in which most or all of a leucine heptad repeat sequence was removed, display altered basal distribution and lack susceptibility to modulation by PKC, delineating one region of GAT1 necessary for its targeting. Thus, functional regulation of GAT1 in oocytes occurs via components common to transporters and to trafficking in both neural and non-neural cells, and suggests a relationship between factors that control neurotransmitter secretion and the components necessary for neurotransmitter uptake.
9128254: !synaptophysin Synaptic-like microvesicles of neuroendocrine cells originate from a novel compartment that is continuous with the plasma membrane and devoid of transferrin receptor. We have characterized the compartment from which synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs), the neuroendocrine counterpart of neuronal synaptic vesicles, originate. For this purpose we have exploited the previous observation that newly synthesized synaptophysin, a membrane marker of synaptic vesicles and SLMVs, is delivered to the latter organelles via the plasma membrane and an internal compartment. Specifically, synaptophysin was labeled by cell surface biotinylation of unstimulated PC12 cells at 18 degrees C, a condition which blocked the appearance of biotinylated synaptophysin in SLMVs and in which there appeared to be no significant exocytosis of SLMVs. The majority of synaptophysin labeled at 18 degrees C with the membrane-impermeant, cleavable sulfo-NHS-SS-biotin was still accessible to extracellularly added MesNa, a 150-D membrane-impermeant thiol-reducing agent, but not to the 68,000-D protein avidin. The SLMVs generated upon reversal of the temperature to 37 degrees C originated exclusively from the membranes containing the MesNa-accessible rather than the MesNa-protected population of synaptophysin molecules. Biogenesis of SLMVs from MesNa-accessible membranes was also observed after a short (2 min) biotinylation of synaptophysin at 37 degrees C followed by chase. In contrast to synaptophysin, transferrin receptor biotinylated at 18 degrees or 37 degrees C became rapidly inaccessible to MesNa. Immunofluorescence and immunogold electron microscopy of PC12 cells revealed, in addition to the previously described perinuclear endosome in which synaptophysin and transferrin receptor are colocalized, a sub-plasmalemmal tubulocisternal membrane system distinct from caveolin-positive caveolae that contained synaptophysin but little, if any, transferrin receptor. The latter synaptophysin was selectively visualized upon digitonin permeabilization and quantitatively extracted, despite paraformaldehyde fixation, by Triton X-100. Synaptophysin biotinylated at 18 degrees C was present in these subplasmalemmal membranes. We conclude that SLMVs originate from a novel compartment that is connected to the plasma membrane via a narrow membrane continuity and lacks transferrin receptor.
9190551: !synaptophysin [Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma]. Pleomorphic xantho-astrocytoma (PXA) is a relatively rare brain tumor of adolescents and young adults characterized by its superficial location with frequent involvement of the meninges, and its slow growth despite features of histological atypia. The authors present a retrospective immunohistochemical analysis of 8 surgically treated cases in order to determine the expression of glial and neuronal markers, and to assess the proliferating cell fraction. The study population comprised 1 female and 7 male patients with a mean age of 26.7 years, most tumors being located in one of the temporal lobes. Epilepsy predominated as a presenting symptom. Five cases were assigned WHO graded II, while the diagnosis of anaplasia (WHO grade III) was established in three, based either on elevated mitotic counts or the presence of necrosis. Immunostaining with the proliferation marker MIB-1 was present in 2.05% of cells in the former groups, while 4.66% showed labeling in the latter. Postoperative follow-up averaged 6.7 years, with only one recurrence of an anaplastic tumor. All tumors expressed some amount of glial fibrillary acidic protein and were shown to elaborate a characteristic pericellular reticulin network. There was focal reactivity for alpha-1-antitrypsin, but neither the monocyte-macrophage associated antigen CD68 nor lysozym could be detected in neoplastic cells. In 7 cases, scattered individual tumor cells exhibited synaptophysin positivity. The authors review problems and prognostic issues of the histologic diagnosis of anaplasia occurring in some 20% of the cases. A possible dysontogenic origin of PXA and its nosologic relationship to the so-called desmoplastic neuroepithelial tumors of infancy are discussed. This is the first study of pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma in the Hungarian literature.
9092593: !synaptophysin Cysteine string proteins associated with secretory granules of the rat neurohypophysis. The properties and subcellular distribution of cysteine string proteins (csps) were analyzed in peptidergic nerve terminals of the rat neurohypophysis. Polyclonal antibodies raised against recombinant rat brain csp recognized a 36 kDa protein in isolated neurosecretosomes from the post-pituitary. After chemical deacylation, a single 27 kDa form was detected that displayed identical properties to csps in a whole-brain synaptosomal fraction. Immunoisolation demonstrated that synaptophysin and csps were located in the same vesicles. Density gradient centrifugation of postsynaptosomal supernatants of neurohypophysial homogenates revealed that csps and VAMP were present in two distinct vesicle populations. Synaptophysin was only detected in the slowly migrating population corresponding to small synaptic vesicles, whereas arginine vasopressin was present in the more rapidly sedimenting population indicating that it contains large dense core vesicles (LDCVs). Immobilized antibodies against csp, synaptotagmin, or VAMP captured vesicular arginine vasopressin confirming the association of these proteins with LDCVs. Co-immunoprecipitation assays with proteins solubilized from neurohypophysial or whole-brain nerve terminals failed to reveal complexes containing csp and [125I]omegaGVIA receptors. These results indicate that csps in the CNS are associated with both small synaptic vesicles and LDCVs. However, they do not provide support for the hypothesis that protein complexes implicated in exocytosis, which interact with presynaptic N-type calcium channels, contain csps.
9212669: !synaptophysin [Peripheral carcinoid tumor of the lung presenting as a solitary mass shadow on a chest roentgenogram and diagnosed by CT-guided percutaneous needle biopsy]. A 59-year-old woman was referred to our clinic because a solitary mass shadow (2.5 cm in diameter was seen in the left lower lung field on a chest roentgenogram. Transbronchial biopsy via a fiberoptic bronchoscope did not yield a definitive diagnosis. Examination of a specimen obtained by CT-guided percutaneous needle biopsy revealed that the tumor consisted of small cells proliferating in a solid, tubular, pseudoglandular, and follicular pattern, which suggested the diagnosis of carcinoid. A left lower lobectomy was performed, and several hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes were also removed. The tumor cells did not show pleomorphism of nuclei, mitotic activity, or necrosis. Grimelius and immunohistochemical stains for chromogranin. A, neuron-specific-enorase, synaptophysin, and serotonin were positive. These findings confirmed the diagnosis of carcinoid CT-guided percutaneous needle biopsy can be useful for the diagnosis of peripheral carcinoid and other peripheral lung tumors.
9161724: !synaptophysin Characterization of neural cell lines derived from SV40 large T-induced primitive neuroectodermal tumors. We recently reported intriguing properties of neural tumors generated by retrovirus-mediated transfer of the SV40 large T antigen into fetal rat brain transplants. Histopathologically, these neoplasms displayed characteristic features of primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET) and exhibited a striking potential for migration into the host brain. In the present study, four cell lines were derived from these PNETs and characterized. Two lines with an immature phenotype expressed the embryonal form of the neural cell adhesion molecule and nestin. They showed spheroid formation and delicate cell processes. The remaining cell lines had a flat, epitheloid appearance and were immunoreactive for synaptophysin, neurofilament proteins and glial fibrillary acidic protein. These cells constitute valuable tools to study the cellular origin(s) and molecular basis of PNETs, differentiation of neural progenitors and tumor cell migration in the brain.
9153578: !synaptophysin Molecular and functional diversity at synapses of individual neurons in vitro. We have quantified activity-dependent uptake of the fluorescent dye FM1-43 in combination with immunocytochemistry for synaptic vesicle-associated proteins (SVPs) at individual synapses in primary cultures of rat cortical neurons. We show that expression of synaptic proteins is highly variable and that the levels of synaptophysin (p38), synapsin I and sv2, but not synapsin II, correlate with the extent of FM1-43 labelling at synapses. The data indicate that SVP levels affect the uptake of FM1-43 with different efficacy (p38 > synapsin I > sv2 or synapsin II). We also found that the relative levels of SVPs vary at individual boutons of single neurons grown in isolation, which indicates that differential regulation of specific SVPs may contribute to the selective modulation of activity at synapses of the same neuron.
9139984: !synaptophysin Diminished neurogenic but not pharmacological erections in the 2- to 3-month experimentally diabetic F-344 rat. The rapid spread of locally restricted neural and hormonal signals among the vast array of largely inexcitable corporal smooth muscle cells is an absolute prerequisite to normal erectile function. And yet the mechanism(s) responsible for this phenomenon is not well understood. As a first step toward a more integrative understanding of erectile physiology and/or dysfunction, an 8- to 12-wk period of experimental diabetes was induced in 2-mo-old male Fischer 344 rats by either intraperitoneal streptozotocin (STZ) injection (35 mg/kg; n = 22) or subtotal pancreatectomy (n = 11). Fourteen age-matched control animals received injection of vehicle only while nine others served as sham-operated control animals. Eight STZ-diabetic animals received insulin replacement. Erectile function was assessed by evaluation of penile reflexes and monitoring of intracavernous pressure responses to both electrical stimulation of the cavernous nerve and intracorporal papaverine or nitroglycerin injection. Intracavernous pressure responses to neurostimulation were significantly attenuated in both STZ-diabetic and subtotal pancreatectomy animals compared with age-matched control animals (P < 0.05). Penile reflexes were also significantly diminished (P < 0.05). Regression analysis revealed that diabetes-related decreases in neurostimulated intracavernous pressure responses were strongly correlated with diminished synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the corpora (P < 0.001; r = 0.88). However, there were no detectable diabetes-related differences in pharmacological erections induced by intracavernous papaverine or nitroglycerin injection. Northern analysis revealed a marked diabetes-related increase in the amount of connexin 43 mRNA measured in frozen corporal tissue. Insulin replacement partially restored (attenuated the loss of) synaptophysin immunoreactivity and maintained neurostimulated intracavernous pressure responses to control levels while having no effect on penile reflexes. These observations may have important implications to the understanding of erectile physiology as well as the etiology of diabetes-related erectile dysfunction.
9134047: !synaptophysin Small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ovary. A 64-year-old woman (gravida 0, para 0) had a unilateral ovarian mass measuring 14 cm in its greatest diameter, which was mostly solid. Microscopically, the tumour was characterized by two predominant proliferating patterns: a carcinoid-like pattern with trabecular, tubular, glandular, or insular arrangements and a closely packed nesting pattern with central coagulation necrosis and occasional glandular arrangements. These two patterns were intermingled, and numerous mitotic figures were present. Electron microscopy showed neurosecretory granules in the cells, which were argyrophilic and positive for neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin, leu 7, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin). The tumour was aneuploid by flow cytometry. The patient received chemotherapy postoperatively, developed brain and multiple bone metastases and died of disease 10 months after surgery. This tumour must be distinguished from other small cell neoplasms, especially ovarian small cell carcinoma of the hypercalcaemic type.
9130989: !synaptophysin Salivary gland-like tumors of the sellar region. Herein we present a group of rare tumors of the sella region that have not been previously recognized. Although clinically and radiographically the tumors resemble nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas, their histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features differ and indicate a salivary gland origin. The lesions cover a morphologic spectrum that includes cellular pleomorphic adenoma, monomorphic adenoma, oncocytoma, and low-grade adenocarcinoma of the salivary gland. All tumors except the oncocytoma were immunoreactive for cytokeratin and were negative for pituitary hormones and synaptophysin. Ultrastructural characteristics in the cases examined include hypodense stromal material, basal lamina, and tonofilament bundles. The single oncocytoma was packed with mitochondria and lacked membrane-bound secretory granules. DNA ploidy based on image analysis and MIB-1 labeling indices showed diversity within this group of tumors, with labeling indices ranging from 0.06% to 15%. The presumed origin of these rare neoplasms is from salivary gland rests related to the normal pituitary gland. Despite their varied morphology, such tumors are easily confused with pituitary adenoma. Although rare, tumors of salivary gland origin should be considered in the differential diagnosis of unusual adenohypophyseal tumors.
9112016: !synaptophysin Proliferation and differentiation in the human fetal endocrine pancreas. The morphogenesis and growth of the endocrine pancreas has not been well investigated in man although it represents an important issue in diabetology. We examined human fetal pancreas from 12 to 41 weeks of gestation immunocytochemically to evaluate proliferative activity with the Ki-67 marker, and cytodifferentiation with cytokeratin 19 (ductal cells), synaptophysin (all endocrine cells), and insulin, glucagon, somatostatin and pancreatic polypeptide (islet cell types). Ki-67 labelling was found in all these cell types but was much higher in ductal cells than in islet cells. An intermediate population expressed synaptophysin but lacked islet hormones. With increasing gestational age the Ki-67 labelling index decreased from 17 to 4% in ductal cells, from 9 to 1% in synaptophysin-positive cells, and from 3 to 0.1% in insulin- or glucagon-positive cells. From 12 to 16 weeks, all epithelial cells including the endocrine islet cells expressed cytokeratin 19. Thereafter cytokeratin 19 expression decreased and eventually disappeared from most islet cells, whereas strong expression remained in the ductal cells. We show that differentiated human islet cells have only very limited proliferative capacity, and we demonstrate the existence of transitional differentiation stages between ductal and islet cells.
9100074: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma arising within a mature cystic teratoma of the ovary. Tumors of central nervous system elements are uncommon in cystic teratomas and tend to be derived from glial or primitive neuroectodermal cells. We describe the case of a 23-year-old woman with a central neurocytoma arising in an otherwise mature cystic teratoma of the ovary. Histologically, the neurocytoma was composed of collections of oligodendroglioma like cells in a fibrillary matrix. Cytologically the tumor was identical in appearance to central neurocytomas occurring within the adult brain. It expressed synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase, confirming its neuronal lineage, but not glial fibrillary acidic protein. The site of the tumor recapitulated the typical location of neurocytomas adjacent to the lateral ventricle in that in abutted onto an ependyma-lined cyst within the teratoma. The patient remains well and free of tumor 1 year after cystectomy, in keeping with favorable follow-up data for surgically excised central neurocytomas within the brain.
9084425: !synaptophysin Occurrence of two types of secretory vesicles in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y. Western blot analysis showed that the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y expresses the proteins synaptotagmin l, synaptobrevin, synapsin-l, rab3a, syntaxin, SNAP-25, NSF, alpha-SNAP, and munc-18, which have been implicated in the movement, docking, and fusion of vesicles during exocytosis from other neuroendocrine cells. The subcellular localization of secretogranins I and II, synaptotagmin l, neuropeptide Y, rab3a, synaptobrevin, synaptophysin, and syntaxin was investigated by immunofluorescence microscopy and revealed punctate staining patterns characteristic of secretory vesicles. The comigration of noradrenaline, secretogranin II, and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase on sucrose-D2O gradient fractions indicates the presence of a population of noradrenaline-containing large dense-cored vesicles (LDCVs). In addition, a lighter vesicle population is also present that does not appear to be noradrenergic and contains a 48-kDa synaptophysin antigen absent from the large dense-cored vesicles. Immunocytochemical experiments show that not all of the vesicles that express synaptotagmin l contain secretogranin II. Thus, our studies suggest that two types of vesicle are present in SH-SY5Y cells, one of which, the LDCVs, contains noradrenaline. These findings confirm our previous studies suggesting that depolarization-evoked release of noradrenaline from SH-SY5Y occurs by LDCV exocytosis. This enhances the value of SH-SY5Y as a cell line in which to study the mechanism by which noradrenaline release is regulated.
9065497: !synaptophysin Post-transcriptional regulation of synaptic vesicle protein expression and the developmental control of synaptic vesicle formation. The regulated expression of synaptic vesicle (SV) proteins during development and the assembly of these proteins into functional SVs are critical aspects of nervous system maturation. We have examined the expression patterns of four SV proteins in embryonic hippocampal neurons developing in culture and have found that increases in the levels of these proteins result primarily from post-transcriptional regulation. Synaptotagmin I, vamp 2, and synapsin I proteins are synthesized at nearly constant rates as the neurons develop. However, these proteins are relatively unstable at early times in culture and undergo a progressive increase in half-life with time, possibly as a result of an increase in the efficiency with which they are incorporated into SVs. In contrast, synaptophysin is synthesized at a very low rate at early times in culture, and its rate of synthesis increases dramatically with time. The increase in synaptophysin synthesis is not simply the result of an increase in mRNA level, but is largely attributable to an increase in the rate of translational initiation. Despite the nearly constant rates of synthesis of synaptotagmin I, vamp 2, and synapsin I, we show that the number of SVs in these developing neurons increases, and that SV proteins are more efficiently targeted to SVs at later times in culture. Our results suggest that SV production during development is not limited by the rates of transcription of genes encoding the component proteins, thus allowing control of this process by cytoplasmic mechanisms, without signaling to the nucleus.
9088571: !synaptophysin Rab3A immunolocalization in the mammalian vestibular end-organs during development and comparison with synaptophysin expression. Rab proteins are essential for membrane vesicle docking and fusion and for transport vesicle formation at the presynaptic membrane, a step in the release of neurotransmitters. The vestibular sensory epithelia contain three types of synapses: afferent terminals, efferent endings and possible synaptic contacts between the apex of the afferent nerve calyces and the sensory cells. We report an immunocytochemical codetection of rab3A and synaptophysin in the vestibular end-organs of mouse, between fetal day 14 and adult, and of rat during the postnatal development. During mouse fetal development, rab3A appeared in afferent neurites on F16, and in sensory cells on F19. This was respectively two and five days later than the appearance of synaptophysin-IR in the same compartments. During the late postnatal development and in the adult sensory epithelia, rab3A and synaptophysin were strongly detected in nerve terminals of efferent and possibly afferent nature and in the upper part of the nerve calyces. The presence of rab3A in the nerve calyces is consistent with the putative secretory function of the calyx. In addition, rab3A immunostaining was also present in the sensory cells together with a faint synaptophysin-IR, that had not been described in previous reports [Scarfone, E., Demêmes, D. and Sans, A. J. Neurosci., 11 (1991) 1173-1181.]. The presence of these two proteins in the sensory cells supports the existence of a synaptic vesicle cycle in these cells.
9090026: !synaptophysin Solid papillary carcinoma of breast: an ultrastructural study. Solid papillary carcinoma of the breast is a subset of papillary carcinoma, which occurs in older women and usually has a favorable prognosis. It is primarily intraductal but also is often associated with invasive carcinoma, especially mucinous carcinoma. Intracellular and extracellular mucin is also found in the in situ stage, in most tumors. In addition to forming solid papillary masses, the cells palisade around vessels in pseudorosettes and show minimal nuclear atypia. Some cells show neuroendocrine differentiation, based on argyophilia with Grimelius staining. Four examples of this neoplasm were studied electron microscopically. Myoepithelial cells were not found. Neoplastic cells had an ultrastructure that was generally similar to that of other types of mammary carcinoma. There were extracellular microlumens, but intracellular lumens and pseudolumens were few or absent. Secretory activity varied among cells, and those cells appearing active had a variety of granule types, including typical flocculent and "bull's-eye" mucinous granules, small dense-core granules, and large serous-like granules. Some of the dense-core granules were interpreted as neuroendocrine in nature, based on their abluminal or juxtavascular location, whereas others that were apical and subluminal were probably mucinous in type. The large serous-appearing granules were subluminal in some cells and diffuse in others and may also have represented a variant of mucinous granules. The results support earlier opinions that accurate interpretation of specific granular function at the electron microscopic level depends on cytochemical studies using uranaffin as a marker of neuroendocrine activity. Although mucinous granules are identified by their lack of staining with uranaffin, the nature of the serous-appearing granules would still not be answered by this method; that is, a negative reaction would not define whether the granules are truly serous, or simply another form of mucin. Regardless of limitations of this type, correlation and extrapolation of histochemical (Grimelius and Alcian blue) and immunohistochemical (chromogranin and synaptophysin) results with subcellular structure are still very useful in establishing cell type.
9068122: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the cochlear nucleus after unilateral cochlear or ossicular removal. This study determined if unilateral cochlear removal in adult guinea pigs led to synaptic loss followed by synaptogenesis in the cochlear nucleus (CN) and if unilateral middle ear ossicle removal led to synaptic loss in the CN. Synaptic endings were identified immunohistochemically, using a monoclonal antibody to synaptophysin. Immunolabeling was quantified densitometrically in the CN 4-161 days after cochlear removal and 161 days after ossicle removal. Fiber degeneration was visualized with the Nauta-Rasmussen silver method. Tissue shrinkage was measured from drawings of CN sections. Compared to the contralateral side, immunolabeling density ipsilaterally was reduced by 4 days in the anterior division of the anteroventral CN (a-AVCN) and by 7 days in the anterior part of the posteroventral CN (a-PVCN). At 7 days, preterminal fiber degeneration was abundant in both areas. These findings were consistent with the loss of cochlear nerve endings and fibers. At later times, immunolabeling density recovered. In the a-AVCN, tissue shrinkage explained approximately half the recovery of staining density; the rest was attributed to synaptogenesis. In the a-PVCN, the entire recovery was attributed to tissue shrinkage. In the polymorphic layer of the dorsal CN, immunostaining density increased transiently at 4 days, while at 7 days preterminal fiber degeneration was abundant. A net loss of synaptic endings was not detected immunohistochemically. The increased immunostaining density may reflect a transient growth of immature processes or presynaptic endings. Ossicle removal produced a deficit in immunolabeling density only in the ipsilateral a-PVCN, without fiber degeneration, suggesting a loss of presynaptic endings or of synaptophysin expression.
9067860: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptic membrane proteins in gerbil pinealocytes in primary culture. Pinealocytes of various mammalian species contain abundant synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs) which are considered the endocrine equivalent of neuronal synaptic vesicles. Although the pinealocytes may thus be a suitable cellular model for experimental in vitro studies of SLMVs, nothing is known about the presence of SLMVs in isolated pinealocytes maintained under tissue culture conditions. In the present investigation, we prepared dissociated primary cultures of gerbil pinealocytes to study the expression and distribution of protein components of synaptic vesicles/SLMVs and the presynaptic plasmalemma in pinealocytes kept in vitro. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, we found that cultured pinealocytes readily expressed all synaptic membrane proteins investigated, i.e., synaptophysin, synaptotagmin I, synaptobrevin II, syntaxin I and SNAP-25. Punctuate immunoreactivity for the vesicle-associated proteins could be detected throughout the cell bodies of pinealocytes and was also distributed into all of their processes which began to develop within the first days in culture. Outgrowing processes exhibited growth cone-like structures which were enriched in synaptic vesicle-associated proteins. After 1 week in vitro, pinealocytes had frequently formed an elaborate network of long interwoven processes. Accumulations of synaptic vesicle-associated proteins were observed in varicosities and terminal swellings of the processes. The vesicle-rich process swellings often established synaptic-like process swellings often established synaptic-like contacts with somata and processes of other pinealocytes. Some of the pinealocyte processes possessed additional axon-like properties as demonstrated by their lack of immunoreactivity for the somato-dendritic marker MAP2 and the transferrin receptor. The comparison of the staining patterns for synaptophysin and the endocytotic marker transferrin receptor by confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed a largely differential intracellular distribution of the two proteins. This may indicate that a substantial fraction of pinealocyte SLMVs by-passes the early endosomal-related recycling pathway of SLMVs. Herewith, we have shown that isolated gerbil pinealocytes maintained in primary culture can acquire morphological and neurochemical traits which closely mimick those observed in vivo. In particular, these cultures permit experimental studies of the compartment of pinealocyte SLMVs which seem to make up a major secretory pathway for paracrine intrapineal communication.
9041162: !synaptophysin Ganglioglioma: an ultrastructural and immunohistochemical study. Ganglioglioma is a rare, mixed neuronal-glial neoplasm of the central nervous system that occurs in young patients and has a benign clinical course.
9006987: !synaptophysin The soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attached protein receptor complex in growth cones: molecular aspects of the axon terminal development. Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attached protein (SNAP) receptor (SNARE) mechanisms are thought to be involved in two important processes in axonal growth cones: (1) membrane expansion for axonal growth and (2) vesicular membrane fusion for mature synaptic transmission. We investigated the localization and interactions among the proteins involved in SNARE complex formation in isolated growth cone particles (GCP) from forebrain. We demonstrated that the SNARE complex is present in GCPs morphologically without synaptic vesicles (SVs) and associated with growth cone vesicles. However, the apparently SV-free GCP was lacking in the regulatory mechanisms inhibiting SNARE complex formation proposed in SV fusion, i.e., the association of synaptotagmin with the SNARE complex, and vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)-synaptophysin complex formation. The core components of the SNARE complex (syntaxin, SNAP-25, and VAMP) accumulated for several days before postnatal day 7, when SVs first appeared, and preceded the accumulation of marker proteins such as synaptophysin, SV2, and V-ATPase. Our present results suggest that the SNARE mechanism for vesicular transmitter release is not fully functional in growth cones before the appearance of SVs, but the SNARE mechanism is working for membrane expansion in growth cones, which supports our recent report. We concluded that the regulation of the SNARE complex in growth cones is different from that in mature presynaptic terminals and that this switching may be one of the key steps in development from the growth cone to the presynaptic terminal.
9006986: !synaptophysin Expression and distribution of IGF-1 receptors containing a beta-subunit variant (betagc) in developing neurons. Betagc is a beta-subunit variant of the insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) receptor highly enriched in growth cone membranes prepared by subcellular fractionation of fetal rat brain (). The present study is focused on the expression and on the cellular and subcellular distribution of betagc in developing neurons and differentiating PC12 cells. In the developing cerebral cortex and, at least at early stages, in cultured primary neurons, betagc expression was found to be correlated with neurite outgrowth. In PC12 cells betagc expression was nerve growth factor (NGF)-dependent and also paralleled neurite outgrowth. In contrast, beta-subunits of the insulin receptor and/or of other IGF-1 receptors ("betaP5"; detected with antibody AbP5) were downregulated as betagc expression increased. Immunofluorescence studies confirmed the enrichment of betagc at growth cones and demonstrated morphologically its spatial separation from betaP5, which is confined to the perikaryon. At the growth cone, betagc colocalizes and associates in a proximal region with microtubules, but it seems independent of the more peripheral microfilaments. Some betagc immunoreactivity is detected in the perinuclear region of PC12 cells, most likely the Golgi complex and its vicinity. betagc seems to emerge from the periphery of this structure in an apparently vesicular compartment distinct from that carrying synaptophysin to the growth cones. The facts that (1) betagc expression is correlated closely with neurite outgrowth, that (2) it is regulated in PC12 cells by a neurotrophin, NGF, and that (3) betagc is concentrated in the proximal growth cone region raise new questions regarding a possible role of IGF-1 receptors containing betagc in the regulation of neurite growth.
9148249: !synaptophysin Pattern of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the efferent nerve terminals of the guinea pig cochlea. The goal of the present study was to analyze the distribution of efferent 8th nerve synaptic endings in a surface preparation of the guinea pig cochlea using synaptophysin antibodies. Employing light and confocal microscopy synaptophysin immunoreactivity was found exclusively at the base of the outer hair cells (OHCs) and the inner hair cells (IHCs) axosomatic efferent synapses. Qualitative and quantitative differences were found between the OHCs and the IHCs immunoreactivity. Efferent nerve endings innervating IHCs were comparatively smaller, more numerous and densely packed. Efferent terminals demonstrated a longitudinal gradient for the IHCs and a longitudinal and radial gradient for the OHCs. Quantitative analysis of synaptophysin immunofluorescence demonstrated a higher percentage of efferent terminals innervating the IHCs and the OHCs in the mid and basal segments of the cochlea than in the apical regions. In addition, a radial gradient from the 1st to 3rd row of OHCs was evident. The results from the present study show that the analysis of synaptophysin immunoreactivity on cochlear surface preparations allows the efferent innervation to be determined throughout the entire cochlea. This technique allows for a rapid assessment of the normal cochlea as well as after cochlear insult.
9119746: !synaptophysin Development and elongation of neurite-like outgrowth on small cell lung cancer cell lines. One (Lu-134A) of nine human small cell lung cancer cell lines which grow as floating cell aggregates changed its morphology dramatically when cells were cultured on a coverslip coated with polyethylenimine or extracellular matrix of human lung adenocarcinoma cell line PC-9 cells. The Lu-134A cells adhered to the substrate and developed elongated cytoplasmic processes which gradually grew into long neuronal-like processes. These processes developed to a length of more than 10 times the cell body length after 20 days of culture. Addition of dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 3', 5'-monophosphate to the cells on these substrates remarkably promoted the development and elongation of the processes, which grew into a netlike arrangement. The characteristics of these elongated neuronal-like processes were studied using immunocytochemical and electron microscopical methods. The processes reacted intensely with monoclonal antibodies against beta-tubulin and microtubule-associated protein-2. The swelling portions of the distal tips of these processes reacted strongly with polyclonal antibody against synaptophysin. Neurosecretory granules and bundles of microtubules were observed within processes. These findings suggested that this human small cell lung cancer cell line (Lu-134A) differentiated into neuronal cells, and indicated that attachment of cells to a substrate is the key to the development of long neurite-like outgrowths.
9088027: !synaptophysin Effects of gastrin on the histamine-secretory and proliferative activity of cultured carcinoid cells derived from the stomach of the rodent Mastomys natalensis. The effects of gastrin on the synthesis and release of histamine and on cellular proliferation were investigated in a homotransplantable carcinoid tumor implanted in the rodent Mastomys natalensis and in cultured cells derived from the tumor. The homotransplanted tumor was immunopositive for histamine, synaptophysin and protein gene product 9.5, and its cells contained numerous secretory granules that were visualized by electron microscopy. When carcinoid cells were cultured in a medium with a high concentration of gastrin-I (10(4) pg/mL) for 7 days, large electron-dense secretory granules were characteristically observed in the cytoplasm. By contrast, only a few such granules and numerous secondary lysosomes were seen in cells that had been cultured in the same medium without gastrin-I. A high concentration of gastrin-I (10(4) pg/mL) significantly increased the release of histamine into the culture medium from the carcinoid cells compared with the control (P < 0.05). Cellular proliferation, as determined by monitoring the incorporation of [methyl-3H]-thymidine into the carcinoid cells increased significantly at lower concentrations of gastrin-I (10(2) and 10(3) pg/mL), (P < 0.05). At higher concentrations (10(4) pg/mL or more), gastrin-I had no effect on proliferation. These findings indicate that gastrin stimulates the synthesis and release of histamine by carcinoid cells, as well as their proliferation.
9067106: !synaptophysin Open neural tube defects: immunocytochemical demonstration of neuroepithelial cells in amniotic fluid. Cytologic evaluation of second trimester amniotic fluid (AF) is a rapid, inexpensive adjunct to prenatal diagnosis of open neural tube defects (ONTDs). Our goal was to determine whether the neural-appearing cells and/or large foamy macrophages in the AF of anencephalics are indeed of neural and/or glial origin. In two second trimester patients with elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and polyhydramnios, fetal sonogram studies showed anencephaly; amniocentesis was performed for AF-AFP, cytogenetic, and cytologic studies. AF sediment smears were initially Papanicolaou-stained; next, the same smears were immunoperoxidase (IP)-stained for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). If GFAP negative, slides were restained for synaptophysin (SYN) and neuron-specific enolase (NSE). Both AFs contained small neural-appearing cells (5-10 microns) singly and in clusters, with dense, round, homogeneous nuclei, an occasional nucleolus, and scant cytoplasmic rim. These were GFAP negative and SYN and NSE positive; the large vacuolated, lipid-laden macrophages (20-40 microns) were negative for all three IP stains. In conclusion, positive IP staining for SYN and NSE supports the morphologic impression that small dark cells in AF are of neural origin, while negative IP staining of large foamy macrophages suggests nonneural, nonglial origin.
9066745: !synaptophysin Pancreatic endocrine tumour: a 22-year clinico-pathological experience with morphological, immunohistochemical observation and a review of the literature. The clinico-pathological features of 53 Chinese patients (27 males; 26 females) with pancreatic endocrine tumours were studied. The age range was from 14 to 78 years old (mean: 48 years) with the modal peak in the sixth decade for both sexes. Pancreatic endocrine tumours accounted for 14% of the primary pancreatic tumours operated on in Queen Mary Hospital. The autopsy incidence was 0.11%. Seventy-two per cent (38 cases) of the tumours were clinically functioning, comprising 33 insulinomas, three gastrinomas and two glucagonomas. A rare case of malignant gastrinoma associated with Cushing's syndrome was also documented. The functional tumours were seen in the younger patients. The calculated annual incidence of clinically significant tumours was approximately 0.2 per 100,000 population. There was no correlation between the site, functional status and histological patterns of the tumours. Seventy-two per cent of the tumours showed a trabecular pattern. Calcification was present in 5.7% (three cases); two such cases being gastrinomas. Amyloid was found in 25% of tumours, chiefly (92%) in the insulinomas. The main difficulty encountered in diagnosis was distinguishing between solid and cystic tumours of the pancreas. The incidence of malignancy was 15% and the histological features were poor predicative indicators of malignant potential. The metastatic pancreatic endocrine tumours were often detected in the liver and lymph nodes. Immunohistochemical stains showed evidence of multi-hormone production in 18% of cases and all tumours showed a positive reaction to at least one of the six markers, namely, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogrannin (CG), synaptophysin (SYN), insulin (INS), glucagon (GLU) or somatostatin (SOM). The three panendocrine markers (NSE, SYN, CG) were satisfactory for initial screening of the endocrine nature of the tumours if used in combination, as 92% of tumours were positive for at least one of these three markers.
9061688: !synaptophysin Wernicke's encephalopathy with ballooned neurons in the mamillary bodies: an immunohistochemical study. Two cases of Wernicke's encephalopathy with the rare phenomenon of ballooned neurons in the mamillary bodies are reported. Both patients suffered from acute Wernicke's symptoms starting approximately two weeks before death. The mamillary bodies contained grossly enlarged, ballooned neurons, in one case associated with focal necrosis. The affected neurons were immunoreactive for phosphorylated neurofilament (160 and 200 kDa), and synaptophysin. Ubiquitin and alpha beta-crystallin expression were not detected. The mamillo-thalamic tract appeared normal in both cases. There was a marked associated microglial reaction, as shown by the antibody Ki-MIP. It is concluded that the ballooning of mamillary neurons reflects an acute retrograde reaction to primarily axonal damage. Rather than being a rare manifestation of the disease, these cases may constitute a typical intermediate early stage (10-15 days) in the development of Wernicke's encephalopathy).
9042288: !synaptophysin Extraventricular neoplasms with neurocytoma features. A clinicopathological study of 11 cases. The clinicopathological features of a series of neuronal and mixed neuronal and astrocytic neoplasms of the CNS are described. Patients were aged 5 to 63 years. Six cases were composed predominantly of small round cells with clear cytoplasm resembling central neurocytoma but lacked the characteristic intraventricular location of that tumor. The remaining five cases had similar neurocytomatous features associated with a benign astrocytic component. Ganglion cells and hyalinization vessels were observed in both groups. The growth fraction evaluated with monoclonal antibody Ki67Mib1 was low, ranging from 1 to 1.5%. Immunohistochemical detection of synaptophysin played a crucial role in identifying the neuronal nature of these neoplasms and was instrumental in distinguishing them from oligodendrogliomas, with which they are readily confused. The neuronal nature of the oligodendroglial-like cells was confirmed ultrastructurally in one case. The present cases, together with others reported previously, suggest that neoplasms of the CNS with "neurocytic" components are more frequent than generally assumed and expand the morphologic spectrum of neuronal and mixed neuronal-glial tumors. Except for one patient who died postoperatively, all patients were alive at follow-up ranging from 6 to 80 months.
9039461: !synaptophysin Cholinergic fibre loss associated with diffuse plaques in the non-demented elderly: the preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease? Diffuse plaques are the earliest Alzheimer-type lesions in Down's syndrome and are a putative marker for the preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD). As a cerebral cortical cholinergic deficit is one of the characteristics which defines AD, we examined the brains of individuals who had died without a history of neurological disease to determine whether this deficit is present in association with diffuse plaques. Of the 24 cases collected, 14 were older than 60 years of age (mean 69.2 years) and 10 were younger (mean 29.6 years). Of the 14 older cases, 9 had diffuse plaques in the entorhinal cortex (ECx) and/or inferior temporal gyrus (ITG). The older cases were divided into two groups (plaque-positive or plaque-negative cases). These groups did not differ significantly with respect to age, post-mortem delay, synaptophysin immunoreactivity or neurofibrillary tangle density. Cholinergic fibre densities were estimated in sections stained using acetylcholinesterase (AChE) enzyme histochemistry. Mean AChE fibre density was decreased in both the ITG and ECx (approximately 30% and 50% depletion, respectively) in the plaque-positive group compared to the plaque-negative group and in both areas the mean fibre density of the plaque-positive group was about 50% of that in the younger group. These results suggest that diffuse plaques in the non-demented elderly are associated with an accelerated age-related cortical cholinergic deficit and, therefore represent the preclinical stage of AD.
8995197: !synaptophysin Remodeling of pineal epithelium in the fetal rat as delineated by immunohistochemistry of laminin and cadherin. Epithelial remodeling in the rat pineal during fetal development was immunohistochemically analyzed by using antibodies for laminin and cadherin as molecular markers of basal lamina and intercellular junctions, respectively. The proliferation and differentiation of pinealocytes were also investigated in relation to the advance of epithelial remodeling. The pineal anlage of embryonic day 16 is completely covered by basal lamina immunolabeled for laminin. After embryonic day 17, local dissolution of the basal lamina occurs on the epithelial folds, which develop predominantly in the rostral pineal wall. Some pineal cells migrate through these interruptions and form cellular aggregations outside the basal lamina. Cadherin immunostaining reveals focal dissolution of intercellular junctions in epithelial regions protruding into the pineal lumen. Dissolution of the basal lamina and intercellular junctions accompanied by cellular migration into the stromal tissue or into the pineal lumen continues until birth. The distribution of mitotic cells immunolabeled for BrdU is homogeneous throughout the organ during the fetal period, whereas that of differentiating pinealocytes immunoreactive for synaptophysin shows striking regional heterogeneity in close correlation with the remodeling of the pineal epithelium. The migrating cell populations located either outside the basal lamina or inside the pineal lumen are more liable to become synaptophysin-positive than the rest of the epithelium. These results suggest that epithelial remodeling in the fetal pineal is induced, at least in part, by epithelial infolding and that this remodeling promotes the differentiation of pinealocytes.
8994044: !synaptophysin Reduced acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in adrenal medulla and loss of sympathetic preganglionic neurons in TrkA-deficient, but not TrkB-deficient, mice. TrkA high-affinity receptors are essential for the normal development of sympathetic paravertebral neurons and subpopulations of sensory neurons. Paravertebral sympathetic neurons and chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla share an ontogenetic origin, responsiveness to NGF, and expression of TrkA. Which aspects of development of the adrenal medulla might be regulated via TrkA are unknown. In the present study we demonstrate that mice deficient for TrkA, but not the neurotrophin receptor TrkB, show an early postnatal progressive reduction of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) enzymatic activity in the adrenal medulla and in preganglionic sympathetic neurons within the thoracic spinal cord, which are also significantly reduced in number. Quantitative determinations of specific AChE activity revealed a massive decrease (-62%) in the adrenal gland and a lesser, but still pronounced, reduction in the thoracic spinal cord (-40%). Other markers of the adrenal medulla and its innervation, including various neuropeptides, chromogranin B, secretogranin II, amine transporters, the catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase and PNMT, synaptophysin, and L1, essentially were unchanged. Interestingly, AChE immunoreactivity appeared unaltered, too. Preganglionic sympathetic neurons, in contrast to adrenal medullary cells, do not express TrkA. They must, therefore, be affected indirectly by the TrkA knock-out, possibly via a retrograde signal from chromaffin cells. Our results suggest that signaling via TrkA, but not TrkB, may be involved in the postnatal regulation of AChE activity in the adrenal medulla and its preganglionic nerves.
9595853: !synaptophysin Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma: clinical, histologic and immunohistochemical characteristic of 3 cases. Three cases of subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) in the women aged 23, 26, and 36 years were reported. Two of them had no clinical evidence of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and the one woman presented apparent mental retardation. All patients manifested sudden clinical onset with symptoms of elevated intracranial pressure due to tumor of lateral ventricles and obstructive hydrocephalus. At surgery, the neoplasm was removed totally in one case and resected partially in 2 cases. Histologically, the tumors were composed of large polygonal cells with vesicular nuclei, prominent nucleoli and glassy eosinophilic cytoplasm, intermingled with spindle and small cells. In addition, multinucleated and bizarre giant cells were present, but they were very numerous in one case only. The tumor cells revealed in all cases variegated immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S-100 protein, vimentin (VIM) and neuron-specific enolase (NSE), with stronger expression of VIM than GFAP in 2 cases. Immunostaining of neurofilament proteins and synaptophysin was negative. The results suggest rather astroglial incomplete or aberrant differentiation and maturation than neuronal differentiation of tumor cells. The immunohistochemical variations of SEGA in asymptomatic TSC cases and those associated with tuberous sclerosis are discussed.
9521020: !synaptophysin Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma with gangliogliomatous component. We describe a composite glio-neuronal tumor comprising pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) and ganglioglioma identified in a left temporal biopsy. The 32-year-old male patient underwent surgery following a clinical history of persistent headaches of 6 years' duration. Immunohistochemical double labeling with antibodies to synaptophysin, beta-tubulin isotype III, GFAP and CD44H demonstrated neoplastic neurons and astrocytes in the ganglioglioma, while coexpression of glial and neuronal markers was found in a subset of PXA tumor cells variously showing giant cell or spindle cell morphology. There were gradual transitions between the two neoplastic populations. These findings raise the possibility of ganglioglioma having evolved by differentiation of bipotential PXA tumor cells along astrocytic and neuronal lineages. The PXA may, therefore, be closely related to desmoplastic neuroepithelial tumors of infancy, a group of neoplasms of presumed embryonal origin.
9474867: !synaptophysin [Molecules of regulated secretion are differentiation markers of neuroendocrine tumors]. Regulated secretory vesicles of neuroendocrine cells encompass two distinct types, i.e. hormone-storing large dense core vesicles (LDCV) and neuron-like small synaptic vesicles (SSVs). The membranes of the vesicles and the acceptor organelles contain proteins which are essential for targeted membrane fusion and protein transport (SNARE hypothesis). Membrane proteins of SSV analogues such as synaptophysin, synaptobrevin (v-SNARE) and synaptotagmin are key proteins of neurosecretion. The plasma membrane proteins syntaxin and SNAP25 (t-SNARE) are indispensible for this locking/fusion process. This study was done to identify the molecular components of LDCVs, SSV analogues and the SNARE-complex in neuroendocrine tumors. Immunohistochemical analysis using a panel of antibodies was done on file material from benign or low-grade malignant neuroendocrine tumors (n = 20) and high-grade malignant intermediate or small cell carcinomas (n = 27) of the gut, pancreas and lung. The statistical evaluation of our results indicate that the expression of all marker molecules of the regulated secretory pathway is significantly reduced in high-grade malignant carcinomas when compared to benign or low-grade malignant tumors. The reduction of the LDCV matrix protein chromogranin A and of the SSV membrane protein synaptobrevin is highly significant in high-grade malignant carcinomas, which may even loose these proteins. In contrast, the synthesis of synaptophysin and the t-SNARE-protein SNAP25 appears to be better maintained even in small cell carcinomas. We conclude that the immunohistochemical diagnosis of high-grade malignant neuroendocrine tumors should mainly be based on the identification of SSV- and SNARE-proteins, especially synaptophysin and SNAP25. These marker molecules of the regulated secretory pathway are valuable tools for the diagnosis and classification of neuroendocrine tumors and contribute to the understanding of cellular differentiation pathways.
9445083: !synaptophysin MAP2, synaptophysin immunostaining in rat brain and behavioral modifications after cerebral postischemic reperfusion. Plasticity in the central nervous system after cerebral ischemia is a controversial issue; focal cerebral ischemia produces an area of infarction that is surrounded by neurons that may respond to nearby damage by creating new synapses. In the present study the expression of the postsynaptic microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and the presynaptic marker protein, synaptophysin, was investigated by immunocytochemical techniques in the CA1 sector of hippocampus and in cerebellum of rats made ischemic by bilateral clamping of common carotid arteries and reperfused for 7 and 30 days. In addition, ischemia-induced behavioral alterations were also evaluated after 7 and 30 days of reperfusion. The present study demonstrates a decreased postsynaptic MAP2 immunoreactivity, representative of neuronal loss, particularly in CA1 sector of hippocampus and in cerebellum of ischemic rats reperfused for 7 days. After 30 days of reperfusion, MAP2 immunostaining was similar to control. In the same brain sections an increased presynaptic synaptophysin immunoreactivity has been observed only after 30 days of reperfusion. These data suggest compensatory regenerative changes associated with synaptic remodelling and are supported by behavioral recovery observed under the same experimental conditions.
9440125: !synaptophysin Transneuronal degeneration in the spread of Alzheimer's disease pathology: immunohistochemical evidence for the transmission of tau hyperphosphorylation. Neurofibrillary tangles and dystrophic neurites appear to develop in a highly characteristic spatial and temporal sequence in AD. In order to examine the nature of the cellular progression we have studied the trisynaptic entorhinal, dentate gyrus, CA3/4 circuit, using an antibody to hyperphosphorylated tau which is a biochemical marker for tangle formation. In early AD cases, we found numerous ATB-stained boutons in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, the termination field of neurons from the entorhinal cortex. These AT8-stained boutons co-labeled with synaptophysin, indicating that they represent synaptic boutons in an early state of degeneration. Since the labeled boutons were apposed to or clustered around dendrites or soma that lacked or had less intense staining for AT8 or PHF-1, it appeared that presynaptic events preceded postsynaptic neurofibrillary tangle formation. Furthermore, as a function of disease progression, the pattern of degeneration moved through the circuit. In this progression tau, which is normally localized to axons, becomes redistributed into dendrites and hyperphosphorylated. These observations support the hypothesis that the presynaptic terminal changes may promote the formation of initial neurofibrillary pathology in the postsynaptic neurons via anterograde transneuronal mechanisms and that this initiates a breakdown of routing and sorting mechanisms for the cytoskeletal protein tau.
9351988: !synaptophysin Olfactory neuroblastoma: detection of genomic imbalances by comparative genomic hybridization. Olfactory neuroblastoma (esthesioneuroblastoma) is a very rare tumour of the olfactory mucosa. Morphological features and cytogenetic studies strongly suggest a neuro-ectodermal origin. Up to now, cytogenetic studies are inconsistent. Some of them have proposed that the tumour belongs to the pPNET family. In the present study we describe genomic imbalances in olfactory neuroblastoma in a 46-year-old woman by using the molecular cytogenetic technique--comparative genomic hybridization (CGH)--in order to define the spectrum of genetic abnormalities in the tumour. The anatomical location and morphological findings were the basis for the diagnosis of esthesionearoblastoma. Immunohistochemical reactions for NSE, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, HNK-1/Leu-7 and S-100 revealed a characteristic immunophenotype. The CGH analysis showed multiple changes including DNA overrepresentations of chromosomes 4, 8, 11 and 14, partial DNA gains of the long arms of chromosomes 1 and 17, deletions of the entire chromosomes 16, 18, 19 and X, and partial losses of chromosomes 5q and 17p. This study represents an early utilisation of the CGH technique in olfactory neuroblastoma and demonstrates that the tumour carries complex chromosomal aberrations.
9297867: !synaptophysin [Carcinoid tumors and neuroendocrine carcinomas of the stomach. Prognosis and therapeutic management. Study of 6 cases]. The six reported cases were separated into 2 groups: 1) the tumors of sporadic type, carcinoids (n = 2) and neuro-endocrine carcinomas (n = 2); 2) the gastrin-promoted tumors (n = 2). The purpose of this retrospective study was to review for each group of tumors, the clinicopathologic characteristics, prognosis factors and optimal management. In the first group, patients with a small and well differentiated tumor revealed by digestive bleeding, were treated by wedge excision and are alive and well 24 and 22 years later; the patients with large, invasive and poorly differentiated tumors were treated by subtotal (n = 1) and total (n = 1) gastrectomy, and died 1 year and 3 years later with metastases. In the second group, one patient with a small asymptomatic carcinoid tumor revealing chronic atrophic gastritis, was treated by endoscopic resection, without recurrence 3 years later; another patient with asymptomatic multifocal carcinoid tumors (about 100) associated with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1, was treated by total gastrectomy and is alive and well 7 years later. No patient had carcinoid syndrome. Synaptophysin was the most sensitive marker and secretion of serotonine was detected in 2 tumors.
9254027: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the aging rat pituitary gland. The density of synaptophysin (SN)-immunoreactivity (IR) was examined in pituitary glands of aging male Sprague-Dawley rats. SN-IR was observed as dense dots among endocrine cells of the intermediate lobe, while the neural lobe contained numerous, highly dense immunopositive regions. Some anterior lobe secretory cells contained SN-IR within the cytoplasm, suggestive of the presence of the protein in secretory granules, but no dot-like staining was observed between endocrine cells of that region. A quantitative analysis of the dot-like SN-immunostaining within the intermediate lobe found that tissue from groups of rats aged 13 months, or 15-17 months, contained significantly fewer SN-immunopositive areas than did tissues from 8-month-old animals. Diminished SN immunostaining is suggestive of reduced numbers of synapses in the intermediate lobe, which may lead to alterations in regulation of pituitary hormone secretion from endocrine cells in the older animals.
9215998: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactive axonal swelling in p-bromophenylacetylurea-induced neuropathy. A single intraperitoneal dose of 300 mg/kg of p-bromophenylacetylurea (BPAU) induced progressive distal neuropathy in rats, prominently involving peripheral nerves and long central nervous system myelinated tracts such as the fasciculus gracilis and spinocerebellar pathways. Clinical signs assessed using a Functional Observational Battery (FOB) and in-cage observation included weakness and deficits in motor and sensory integration, definitively noted on post-dosing day 7. The signs were more pronounced upon repetition of the FOB on post-dosing day 12. The neuropathological substrate of these signs was a progressive axonopathy with regional swelling, leading to Wallerian-like degeneration of affected myelinated fibers. Immunocytochemical staining for synaptophysin revealed often striking increase in immunoreactivity for this synaptic vesicle glycoprotein in swollen and otherwise injured axons. Such accumulations were considered consistent with interruption of anterograde (and possibly retrograde) fast axonal transport systems secondary to toxicant-induced nerve fiber breakdown.
9157404: !synaptophysin [Breast carcinoma in the man. Current results from the viewpoint of clinic and pathology]. Breast cancer is the most frequent malignant tumor in women, whereas it is rare in men. In our own case series the ratio is 175:1. The present paper deals with an evaluation of clinical and morphological findings from a series of 54 de novo male breast cancers observed in our institution from 1978 to 1996 and a comparative discussion of 528 female breast cancers from the same geographic area. We should like to focus on the following observations: At the time of histopathological diagnosis, male patients with breast cancer were on average 67 (34-87) years old and thus 5 years older than women. Below the age of 40, breast cancer is very rare in men. The lag time between first symptoms and surgery was on average 42 weeks, i.e. twice as long as in women. In the vast majority of cases palpation of a retromamillary nodule was the leading diagnostic symptom. Mamillary secretion appeared to be an early symptom with favorable relation to prognosis by tumor size whereas diffuse breast swelling was an unfavorable late symptom. Bilateral carcinoma and double cancer (breast and prostatic cancer) was observed in one case each. Three patients (3/51 = 6%) had a positive family history (breast cancer in 1st and 2nd degree relatives). The average invasive tumor size was nearly identical with 23 mm (s11.02) in men and 25 mm (s13.48) in women. Men presented more frequently with regional lymph node metastases (53% versus 45%), which tended to develop earlier. pT4 cancers were twice as frequent in men compared to women. In situ cancers were found in 2% (1/54) in men and 4% in women. Similar to females, male breast cancers are predominantly of ductal histological type (NOS-cancers), classical lobular carcinoma with LCIS-components were not observed; special forms (tubular, papillary, mucinous) are slightly more common in men. When reviewing our series, need for revision of the origin of tumor was not found in any of the cases. Metastases of prostatic cancer were never misinterpreted as primary breast cancer. In case of isolated NSE-reaction, cancers with carinoid differentiation pattern are to be found in nearly every second tumor. However, when multiple markers were used (chromogranin A or synaptophysin) only 10% displayed such pattern, which corresponded to a positive hormone receptor status in each case. Quantitative (enzyme immunoassay) and semiquantitative (immunohistochemistry) analysis of steroid hormone receptor status was positive in 86% of 35 cases in men and in 75% in women. In contrast to female breast cancer, hormone status proved to be independent of age in males. The average levels of estrogen and progesterone were higher in men. Overlapping results were found only when cases were compared with postmenopausal women. The Nottingham prognostic index, a product of primary tumor size, axillary lymph node status and grading allows an approximative estimate of the course of the disease; its predictive value is higher than that of isolated tumor markers.
9139609: !synaptophysin [Immunohistochemistry characterization of neurocytoma of the cerebral hemispheres]. Neurocytoma accounts for 0.5% of all tumors of the central nervous system. 18 such tumors are described. Homogeneous expression of neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin and heterogeneous expression of PCNA and some proteins are characteristic for these tumors. Two immunophenotypic variants are distinguished: p30-32 positive tumors with high values of PCNA; c-er B-2 HSPh-highly positive variant with lower indices of the "growth fractions".
9090448: !synaptophysin Pathogenesis of breast carcinoma. Immunohistochemical study. Synaptophysin and/or chromogranin A may be expressed in epithelial cells of normal and dysplastic mammary gland and in some cancer of the breast. This work indicates that some stromal cells form thin walled vascular channels and from their perivascular mesenchyma arise myoid-like cells, some with cross-like striations. These myoid-like cells have been stained with antibody to smooth muscle actin, rarely to desmin and sarcomeric actin as well as are strongly positive for synaptophysin and/or chromogranin A. From those cells arise cancer cells. Some cancer cells also expressed desmin, sarcomeric actin or smooth muscle actin. Because synaptophysin positive are neuromuscular endplates, it is a question whether the presence of synaptophysin in the progenitor of neoplastic cells of myogenic origin is due to the synaptic dysfunction in molecular mechanism of the epithelial-parenchyma and mesenchymal stroma interaction. The location of S100-protein positive dendritic cells distributed in regular pattern in suprabasal layer of the mammary gland indicate that these cells may arise from preadipocytes which take part in morphogenesis of the breast. All cases of the breast cancer demonstrated thymosin alpha 1, some of them also showed Hassall's-like bodies, mucin secretion and minute calcification. Whether the interaction of epithelial cells and S100-protein positive dendritic cells in tissue other than the thymus has similar dynamic activity to that of Hassall's bodies of the thymus remains to be determined. Both, epithelial cells of Hassall's bodies and epithelial cells of the investigated breast are of myogenic origin. The above consideration suggests that the cells forming vascular channels are with a differentiation defect as they are created in altered stromal mesenchyma and the presence of thymic growth factors might induce tumor growth.
9071486: !synaptophysin Giant cells in cortical tubers in tuberous sclerosis showing synaptophysin-immunoreactive halos. We describe a characteristic pattern of immunoreactivity for synaptophysin in tuberous sclerosis. We analyzed cortical tubers from surgical specimens taken from six patients with tuberous sclerosis, which were obtained by surgical resections for the treatment of intractable seizures. The cortical tubers were characterized by blurred lamination of the cerebral cortex, hypercellularity, and gliotic changes. Neuropil in the cortex of cortical tubers showed reduced immunoreactivity for synaptophysin in all patients. 'Giant cells' were investigated in the cortex and white matter regions of cortical tubers. Some 'giant cells' had neuronal characteristics such as Nissl substance, a centrally placed chromatin-marginated nucleus, prominent nucleolus, positive immunoreactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2, and negative immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Other 'giant cells' were indeterminate in cell type because they lacked Nissl bodies, distinct nucleolus, consistent immunoreactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2 and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Almost all 'neuronal giant cells' and some of the 'indeterminate giant cells' in the white matter showed intense immunoreactivity for synaptophysin: cell borders were surrounded by an intense immunoreactive halo. In conclusion, these immunohistochemical patterns for synaptophysin assist in characterizing these abnormal cells in the cortical tubers of patients with tuberous sclerosis.
9065618: !synaptophysin Clinical and immunohistochemical analyses of parotid gland tumors. Clinical, histological and immunohistochemical data on 71 parotid gland tumors were analyzed. Benign neoplasms accounted for 71.8% of the case material and malignant tumors 22.6%. Chronic parotitis occurred in 5.6% of the total case number. Pleomorphic adenomas and mucoepidermoid carcinomas were the most frequently occurring benign and malignant neoplasms. Pleomorphic adenomas stained positive for S-100 protein, tenascin, smooth muscle actin, synaptophysin and chromogranin A. This immunohistochemical, histological and clinical analysis was believed to be of potential assistance in the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of parotid gland tumors.
9046062: !synaptophysin Characterisation of thyroid medullary carcinoma TT cell line. TT cell line is the best known stabilized cell line derived from the human medullary thyroid carcinoma. The ultrastructural characteristics of these cells include well developed rough endoplasmic reticulum, a prominent Golgi apparatus and a considerable number of secretory granules. Numerous hormones were immunocytochemically demonstrated in TT cells of which calcitonin and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are the products of the same gene but an alternative RNA processing. TT cells were found to produce some other hormones as well, namely ACTH, neurotensin, enkephalin, PTHrP, gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP), serotonin but also functional proteins of the chromogranin group, synaptophysin, NSE, calbindin and tyrosine hydroxylase. Some marker proteins have been detected in the cytosol (CEA) and in the cytoskeleton (alpha-tubulin, cytokeratin). The influence of numerous factors on the secretory activity of these cells has been demonstrated so far, including effects of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol, glucocorticoids, sex steroids, cAMP, gastrin-releasing peptide, sodium butyrate, phorbol esters, ionomycin and forskolin. The investigators performed on the TT cell line demonstrate that this is the most reliable model system for the human parafollicular cells developed so far, in comparison to other cell lines derived from the medullary carcinoma of the thyroid.
9029767: !synaptophysin Unique intracerebral tumor with divergent differentiation in a patient presenting as NF2: report of a case with features of astrocytoma, ependymoma, and PNET. Patients with neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) are predisposed to a variety of neoplastic and dysplastic lesions, including schwannomas, neurofibromas, meningiomas, astrocytomas, and ependymomas, as well as entities such as meningioangiomatosis, schwannosis, and hamartomas. This study reports a unique intracerebral frontotemporal tumor in a 6-year-old boy with presumed NF2, on the basis of bilateral cerebellopontine tumors consistent with acoustic neuromas. The intracerebral tumor revealed a variety of histological patterns, including foci of primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET), low-grade astrocytoma and ependymoma, as well as neuroepithelial rests with immature ganglion cells and hamartomatous areas. The MIB-1 labeling index ranged from 63% in the foci of PNET to 4-7% in other foci. The PNET component revealed immunopositivity for synaptophysin and neurofilament and showed cells with delicate intercellular junctions, profiles of rough endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, and dense core granules, and cell processes with microtubules and neurofilaments. The glial and ependymal components showed bundles of glial filaments and prominent cell junctions, cilia, and microvilli. The hamartomatous component also included aggregates of cells with hyaline eosinophilic cytoplasm. By EM these cells contained abundant amorphous flocculent material. This constellation of pathologic findings, especially the finding of PNET, is unique and not previously reported in the setting of NF2.
9021564: !synaptophysin Use of synaptophysin polyclonal antibody for the rapid intraoperative immunohistochemical evaluation of functional bowel disorders. Intraoperative biopsies are essential for accurately distinguishing between Hirschsprung's disease (HD) and intestinal neuronal dysplasia (IND), and vital for determining the extent of abnormal bowel for surgical correction. IND can be associated with HD and can be a cause of postoperative complications. Routine hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining is sometimes inadequate for identification of ganglion cells in biopsy specimens and can be the cause of confusion. The authors found synaptophysin (SY) to be more specific as an indicator of abnormal bowel innervation and invaluable for surgical planning. Twenty patients (15 with HD, 3 with IND, and 2 with IND complicating HD) received biopsies intraoperatively. There was markedly reduced immunoreactivity (ie, a decreased number of SY-positive synapses) seen in the intestinal smooth muscle layers of transitional, aganglionic, and IND bowel segments, whereas immunoreactive synapses were abundantly present in the smooth muscle layers of ganglionic colon in HD. SY immunoreactivity also showed ganglion cells and hypertrophic nerve trunks clearly. Rapid SY staining is a simple and consistently reliable method for the intraoperative evaluation of the distribution of synapses in myenteric plexuses as well as smooth muscle layers.
9020389: !synaptophysin Hemimegalencephaly--morphological and immunocytochemical study. Hemimegalencephaly (HME), a rare congenital abnormality characterized by unilateral enlargement of the cerebral hemisphere, is one of the less common causes of intractable seizures. We report a 6-month-old infant with uncontrolled seizures who was diagnosed to have a large mass lesion based on a CT scan. Postmortem examination revealed left-sided HME with pachygyria, widened cortex, indistinct grey-white junction, and distorted deep nuclear masses. Histological features included loss of cortical lamination, large atypical neurons with argyrophilic accumulations, ballooned cells, neuronal heterotopia, and astrocytosis with dystrophic calcification. The heterotopic neurons in the white matter were present in a radial pattern suggestive of aberrant neuronal migration. Several large neurons were dystrophic with cytoskeletal abnormalities like phosphorylated high molecular weight neurofilament and ubiquitin in the cytoplasm. However, typical neurofibrillary tangles with Congo red and tau positivity were not observed. Synaptophysin labelling was found to be decreased in the cortex, but some of the abnormal neurons had dense perisomatic label. The majority of the balloon cells were astrocytic in origin, being positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein and negative for the neuronal markers. Although the etiology of HME is not known, it provides an opportunity to study anomalous development of the brain and neuronal developmental abnormalities.
9011399: !synaptophysin Transient expression of NMDA receptors during rearrangement of AMPA-receptor-expressing fibers in the developing inner ear. A major reorganization of afferent and efferent nerve terminals, concomitant to significant neuronal cell loss and pruning of superfluous fibers, takes place during the development of the organ of Corti, prior to the onset of hearing. We examined the spatio/temporal distribution of subtype-specific AMPA- and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-selective glutamate receptor proteins in postnatal inner ears from rats during this critical period. From the first postnatal day onwards, GluR2/3 receptor subtypes appeared in nerve endings of afferent fibers associated with inner and outer hair cells. During the following 2 weeks, GluR2/3 receptors were downregulated in exchange for GluR4 receptors. In parallel efferents projecting from the medial olivocochlear complex to the outer hair cells underwent synaptogenesis and efferents projecting from the lateral olivocochlear complex to the inner hair cells appeared to change contacts to the dendrites of afferents. Concomitant to these events, NMDA receptor subtypes NR1 and NR2A transiently appeared in hair cells as well as afferent and efferent fibers. Recently, we described a temporary expression of the neurotrophin receptor trkB in hair cells, coincident to the growth (GAP-43) and synaptogenesis (synaptophysin) of efferents. Here, we show that trkB was expressed together with NR1 receptors in hair cells in high spatio/temporal correlation with the rearrangement of afferents and efferents. Cochlea NMDA receptors may, therefore, be a part of the mechanism by which, in addition to neurotrophic activity, the mature phenotype of cochlea neurons is acquired through activity-dependent processes.
9008511: !synaptophysin Hippocampal sclerosis contributes to dementia in the elderly. To assess the relevance of hippocampal sclerosis (HS) to dementia in the elderly.
9006657: !synaptophysin Morphological study of neocortical areas in Rett syndrome. Various neocortical areas from four females aged 16-24 years with Rett syndrome (RS) were investigated and compared with brains of therapy-resistant partial epilepsy (TRPE) patients (18-25 years), infantile autism (IA), and control brains (24 and 58 years). The cytoarchitecture of area 10 (frontal), area 21 (temporal), area 4 (primary motor cortex), and area 17 (primary visual cortex) was studied by the combined Klüver-Barrera (luxol fast blue and cresyl violet) standard procedure. Autofluorescence of lipofuscin, immunofluorescence of synaptic vesicle proteins [synaptophysin (p38)] and lectin-stained (Wisteria floribunda agglutinin) perineuronal nets (PNs) were studied in the cortices using dual-channel confocal laser scanning microscopy. The brains of RS females show various types of morphological/cytoarchitectonical abnormalities of single pyramidal neurons in layers II-III, and V-VII of different cortical areas. The abnormalities include mild losses of pyramidal neurons, more pronounced in layers II and III than in layers V and VII, and more evident in frontal and temporal areas than in the visual cortex. Microdysgenesis, including abnormalities due to neuronal migration disorders, was not found in RS, in contrast to the observations in TRPE patients, strongly indicating that RS is not a neuronal migration disorder. Lipofuscin distribution was normal but amounts were lower in RS cases than in control and TRPE brains. PNs were less expressed in cortices of the IA case but were clearly overexpressed in the motor cortex of RS. Quantitative analysis of p38 showed a decrease in the area occupied by p38 immunoreactivity by 20-40% in RS compared with controls. It is concluded that RS could best be explained by a postnatal synaptogenic developmental deficiency; the basic defect, however, is still completely unknown.
8987743: !synaptophysin Trafficking of cell-surface beta-amyloid precursor protein: evidence that a sorting intermediate participates in synaptic vesicle recycling. We recently demonstrated that the Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) is internalized from the axonal cell surface. In this study, we use biochemical and cell biological methods to characterize endocytotic compartments that participate in trafficking of APP in central neurons. APP is present in presynaptic clathrin-coated vesicles purified from bovine brain, together with the recycling synaptic vesicle integral membrane proteins synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and SV2. In contrast, APP is largely excluded from synaptic vesicles purified from rat brain. In primary cerebellar macroneurons, cell-surface APP is internalized with recycling synaptic vesicle integral membrane proteins but is subsequently sorted away from synaptic vesicles and transported retrogradely to the neuronal soma. Internalized APP partially co-localizes with rab5a-containing compartments in axons and with V-ATPase-containing compartments in both axons and neuronal soma. These results provide direct biochemical evidence that an obligate sorting compartment participates in the regeneration of synaptic vesicles during exo/endocytotic recycling at nerve terminals but do not preclude concurrent "kiss-and-run" recycling. Moreover, APP is now, to our knowledge, the first demonstrated example of an axonal cell-surface protein that is internalized with recycling synaptic vesicle membrane proteins but is subsequently sorted away from synaptic vesicles.
8978748: !synaptophysin Brain-derived neurotrophic factor increases the stimulation-evoked release of glutamate and the levels of exocytosis-associated proteins in cultured cortical neurons from embryonic rats. Differentiation and survival of neurons induced by neurotrophins have been widely investigated, but little has been reported about the long-term effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on synaptic transmission. Among many steps of neurotransmission, one important step is regulated release of transmitters. Therefore, the release of glutamate and GABA from cortical neurons cultured for several days with or without BDNF was measured by an HPLC-fluorescence method. Although BDNF had little effect on the basal release of glutamate, high K(+)-evoked release was greatly increased by BDNF. BDNF also tended to increase evoked release of GABA. Recently, several proteins involved in the step of "regulated release" have been identified. Thus, the effect of BDNF on the levels of these proteins was then investigated. Neurons were cultivated with or without BDNF, collected, and electrophoresed for western blotting. BDNF increased levels of synaptotagmin, synaptobrevin, synaptophysin, and rab3A, which were known as vesicle protein. Levels of syntaxin, SNAP-25, and beta-SNAP were also increased by BDNF. In addition, the numbers of cored and clear vesicles in nerve terminals or varicosities were also increased by BDNF. These results raise the possibility that BDNF increases regulated release of neurotransmitters through the up-regulation of secretory mechanisms.
8978473: !synaptophysin Long-term integration and neuronal differentiation of human embryonal carcinoma cells (NTera-2) transplanted into the caudoputamen of nude mice. NTera-2 (NT2) cells are a human embryonal carcinoma (EC) cell line derived from a teratocarcinoma that differentiate exclusively into postmitotic neurons in vitro following retinoic acid (RA) treatment. Like other EC cell lines, NT2 cells rapidly form lethal tumors following transplantation into peripheral sites or many regions of the brain. However, when grafts are confined to the caudoputamen (CP), the NT2 cells differentiate into postmitotic neuronlike cells and do not form lethal tumors. To examine the long-term fate of such grafts, we studied NT2 cell transplants in the CP of nude mice that survived for > 1 year. NT2 cells in these grafts acquired molecular markers of fully mature neurons including the low, middle, and high molecular weight neurofilament proteins, microtubule-associated protein 2, tau, and synaptophysin. Furthermore, neuronlike cells in long-term CP grafts formed synaptic structures, and their processes became myelinated, whereas tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neuronlike cells in the grafts increased with progressively longer postimplantation survival times. Soluble extracts of the adult mouse CP augmented TH expression in RA-treated NT2 cells in vitro. These data suggest that the adult mouse CP is a source of factor(s) that inhibits tumor formation and induce a catecholaminergic neuronal phenotype in these human NT2 cells in vivo and in vitro. Identification of these factors could accelerate efforts to elucidate mechanisms that regulate progenitor cell fate and the commitment of neurons to specific neurotransmitter phenotypes.
8988489: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicle proteins in cells of the sympathoadrenal lineage. The cells of sympathoadrenal lineage display different characteristics after differentiation, although they stem from the same neural crest precursor during embryonic development. In the present study we compared the distribution patterns of several synaptic vesicle proteins in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and the adrenal medulla. Using indirect immunofluorescence combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy, it was observed that antisera against integral synaptic vesicle membrane proteins (SV2, synaptotagmin I, synaptobrevin II and synaptophysin) induced strong immunoreactivities in these cells, but anti-synaptobrevin I caused only a faint fluorescence. Immunoreactivities of the synaptic vesicle-associated proteins Rab3a and SNAP25 were also observed in the cells. Synapsin-Ia-reactive material appeared absent from chromaffin cells but present in small amounts in sympathetic neurons in the SCG and iris terminals. On the other hand, synapsin IIa immunoreactive material was strong in most SCG neurons and in adrenergic iris terminals. The neural specific clatrin light chain was detected in the SCG cells and in ganglion cells of the adrenal, but only weak traces could be observed in chromaffin cells. One of the vesicular monoamine transmitter transporters, VMAT2, which is expressed in catecholamine neurons in the brain stem, was observed in most cells in the SCG and also in groups of cells in the adrenal medulla, where the VMAT2-positive small chromaffin cells were PNMT-negative. SIF cells in the SCG contained most of the synaptic vesicle proteins investigated. The results show that after differentiation, sympathetic neurons, SIF cells and adrenal chromaffin cells still share many vesicle proteins even though their physiology is different.
8943215: !synaptophysin Alzheimer amyloid protein precursor is localized in nerve terminal preparations to Rab5-containing vesicular organelles distinct from those implicated in the synaptic vesicle pathway. In order to localize amyloid protein precursor (APP) in nerve terminals, we have immunoisolated vesicular organelles from nerve terminal preparations using antibodies to Rab5 and synaptophysin. These immunoisolates were then analyzed by electron microscopy and by immunoblotting. The synaptophysin immunoisolates represented a nearly homogeneous population of small synaptic vesicles, with less than 10% contamination by other organelles, and very little APP. In contrast, Rab5 immunoisolates contained, in addition to small synaptic vesicles, substantial numbers of large uni- and bilamellar vesicles and high levels of APP. Thus, it appears that nerve terminal APP is contained predominantly in large vesicular organelles, distinct from synaptic vesicles and from the synaptic vesicle recycling pathway.
15456180: !synaptophysin Multicentric metachronous pulmonary and intravagal paraganglioma: a case report with immunohistochemical findings. An unprecedented presentation of multicentric paraganglioma in a 48-year-old man is described. One of the paragangliomas, originally diagnosed as a carcinoid tumor, presented as a lung mass and was removed. Four years later, an intravagal paraganglioma was discovered. The lung and intravagal tumors had identical morphologic and immunoreactive characteristics. Both tumors consisted of chief cells (type 1) and sustentacular cells (type 2). The chief cells were immunoreactive with neuroendocrine markers (synaptophysin and chromogranin), but nonreactive with epithelial markers (CAM 5.2, high- and low-molecular-weight keratins, epithelial membrane antigen, and carcinoembryonic antigen). The sustentacular cells were positive for S100 protein. Although pulmonary carcinoids may mimic paragangliomas and occasionally contain sustentacular cells, the diagnosis was rejected because the tumor cells did not demonstrate reactivity with epithelial markers.
9388861: !synaptophysin [A pathological study on phenotype differentiation and its significance in pulmonary large cell carcinoma]. This study was designed to find the differentiated phenotype and its clinicopathological significance in pulmonary large cell carcinoam (PLCC) by immunohistochemical methods using a panel of antibodies related to the phenotype differentiation: high molecular weight cytokeratin, low molecular weight cytokeratiin, secretory component, chromogranin A and synaptophysin in 60 cases of PLCC. The results demonstrated that all cases of PLCC possessed monophasic, biphasic and triphasic phenotype differentiation features respectively, including squamous (4 cases), adenomatous (20 cases), neuroendocrine (19 cases), adenosquamous (11 cases); and the the coexistence of adenomatous, squamous and neuroendocrine (6 cases). The median survival time was different between patients with various differentiated phenotypes of PLCC. There was a statistically significant difference (P < 0.05) in survival between neuroendocrine and adenomatous phenotypes. The results of this study implies that: (1) PLCC expressed different phenotypes of differentiation, (2) phenotypes of neuroendocrine differentiation has a poor prognosis, (3) it is necessary to classify PLCC according to the phenotype differentiation.
9206776: !synaptophysin [Immunohistochemical findings in Huntington's Chorea: report of 9 cases]. The results of an immunohistochemical investigation on neostriatum of 9 cases of Huntington's disease are reported. In all cases the typical neuropathological findings were present (striatum atrophy, neuronal degeneration, gliosis). We did investigate on paraffin slides Synaptophysin (SYN), Neurofilament-protein (NF68), GFAP as well as the neuropeptides Met-Enkephalin (MEnk), Substance P (SP), Somatostatin (SS) and Neuropeptide Y (NPY). These neuropeptides, in particular MEnk and SP, are reported to coexist with the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA in the neurons of basal ganglia. In all cases, GFAP activity was increased. In 7 cases activity of SYN and NF68 was decreased. In 2 cases, however, SYN-immunoreactivity was increased; these findings might represent an expression of "regenerative" changes in surviving neurons. The reactions for neuropeptides did disclose, in accordance with the results of former investigators, a decreased activity of MEnk- and SP-neurons, whereas SS- and/or NPY-neurons appeared almost unchanged.
9078410: !synaptophysin Localization of HPC-1/syntaxin 1 in developing rat cerebellar cortex. In adult rat cerebellum, HPC-1/syntaxin 1 is detected at high density on the plasma membrane of the non-synaptic region of parallel fibers in addition to the synaptic terminal membranes and the synaptic vesicles (Koh, S., Yamamoto, A., Inoue, A., Inoue, Y., Akagawa, Y., Kawamura, Y., Kawamoto, Y., and Tashiro, Y. (1993). J. Neurocytology 22: 995-1005). To assess the possibility that HPC-1/syntaxin 1 participates in the morphogenesis of the nervous system, we examined changes in the localization of HPC-1/syntaxin 1 during postnatal development of the molecular layer of the rat cerebellum. HPC-1/syntaxin 1 appeared in the granule cells in the outer granule cell layer in 3-days-old rat cerebellum when the formation of synapses and the appearance of a synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, had not yet been observed in the molecular layer. At this stage, the granule cells began to form parallel fibers. Confocal laser microscopy and immuno-electron microscopy showed that HPC-1/syntaxin 1 was localized on the extruding plasma membrane of the granule cells to form parallel fibers. In 8-days-old rats, synapses formed between the parallel fibers and the developing dendrites of Purkinje cells, and the HPC-1 immunoreactivity appeared on the axons of parallel fibers and on the synapses. In 21-days-old rats, the HPC-1/syntaxin is involved in the formation of the molecular layer, especially in the axonal growth of the parallel fibers.
9023727: !synaptophysin Comparative evaluation of synaptophysin-based methods for quantification of synapses. Development, ageing, and a variety of neurological disorders are characterized by selective alterations in specific populations of nerve cells which are, in turn, associated with changes in the numbers of synapses in the target fields of these neurons. To begin to delineate the significance of changes in synapses in development, ageing, and disease, it is first essential to quantify the number of synapses in defined regions of the CNS. In the past, investigators have used EM methods to assess synapse numbers or density, but these approaches are costly, labour intensive, and technically difficult, particularly in autopsy material. To begin to define reliable strategies useful for studies of both animals and humans, we used three techniques to measure synaptophysin-immunoreactivity in rat brain. The levels of synaptophysin protein were determined by Western blots of five hippocampal subregions; the intensity of synaptophysin-immunoreactivity in dentate gyrus and stratum oriens was determined by optical densitometry of immunocytochemically stained sections; and the total number of synaptophysin-immunoreactivity presynaptic boutons in dentate gyrus and stratum oriens was assessed by unbiased stereology. Each approach has advantages and disadvantages. Western blotting is the least time-consuming of the three methods and allows simultaneous processing of multiple samples. In systematically sampled histological sections, both densitometry and stereology allow precise definition of the region of interest, and the stereological optical dissector method allows quantitation of the numbers of synaptophysin-immunoreactive boutons. Stereology was the only method that clearly demonstrated greater synaptophysin-immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus as compared to stratum oriens. The use of systematic sampling and the dissector technique offer a high degree of anatomical resolution (lacking in Western blot methods) and has quantitative advantage over the greyscale-based density approach. Thus, at present, stereology is the most useful method for estimating synaptic numbers in defined regions of the brain.
9004244: !synaptophysin Age-related changes in the olfactory system of dogs. Age-related changes in the olfactory system were examined in 22 dogs ranging in age from 10 to 19 years old. Atrophic changes with degeneration were observed in the olfactory epithelium of dogs older than 14 years; the changes were prominent in the dogs over the age of 17 years. Immunohistochemistry using an anti-carnosine antibody, which is a marker for the olfactory cells, demonstrated a decrease in the number of olfactory cells. Electron microscopy also showed a decrease in the number of cilia of olfactory cells and microvilli of supporting cells. Atrophic changes with the features of regeneration were rarely observed in the aged animals. Lipofuscin-like granules in the olfactory epithelium became prominent with age. These age-related changes were similar to those reported in the olfactory epithelium of man and rats. Dystrophic neurites were not detected by a modified Bielschowsky stain or by neurofilament, synaptophysin and tau immunohistochemistry in the olfactory mucosa. There was no beta-amyloid- and ubiquitin-immunostaining in the olfactory mucosa. Senile brain changes, including cerebrovascular amyloidosis, age-related astrocytic gliosis and ubiquitin deposits were found in the olfactory bulb, although neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques were not detected either by a modified Bielschowsky stain or by beta-amyloid immunohistochemistry. These results indicate that dog may be a useful animal model to study the age-related changes in the olfactory system in man.
9004041: !synaptophysin Cadherin binding sites of plakoglobin: localization, specificity and role in targeting to adhering junctions. Plakoglobin directly interacts with cadherins and plays an essential role in the assembly of adherens junctions and desmosomes. Recently we have reported that multiple cadherin binding sites are localized along the arm repeat region of plakoglobin. To demonstrate functionally and specificity of these sites in vivo we constructed a set of chimeric proteins containing a plakoglobin sequence fused with the transmembrane vesicular protein synaptophysin. Plakoglobin fused upstream or downstream from synaptophysin (PgSy and SyPg, chimeras, respectively) is exposed on the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic-like vesicles and is able to associate with E-cadherin, and with two desmosomal cadherins, desmoglein and desmocollin. Moreover, plakoglobin targets these vesicles to cell-cell junctions. Insertion of synaptophysin within plakoglobin (PSyG chimeras) can interfere with cadherin binding of the resulting chimeric proteins, dependent on the position of the insertion. Insertion of synaptophysin in the first three arm repeats selectively inactivates plakoglobin binding to desmoglein and desmocollin. An insertion of synaptophysin within the next two repeats inactivates E-cadherin and desmocollin binding but not desmoglein binding. This localization of the desmoglein and E-cadherin binding sites was further confirmed by replacement of plakoglobin arm repeats with the corresponding sequence derived from the plakoglobin homologue, beta-catenin, and by deletion mutagenesis. Insertion of synaptophysin in most sites within arm repeats 6-13 does not change plakoglobin binding to cadherins. It does, however, strongly inhibit association of the resulting vesicles either with desmosomes and adherens junctions or with desmosomes only. Using in vitro binding assays we demonstrate that arm repeats 6-13 contain two cryptic cadherin binding sites that are masked in the intact protein. These observations suggest that the arm repeat region of plakoglobin is comprises two functionally distinct regions: the 1/5 region containing desmoglein and E-cadherin specific binding sites and the 6/13 region implicated in targeting of plakoglobin/cadherin complexes into junctional structures.
8989551: !synaptophysin Spindle-cell thymic carcinoid occurring in multiple endocrine neoplasia I: fine-needle aspiration findings in a case. Thymic carcinoid tumors are important to distinguish from thymomas because of their worse prognosis. These rare tumors occasionally occur in the setting of multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN). A needle biopsy was performed on a 57-yr-old woman with MEN I and a newly-discovered anterior mediastinal mass. Aspiration smears were cellular and contained polygonal-to-spindled cells with high nucleocytoplasmic ratios and evenly-dispersed pattern. Occasional nuclear molding and rosette-like arrangements were present. A synaptophysin immunostain was positive on cell-block preparation. A diagnosis of thymic carcinoid was made. Subsequent excision of the mass confirmed the diagnosis of thymic carcinoid. Thymic carcinoids are cytologically similar to carcinoid tumors elsewhere. They should be distinguished from epithelial thymoma and substernal medullary carcinoma of the thyroid.
8985140: !synaptophysin Subcellular localization of SV2 and other secretory vesicle components in PC12 cells by an efficient method of preembedding EM immunocytochemistry for cell cultures. We demonstrated the subcellular localization of SV2, a transmembrane protein associated with neuroendocrine secretory vesicles, in NGF-treated PC12 cells by preembedding EM immunocytochemistry (ICC), using a small gold probe followed by silver enhancement. The use of a multiwell chamber slide substantially improved the efficiency of the preembedding EM ICC procedures for cell cultures. The advantages and related caveats of this method are discussed. SV2 was distinctly localized on dusters of synaptic vesicles and large dense-cored vesicles (LDCV). The distribution of SV2 on these two types of secretory vesicles was compared quantitatively to that of another secretory vesicle-associated transmembrane protein, synaptophysin. In cultures under similar experimental conditions, the ratio of SV2 vs synaptophysin ICC staining on synaptic vesicle dusters was about 1:1, whereas it was about 9:1 on LDCV membranes. Furthermore, whereas SV2 is localized on the membranes of the LDCVs, chromogranin A, an acidic protein in secretory granules, is clearly in the core of the LDCVs. This is the first demonstration of these two antigens in such dose (approximately 20 nm) yet distinct compartments within a single organelle.
8972795: !synaptophysin Schwann cell-neuron relationships in spinal cord gray matter. Schwann cells develop within the ventral gray matter following exposure of lumbosacral spinal cords to x-rays in early postnatal rats. These ventral gray matter Schwann cell aggregates occurred in about 40% of the animals 8 or more weeks following irradiation. Light microscopically these cells appeared to be apposed to somata of large motor neurons, raising a question regarding the fate of axo-somatic synapses. This study focused on neuron-Schwann cell relationships and demonstrated ultrastructurally that the intraspinal Schwann cells established a variety of relationships with the neuronal somata and primary dendrites. These relationships ranged from direct contact without an intervening basal lamina to the presence of synaptic contacts intervening between neuron and Schwann cell basal lamina. Occasionally, the Schwann cells occupied an intermediate position between neurons and blood vessels, suggesting functions similar to those carried out by astrocytes. In these instances, as in all cases of Schwann cell-blood vessel contact, the vessels lacked their normal investiture by astrocytes. Light microscopic evaluation of synaptophysin-immunostained sections revealed decreased immunoreactivity in neuropil occupied by the Schwann cells but confirmed the presence of synapses on neuronal somata. Possible mechanisms underlying Schwann cell induction in the ventral gray matter are discussed. An understanding of the interactions between Schwann cells and the cellular constituents of the gray matter is important in light of attempts to enhance repair in the central nervous system by transplanting Schwann cells into that environment.
8971564: !synaptophysin Carcinosarcoma of the uterus with extensive neuroectodermal differentiation. A case of uterine carcinosarcoma with extensive neuroectodermal differentiation occurring in a 54-year-old woman is described. Microscopically, the endometrial tumour was predominantly composed of a sheet-like proliferation of small- and medium-sized cells. These cells were characterized by fibrillary cytoplasmic processes, rosette-like formations, perivascular palisading patterns, and immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin, leu 7 and neuron-specific enolase. In limited areas, features of conventional carcinosarcoma, including squamous cell carcinoma, leiomyosarcoma and islands of the above mentioned small- to medium-sized cells that were intermingled, were observed. The tumour was aneuploid by flow cytometry. The patient is alive with tumour for three months. It is suggested that at least some cases of uterine primitive neuroectodermal tumour may be explained by one-sided neuroectodermal development within a carcinosarcoma.
8958313: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the myocardium: a case report, review of the literature, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study. We report the case of a primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) arising in the heart of a 63-year-old man. The neuroectodermal nature of this tumor was confirmed by the immunohistochemical positivity for O13 (CD99) (the P30/32MIC2 gene product) neuron specific enolase (monoclonal and polyclonal), synaptophysin and vimentin. Other markers, such as actin, desmin, myoglobin, chromogranin, keratin, and leukocyte common antigen were negative. The diagnosis was made on an endomyocardial biopsy and was confirmed in sections from the myocardial tumor found within the heart excised during cardiac transplant. Primitive neuroectodermal tumors have been reported in a variety of sites, most commonly in the extremities. No case has ever been reported within the myocardium, although one has been reported in the pericardium. In addition to morphological similarities, PNET and extraskeletal Ewing's sarcoma have been shown to possess the same chromosomal translocation, t11;22, and the same cell surface antigen, P 30/32. Separation of this case from extraskeletal Ewing's sarcoma was possible because of the absence of PAS positivity, as well as the immunohistochemical positivity for at least two neural markers, as extraskeletal Ewing's sarcoma is only positive for neuron specific enolase.
8958304: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumor: further observations regarding an ultrastructural and immunohistochemical analysis of six cases. Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumor (GANT) is a specialized form of stromal neoplasm whose ultrastructural features support a myenteric plexus derivation and provide the basis for its diagnosis. GANT actual frequency, relationship to skeinoid fibers, and CD34 expression status are some of the controversial aspects of this entity. Out of 14 gastrointestinal stromal tumors gathered during a 1-year period, six (42%) instances were diagnosed as GANT by electron microscopic study of at least five ultrathin sections per case. Additionally, GANTs were immunohistochemically investigated with a panel of nine antibodies including CD34. Ultrastructurally, every GANT case showed diagnostic findings and evidence of skeinoid fibers, whereas immunohistochemically all except one were CD34 positive. Immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and vimentin was a common occurrence as well. In conclusion, GANT seems to be more frequent than hitherto recognized, skenoid fibers are a regular feature of GANT, and a positive CD34 immunoreaction does not discriminate between GANT and other non-smooth muscle, non-schwannian neoplasms.
8951867: !synaptophysin Expression of the neural adhesion molecule L1 in the deafferented dentate gyrus. Expression of the neural adhesion molecule L1 and its potential involvement in axonal sprouting were examined in the deafferented rat dentate gyrus. We focused on the dentate gyrus because of its well-defined cytoarchitecture and well-characterized neuronal degeneration and sprouting response following entorhinal cortex lesions. In the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, a trilaminar staining pattern was observed, with the middle molecular layer exhibiting slightly denser immunolabeling compared to both inner and outer molecular layers. Two to 12 days after a unilateral entorhinal cortex lesion, a progressive loss of L1 immunolabeling was noted in the ipsilateral middle and outer molecular layers, followed by a substantial reappearance of immunostaining 65 days after lesion incidence. The width of the immunostained ipsilateral inner molecular layer revealed a progressive widening and by postlesion day 65 occupied about 50% of the total width of the molecular layer. Immunoelectron microscopy localized L1 to the surface of unmyelinated axons in both normal and deafferented dentate gyrus. In situ hybridization revealed L1 messenger RNA confined to neurons throughout the hippocampal formation, but did not indicate changes in L1 messenger RNA levels in the hippocampus, dentate gyrus, entorhinal cortex or basal forebrain in response to unilateral entorhinal cortex lesions. Changes in L1 immunolabeling in the deafferented dentate gyrus corresponded in a spatial and temporal manner to changes of the synaptic marker synaptophysin and axonal marker phosphorylated tau. Results of the present study are most consistent with the view that L1 is expressed on reinnervating fibers after they make synaptic contacts with other structures. Thus, L1 appears to be involved in the maturation and stabilization of reinnervating fibers and consequently may play an important role in the repair process of the lesioned adult CNS.
8951664: !synaptophysin Selective localization and regulated release of calcitonin gene-related peptide from dense-core vesicles in engineered PC12 cells. Introduction of the gene for calcitonin into the neuroendocrine PC12 cell line resulted in the expression of the neuronal-specific splice product, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Expression of this neuropeptide did not require treatment of the PC12 cells with NGF. By all available criteria, including biochemical, immunological, and morphological analysis, we have determined that the CGRP in stably transfected PC12 cells is sorted selectively into the large, dense-core catecholamine-containing secretory vesicles. Conversely, the CGRP is excluded from the small, synaptophysin-rich vesicles present in the same cells. Stimulation conditions that trigger the release of catecholamines cause a parallel burst in the release of CGRP. In all these respects, the engineered PC12 cells process the foreign CGRP in a manner similar to that seen in spinal motor neurons in vivo. These results indicate that this small (37 amino acids) peptide contains sorting information sufficient for targeting to large, dense-core vesicles in heterologous cells, placing very narrow constraints on the possible location of sorting signals. In addition, this CGRP-expressing cell line opens the possibility of studying the physiological role of CGRP in the establishment and maintenance of neuromuscular contacts.
8946876: !synaptophysin Undifferentiated carcinoma of the broad ligament in a 28-year-old woman--a case report and results of immunohistochemical and electron-microscopic studies. A case of undifferentiated carcinoma of the broad ligament is reported. The patient was a 28-year-old Japanese woman who underwent laparotomy for a cystic and solid tumor of the left broad ligament. The tumor measured 9 cm in diameter and was unattached to the uterus, ipsilateral ovary, or salpinx. Histological examination revealed tumor tissue consisting of solid nests of irregular configuration and rather small to medium-sized undifferentiated epithelial cells. The tumor cells were positive for cytokeratin, but negative for CA125, epithelial membrane antigen, S-100 protein, amylase, carcinoembryonic antigen, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, HHF35, desmin, and vimentin. Electron-microscopic examination revealed gap junctions and primitive cellular junctions, but no intracytoplasmic mucous granules or microvilli on the surface of the tumor cells. This is the first report of undifferentiated carcinoma of the broad ligament as far as we have been able to determine from a search of the literature.
8943081: !synaptophysin Levels of the growth-associated protein GAP-43 are selectively increased in association cortices in schizophrenia. The pathophysiology of schizophrenia may involve perturbations of synaptic organization during development. The presence of cytoarchitectural abnormalities that may reflect such perturbations in the brains of patients with this disorder has been well-documented. Yet the mechanistic basis for these features of the disorder is still unknown. We hypothesized that altered regulation of the neuronal growth-associated protein GAP-43, a membrane phosphoprotein found at high levels in the developing brain, may play a role in the alterations in brain structure and function observed in schizophrenia. In the mature human brain, GAP-43 remains enriched primarily in association cortices and in the hippocampus, and it has been suggested that this protein marks circuits involved in the acquisition, processing, and/or storage of new information. Because these processes are known to be altered in schizophrenia, we proposed that GAP-43 levels might be altered in this disorder. Quantitative immunoblots revealed that the expression of GAP-43 is increased preferentially in the visual association and frontal cortices of schizophrenic patients, and that these changes are not present in other neuropsychiatric conditions requiring similar treatments. Examination of the levels of additional markers in the brain revealed that the levels of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin are reduced in the same areas, but that the abundance of the astrocytic marker of neurodegeneration, the glial fibrillary acidic protein, is unchanged. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to show that the laminar pattern of GAP-43 expression appears unaltered in schizophrenia. We propose that schizophrenia is associated with a perturbed organization of synaptic connections in distinct cortical associative areas of the human brain, and that increased levels of GAP-43 are one manifestation of this dysfunctional organization.
9116226: !synaptophysin Neuronal and glial localization of the GABA transporter GAT-1 in the cerebellar cortex. THE distribution and neuronal or glial localization of GAT-1, a high affinity GABA transporter, in the cerebellar cortex was analysed by means of double-label immunofluorescence experiments with GAT-1 combined with calbindin D, synaptophysin, or GFAP antibodies. In the Purkinje cell (Pc) layer, prominent synaptic GAT-1-immunoreactivity (IR) was found in the axon terminals of basket cells surrounding the Pc axon hillock. GAT-1-IR was also found in neuronal and glial processes ensheathing Pc somata and dendrites. Numerous immunoreactive fibres and puncta originating from basket and stellate cells, or from Golgi cells, were also detected in the molecular or granular layer, respectively. These observations suggest that GAT-1 is involved in the termination of the action of GABA at the inhibitory synapses of all cerebellar interneurones, primarily of basket cell terminals at the Pc axon hillock. GAT-1 in the astroglial processes presumably plays the additional role of regulating the extracellular concentrations of GABA.
8915838: !synaptophysin Formation of synaptic specializations in the inner plexiform layer of the developing chick retina. The development of synapse-like specializations was investigated in the inner plexiform layer of the developing chick retina by using light and electron microscopy. Six monoclonal antibodies, directed against glycine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor subunits, the intracellular receptor-associated protein gephyrin, synaptotagmin, and synaptophysin were used to determine the initial appearance and distribution of their antigens. Synaptophysin and synaptotagmin immunoreactivity was detected in the retina concurrent with the formation of the inner plexiform layer at embryonic day 7. This early appearance before synaptic differentiation, together with the transient expression of synaptotagmin immunoreactivity in the synapse-free optic fiber layer, suggests that in the developing central nervous system (CNS) these proteins are not confined to synapses. The first immunofluorescence signal detected with specific antibodies against the beta 2 and beta 3-subunits of the GABAA receptor, the glycine receptor, and gephyrin appeared at embryonic day 12. In contrast, the alpha 1-subunit of the adult-type glycine receptor heteromeric complex was detectable only at later stages of development, after embryonic day 16, suggesting a change in the subunit composition of some glycine receptor complexes. The staining was clearly punctate, indicating the clustering of the alpha 1-subunit at synapses. Electron microscopic investigation revealed the first postsynaptic densities and active zones in the inner plexiform layer of the retina at embryonic day 12. These results reveal different patterns of development for the investigated pre- and postsynaptic proteins and indicate a parallel appearance of gephyrin, glycine receptor, and the beta 2 and beta 3-subunits of the GABAA receptor with the first synaptic specializations in the inner plexiform layer of the developing chick retina.
8915833: !synaptophysin Differential synaptic vesicle protein expression in the barrel field of developing cortex. The distribution of four proteins associated with synaptic vesicles, SV2, synaptophysin, synapsin I, and rab3a, was investigated during postnatal development of the posteromedial barrel subfield (PMBSF) in the rat somatosensory cortex. A distinct progression in the appearance of the different synaptic vesicle proteins within the PMBSF was observed. SV2, synapsin I, and synaptophysin revealed the organization of the barrel field in the neonate. This early demarcation of the cortical representation of the vibrissal array coincides with the earliest known age for the emergence of the cytoarchitectonic organization of this region. In contrast, rab3a did not delimit the barrels until the end of the 1st postnatal week, coincident with the known onset of adult-like physiological activity and the loss of plasticity in afferents to this region. In addition, the appearance of the different synaptic vesicle proteins occurred earlier within the PMBSF than in the adjacent extra-barrel regions of the cortex. These results show that the molecular differentiation of synaptic fields across the cortex is not a homogeneous and synchronous process in terms of synaptic vesicle protein expression. Because these proteins act together in mature synapses to ensure the regulated release of neurotransmitters, our results suggest that this temporo-spatial asynchrony may underlie different potentials for synaptic activity and thus contribute to the development of cortical maps.
8915829: !synaptophysin Maturational gradients in the retina of the ferret. In the present set of studies, we have examined the site for the initiation of retinal maturation in the ferret. A variety of maturational features across the developing inner and outer retina were examined by using standard immunohistochemical, carbocyanine dye labelling, and Nissl-staining techniques, including 1) two indices of early differentiation of the first-born retinal ganglion cells, the presence of beta-tubulin and of neuron-specific enolase; 2) the receding distribution of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans within the inner retina; 3) the distribution of the first ganglion cells to grow axons along the optic nerve; 4) the emergence of the inner plexiform layer; 5) the emergence of the outer plexiform layer and 6) the onset of synaptophysin immunoreactivity within it; 7) the differentiation of calbindin-immunoreactive horizontal cells; and 8) the cessation of proliferative activity at the ventricular surface. Although we were able to define distinct maturational gradients that are associated with many of these features of inner and outer retinal development (each considered in detail in this report), with dorsal retina maturing before ventral retina, and with peripheral retina maturing last, none showed a clear initiation in the region of the developing area centralis. Rather, maturation began in the peripapillary retina dorsal to the optic nerve head, which is consistent with previous studies on the topography of ganglion cell genesis in the ferret. These results make clear that the order of retinal maturation and the formation of the area centralis are not linked, at least not in the ferret.
9122025: !synaptophysin Corticomedullary tumors of the adrenal glands. Report of two cases. Association of corticomedullary tumor with spindle cell sarcoma. We describe two cases of corticomedullary tumors of the adrenal gland. The patients suffered from Cushings syndrome and paroxysmal hypertension. The corticomedullary tumors consisted of benign looking cortical adenoma cells growing on the background of the pheochromocytoma cells. We further present the ultrastructural and immunohistochemical features of these tumors. Focally a spindle cell sarcoma arising from the corticomedullary tumor was found in one case. The spindle cell sarcoma was immunohistochemically negative with antibodies to chromogranin, synaptophysin, cytokeratin and S-100 protein. Ultrastructurally the sarcoma was composed of undifferentiated primitive cells poorly endowed with cytoplasmic organelles. Focal transitions of the pheochromocytoma into the spindle cell sarcoma were seen. It is hypothesized that the spindle cell sarcoma was arising from the pheochromocytoma component of the corticomedullary tumor.
9042273: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine markers; chromogranin, pancreastatin and serotonin in the management of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma. A fraction of patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) exhibit elevated plasma levels of neuroendocrine (NE) markers, including chromogranin (Cg) A and B, pancreastatin and serotonin. This may suggest neuroendocrine involvement in human RCC. Twenty eight patients (24 men and 4 women) with advanced RCC were included in this study. The ongoing therapy was either tamoxifen, or interleukin-2 (IL-2); alpha interferon and tamoxifen. Plasma analyses of NE markers revealed elevated levels of CgA and serotonin in 28/28 (100%) patients. CgB was elevated in 5/16 (31%) patients, whereas no elevation of pancreastatin was observed in these 16/28 patients. Although the plasma levels of NE markers did not statistically or significantly influence the prognosis of the disease it was observed that patients with elevated NE markers had a less aggressive disease and lived longer than patients with normal or only slightly elevated NE markers. Immunohistochemical analyses of tumour specimens from 10 patients were chromogranin, serotonin and synaptophysin negative, but all were neurone-specific enolase (NSE) positive. The results obtained are of interest. However, extended studies are needed to define the role of these NE markers in the clinical management of patients with RCC.
9042254: !synaptophysin Concomitant point mutation of tumor suppressor gene p53 and oncogene c-N-ras in malignant neuroendocrine pancreatic tumor. Activation by point mutation of ras family genes as well as point mutations of the p53 tumor suppressor gene are found in many tumors. Here we describe a rare case of malignant neuroendocrine pancreatic tumor with multiple metastases in different organs showing strong positivity for synaptophysin, glucagon-like peptide 1, pan-cytokeratin, moderate positivity for chromogranin, Phe-5 and calcitonin and weak positivity for vasointestinal peptide. We found a point mutation at codon 61 of the c-N-ras oncogene, and point mutations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene in the primary tumor as well as in its metastases in liver. The mutation in the c-N-ras gene was a cytosine to adenine transversion, resulting in the amino-acid lysine. Allele specific hybridization showed that the mutation involved one of two c-N-ras alleles as the oligonucleotide for the normal codon also hybridized to amplified tumor DNA. Concomitant mutation of the p53 tumor suppressor gene at codons 248 and 249 was found. The mutation in codon 248 was a cytosine to guanine transversion resulting in the amino-acid glycine. The mutation in codon 249 was a third base, G- > T, transversion leading to a change from arginine to serine. This is the first time that concomitant point mutations in c-N-ras and p53 have been found in a neuroendocrine pancreatic tumor. Based upon these and our previous results, we concluded that these genetic changes may play a role in the development of this particular pancreatic tumor.
8970200: !synaptophysin Primary carcinoid tumor of the kidney with special reference to its histogenesis. A case of primary carcinoid tumor of the kidney occurring in a 66-year-old woman is reported. The tumor was 10 x 10 x 9 cm in size, solid, yellowish-white in color, and associated with massive hemorrhagic necrosis. Histologically, it was composed of trabecular and anastomosing ribbon-like nests. The tumor cells showed argyrophilicity with the Grimelius stain and cytoplasmic positivity for neuroendocrine markers, (including chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and Leu-7), prostatic acid phosphatase, keratin and vimentin. Numerous cytoplasmic neurosecretory granules were demonstrated ultrastructurally. These histologic and immunohistochemical findings are consistent with the theory that this tumor has a common phenotype with that of carcinoid tumor arising from the hindgut or cloaca.
8957017: !synaptophysin Deficient glutamate transport is associated with neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. The mechanisms of synapse damage in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are not fully understood. Deficient functioning of glutamate transporters might be involved in synaptic pathology and neurodegeneration by failing to clear excess glutamate at the synaptic cleft. In AD, glutamate transporter activity as assessed by D-[3H]aspartate binding is decreased; however, it is not clear to what extent it is associated with the neurodegenerative process and cognitive alterations. For this purpose, levels of D- and L-[3H]aspartate binding in midfrontal cortex were correlated with synaptophysin levels, brain spectrin degradation product levels, and clinical and neuropathological indicators of AD. Compared to control brains, AD brains displayed a 34% decrease in levels of D-[3H]aspartate binding, a 30% decrease in L-[3H]aspartate binding, and a 48% loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Increased levels of brain spectrin degradation products correlated with a decrease in levels of D-[3H] and L-[3H]aspartate binding, and decreased levels of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Levels of L-[3H]aspartate binding correlated with levels of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. These results suggest that decreased glutamate transporter activity in AD is associated with increased excitotoxicity and neurodegeneration, supporting the possibility that abnormal functioning of this system might be involved in the pathogenesis of synaptic damage in AD.
8946318: !synaptophysin Quantitative analysis of immunofluorescence and lipofuscin distribution in human cortical areas by dual-channel confocal laser scanning microscopy. A method for quantitative analysis of confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) images of immunofluorescence and lipofuscin in human brain cortical areas is described. Indirect immunofluorescence was used to show the distribution and density of a synaptic vesicle protein--synaptophysin (p38). Dual channel CLSM was used for imaging immunofluorescence and autofluorescence of lipofuscin granules. Special software was developed for quantitative analysis of the CLSM images. The method has been tested in studies of frontal, temporal, motor, visual, and entorhinal cortices in normal and pathological human brains (Rett syndrome and autism). Using this technique the intensity and amount of p38 immunoreactivity was quantified after subtraction of lipofuscin fluorescence. In normal cortex no statistically significant differences were found for p38 antigen between layers II, III and V. The highest concentration of p38 immunoreactivity was found in the frontal cortex. In Rett syndrome and autistic patients, the p38 immunofluorescence in the investigated cortex areas appeared reduced compared with normal. The software is also suitable for quantitative analysis of double-labelled immunofluorescent specimens in animals without lipofuscin.
8931014: !synaptophysin Preferential localization of annexin V to the axon terminal. To examine the participation of annexin V, a member of Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid-binding proteins, in the process of synaptic vesicle exocytosis, rat central nervous tissue was analysed using biochemical and morphological techniques. By both fluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy, immunoreactivity for annexin V was predominantly localized around neuronal somata and dendrites, and the reactivity was mostly co-labeled with that for synaptophysin. The annexin V immunoreactivity was also detectable, but less intensely, in neuronal perikarya, glial cells and endothelial cells. Both immunoblot and immunoelectron microscopic analyses with intact tissues, synaptosomes and purified synaptic vesicles showed that annexin V was expressed in neurons, preferentially concentrated in axon terminals and associated with synaptic vesicles. Purified synaptic vesicles were relatively homogeneously distributed in the medium where Ca2+ was removed and thus the amount of annexin V was reduced drastically. The vesicles tended to be clustered in the fraction where endogenous annexin V is maintained, and the clusters were more conspicuous when purified human annexin V was added. Synaptic vesicles forming the clusters were not directly fused with each other but separated by a 10-15 nm gap that corresponded well with the size of single annexin V molecules. In axon terminals, globular structures 12-13 nm in diameter, similar in dimension to annexin V molecules, were distinctly found to be attached to the cytoplasmic surface of both vesicle membranes when the two vesicles were close to each other. These results suggest that annexin V belongs to the group of synaptic vesicle-associated proteins. Although its localization and significance in non-neuronal cells were not analysed here, at least in the axon terminal annexin V may participate in the cluster formation of synaptic vesicles by linking with the cytoplasmic surface of the vesicles in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner.
8923524: !synaptophysin Localization of the glutamate receptor subunit GluR1 on the surface of living and within cultured hippocampal neurons. The distribution of the glutamate receptor subunit GluR1 was investigated in cultured hippocampal neurons by confocal microscopy, using polyclonal antibodies directed against either the N- or C-terminal region. On living neurons, GluR1 immunofluorescence was detected with the N-terminal antibody only. GluR1 was localized in a highly punctate manner on the surface of neuronal soma and throughout the dendritic tree. Many GluR1 puncta co-localized with the synaptic marker synaptophysin, although extrasynaptic GluR1 puncta were also observed. A comparison of GluR1 subunit distribution of living neurons labelled with N-terminal antibody with that obtained after the cells had been fixed, permeabilized and subsequently reacted with C-terminal or additional N-terminal antibody showed a number of differences. In permeabilized cells additional, diffuse labelling was observed which was very pronounced in the soma and extended into the proximal dendrites. Furthermore, some spines showed little or no labelling of their membrane surface, but labelled strongly after the cells had been fixed and permeabilized. Such spines may be the postsynaptic components of silent or suboptimal synapses.
8922059: !synaptophysin Comparative immunohistochemical study on synaptophysin expression in the anterior horn of post-poliomyelitis and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This report concerns a comparative study of alterations of anterior horn presynaptic terminals in post-poliomyelitis and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (S-ALS). Synaptophysin (SP) served as a marker for presynaptic terminals; immunohistochemical techniques were used throughout. Spinal cords from six individuals without neurological disease served as controls. Localized and well-delineated anterior horn neuropil areas with decreased SP immunoreactivity were observed in the five cases of post-poliomyelitis studied. These areas had few remaining neurons but had pronounced reactive gliosis which corresponded to those areas in which typical poliomyelitis lesions were present. Normal neuronal SP expression was preserved in the adjacent, non-affected areas. However, a small region with increased SP levels was observed in one case. By comparison, the decrease in anterior horn SP immunoreactivity was diffuse in the four S-ALS patients studied. The present data suggest that presynaptic terminals ending at the somata and processes of affected anterior horn neurons located in the area of the acute infection are degenerate in post-poliomyelitis. By contrast, in S-ALS the terminals ending at distal dendrite portions tend to be severely degenerate, while those terminating at the proximal portions of the neuron are relatively well preserved. Our results thus provide additional evidence that the pathogenesis of the post-poliomyelitis state differs from that of ALS.
8909549: !synaptophysin The catenin/cadherin adhesion system is localized in synaptic junctions bordering transmitter release zones. Molecular mechanisms linking pre- and postsynaptic membranes at the interneuronal synapses are little known. We tested the cadherin adhesion system for its localization in synapses of mouse and chick brains. We found that two classes of cadherin-associated proteins, alpha N- and beta-catenin, are broadly distributed in adult brains, colocalizing with a synaptic marker, synaptophysin. At the ultrastructural level, these proteins were localized in synaptic junctions of various types, forming a symmetrical adhesion structure. These structures sharply bordered the transmitter release sites associated with synaptic vesicles, although their segregation was less clear in certain types of synapses. N-cadherin was also localized at a similar site of synaptic junctions but in restricted brain nuclei. In developing synapses, the catenin-bearing contacts dominated their junctional structures. These findings demonstrate that interneuronal synaptic junctions comprise two subdomains, transmitter release zone and catenin-based adherens junction. The catenins localized in these junctions are likely associated with certain cadherin molecules including N-cadherin, and the cadherin/ catenin complex may play a critical role in the formation or maintenance of synaptic junctions.
8899001: !synaptophysin Prostasomes are neuroendocrine-like vesicles in human semen. Prostasomes are prostate-derived organelles that exist extracellularly in human seminal plasma.
8898842: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical study of 100 pancreatic tumors in 28 patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type I. One hundred pancreatic tumors ranging in size from 0.3 to 7 cm were studied in 28 patients (17 male and 11 female patients; mean age 35 years) with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type I. An immunohistochemical study was performed on deparaffinized sections using the following antibodies: neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A or synaptophysin, insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, pancreatic polypeptide (PP), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), gastrin, adrenocorticotropic hormone, alpha-subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin, gonadotropin-releasing factor, serotonin, and calcitonin. Among the 100 tumors (all multiple), seven were unclassified, 10 were plurihormonal, and 83 produced a predominant hormonal secretion (with 50-90% of the same cell type), including 37 "A-cell tumors" (glucagon), 27 "B-cell tumors" (insulin), 11 PP-cell tumors, one G-cell tumor (gastrin) and one vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-cell tumor. These multiple tumors had a different predominant hormonal secretion in the same patient in 23 of the 28 cases. There was a preferential association of A-cell tumor and B-cell tumor. Hyperplasia of the islets of Langerhans was not detected in adjacent pancreas. Nesidioblastosis was observed in 30% of cases.
8893739: !synaptophysin Differentiating neuroblastoma of pituitary gland: neuroblastic transformation of epithelial adenoma cells. Case report. The authors report the case of a 40-year-old woman with a 12-year history of irregular menses, amenorrhea, infertility, galactorrhea, a slightly elevated prolactin level, and a slowly growing pituitary adenoma. She developed recent onset of visual symptoms, prompting craniotomy for removal of an intrasellar tumor. Following surgery, her vision and prolactin levels returned to normal. Light microscopic and immunohistochemical examination of the tumor revealed it to be a neuroblastoma, which was immunohistochemically positive for synaptophysin, S-100 protein, and oxytocin. The neoplasm contained prolactin-positive neuroblastic and pituitary epithelial cells. No other pituitary hormones were found. Electron microscopy demonstrated two cell types: one with frequent neuritic processes containing neurosecretory granules and showing synaptic specialization, and another one compatible with epithelial adenohypophyseal cells. A few cells had ultrastructural features that were transitional between neuronal cells and granulated epithelial cells. Agranular folliculostellate cells were also identified. Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated prolactin granules in the cytoplasm of the epithelial cells, in a few transitional cells, and in scattered neuritic processes. Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical features of the tumor suggested a transformation of pituitary epithelium to neuroblastic cells. Hyperprolactinemia and associated clinical symptoms may in part be attributed to selective prolactin secretion by neoplastic cells that were differentiating into adenomatous pituitary cells and, to a lesser extent, to cells differentiating into a neuroblastic line. Compression of pituitary stalk might also have been a contributory factor to the increased prolactin levels. Moreover, the oxytocin produced by the neuroblastic cells was considered an additional stimulus for prolactin secretion by neoplastic cells or by the normal pituitary.
8900203: !synaptophysin Overall lack of regulated secretion in a PC12 variant cell clone. A stable clone of PC12 neuroendocrine cells, named 27, known from previous studies to exhibit a defect of regulated secretion (lack of regulated secretory proteins, of synaptophysin, of dense granules and of catecholamine uptake and release; Clementi, E., Racchetti, G., Zacchetti, D., Panzeri, M. C., and Meldolesi, J. (1992) Eur. J. Neurosci. 4, 944-953) was characterized in detail to clarify the nature of its phenotype and the mechanisms of its establishment. The neuroendocrine nature of the PC12-27 phenotype was documented by specific markers: synapsins, neurofilament subunit H, neuronal kinesin, and alpha-latrotoxin receptor. Moreover, various intracellular membrane systems of PC12-27, including the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi complex, appeared similar to control PC12 in both morphology and marker expression. In contrast, all the investigated markers located either in dense granules (dopamine-beta-hydroxylase), in synaptic-like microvesicles (the acetylcholine transporter) or in both these regulated secretory organelles (VAMP2/synaptobrevin-2, synaptotagmin) were missing in PC12-27 cells, and the same was true also for the cytosolic and plasmalemma proteins involved in regulated exocytosis (Rab3, SNAP25, syntaxin). Pulse labeling and in vitro translation experiments revealed the defect to consist in a protein synthesis blockade that mRNA studies (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, Northern blotting, and actinomycin D experiments) revealed to take place primarily at the transcriptional level. The secretion defect of PC12-27 cells was modified neither by various types of long term stimulation nor by nerve growth factor treatment. Moreover, when one of the missing regulated secretory proteins, chromogranin B, was expressed by cDNA transfection, it was secreted, however via the constitutive pathway. Our results demonstrate that PC12-27 cells are fully incompetent for both branches of regulated secretion, those of dense granules and synaptic-like microvesicles, possibly because of the impairment of a general expression control system that appears to operate independently of neuroendocrine cell differentiation.
8922684: !synaptophysin Expression and polarization of VGF in developing hippocampal neurons. VGF is an NGF-inducible protein whose expression closely correlates with PC12 cell neurite outgrowth. Immunolocalization of VGF in PC12 cells by electron microscopy revealed labeling of a subpopulation of large dense core vesicles. To determine whether VGF expression may be involved in neural and axonal differentiation, we examined VGF immunoreactivity in developing cultured hippocampal neurons. Most VGF appeared to be in vesicles which were present in neurons from the earliest developmental stages and were particularly abundant in a small number of neurons, most of which were GABAergic. VGF became restricted to axons after dendrites had begun to mature, a stage more closely associated with synaptogenesis than axonal polarization. Colocalization studies suggest that VGF-containing and synaptophysin-containing vesicles are distinct and differentially distributed.
8922678: !synaptophysin Postnatal development and the differential expression of presynaptic terminal-associated proteins in the developing retina of the Brazilian opossum, Monodelphis domestica. In the present study we have characterized the postnatal (PN) development of the retina in the Brazilian opossum, Monodelphis domestica. Monodelphis, a small, pouchless marsupial, undergoes a protracted period of postnatal development. Using bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry, we have investigated postnatal neurogenesis of the retina. In addition, we have examined the differentiation of the retina by using antibodies directed against the presynaptic terminal-associated proteins synaptotagmin, Rab3A, synaptophysin and synaptosomal-associated protein-25 (SNAP-25), and have characterized their spatial and temporal distribution during postnatal development. This study is the first systematic comparison of the developmental expression of multiple presynaptic terminal-associated proteins in relation to retinal neurogenesis and differentiation. At birth (1PN), the Monodelphis retina was relatively undifferentiated morphologically and birthdating analysis revealed mitotically active cells throughout the retina. The 8PN retina was organized into two cellular layers: an outer region of mitotically active neuroepithelial cells and an inner region of postmitotic cells. The inner plexiform layer formed between 5PN and 10PN, and exhibited unique patterns of immunoreactivity with the antibodies used in this analysis. By 25PN the retina was well laminated, and synaptotagmin-, Rab3A-, synaptophysin- and SNAP-25-like immunoreactivities exhibited distinct and specific patterns within the plexiform layers, although they had not yet achieved their mature, adult patterns. These results indicate that each of these proteins exhibits developmentally regulated changes in its cellular localization, and therefore may play important roles during morphogenesis and synaptogenesis of the vertebrate retina.
8922671: !synaptophysin Axonal origin and purity of growth cones isolated from fetal rat brain. The investigation of the molecular properties of nerve growth cones depends to a significant degree on their isolation from fetal brain in the form of 'growth cone particles' (GCPs). The availability of markers for developing axons and dendrites, as well as glial cells, has made it possible to characterize the GCP fraction in much greater detail than before and to optimize its yield. Marker analyses show that a member of the N-CAM family (5B4-CAM), synaptophysin, and especially GAP-43 and non-phosphorylated tau, are enriched in the GCP fraction. In contrast, MAP2 and, particularly, glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin are fractionated away from GCPs. Furthermore, GCP yield can be doubled relative to the original procedure, without compromising purity, by raising the sucrose concentration of the fractionation gradient's uppermost layer. The results indicate that GCPs are highly purified growth cone fragments with very little glial contamination, and that they are primarily of axonal origin.
8916272: !synaptophysin Effect of castration on the VIPergic innervation and 125I-labelled vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) binding sites in the hamster seminal vesicle. A quantitative immunohistochemical and receptor autoradiographic study. In the present work we have investigated the effects of medium- (15 days) and long-term (2 months) castration on vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-immunoreactive nerve fibres and 125I-labelled VIP binding sites in the adult hamster seminal vesicle. The density of VIP- and synaptophysin (general neuronal marker)-containing nerve fibres was determined in immunofluorescently stained cryostat sections using a computerised image analysis system. The morphological analysis of 125I-VIP binding sites in seminal vesicle cryostat sections was performed by quantitative receptor autoradiography. Our results show that the densities of the overall (synaptophysin immunoreactive) and VIPergic innervation increase in both medium and long-term castrated animals. In absolute terms, the quantity of VIP- and synaptophysin- containing nerves is not altered in medium-term castrates, but decreases for synaptophysin in long-term castrates. Medium-term castration does not affect the density of 125I-VIP binding sites in the gland muscular coat, but a significant decrease is observed after long-term castration. In conclusion, our results indicate that whereas VIP nerves are apparently unaffected by castration, 125I-VIP binding sites in the muscular coat of hamster seminal vesicle are sensitive to androgen levels.
8859176: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumor of the esophagus. A clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural study of a case and review of the literature. Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve (GAN) tumor is a rare tumor that is supposed to originate from the enteric autonomic plexus. The tumor is a subgroup of the gastrointestinal stromal tumor that usually occurs in the stomach and small intestine.
8815921: !synaptophysin Activity-independent segregation of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic terminals in cultured hippocampal neurons. Cultured hippocampal neurons were used as a model system to address experimentally the spatial and temporal sequence leading to the appropriate sorting of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic terminals to different cellular target domains and the role of neural activity in this process. By using antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD65) and synaptophysin, we examined the development and segregation of GABAergic and non-GABAergic synaptic terminals on single neurons. Electron microscopy confirmed that GAD65-labeled swellings observed using light microscopy corresponded to synaptic boutons. From the time at which GABAergic terminals first appeared, they developed at a more rapid rate on neuronal somata than non-GABAergic terminals did, such that by 18 d in culture, 60% of the total boutons on somata were GABAergic. By contrast, the majority (70%) of boutons on dendrites were non-GABAergic. These data suggest that inhibitory synaptic terminals are targeted preferentially to or maintained on cell somata at the expense of excitatory terminals. Interestingly, non-GABAergic terminals were not inhibited from forming synapses on cell somata, because in the absence of GABAergic terminals they attained the same total somatic terminal density seen in the presence of GABAergic terminals. Chronic blockade of neuronal activity did not affect the differential targeting of GABAergic and non-GABAergic axons; however, it did reduce the extent of dendritic arborization. Our findings support a two-step model for synaptic segregation whereby the majority of terminals is initially targeted in an activity-independent manner to the appropriate cellular domains, but an additional developmental mechanism serves to further restrict and refine the original synaptic distribution.
8971690: !synaptophysin In vitro properties of a newly established medulloblastoma cell line, MCD-1. Medulloblastomas are poorly differentiated brain tumors believed to arise from primitive pleuripotential stem cells, and tend to express mixed neuronal and glial properties. In the present study, we examined immunohistochemical and neurotransmitter phenotypic properties in a newly established medulloblastoma cell line, MCD-1. MCD-1 cells were immortal, not contact-inhibited, but did not grow in soft agar. Immunohistochemical studies showed positive staining for neurofilament protein (NF), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin, MAP 2, tau, NCAM 180, vimentin, and S-100 protein. The cells expressed specific uptake of glutamate, serotonin, and choline, but not GABA or dopamine. A significant increase in process extension was seen in response to agents that enhance intracellular cyclic AMP, especially 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX). Process formation induced by IBMX was associated with a decrease in cell proliferation as evidenced by a reduction in numbers of cells incorporating 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU). No increase in process extension was observed following exposure to NGF or retinoic acid. MCD-1 cells were shown to produce transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta), and were immunopositive for mutant p53. Transfection assays with the PG13-Luc reporter plasmid, which contains a p53-responsive enhancer element and a luciferase reporter gene, suggested MCD-1 cells are deficient in wild-type p53 and do not activate p53 on treatment with the anticancer agent adriamycin. The MCD-1 cell line is suggested to represent an abnormally differentiated cell type, which has some properties consistent with a multipotent neuronal phenotype while retaining some properties of immature cells of a glial lineage. The MCD-1 cell line can be used to provide a model of a medulloblastoma cell line that is resistant to growth-controlling and anticancer agents.
8971639: !synaptophysin Injury-induced remodelling and regeneration of the ribbon presynaptic terminal in vitro. The neuronal response to axonal injury may relate to the type of insult incurred. Recently, neuritic and presynaptic varicosity regeneration by isolated adult salamander photoreceptors was demonstrated. We have used this system to compare the rod photoreceptor response to two types of injury: denervation/detargeting, the removal of pre- and postsynaptic partners from the axon terminal, and axotomy, the removal of the axon terminal itself. Cells were followed with time-lapse video microscopy for 24-48 h in culture and immunolabelled for SV2 or synaptophysin to identify synaptic vesicle-containing varicosities. Although all injured cells responded with regenerative growth, denervated/detargeted photoreceptors (i.e. neurons which retain their axon terminal) grew 80% more processes and fourfold more presynaptic varicosities than axotomized neurons. In cells which retained their original axon and terminal, varicosity formation generally began with axon retraction. Retraction was followed by elaboration of a lamellipodium and, by 48 h, development of varicosity-bearing neurites from the lamellipodium. Synaptic vesicle protein localization in denervated/detargeted cells paralleled axon terminal reorganization. Axotomized cells, in contrast, lacked synaptic vesicle protein immunoreactivity during this period. To detect synaptic protein synthesis, photoreceptors were examined for colocalization of synaptic vesicle protein with rab6, a Golgi marker, by confocal microscopy. As expected, synaptic vesicle protein staining was present in the Golgi complex during regeneration; however, in cells with an axon, new synaptic vesicle protein-labelled varicosities were found at early stages, prior to the appearance of immunolabel in the Golgi complex. The data demonstrate remarkable plasticity in the ribbon synapse, and suggest that in adult rod cells with an intact axon terminal, synaptic vesicle protein synthesis is not a prerequisite for the formation of new presynaptic-like terminals. We propose that preexisting axonal components are reutilized to expedite presynaptic renewal as an early response to denervation/detargeting.
8971636: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural localization of a synaptic ribbon protein recognized by antibody B16. This study examines the immunolabelled structures in the mouse retina following incubation with a monoclonal antibody (B16) that recognizes a highly conserved antigen found in retinas from lizards, frogs, fish, birds, mice, rats, rabbits, cats, and monkeys. This paper focuses on observations in the murine retina. The B16 labelling pattern in the retina was compared with that of two synaptic vesicle antigens: SV2 and anti-synaptophysin in the outer plexiform layer were more diffuse and apparently filled the entire presynaptic terminal whereas B16 labelling was more restricted and labelled a discrete structure resembling a semi-ellipse or an arc with the ends pointing to the inner nuclear layer and the middle curve facing the outer nuclear layer (1-2 microns long by < 0.05 micron in width). The structure labelled in the inner plexiform layer resembles a short bar (0.8 micron long by < 0.05 micron in width) that is confined to the inner half the inner plexiform layer. Cryo-ultra microtomy was used to examine the ultrastructural distribution of the labelling, because the B16 epitope is sensitive to fixation and plastic embedding. The tissue was incubated with the B16 antibody and visualized with goat-anti-mouse 10 nm gold particles. In all cases label was found to be confined to the ribbon structure in the photoreceptor terminal. This is consistent with previous evidence linking B16 to an epitope associated with the synaptic ribbon. The labelling is confined to the ribbon structure and does not appear to be associated with synaptic vesicles.
8953576: !synaptophysin Colocalization on the same synaptic vesicles of syntaxin and SNAP-25 with synaptic vesicle proteins: a re-evaluation of functional models required? Synaptic vesicle docking and calcium dependent exocytosis are thought to require the specific interaction of proteins of the synaptic vesicle membrane (such as VAMP/synaptobrevin and synaptotagmin) and their plasma membrane-located counterparts (such as syntaxin and SNAP-25). When isolating synaptic vesicles by glycerol velocity gradient centrifugation we found cosedimentation of the presumptive presynaptic plasma membrane proteins syntaxin and SNAP-25 with synaptic vesicle membrane proteins. In order to further identify the antibody binding organelles we performed an immunoelectron microscopical analysis of synaptosomal profiles. Syntaxin and SNAP-25 were not only associated with the plasma membrane but to a large extent also with synaptic vesicle profiles. In order to answer the question whether the syntaxin and SNAP-25 containing vesicular compartment would also carry classical synaptic vesicle membrane markers we performed double labeling experiments using poly- and monoclonal antibodies. We found colocalization on the same vesicle not only of SNAP-25 and syntaxin but also of SNAP-25 with the synaptic vesicle membrane proteins SV2 and synaptotagmin and of syntaxin with the vesicular membrane protein synaptophysin. Our results demonstrate that syntaxin and SNAP-25 are colocalized with classical vesicle membrane proteins on the same vesicle and suggest that the functional models for the interaction of presynaptic proteins need to be re-evaluated.
8895886: !synaptophysin Dentate granule cell layer collagen explant cultures: spontaneous axonal growth and induction by brain-derived neurotrophic factor or basic fibroblast growth factor. The molecular mechanisms that underlie dentate granule cell axon (i.e., mossy fiber) growth during development and following seizure-induced hippocampal injury remain unknown. Part of this process may involve specific factors that support dentate granule cells during differentiation, and molecular cues that allow the appropriate growth of mossy fiber axons toward their targets. To study this process, we developed an in vitro assay system to measure the activity of putative trophic, chemoattractant and chemorepulsive factors. Two-hundred-micrometer-thick transverse hippocampal sections were prepared from neonatal rats and microdissected to isolate the middle one-third of the superior blade of the dentate granule cell layer. These were embedded in a three-dimensional collagen matrix either alone or with microdissected regions of the CA2 pyramidal cell layer. Cultures were maintained in a defined medium and grown for two to three days in a standard culture environment. Results showed that numerous processes grew primarily from the hilar side of explants into the collagen matrix, often in excess of 500 microns in length. These were determined to be axons based on: (i) morphological criteria including size and presence of growth cones, (ii) synaptophysin and growth-associated protein-43 immunoreactivity, (iii) lack of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity and (iv) contiguity of biocytin-filled processes with neuronal soma within the explant. Treatment of cultures with brain-derived neurotrophic factor caused a significant increase in axon number and length, and this effect was partially reversed by the addition of a trkB-immunoglobulin fusion protein that blocks the activity of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4/5. Basic fibroblast growth factor also caused a marked increase in axon number and length, and caused a migration of neuron-like cells out of the explant into the collagen. These results show that cultured dentate granule cell layer explants are capable of growing mossy fibers into a neutral collagen matrix, and the growth of axons can be modified by the addition of exogenous growth factors. Furthermore, since target tissue and point sources of purified factors can easily be co-cultured with the explants, this new system provides a direct means for testing the molecular cues that influence mossy fiber growth.
8895877: !synaptophysin Expression of synapsin I correlates with maturation of the neuromuscular synapse. Synapsins are a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins that are localized within the presynaptic terminals in adult brain. Previous work has demonstrated that introduction of exogenous synapsins I(a + b) or IIa into Xenopus spinal neurons promoted maturation of the neuromuscular synapse in a nerve-muscle co-culture system. We have now studied the expression of endogenous Xenopus synapsin I during synaptic maturation in vivo and in culture, using a polyclonal antibody raised against Xenopus synapsin I. Immunoprecipitation experiments indicated that synapsin I was not detectable during the early phase of synaptogenesis in vivo, and exhibited a marked increase during the period of synaptic maturation. In contrast, the expression of synaptophysin, another synaptic vesicle protein, was detected at the start of nervous system formation, and remained at a high level thereafter. Similar expression profiles for the two proteins were also observed in immunocytochemical studies of Xenopus spinal neurons in culture: intense staining of synaptophysin was found on the first day, while synapsin I was not detected until after three days in culture. The expression of synapsin I correlated very well with the appearance of a bell-shaped amplitude distribution of spontaneous synaptic currents, a physiological parameter which reflects functional maturation of the neuromuscular synapse. In one-day-old cultures grown in the absence of laminin, an extracellular matrix protein known to be present at the neuromuscular junction, the amplitude distribution of virtually all synapses was skewed towards smaller values. In contrast, when laminin was used as a culture substrate, many synapses exhibited a bell-shaped amplitude distribution. Laminin treatment also induced synapsin I expression in one-day-old cultures. These results suggest that the expression of endogenous synapsin I may regulate maturation at neuromuscular synapses.
8884767: !synaptophysin Distinct distributions of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor subunits and a related 53,000 M(R) antigen (GR53) in brain tissue. Polyclonal antibodies against specific carboxy-terminal sequences of known alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor subunits (GluR-4) were used to screen regional homogenates and subcellular fractions from rat brain. Affinity purified anti-GluR1 (against amino acids 877-899), anti-GluR2/3 (850-862), and anti-GluR4a and anti-GluR4b (868-881) labeled distinct subunits with the expected molecular weight of approximately 105,000. These antigens were shown to have distinct distributions in the brain. While GluR2/3 epitopes had a distribution profile similar to that of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin, GluR1 was notable for its abundance in the hippocampus and its relatively low density in neocortical areas, and GluR4 was highly enriched in cerebellar tissue. An additional antigen (glutamate receptor-related, GR53) of lower molecular weight (50,000-59,000) was recognized in rat, human, frog, chick and goldfish brain samples by anti-GluR4a as well as by anti-GluR1 at, an antibody that specifically recognizes the extracellular aminoterminal domain of GluR1 (amino acids 163-188). Both antibodies also labeled antigens of approximately 105,000 mol. wt in brain tissue from all species tested. The approximately 53,000 mol. wt antigen was concentrated 10-20-fold in synaptic membranes vs homogenates across rat brain regions. Both the 105,000 and the 53,000 mol. wt proteins were also concentrated in postsynaptic densities, and neither of the two antigens were evident in seven non-brain tissue samples. These data indicate that AMPA receptors have regionally different subunit combinations and that some AMPA receptor composites include proteins other than the conventional 105,000 mol. wt GluR subunits.
8858005: !synaptophysin Inflammation, A beta deposition, and neurofibrillary tangle formation as correlates of Alzheimer's disease neurodegeneration. We evaluated entorhinal cortex and superior frontal gyrus for hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology, including inflammation, in three patient sets: AD patients, nondemented elderly patients with few or no neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and amyloid beta peptide (A beta) deposits, i.e. normal controls (NC), and nondemented elderly patients with profuse entorhinal cortex NFTs and neocortical A beta deposits, i.e. high pathology controls (HPC). Membrane attack complex (C5b-9) immunoreactivity and immune activation of microglia (MHCII expression) were used as general markers for inflammation. Compared to NC patients, AD patients exhibited significant cortical synapse loss, A beta deposition, NFT formation, and inflammation. HPC patients also had significantly elevated A beta deposition and NFT formation, but there was no evidence of synapse loss and little or no evidence of inflammation. Across patients and brain regions the measures of inflammation each accounted for significant percentages of the variance in synaptophysin immunoreactivity and each was more highly correlated with synapse estimates than NFT formation or A beta deposition.
8833912: !synaptophysin Extracellular deposition of beta-amyloid upon p53-dependent neuronal cell death in transgenic mice. The finding that intracellular expression of the beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) under a neuron-specific promoter led progressively to degeneration and death of neurons in the brains of transgenic mice provides a unique opportunity to utilize this animal model to both understand the mechanism that underlies neuronal cell death and define the complexity of events which may ensue. We observed a correlation between Abeta accumulation in selective neurons and activation of p53, a protein that has been implicated in the induction of apoptosis. Histological and immunohistochemical evaluations of adjacent brain sections suggest that expression of p53 is accompanied by nuclear DNA fragmentation. In certain regions with marked neuronal cell death, extracellular deposition of A(beta) became evident, together with the local activation of astrocytes. Interestingly, the neuritic structures underlying the Abeta deposits showed altered synaptophysin immunoreactivity and morphologic evidence for damage. This transgenic mouse model suggests that intracellular generation of the Abeta protein not only leads to the death of the neuron but may also functionally impair neighboring neurons as well. It further offers a mechanism whereby neuritic plaques may be derived.
8904790: !synaptophysin Sensory cells of the chick cochlea express synaptophysin. Previous evidence has shown expression of synaptophysin by sensory cells of the auditory and vestibular systems in the human, but not in other mammalian species. Using a monoclonal antibody, SBI 20.10, we investigated the expression of synaptophysin in the sensory cells of the avian cochlea. We present immunohistochemical data showing synaptophysin expression by cochlear hair cells in both late stage embryos and adult chickens. Immunoblotting of cochleae confirmed an antigen with an apparent molecular weight appropriate for synaptophysin that increases with development. Immunoreactivity in the apex of the cochlea occurred in hair cells on both neural and abneural sides, whereas immunoreactivity in the base of the cochlea was relegated to hair cells on the neural side. These observations indicate that, in the avian auditory system, like the human, synaptophysin is expressed in the sensory cells of both the embryo and adult.
8891266: !synaptophysin Nerve growth factor induced modification of presynaptic elements in adult visual cortex in vivo. Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been shown to play important roles in neuronal survival, growth and differentiation. Recently, we have found that intracortical infusion of NGF into adult cat visual cortex can recreate ocular dominance plasticity, suggesting that NGF is also involved in activity-dependent modification of synaptic connectivity in the adult brain. To further explore the mechanisms of NGF-induced plasticity in adult visual cortex, we studied two presynaptic markers: GAP-43 and synaptophysin. Immunocytochemical staining showed that NGF-treatment of adult visual cortex selectively increased the level of the phosphorylated form of GAP-43, while the total level of GAP-43 was not changed. These results demonstrate that NGF-treatment stimulates phosphorylation processes of GAP-43 in vivo. In addition, NGF-treatment of adult visual cortex increased the level of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Since the phosphorylated form of GAP-43 is known to be enriched in the membrane skeleton of growth cones and of developing synapses, and the phosphorylation of GAP-43 has been linked with events that underlie synaptic plasticity, and since synaptophysin is a major component of presynaptic vesicles, our results suggest that NGF-treatment of adult visual cortex modulates presynaptic terminals, possibly by inducing axonal sprouting and formation of new synapses, and that these changes may play a role in the NGF-induced functional plasticity.
8874896: !synaptophysin Olivocochlear innervation of inner and outer hair cells during postnatal maturation: an immunocytochemical study. Changes in the expression of several neurochemical markers associated with either axonal growth (GAP-43), synaptic vesicles (synaptophysin), or the cholinergic population of lateral olivocochlear (OC) efferents were investigated in the postnatal cochlea of hamsters. Growth-associated protein was expressed in the neonatal cochlea but not in the adult; immunoreactivity was found below inner hair cells (IHCs) from postnatal day (P) 2 through P14 and below outer hair cells (OHCs) from P5 to P14. In contrast, synaptophysin was expressed in both the neonate and adult cochlea; immunoreactivity was found below IHCs around P4 and below OHCs at P5. Both GAP-43 and synaptophysin immunoreactivities occurred first below IHCs in basal regions of the cochlea. Efferent fibers containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivity were identified as early as P4 within the cochlear nerve but were not observed underneath IHCs until P7. Similar to GAP-43 and synaptophysin immunoreactivity, CGRP expression followed a basal to apical gradient; however, expression below OHCs appeared restricted to apical regions. These data raise the possibility that efferents expressing growth proteins and efferents expressing synaptic vesicle proteins co-exist during the first postnatal week. Furthermore, it is hypothesized that CGRP-containing lateral OC neurons form part of a later, secondary innervation to the cochlea.
9067258: !synaptophysin Large-scale purification of synaptophysin and quantification with a newly established enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Synaptophysin (SYP I), an integral membrane protein, was purified on a large scale (0.55 - 2.7 mg) from isolated small synaptic vesicles (SSV) of porcine cortex. In order to achieve this, a conventional purification procedure which consists of size exlusion chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography and chromatofocusing has been developed. This procedure was compared with purification of SYP I by immunoaffinity chromatography. The elution patterns of both procedures were monitored using sodium dodecylsulfate gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) with subsequent Coomassie blue staining of proteins and simultaneous immunoblotting with SYP I-specific antibody. Contaminating proteins with relative molecular masses (M(r)) very similar to SYP I could be removed during the process of purification, demonstrating that the 38 kDa protein found after Triton X-100 lysis of enriched SSV does not exclusively represent SYP I. A specific antiserum was raised in rabbits using a highly purified preparation of SYP I. This antiserum was used in combination with a monoclonal antibody to establish a specific and sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) which allowed rapid and reliable quantification of this hydrophobic membrane protein in all purification steps, starting with Triton X-100-lysed brain homogenates. Using this ELISA, the concentration of SYP I in highly purified SSV was determined to be 5.8% of solubilized protein.
9038764: !synaptophysin Pontine neurocytoma. A case of neurocytoma arising in the rostral pontine region of an 18 year old man is reported. The patient developed a right trochlear nerve palsy and was shown to have a well circumscribed, contrast enhancing mass on magnetic resonance imaging. The tumour was characterised histologically by a uniform population of medium sized round nuclei and slightly eosinophilic cytoplasm or occasional perinuclear halos, with delicate branching capillaries, patches of fibrillary matrix, and occasional perivascular pseudorosettes. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated strong reactivity for synaptophysin in the fibrillary processes and cytoplasm of tumour cells. The present tumour is an exceptional case of neurocytoma arising in the pons.
9005817: !synaptophysin [Immunophenotypic characterization of cutaneous neuroendocrine carcinoma derived from Merkel cells]. The following immunohistochemical markers were studied in 5 Merkel cell carcinomas: cytokeratins, epithelial membrane component, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and chromogranin A. High expression of these markers in tumors allows one to consider them as having epithelial origin with neuroendocrine differentiation. Common leucocytic antigen proved to be very useful in differential diagnosis with malignant lymphoma.
8950756: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in pancreatic duct carcinoma special emphasis on duct-endocrine cell carcinoma of the pancreas. To evaluate the significance of neuroendocrine differentiation in duct carcinoma of the pancreas, we investigated 79 pancreatic carcinomas, applying histochemistry and immunohistochemistry (chromogranin A, Leu-7, synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and correlated the morphologic differentiation pattern with clinicopathological characteristics. There were two types of neuroendocrine differentiation: scattered (n = 23) and diffuse (n = 3). The scattered type of pancreatic duct carcinoma contained scattered endocrine cells amounting to less than 10% of the neoplastic cells and was seen more frequently in well-differentiated carcinomas. There was no characteristic clinical feature found in the scattered type when compared with the tumors devoid of endocrine cells (n = 53). In contrast, the diffuse type showed diffuse immunostaining with NSE and synaptophysin in tumor cells and dense core granules ultrastructurally. These tumors showed a greater hypervascularity in angiography (p < 0.01) and the patients had relatively longer survival (33.3 months, p < 0.05) than unresectable cases of other histological types of pancreatic cancer. Two types of neuroendocrine differentiation (scattered and diffuse) existed in pancreatic ductal carcinoma. The diffuse type (Duct-Endocrine Cell Carcinoma of the Pancreas) showed synchronous duct and endocrine differentiation and particular clinical features.
8921286: !synaptophysin Localization and axotomy-induced regulation of the peptide secretoneurin in the rat superior cervical ganglion. This study demonstrates the localization and regulation of a novel neuropeptide of 33 amino acids, secretoneurin (SN), in the rat superior cervical ganglion. Gel filtration chromatography of ganglion proteins followed by a specific radioimmunoassay revealed that SN is the predominant cleavage product of secretogranin II, a member of the chromogranin/secretogranin protein family, in adult ganglia. SN was detected within the majority of nerve endings surrounding postganglionic neurons that were identified by the presence of synaptophysin and, in part, colocalized leu-encephalin. Applying immuno-electronmicroscopy, SN was localized to large dense core vesicles of neuronal and small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells. In situ hybridization revealed the presence of secretogranin II mRNA in postganglionic neurons and, to a lesser extent, in SIF cells. One week after transection of the postganglionic branches SN levels were not significantly altered; however, a decrease of secretogranin II mRNA was observed in postganglionic neurons but not in SIF cells. After decentralization of the ganglion, SN-immunoreactive nerve terminals disappeared and intraganglionic SN levels were reduced by 70%, indicating the preganglionic origin of SN-positive nerve fibres and varicosities. Secretogranin II mRNA was slightly reduced under this condition. Combined axotomy and decentralization further diminished intraganglionic secretogranin II mRNA, although peptide levels increased significantly above control values under these conditions. Double-labelling immunofluorescence with antibodies against the somatodendritic marker microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) revealed that the increase in SN immunoreactivity was due to an accumulation of SN in axonal processes of postganglionic neurons. SN immunoreactivity was also detected in dissociated neonatal superior cervical ganglion cultures and increased significantly upon treatment with nerve growth factor, the survival and differentiation factor of sympathetic neurons during perinatal development. Co-culture with non-neuronal cells or addition of leukaemia inhibitory factor, a cytokine known to stimulate synthesis of various peptides after nerve transection, did not influence SN immunoreactivity. Therefore, since no fixed relationship between SN and any of the known neuropeptides or neurotransmitters expressed in sympathetic neurons was observed, the expression of this novel peptide appears to be independently regulated.
8889221: !synaptophysin Transplantation of polymer-encapsulated fetal hippocampal cells into ischemic lesions of adult rat hippocampus. In a previous study we demonstrated that fetal hippocampal cells, when transplanted into ischemic lesions of the adult rat hippocampus, can survive in large numbers in the host brain and show the innervation of the transplants by cholinergic fibers originated from the host brain. The present study was undertaken in an attempt to elucidate the hypothesis that the fiber connections forming synapses between the transplanted fetal neurons and the host brain play an important role in the survival of the transplanted cells. We transplanted the polymer-encapsulated fetal hippocampal cells prepared from E17-18 rat fetuses into the ischemic lesions in the adult rat hippocampus at which the CA1 pyramidal cells selectively died, and examined both histochemically or immunohistochemically for their survival and the expression of the synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, and dendritic cytoskeltal protein, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP 2) within them. In addition, the cholinergic fibers originated from the host brain were examined by acetylcholine esterase (AChE) histochemistry. The results demonstrated that the polymer-encapsulated hippocampal cells could survive in the brain; however, the number of surviving cells markedly decreased following the transplantation, whereas no host-derived cholinergic fibers penetrated the polymer membrane of the capsules following the transplantation. In the cluster of surviving cells, only slight synaptophysin expression and no extensive growth of the dendrites were detected. The present results indicate that the direct contact between the host brain tissue and the transplant play an important role in the survival of such allografted neurons.
8866433: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical study of intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies of the thalamus in myotonic dystrophy. Intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies of the thalamus in eight patients with myotonic dystrophy (MyD) were studied immunohistochemically. The intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies of the thalamus (thalamic inclusions, TIs) were strongly immunostained with anti-ubiquitin antibody (Ab) and some of them were mildly stained with anti-microtubule associated protein 1 (MAP 1) and anti-MAP 2 antibodies. However, TIs did not react with any of the following: anti-neurofilament protein Ab, anti-tau Ab, anti-paired helical filament Ab, anti-tubulin Abs (alpha and beta), anti-neuron-specific enolase Ab, anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein Ab, anti-synaptophysin Ab, anti-myelin basic protein Ab, anti-actin Ab and anti-phosphorylated epitope of neurofilaments Ab. Thus, our study demonstrates the unique immunohistochemistry of TIs in MyD which differentiates them from other intracytoplasmic inclusions in various neurodegenerative disorders.
8865855: !synaptophysin Differentiation of pancreatic carcinoma induced by retinoic acid or sodium butyrate: a morphological and molecular analysis of four cell lines. The antiproliferative and differentiation-inducing effects of all-trans retinoic acid (RA) and sodium butyrate (SB) were investigated in four pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cell lines, two poorly differentiated ones (PT45 and PaTu-II), one moderately to poorly differentiated one (Panc-1) and one highly differentiated one (A818-1). Treatment with 20 microM RA resulted in moderate inhibition of cell growth in all cell lines, but clear evidence of cytodifferentiation (including elongated cell processes, increased rough endoplasmic reticulum, intensified immunostaining for the mucin marker (M1) was found only in PT45 and Panc-1. These phenotypic changes were paralleled by upregulation of RAR (retinoic acid receptor)-alpha and -gamma mRNA. SB (1 and 2 mM) treatment inhibited the cell growth of all cell lines much more prominently than RA. Cytodifferentiation was also largely restricted to PT45 and Panc-1. A noticeable phenomenon was enhancement of the expression of the neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and Lcu7 in Panc-1 cells. In conclusion, it is evident that the original differentiation status of cells and their responsiveness to the agents are not clearly associated, and that RA responsiveness correlates with upregulation of RAR-alpha and -gamma mRNA.
8797664: !synaptophysin Kainic acid-induced focal cortical seizure is associated with an increase of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the cortex. Aberrant neural sprouting of mossy fiber terminals in the supragranular layer of dentate gyrus is consistently observed following seizures in an animal model of epilepsy. It is also observed in hippocampi taken from epileptic patients with hippocampal sclerosis. The aberrant neural sprouting with synaptic reorganization is one of the proposed cellular mechanisms underlying epileptogenesis. It is not known whether aberrant synaptogenesis can be induced in the cortex, as in hippocampus, by seizure activity. In this study, synaptic terminals in the cortex were measured after focal cortical seizures by a semiquantitative image analysis of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Brief intracortical perfusion of kainic acid induced focal status epilepticus and destructive cortical lesions. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was significantly increased in the area where kainic acid was perfused. The increase of synaptophysin immunoreactivity, indicating an increase of synaptogenesis, was observed at 2 and 4 weeks after focal cortical seizures. This result suggests that kainic acid-induced seizure activity is associated with long-lasting synaptogenesis in the cortex. Studies centering on the physiological consequences of aberrant synaptogenesis may lead to additional understanding of the mechanisms underlying cortical epileptogenesis.
8883859: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural evidence for a separate, small synaptic vesicle (SSV) pathway in ligated bovine splenic nerves, incubated in vitro. In sympathetic nerves the tubules of the axonal reticulum make up the immature elements of the neurosecretory apparatus. The formation of the mature large dense granules occurs via a less dense tubular intermediate, representing the maturing part. At a terminal small synaptophysin-positive vesicles are found intermingled with the dense granules. The biogenesis of these clear, small synaptic vesicles and their relationship with dense granules remains to be determined. In search for the small synaptic vesicles we undertook a careful ultrastructural examination of the axons proximal to a ligation in bovine splenic nerve incubated in vitro for 3 h. The distended axons were crowded with tubules, granulo-tubular elements and dense granules. Occasionally homogeneous clusters of small, uniform vesicles were detected. They were shown to be positive for synaptophysin and were negative for dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, a marker for the granular pathway. The clusters of small vesicles could be found in close spatial relationship with the maturing and mature elements of granular secretion. Our findings argue for the presence of two separate neurosecretory pathways in sympathetic nerves and favour the idea that both small synaptic vesicles and dense granules are a differentiation product of the axonal reticulum. This configuration can explain the biogenesis of small synaptic vesicles and dense granules both in the cell body and at the nerve terminal.
9201780: !synaptophysin Effects of entorhinal cortex lesion on learning behavior and on hippocampus in the rat. The initial stage of Alzheimer's disease is characterized by a neuropathological change in the entorhinal cortex. In a previous study it was shown that rats with excitotoxic lesion of entorhinal cortex showed an impaired acquisition of passive and active avoidance responses. In this study a rat with excitotoxic lesion of the entorhinal cortex was tested for 'more operant' behavioral learning (i.e., positive reinforcement operant learning). The hippocampus was also examined histologically as acetylcholinesterase-stained sections, and as synaptophysin immunostained sections and examined biochemically by liquid chromatography. Eight weeks after operation, the bilateral entorhinal cortex lesioned rats showed an impaired acquisition of positive reinforcement operant learning. The lesioned side of unilateral entorhinal cortex lesioned rats showed a decrease of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers in the CA3, the dentate gyrus, and of synaptophysin-positive substances in the CA3. Biochemical study showed a decreased level of acetylcholine in the CA3, and in the dentate gyrus. The histological and biochemical findings are interpreted as indicating that the entorhinal cortex of the rat provides the major extrinsic synaptic input to the hippocampal formation via the circuit which serves as a relay passage through the dentate gyrus and via direct projections into the hippocampus. Behavioral findings confirmed the importance of the entorhinal cortex in memory acquisition and indicated that rats with a partial neuronal loss in the entorhinal cortex may be a useful model for the memory disturbance of Alzheimer's disease.
9118436: !synaptophysin [Dysplastic gangliocytoma of the cerebellum (Lhermitte-Duclos)]. In a surgical specimen from a 33-year old woman with features of expansive cerebellar symptomatology, dysplastic gangliocytoma of the cerebellum (Lhermitte-Duclos) was diagnosed by histology. The lesion was characterized by typical proliferation of dysplastic neuronal elements in the cortical granular and Purkinje cell layers. Immunohistology showed focal positivity of synaptophysin in some cells, thus confirming their neuronal origin. In electron microscopy, peculiar features of ER in some of dysplastic cells was also noted. Genetic examination proved familiar incidence of Cowden's disease in several members. Chromosomal examination of the patient (karyotype 46, XX) was without abnormalities.
8893232: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterization of a case of duodenal gangliocytic paraganglioma. A case of duodenal gangliocytic paraganglioma (DGP) arising in the ampulla of Vater of an 84 year old male is reported. The present case shows the typical histological features with a mixture of epitheliold, ganglion-like and spindle cells. Immunohistochemically, the spindle cells were positive with antibodies to neuron specific enorse, S-100 protein and neurofilament (NF), but negative for anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), synaptophysin and myelin basic protein (MBP). Both anti-Leu-7 and -chromogranin A antibodies gave positive reactions with a fine granular pattern in the epithelioid cells. Most ganglion-like cells showed the cytoplasmic immunoreaction with GFAP and a few with NF and synaptophysin. In these three tumor components, no reactivity was detected in the antibodies to the neurohormonal peptides tested. The present data are fundamentally in keeping with those previously reported, but add the immunohistochemical positivity of ganglion-like cells for GFAP, suggesting different neuroglial differentiation.
8872144: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumours: a report of nine cases. We describe the clinicopathological features of gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumours in nine patients where the diagnosis was confirmed by electronmicroscopy. Most patients presented with abdominal pain. At laparotomy, large intra-abdominal tumour masses were found which tended to be cystic and haemorrhagic. The predominant histological patterns were nests, sheets and fascicles of spindle and epithelioid cells. Immunohistochemistry showed positive staining for neuron specific enolase (9/9), PGP 9.5 (9/9), NKI/C3 (7/9), vimentin (7/9), alpha-smooth muscle actin (5/9), vasoactive intestinal peptide (3/9) and CD34/QBend10 (2/9). Grimelius staining was positive in two of nine cases. All tumours were negative for CAM 5.2, chromogranin, synaptophysin, Leu 7, neurofilament protein, muscle-specific actin (HHF-35) and desmin (D33). Ultrastructural examination showed cellular processes and dense-core granules in all cases. Three tumours had microtubules and/or intermediate filaments, particularly in cell processes. Skeinoid fibres were seen in three cases. No convincing synapses or small (synaptic-type) vesicles were identified. There was no evidence of epithelial, smooth muscle or nerve sheath differentiation. Two patients died due to tumour, two died of unknown causes and the remainder are alive 2-44 months after presentation. Four of the five survivors have recurrent/residual intra-abdominal tumour. So-called gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumours are apparently slow-growing malignant tumours showing neuronal differentiation. Four cases arose in the mesentery/retroperitoneum or omentum rather than bowel wall and therefore a more appropriate nomenclature might be intra-abdominal stromal tumour with neuronal differentiation.
8869625: !synaptophysin Intestinal-type sinonasal adenocarcinoma: a sporadic case. A sporadic case of the intestinal-type sinonasal adenocarcinoma is described. The patient was a comparatively young 33-year-old woman employed as a senior biochemical scientific technologist for several years. The light microscopical pattern was that of a papillary-tubular adenocarcinoma with areas of more solid mucinous elements in the deeper parts of the neoplasm. The neoplasm had invaded the nasal septum and reached the left orbit invading the left ethmoidal sinus. The glands were lined by columnar cells with elongated spindle-shaped nuclei and the cells expressed cytokeratin, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), Chromogranin A, gastrin and serotonin but not neurone-specific enolase (NSE) nor synaptophysin. Neurosecretory granules were present. There was no history of wood dust inhalation and her exposure to chemicals is of some interest but had probably little or no role in the causation of this neoplasm.
8841662: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical studies on clustered pericapillary bodies in the spinal cord of post-poliomyelitis patients. This report concerns the study of clustered pericapillary bodies in the spinal cords of four post-poliomyelitis patients. All four had stable neurological deficits without new neurological symptoms after the initial poliomyelitis infection. Spinal cords from seven individuals who died of non-neurological disorders served as controls. Lumbar spinal segments were examined by using conventional staining procedures and immunohistochemical techniques. The histological features of the pericapillary structures were similar to those of the previously described pericapillary rosettes. The number of pericapillary bodies was strikingly greater in one post-poliomyelitis patient (a man who died at age 48) than in the other three. The great majority of the pericapillary structures were within the areas of the poliomyelitis lesions. A small number of the abnormal structures were detected in the lumbar spinal cord of three control individuals. The clustered pericapillary bodies were immunostained by antibodies to phosphorylated neurofilament, synaptophysin, and ubiquitin, but not by antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein, tau protein, and paired helical filaments. These results indicate that the structures may derive from presynaptic terminals and preterminal axons, and that their formation may be related, albeit not necessarily in a specific fashion, to the poliomyelitis disease process.
8837022: !synaptophysin Accumulation of synaptic vesicle proteins and cytoskeletal specializations at the peripheral node of Ranvier. Nodes of Ranvier of peripheral nerve fibres represent repetitive physiological axon constrictions. The nodal attenuation of the axon cylinder is expected to facilitate eliciting axon potentials. But as revealed by immunocytochemical analysis of synaptic vesicle proteins such as SV2 and synaptophysin, nodes are also sites of accumulation of the synaptic vesicle membrane compartment. Results from our studies and other laboratories suggest that the local nodal retardation of the axonally transported synaptic vesicle membrane compartment serves membrane processing and/or turnover. Nodes of Ranvier as well as incisures of Schmidt-Lanterman are rich in filamentous actin and can easily be depicted by fluoresceinated phalloidin. At the node and paranode phalloidin fluorescence appears to be mainly associated with the Schwann cell compartment. Immunofluorescence demonstrates that this compartment also contains myosin and spectrin. The nodal contents in actin and myosin may be effective in actively constricting the axon cylinder at both the node of Ranvier and the Schmidt-Lanterman incisures. This hypothesis is discussed in the light of the nodal cytoskeletal specializations of the axon cylinder and the ensheathing Schwann cell.
8836961: !synaptophysin Rat and gerbil pinealocytes contain the synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25). It has recently been established that the neuroendocrine pinealocytes of mammals contain several synaptic membrane proteins that are involved in the regulation of vesicle trafficking in the nerve terminal. In the present study, we have conducted immunoblot and immunocytochemical analyses to demonstrate that another key component of the presynaptic plasmalemma, i.e., protein SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein 25 kDa), can be detected in pinealocytes. Immunostaining of serial semi-thin sections of plastic-embedded rat and gerbil pineals with monoclonal SNAP-25 antibodies showed that SNAP-25 was present in pinealocytes of both species. We proved its coexpression with other synaptic membrane proteins (synaptophysin, synaptotagmin I, synaptobrevin II, and syntaxin I) at the single cell level. Thus, pinealocytes obviously are endowed with the major proteins that are thought to regulate the targeting and exocytosis of secretory vesicles, in particular of synaptic-like microvesicles.
8806841: !synaptophysin Persistent alterations in regional brain glial fibrillary acidic protein and synaptophysin levels following pre- and postnatal polychlorinated biphenyl exposure. Pregnant Wistar WU rats were exposed to 0, 5, and 25 mg of the commercial polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) mixture Aroclor 1254 per kilogram of body weight on Days 10 to 16 of gestation. Pregnant rats were sacrificed on Gestation Day 20 to observe effects on fetal body and brain weights. Male and female offspring were sacrificed on Postnatal Days 21 and 90 (PND21 and PND90, respectively) and examined for treatment-related effects on neurochemical parameters. The concentrations of the neuronal and glial cell markers, synaptophysin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), were measured in diverse brain regions from the offspring using immunochemical techniques. The level of calcineurin (a calmodulin-regulated protein phosphatase) activity was measured in cerebellar homogenates. In addition, ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity was determined in hepatic microsomes as a measure of a well-characterized response to PCB exposure in experimental animals. The major alterations of GFAP levels following maternal PCB treatment were significant increases in the lateral olfactory tract (LOT) and the cerebellum (CB) and significant decreases in the brain stem (BS) of the offspring on PND21 and 90. Synaptophysin levels were significantly decreased relative to controls in the LOT, prefrontal cortex, and striatum of the offspring on PND90. In the BS, synaptophysin levels were significantly decreased relative to controls in male and female weanlings on PND21 and males on PND90; however, significant increases were observed in the BS of females on PND90. No effect of maternal PCB treatment was observed on levels of GFAP and synaptophysin in the dorsal hippocampus on PND21 and 90. Due to analytical restrictions statistical comparisons of GFAP levels were limited to examining the effect of maternal PCB treatment per brain region per sex per time point. Calcineurin activity was decreased in the female CB on PND21, but a significant increase in activity was observed in the female CB on PND90. No effect of maternal PCB treatment was observed on the cerebellar calcineurin activity in male offspring on PND21 and 90. EROD activity was highly induced in maternal microsomes from both PCB treatment groups, but only slightly induced in fetal hepatic microsomes. On PND21 weanling hepatic microsomal EROD activity was highly induced following gestational and lactational PCB exposure; however, on PND90 EROD activity was unaffected by maternal PCB treatment in male offspring and significantly decreased in female offspring. The results of the present study indicate that gestational and lactational exposure to the commercial PCB mixture results in long-term alterations in a neuronal and glial cell markers in specific brain regions of rats. These marker proteins may be useful for determining the structure-activity relationships in PCB-induced developmental neurotoxicity.
8797935: !synaptophysin Spindle cell endocrine carcinoma of the mammary gland. We report the pathological characteristics of a variant of mammary endocrine tumour, predominantly formed from cytologically bland spindle cells. This neoplasm grows as a red, well defined mass lacking the usual macroscopical characteristics of breast cancer. Within smoothly contoured aggregates arranged in an insular pattern, delicate capillaries and collagen bundles support the neoplastic epithelial cells. Most of the tumour cells possess a slender spindle shape and form a solid or fenestrated sheet, but a few appear cuboidal and create glands. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrate that the spindle cells and the glandular cells constitute a single population. Both types of cells stain for neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin, synaptophysin, and CD 57), carcinoembryonic antigen, keratin 8/18, S-100 protein, and receptors for oestrogen and progesterone. Many of the tumour cells possess argyrophilic granules, and electron microscopy may reveal dense core granules.
8712293: !synaptophysin Endocrine ductal carcinoma in situ (E-DCIS) of the breast: a form of low-grade DCIS with distinctive clinicopathologic and biologic characteristics. Endocrine ductal carcinoma in situ (E-DCIS), first characterized by Cross et al. in 1985, is an uncommon entity, and there is little information on its pathobiologic features and natural history in the literature. This report describes the largest series of 34 cases: 14 cases were pure in situ (group A), and 20 were accompanied by an invasive component (group B). All except three patients were over the age of 60 years, with the mean being 69.5 years for group A and 72.6 years for group B. Except for six patients in group A who had nipple discharge, all had a breast mass. On follow-up, one of five group A patients developed local recurrence 5 years after mastectomy, and two of seven group B patients developed another invasive primary in the contralateral breast. Histologically, E-DCIS showed expansile intraductal growths forming solid sheets and festoons traversed by delicate fibrovascular septa. Accumulation of basophilic mucin might be found within the growth and the fibrovascular septa. There were variable degrees of stromal sclerosis. In some cases, the solid intraductal cellular proliferations were focally punctuated by microglandular spaces and rosettes. Comedo necrosis was absent. Intraductal papillomas were found in the immediate vicinity of the tumors in 18 cases and invariably showed pagetoid involvement by E-DCIS. Pagetoid spread into the adjacent ducts and ductules was also a common feature (17 cases). The tumor cells were polygonal, oval, or spindly, often with eccentrically placed, bland-looking, ovoid nuclei and abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. Intracellular mucin was commonly demonstrable. Immunostaining for myoepithelium using muscle-specific actin antibody confirmed the in situ nature of the E-DCIS component. The majority of tumor cells showed strong staining with the neuroendocrine markers chromogranin, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase (monoclonal). Immunostaining also dramatically highlighted the pagetoid spread into the papillomas and ductules by outlining the tumor cells between the negatively stained residual ductal epithelium and myoepithelium. All cases were immunoreactive for estrogen and progesterone receptor, but not p53 and c-erbB2. The Ki-67 index was < 5%. Ultrastructural studies on four cases showed many dense-core neurosecretory granules and larger mucigen granules. In group B cases, the invasive component, which comprised 5-95% of the tumor, included colloid carcinoma, 12; "carcinoid" tumor, 3; mixed "carcinoid"/colloid carcinoma, 4; and small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, 1. Neuroendocrine markers were also consistently demonstrable in the invasive component. In conclusion, E-DCIS is predominantly a disease of older women that is frequently accompanied by papillomas in the vicinity and may present as nipple discharge (an uncommon presentation in the usual forms of DCIS). It can mimic epitheliosis histologically, but the pagetoid spread is a helpful clue to its neoplastic nature. The bland nuclear morphology, lack of necrosis, and biologic marker profile suggest that E-DCIS is a form of low-grade DCIS despite its solid growth pattern. The invasive carcinomas associated with E-DCIS are also neuroendocrine programmed rather than the usual types of ductal carcinomas, suggesting that E-DCIS represents a biologically distinctive category of DCIS.
8707851: !synaptophysin Pantophysin is a ubiquitously expressed synaptophysin homologue and defines constitutive transport vesicles. Certain properties of the highly specialized synaptic transmitter vesicles are shared by constitutively occurring vesicles. We and others have thus identified a cDNA in various nonneuroendocrine cell types of rat and human that is related to synaptophysin, one of the major synaptic vesicle membrane proteins, which we termed pantophysin. Here we characterize the gene structure, mRNA and protein expression, and intracellular distribution of pantophysin. Its mRNA is detected in murine cell types of nonneuroendocrine as well as of neuroendocrine origin. The intron/exon structure of the murine pantophysin gene is identical to that of synaptophysin except for the last intron that is absent in pantophysin. The encoded polypeptide of calculated mol wt 28,926 shares many sequence features with synaptophysin, most notably the four hydrophobic putative transmembrane domains, although the cytoplasmic end domains are completely different. Using antibodies against the unique carboxy terminus pantophysin can be detected by immunofluorescence microscopy in both exocrine and endocrine cells of human pancreas, and in cultured cells, colocalizing with constitutive secretory and endocytotic vesicle markers in nonneuroendocrine cells and with synaptophysin in cDNA-transfected epithelial cells. By immunoelectron microscopy, the majority of pantophysin reactivity is detected at vesicles with a diameter of < 100 nm that have a smooth surface and an electron-translucent interior. Using cell fractionation in combination with immunoisolation, these vesicles are enriched in a light fraction and shown to contain the cellular vSNARE cellubrevin and the ubiquitous SCAMPs in epithelial cells and synaptophysin in neuroendocrine or cDNA-transfected nonneuroendocrine cells and neuroendocrine tissues. Pantophysin is therefore a broadly distributed marker of small cytoplasmic transport vesicles independent of their content.
12114642: !synaptophysin The Immunophenotype of Pituitary Adenomas. Although the production of pituitary hormones by adenohypophysial tumors has been studied extensively, an examination of the immunophenotype of pituitary adenomas using a broad spectrum of antibodies has not been previously investigated. We studied 23 pituitary adenomas using a large panel of antibodies to determine if these tumors exhibited a common immunophenotype. Various neuroendocrine markers, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and the intermediate filament protein, low-mol-wt keratin were expressed in most examples. There was, however, differential expression of chromogranin A in that few prolactin (PRL) and adenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) adenomas stained positively, whereas all other adenoma subtypes were reactive. The ACTH adenomas had a unique profile with positive staining for galanin, neurophysiri, vasopressin, and ubiquitin. These results indicate that (1) pituitary adenomas do not express a single "generic" immunophenotype; (2) synaptophysin is the most reliable and best broad spectrum marker for pituitary adenomas; (3) the neuroendocrine granule marker chromogranin A is useful in the identification of null cell adenoma, a tumor that usually does not stain for anterior pituitary tumors; and (4) among pituitary tumors, ACTH adenomas have a unique immunoprofile.
8967871: !synaptophysin [Peripheral neuroepithelioma]. Neuroepithelioma of the soft tissues of the right parietotemporal region in the 25-year-old male patient is described. The tumor grew through the cranial bones into the dura mater. The patient died 1.5 months after the appearance of the first clinical signs of the disease of brain edema and invasion of the cerebellum into the great foramen occipitalis with compression of the medulla oblongata. The histological structure of the tumor and expression of neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, S-100 protein and glial fibrillary acidic protein by tumor cells prove its neurogenic origin.
8858698: !synaptophysin Synaptic alterations of anterior horn cells in Werdnig-Hoffmann disease. The most characteristic neuropathologic feature of Werdnig-Hoffmann disease is degenerative change in the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord, the mechanisms of which have not yet been clearly determined. To assess the synaptic changes in the motor neurons, we examined immunoreactivities for synaptophysin in the spinal cord of 11 patients with Werdnig-Hoffmann disease. Decreased synaptophysin immunoreactivity was observed in the anterior horn cell column in all patients with Werdnig-Hoffmann disease and correlated with the degree of degenerative change in the motor neurons. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was relatively preserved on the surface of the residual anterior horn cells. Both atrophic neurons and chromatolytic neurons had dense accumulations of synaptophysin-immunoreactive products on the surface of the cell body and their proximal processes. These observations suggest that synaptic changes in the anterior horn cell column are secondary to the degenerative processes of the anterior horn cells.
8839899: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine gastrointestinal tumours. Neuroendocrine gut and pancreatic tumours have provided a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge over the years. These rather slowly growing neoplasms have been assigned a good prognosis but when liver metastases are present the prognosis is not better than that of most other malignant tumours. Despite the development of improved diagnostic procedures many patients are still referred at a stage of the disease too late for surgical cure, at which time medical treatment is warranted. The diagnosis is based on histopathological diagnosis including silver stainings (Grimelius, Masson) and immunohistochemistry for chromogranin A and synaptophysin. Analysis of chromogranin A in the plasma is an important adjunct in the screening for various types of neuroendocrine gut and pancreatic tumours. About 80%-100% of patients with verified neuroendocrine gastrointestinal tumours have elevated circulating levels of this glycoprotein. Depending on clinical symptoms the chromogranin A analysis is supplemented by other peptide hormone analyses as well as urinary 5-HIAA for patients with midgut carcinoid tumours. In the past the localization procedures were based on CT, MRI and ultrasound investigations but in recent years somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (octreoscan) and endoscopic ultrasonography have significantly improved the diagnostic potential. Almost 80% of neuroendocrine gastrointestinal tumours present somatostatin receptor subtype 2 binding 111Indium-labelled octreotide which can be used for staging of the disease, and which also indicates whether or not somatostatin analogues can be used in the treatment of these tumours. Surgery is still a cornerstone in the treatment of neuroendocrine gastrointestinal tumours, even if the patients are beyond cure. Debulking procedures and bypassing operations are important for improving clinical condition and facilitating impending medical treatment, and during the past decade a more aggressive surgical approach has emerged. The medical treatment is based on chemotherapy, and the use of somatostatin analogues and alpha-interferons. Chemotherapy, in particular the combination of streptozotocin with 5-FU or doxorubicin, is still first-line treatment for most endocrine pancreatic tumours, while somatostatin analogues and alpha-interferons are considered first-line for classical midgut carcinoids. Chemotherapy and biotherapy can be combined in many patients, and changes from one medical treatment to another during the course of the disease is mandatory for control of the disease. It is important to realise that most patients with malignant tumours are not cured by medical treatment but that the disease can be controlled for extended periods of time. In the future it will be possible to individualize treatments on the basis of new information about such features of tumour biology as proliferation capacity, expression of adhesion molecules, and growth factors and their receptors.
8837348: !synaptophysin Olfactory neuroblastoma: a case report. A neuroblastoma arising in the nasal cavity of a 66-year-old male invaded the frontal sinus and extended into the cranial cavity. Light microscopy revealed sheets of small ovoid cells and many small glands bordered by columnar cells which were strongly immunoreactive to epithelial markers. Focal reactivity for synaptophysin and chromogranin was seen within the sheets of small cells. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of olfactory differentiation.
8836605: !synaptophysin Subcortical neurofibrillary tangles, neuropil threads, and argentophilic glial inclusions in corticobasal degeneration. This report concerns an autopsy case of corticobasal degeneration (CBD). The patient was a 64-year-old woman with slowly progressing clumsiness and gait disturbance who died approximately 7 years after the onset of symptoms. The salient neuropathological findings were focal loss of neurons of the cerebral cortex, ballooned neurons and gliosis of the subcortical white matter, thalamus, and basal ganglia. In addition, there were marked neuronal loss and gliosis in the substantia nigra. The ballooned neurons were positively immunostained for phosphorylated neurofilament, alpha B-crystallin and synaptophysin; staining for the latter was intraneuronal. The examination of silver impregnated and Tau immunostained preparations revealed numerous basal neurofibrillary tangles, neuropil threads, and glial inclusions; their presence was most pronounced in the brainstem tegmentum, basal ganglia, and thalamus. Neurofibrillary tangles consisting of straight tubules with a diameter of approximately 13-15 nm and constricted tubules were identified in the substantia nigra. The results of the present study indicate that the cytopathology of the subcortical gray matter and brainstem in CBD patients resembles that of progressive supranuclear palsy.
8811511: !synaptophysin Effects of intraventricular transplantation of NGF-secreting cells on cholinergic basal forebrain neurons after partial immunolesion. The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of nerve growth factor on brain cholinergic function after a partial immunolesion to the rat cholinergic basal forebrain neurons (CBFNs) by 192 IgG-saporin. Two weeks after intraventricular injections of 1.3 micrograms of 192 IgG-saporin, about 50% of CBFNs were lost which was associated with 40-60% reductions of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and high-affinity choline uptake (HACU) activities throughout the basal forebrain cholinergic system. Two groups of lesioned animals received intraventricular transplantations of mouse 3T3 fibroblasts retrovirally transfected with either the rat NGF gene (3T3NGF+) or the retrovirus alone (3T3NGF-) and were sacrificed eight weeks later. In vivo production of NGF by 3T3NGF+ cells was confirmed by NGF immunohistochemistry on the grafts and NGF immunoassay on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples. Both ChAT and HACU activities returned to normal control levels in the basal forebrain and cortex after 3T3NGF+ transplants, whereas no recovery was observed in 3T3NGF- transplanted animals. There was a 25% increase in the size of remaining CBFNs and an increased staining intensity for NGF immunoreactivity in these cells after NGF treatments. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry revealed that the optical density of AChE-positive fibers in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus were reduced by about 60% in immunolesioned rats which were completely restored by 3T3NGF+ grafts. In addition, decreases in growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 immunoreactivity after immunolesion and increases in synaptophysin immunoreactivity after 3T3NGF+ grafts were observed in the hippocampus. Our results further confirm the notion that transfected NGF-secreting cells are useful in long-term in vivo NGF treatment and NGF can upregulate CBFN function. They also highly suggest that NGF induces terminal sprouting from remaining CBFNs.
8753868: !synaptophysin Regulation of dendritic spine density in cultured rat hippocampal neurons by steroid hormones. The effects of gonadal steroid hormones on dendritic spines were studied in hippocampal neurons that were dissociated and grown in culture for 2-3 weeks. Exposure to estradiol caused up to a twofold increase in dendritic spine density in these neurons. The effect of estradiol was stereospecific and blocked by the steroid antagonist tamoxifen. The estradiol-induced rise in spine density was blocked by the NMDA antagonist APV, but not by the AMPA/KA antagonist DNQX. The estradiol-induced rise in spine density was blocked by the serine/threonine kinase inhibitor H7, but not by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor genestein, and was partially mimicked by PMA, an activator of protein kinase C. Estradiol also caused an increase in the fluorescence intensity of synaptophysin-immunoreactive terminals, corresponding to presynaptic boutons. Finally, estradiol caused a rise in [Ca]i reactivity of the cultured neurons to topical application of glutamate. These studies are the first to examine receptor and second messenger regulation of dendritic spines, and they illustrate the viability of cultured neurons as a powerful test system to address issues related to the regulation of dendritic spine maturation.
8667011: !synaptophysin Developmental expression of the glycine transporters GLYT1 and GLYT2 in mouse brain. Using immunocytochemical localization, the distribution of the glycine transporters GLYT1 and GLYT2 in the developing mouse brain was studied. GLYT1 and GLYT2 immunoreactivity begins during the period of fiber outgrow and synaptogenesis. GLYT2 is first expressed in spinal and spinothalamic white matter and is followed by the expression of synaptophysin. In the postnatal stages, GLYT2 staining in the white matter disappears, and a punctuated pattern in the gray matter emerges. In contrast, in the fetal brain GLYT1 immunoreactivity coincides with gray matter neuropil and processes of radial glia. GLYT1 is distributed over a much wider area of the brain than GLYT2. However, the distribution of these two GLYTs implies that GLYT1 and GLYT2 operate in concert within the area where both are present. At the day 12 embryo stage, GLYT1 antibodies stain the liver, and later they also react with the pancreas and the gastroduodenal junction. No other organs exhibit significant GLYT1 immunoreactivity. We additionally observed the presence of GLYT1 in rat fetal cerebral cortex and hippocampus, which was not detected in fetal mouse brain. Moreover, GLYT1 immunoreactivity was found in the mouse floor plate and the ventral commissure but was not present in the same regions in rats. These findings suggest possible differences in the expression of GLYT1 between these two species.
8797152: !synaptophysin Distributions of two homologous synaptic vesicle proteins, synaptoporin and synaptophysin, in the mammalian retina. Synaptophysin and synaptoporin are homologous proteins that are among the most abundant synaptic vesicle proteins. Despite their high degree of sequence similarity, they are differentially distributed in the brain. The distribution of synaptophysin and synaptoporin was examined in the adult rat and rabbit retina by using single- and double- labeling immunocytochemistry with conventional light microscopy and confocal laser scanning microscopy. In the rat retina, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was found in the outer plexiform layer in terminals of photoreceptors and was homogeneously distributed throughout the inner plexiform layer. Synaptoporin immunoreactivity, however, was restricted to the inner plexiform layer. Labeling was most prominent in three distinct bands of the inner plexiform layer separated by two bands of very low synaptoporin immunoreactivity. In the rabbit retina, synaptophysin and synaptoporin immunoreactivity were found in the inner and outer plexiform layers. In the inner plexiform layer, labeling for both vesicle proteins was homogeneous, with no detectable stratification. In the outer plexiform layer, synaptophysin was present in photoreceptor terminals, and synaptoporin was present in horizontal cells. Staining of isolated rabbit retinal cells confirmed that both the axonless A type and the axon-bearing B type horizontal cells are immunoreactive for synaptoporin. In addition, electron microscopy of synaptoporin-immunostained rabbit retinas revealed no labeling of photoreceptor terminals but of putative synaptic sites in horizontal cells in the outer plexiform layer. No functional correlation was found in the expression of either synaptic vesicle protein with the type of neuron or synapse (ribbon or conventional).
8809840: !synaptophysin Differences in the composition of chromaffin granules in adrenaline and noradrenaline containing cells of bovine adrenal medulla. Several constituents of chromaffin granules were quantitatively determined in noradrenaline and adrenaline cells purified from bovine adrenal medulla. As far as secretory peptides are concerned noradrenaline granules contained slightly more secretogranin II, but much less chromogranin A than adrenaline granules. This can be explained by the dependence of the biosynthesis of chromogranin A on corticosteroids. Proteolytic processing of chromogranin A and secretogranin II was higher in noradrenaline cells which was paralleled by a higher content of the prohormone convertase PC2. Noradrenaline granules also contained a higher concentration of the vesicular monoamine transporter (vMAT2). No differences were found for dopamine beta-hydroxylase, prohormone convertase PC1, carboxypeptidase H and synaptophysin. These results indicate that the secretory cocktail of peptides released from these cells differs significantly between adrenaline and noradrenaline storing cells.
8816362: !synaptophysin The development of autonomic innervation in bone and joints of the rat. The development of autonomic nerves in the hindlimb skeleton, was studied in rats from gestational day (G) 15 to postnatal day (P) 24 by immunoreactivity to neuropeptide Y (NPY) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). Control labelling with antisera to neurofilaments, protein gene-product 9.5 (PGP 9.5), and nerve terminals, synaptophysin (SYN), showed nerve fibres at G15 and nerve terminals at G19 in the perichondrial tissue. From P4, nerve fibres and terminals were observed within the bone organ. Noradrenergic sympathetic nerves, containing NPY, were first discerned at birth, G21, in the perichondrial tissue and within the bone organ at P4. Autonomic cholinergic nerve fibres, indicated by immunoreactivity to VIP, exhibited a similar temporal and regional occurrence. The diaphyseal parts were first supplied with autonomic nerves at P4. The nerve fibres extended into the metaphyses at P6-8 and finally into the epiphyses at P10, concomitant with the first signs of mineralization. Vascular as well as non-vascular nerve fibres were seen. The study shows that developing bone organ is supplied with autonomic nerves from birth, and the the growth of nerves parallels the mineralisation process. Previous studies have demonstrated that NPY potently inhibits parathyroid hormone (PTH) induced effects on osteoblastic bone cells and that VIP is a strong inductor of bone resorption. NPY and VIP also exert vasoregulatory effects. The combined findings suggest an autonomic influence on bone development.
9275665: !synaptophysin [Morphological effects of ammonia on cultured fetal rat neurons]. The effects of ammonia on cultured fetal rat neurons and the possible relation between morphologic changes of neurons and the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy were studied on dissociated fetal rat neuronal cultures, using light microscopy, transmission electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry methods. The neurons exhibited cellular swelling, chromatolysis, vacuolization and granulation, followed by segmental enlargement and fragmentation of cellular processes, detachment of neurons with pyknotic nuclei. Electron microscopic examination displayed dilation of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum, degranulation of rough endoplasmic reticulum, accumulation of dense bodies together with swelling of the process with loss of neurofilaments. The expression of neurofilament and synaptophysin became weak and even negative. The data therefore suggests that ammonia may exert a toxic effect on cultured neurons, disturbing their normal function and facilitating the development of hepatic encephalopathy.
8869990: !synaptophysin Immunoexpression of the alpha subunit of a guanine nucleotide-binding protein (Go) in pulmonary neuroendocrine cells and neoplasms. The alpha subunit of a GTP-binding protein, Go, was investigated in pulmonary neuroendocrine neoplasms and fetal tissues of the lung by an immunohistochemical method. Positive immunostaining for the alpha subunit of Go (Go alpha) was found predominantly on the cell membrane and found occasionally in the cytoplasm. Typical carcinoids were all positively stained (9/9), and small cell carcinoma showed weaker and less frequent staining (5 positive cases in 10). Atypical carcinoids were variously stained (3/4). The tendency for obvious neuroendocrine differentiation to be immunohistochemically determined in typical carcinoids and not in small cell carcinoma is also true of staining for neuron specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin A (CG-A) and synaptophysin. In the lung, Go alpha-immunostaining was positive not only in nerve tissues but also in the airway epithelium. In the fetal lung, serial sections immunostained for NSE, CG-A and Go alpha confirmed that Go alpha-immunoreactive cells belong to the neuroendocrine cell population. The biological significance of Go alpha is unclear in normal and neoplastic lung tissues, but Go alpha is a useful marker of neuroendocrine cells and neoplasma of the lung.
8829147: !synaptophysin Peripheral nerve regeneration. Peripheral nerve regeneration comprises the formation of axonal sprouts, their outgrowth as regenerating axons and the reinnervation of original targets. This review focuses on the morphological features of axonal sprouts at the node of Ranvier and their subsequent outgrowth guided by Schwann cells or by Schwann cell basal laminae. Adhesion molecules such as N-CAM, L1 and N-cadherin are involved in the axon-to-axon and axon-to-Schwann cell attachment, and it is suggested that integrins such as alpha 1 beta 1 and alpha 6 beta 1 mediate the attachment between axons and Schwann cell basal laminae. The presence of synaptic vesicle-associated proteins such as synaptophysin, synaptotagmin and synapsin I in the growth cones of regenerating axons indicates the possibility that exocytotic fusion of vesicles with the surface axolemma supplies the membranous components for the extension of regenerating axons. Almost all the subtypes of protein kinase C have been localized in growth cones both in vivo and in vitro. Protein kinase C and GAP-43 are implicated to be involved in at least some part of the adhesion of growth cones to the substrate and their growth activity. The significance of tyrosine kinase in growth cones is emphasized. Tyrosine kinase plays an important role in intracellular signal transduction of the growth of regenerating axons mediated by both nerve trophic factors and adhesion molecules. Growth factors such as NGF, BDNF, CNTF and bFGF are also discussed mainly in terms of the influence of Schwann cells on regenerating axons.
8819138: !synaptophysin Decreased inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate receptor levels in Alzheimer's disease cerebral cortex: selectivity of changes and possible correlation to pathological severity. We used immunoblotting and radioligand binding techniques to compare levels of the calcium-mobilizing receptor for the phosphoinositide hydrolysis-derived intracellular second messenger inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate (IP3) in post mortem samples from the temporal, frontal and parietal cortices of eight Alzheimer's disease (AD) and eight matched control cases. Immunoblotting with an antibody directed against the C-terminal end of the rat type I IP3-receptor showed that IP3-receptor protein levels were significantly reduced in the temporal (to 59 +/- 6% of controls, P = 0.0002) and frontal (to 62 +/- 10% of controls, P = 0.04), but not in the parietal cortices (to 63 +/- 13% of controls, P = 0.1) of the AD cases, compared to controls. The number of [3H]IP3 radioligand binding sites was significantly decreased in the temporal cortex, but not frontal and parietal cortices, of the AD brains. The decreased levels of both immunoreactive IP3-receptor protein and [3H]IP3 binding in the temporal cortex correlated with a semi-quantitative score for the severity of AD neuropathology. No significant changes were seen in the levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin or phosphate-activated glutaminase, as markers for astrocytes, neuronal vesicles and mitochondria, respectively. It is concluded that in affected AD brain regions, the IP3-receptor may represent a sensitive target for proteolysis, possibly mediated by activation of the Ca(2+)-activated neutral protease calpain. These degenerative changes may in part be responsible for the disruption of Ca2+ homeostasis in AD-sensitive neurons.
8799820: !synaptophysin Intracellular targeting of GLUT4 in transfected insulinoma cells: evidence for association with constitutively recycling vesicles distinct from synaptophysin and insulin vesicles. In adipocytes and muscle cells, the GLUT4 glucose transporter isoform is present in intracellular vesicles which continuously recycle between an intracytoplasmic location and the plasma membrane. It is not clear whether the GLUT4-vesicles represent a specific kind of vesicle or resemble typical secretory granules or synaptic-like microvesicles. To approach this question, we expressed GLUT4 in the beta cell line RINm5F and determined its intracellular localization by subcellular fractionation and by immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy. GLUT4 was not found in insulin granules but was associated with a subpopulation of smooth-surface vesicles present in the trans-Golgi region and in vesicular structures adjacent to the plasma membrane. In the trans-Golgi region, GLUT4 did not colocalize with synaptophysin or TGN38. Incubation of the cells with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) led to colocalization of HRP and GLUT4 in some endosomal structures adjacent to the plasma membrane and in occasional trans-Golgi region vesicles. When cells were incubated in the presence of Bafilomycin A, analysis by confocal microscopy revealed GLUT4 in numerous large spots present throughout the cytoplasm, many of which costained for TGN38 and synaptophysin. By immunoelectron microscopy, numerous endosomes were observed which stained strongly for GLUT4. Together our data demonstrate that ectopic expression of GLUT4 in insulinoma cells reveals the presence of a subset of vesicular structures distinct from synaptic-like vesicles and insulin secretory granules. Furthermore, they indicate that GLUT4 constitutively recycles between the plasma membrane and its intracellular location by an endocytic route also taken by TGN38 and synaptophysin.
8765714: !synaptophysin Developmental profiles of synaptophysin in granule cells of rat cerebellum: an immunohistocytochemical study. The expression of synaptophysin was immunohistocytochemically examined at the protein level in the cerebellar cortex of the neonatal rat with special reference to the development of granule cells. In the premigratory zone of the external granular layer, these cells expressed synaptophysin at an early stage of development, where it was localized in the trans-side cisterns of the Golgi apparatus and in nearby small vesicles. When the granule cells began to horizontally extend their axons in the upper molecular layer, the growth cones and expansions of parallel fibers already contained many small vesicles similar in shape and size to synaptic vesicles. These small vesicles were labeled with antibody against synaptophysin. Tubular structures were often found among the accumulations of synaptic vesicles, and their membranes were also labeled with synaptophysin. Both growth cones and expansions of parallel fibers were often observed to approach and to contact with the small process of Purkinje cell dendrites. The contact between the two components formed a junction with the characteristics of a synapse. The profiles of synaptogenesis began to be observed in the deeper molecular layer during a period from the 7th to the 9th days after birth.
8725920: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical demonstration of sensory and autonomic nerve terminals in herniated lumbar disc tissue. Thirty-five lumbar disc herniations removed at surgery were studied by indirect immunocytochemistry.
8725127: !synaptophysin Cytology of small cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder. To characterize the cytologic spectrum of small cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder, a review of 42 urinary cytology specimens from 13 patients with histologically proven tumors was conducted. Patients ages ranged from 45 to 81 yr (mean 68.9). In four tumors, small cell carcinoma was the sole malignant cellular component: all 11 urinary specimens in these patients harbored cells with features of an undifferentiated small cell carcinoma. In the remaining nine tumors, small cell carcinoma appeared with transitional, squamous cell or adenocarcinoma, but in four, small cell carcinoma was the sole invasive component. Almost one third of urinary specimens in this group lacked a small cell component. Neuroendocrine differentiation was confirmed by immunopathology in eleven cases (neuron specific enolase positive in 11 of 12, synaptophysin in 2/11, chromogranin in 2/13, Leu 7 in 2/7), and by ultrastructural analysis in two. Small cell carcinoma is a cytologically recognizable variant of bladder cancer, but admixture with other malignant components may mask its appearance in urinary specimens.
8723712: !synaptophysin Rabphilin-3A is transported with fast anterograde axonal transport and associated with synaptic vesicles. Rab3a has been proposed to be involved in the process of exocytosis. It undergoes a membrane association/dissociation cycle which is dependent upon alteration in its GTP-GDP state. Rabphilin-3A is one of the most attractive candidates for a Rab3a effector molecule in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. It binds selectively to the GTP-bound form of Rab3a as well as of Rab3c. Fast axonal transport was studied by crushing spinal roots and sciatic nerves, resulting in accumulations of transported, organelle-bound substances. Rabphilin-3A was transported with fast anterograde transport, but < 10% of the proximal accumulation was detected in the recycling vesicle population. The pattern for accumulation of rabphilin-3A was similar to that of Rab3a accumulation, including the poor recycling. However, synaptophysin and SV2, two transmembrane synaptic vesicle proteins, accumulated in large amounts in many axons distal to the crushes, and the amounts of recycling synaptophysin and SV2, in percentages of anterograde accumulations, were about 70% and 60%, respectively. Double-labelling showed a high degree of colocalization between Rab3a and rabphilin-3A in spinal roots and sciatic nerves. The two proteins essentially colocalized in the nerve terminals of the spinal cord and in motor endplates. Immuno-EM studies demonstrated that rabphilin-3A was present on clear small synaptic vesicles in the proximal segment, but was absent from vesicles in the distal segment. Rabphilin-3A also associated with the synaptic vesicles in the presynaptic compartment. Results indicate that rabphilin-3A is associated with the membrane of synaptic vesicles during anterograde transport. Furthermore, as it colocalized in most, but not all, structures with Rab3a, results support the hypothesis that rabphilin-3A is interacting with Rab3a.
8707931: !synaptophysin A novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for determination of synaptophysin as compared with other quantification procedures. A two-sided enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) has been established for reliable, specific and sensitive determination of synaptophysin (SYN), an intrinsic membrane protein of the small synaptic vesicles. This ELISA used a highly specific monoclonal antibody (SY 38) as capture reagent and a specific SYN antiserum in combination with a secondary peroxidase-conjugated antibody for detection. Calibration was carried out with immunoaffinity-purified SYN from porcine cortex. The sensitivity was found to be improved substantially when the ELISA was compared with previously used dot-immunobinding assays. This ELISA allowed rapid and reliable determination of SYN from detergent lysed homogenates, partially and highly purified preparations of rat, porcine and human brain. SYN was determined in highly purified small synaptic vesicles, and it was calculated to be 5.8% of total detergent solubilized protein.
8661508: !synaptophysin A CNS catecholaminergic cell line expresses voltage-gated currents. CATH.a is a central nervous system (CNS) catecholaminergic cell line derived from a transgenic mouse carrying the SV40 T antigen oncogene under the transcriptional control of regulatory elements from the rat tyrosine hydroxylase gene (Suri et al., 1993). CATH.a cells express several differentiated neuronal characteristics including medium and light chain neurofilament proteins, synaptophysin, tyrosine hydroxylase, and dopamine beta-hydroxylase; they synthesize dopamine and norepinephrine. Conversely, they do not express glial-specific fibrillary acidic protein. To establish definitively that CATH.a cells are of neuronal origin, we characterized the repertoire of voltage-gated inward currents expressed by CATH.a cells. Such inward currents are necessary for neuronal excitability. We report that all CATH.a cells possess a tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium current (peak amplitude = 590 +/- 319 pA) and 68% possess a high voltage-activated calcium current (peak amplitude = 175 +/- 67 pA). Pharmacological analyses suggest that individual cells express varying levels of L- and N-type calcium current, but no P-type current. In addition, in 55% of the cells with a calcium current, about a half of this current is resistant to selective antagonists for L- and N-type currents, suggesting that another calcium current exists in these CATH.a cells which is not L-, N-, or P-type. The heterogeneous pattern of current detected persisted in several CATH. a subclones, suggesting that factors other than genetic variability influence current expression. The demonstration that CATH.a cells express these currents indicates that they have excitable membrane properties characteristic of neurons. Although many peripheral nervous system (PNS) cell lines exist, very few CNS cell lines with differentiated neuronal properties exist. Since the CATH.a cells can be grown continuously in large amounts, they may be useful for purifying, characterizing, and/or cloning various neuronal-specific molecules and thereby may add to our understanding of CNS catecholaminergic neurons.
8659447: !synaptophysin Microglandular carcinoma of the pancreas: immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of an unusual variant of pancreatic carcinoma that may closely resemble a neuroendocrine neoplasm. Two cases are described of an unusual form of primary adenocarcinoma of the pancreas characterized histologically by their striking resemblance with a neuroendocrine neoplasm. The tumors were composed of a population of relatively small, uniform cells arranged in sheets admixed with small microglandular structures resulting in a cribriform pattern of growth. The tumor cells displayed scant cytoplasm with indistinct cell borders and round to oval nuclei with irregular clumping of chromatin and small, inconspicuous nucleoli. Immunohistochemical studies in both cases showed positivity of the neoplastic cells with CAM 5.2 antibodies and negative staining with a battery of neuroendocrine-related markers including chromogranin, NSE and synaptophysin, as well as with a variety of peptide hormones including insulin, glucagon, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, gastrin and serotonin. Ultrastructural examination revealed a cohesive population of cells forming abortive glandular lumens lined by imperfectly formed microvilli and showing well-developed junctional complexes. No dense core neurosecretory granules or zymogen granules could be identified in any of the cells, supporting a ductal type of differentiation for these tumors. The main importance of recognizing this rare variant of pancreatic adenocarcinoma lies in avoiding misdiagnosis with other primary and metastatic neuroendocrine neoplasms of this organ. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination will be of value in such cases for differential diagnosis.
8651344: !synaptophysin Medullocytoma (lipidized medulloblastoma). A cerebellar neoplasm of adults with favorable prognosis. This study describes three cases of neuroectodermal cerebellar neoplasms occurring in adults, characterized by a monomorphic population of round cells with scanty cytoplasm and focal areas of lipid accumulation. Astrocytic and neuronal differentiation was confirmed in these cells by glial fibrillary acidic protein and synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Electron microscopy performed in two cases showed neuritic processes, synapses, and dense-core granules. Patients included two men and one woman, and the age at diagnosis was 36, 37, and 57 years, respectively. Two patients refused any postoperative treatment. One of these had two surgically removed recurrences after 10 and 11 years and died postoperatively from intracranial hemorrhage. The second had two recurrences after 10 and 15 years and is alive and in good health at the last follow-up. The third patient received postoperative radiotherapy and is alive and well after 2 years. Review of the literature revealed seven cases of cerebellar neoplasms with histological features similar to those observed in our series. These lesions have been considered a variant of medulloblastomas. The age of patients ranged from 42 to 77 years (mean age, 51 years); four were women, 3 men. Follow-up information available in two cases indicates a 5-year survival with surgery alone. These data indicate that these cerebellar neuroectodermal neoplasms have morphologically unique features and indolent biologic behavior that distinguish them from the highly aggressive medulloblastoma; the term medullocytoma for this form is suggested.
8807639: !synaptophysin Rho proteins are localized with different membrane compartments involved in vesicular trafficking in anterior pituitary cells. In order to explore the role of certain GTP binding proteins in the rat anterior pituitary, we have analyzed the subcellular distribution of the proteins rho and rab. They were found in both membrane and cytosolic fractions. Rab1 and rab2 were localized in both Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membranes, while rab4 and rab6 were found in fractions enriched with Golgi and plasma membranes, implicating these proteins in the control of vesicular intracellular trafficking as described in other systems. Rab3 was localized like a fraction of synaptophysin, suggesting a role for rab3 in the targeting of "synaptic-like' microvesicles. We have identified three substrates of C. botulinum exoenzyme C3. A 26-kDa substrate with an isoelectric point (pI) of 5.2, probably rhoB, was localized in the lightest fractions such as rab3 and synaptophysin proteins. Two other 23-24 kDa substrates with pI of 5.5-5.8, probably rhoA and/or rhoC, were found in both fractions enriched with ER and secretory granules. Rho proteins have been implicated in the control of actin polymerization. Their localization in anterior pituitary suggests that rhoB could control the association of synaptic-like microvesicles and plasma membrane, and that rhoA/rhoC could play a role in secretory granule exocytosis; these two pathways being involved in cytoskeleton protein reorganisation in response to extracellular signals.
8813351: !synaptophysin Apolipoprotein E (apoE) levels in brains from Alzheimer disease patients and controls. We measured apolipoprotein E (apoE) level in neutral and acidic pH extracts of the frontal, temporal and cerebellar cortices from patients with definite Alzheimer's disease (AD) and controls, and analyzed the relationship among apoE levels, clinical and neuropathological findings, and apoE genotype. Our data showed that the levels varied in different brain regions being lowest in the frontal cortex and highest in the cerebellum in Ad brains. ApoE levels in neutral pH extracts from the frontal cortex from AD patients were significantly lower than those of controls, and correlated negatively with the number of neurofibrillary tangles. ApoE genotype was not associated with the levels of apoE. There was no correlation between apoE levels and amyloid load or synaptophysin-immunoreactivity in the brain. We conclude that apoE levels are not increased in AD brains. However, apoE levels vary in different brain regions, and local factors related to the synthesis and metabolism of apoE may be crucial in the pathogenesis of AD.
8643476: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin, a major synaptic vesicle protein, is not essential for neurotransmitter release. Synaptophysin (syp I) is a synaptic vesicle membrane protein that constitutes approximately 7% of the total vesicle protein. Multiple lines of evidence implicate syp I in a number of nerve terminal functions. To test these, we have disrupted the murine Syp I gene. Mutant mice lacking syp I were viable and fertile. No changes in the structure and protein composition of the mutant brains were observed except for a decrease in synaptobrevin/VAMP II. Synaptic transmission was normal with no detectable changes in synaptic plasticity or the probability of release. Our data demonstrate that one of the major synaptic vesicle membrane proteins is not essential for synaptic transmission, suggesting that its function is either redundant or that it has a more subtle function not apparent in the assays used.
8784806: !synaptophysin Nerve terminal sprouting in botulinum type-A treated mouse levator auris longus muscle. The marked outgrowth of the motor nerve terminal arborization triggered by an in vivo local injection of Clostridium botulinum type-A toxin in the mouse levator auris longus muscle was studied with morphological and immunochemical approaches. The increase in total nerve terminal length depended on the time elapsed after toxin administration and was due to both increased number of terminal branches and branch length as revealed by a quantitative morphological analysis of whole mounts using the combined cholinesterase-silver stain. Nerve terminal sprouts increased in number, length and complexity even after the functional recovery of neuromuscular transmission had occurred as revealed by electrophysiological examination. Although we cannot exclude that transmitter release sites from the original nerve terminal arborization may still be functional after botulinum type-A toxin (BoTx-A) treatment, it is likely that newly formed functional release sites on the sprouts play a major role in the functional recovery of neuromuscular transmission. The presence of an immunoreactivity to synaptophysin and synaptotagmin-II, integral proteins of synaptic vesicles, gives support to our previous findings suggesting that nerve terminal sprouts have the molecular machinery for acetylcholine release.
8740626: !synaptophysin Cortical synaptic changes and gliosis in normal aging, Alzheimer's disease and frontal lobe degeneration. The most important new development during recent years in the field of degenerative dementia concerns synaptic pathology. So far it has been investigated in some regions and some cortical laminae in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present communication is a more comprehensive study of all laminae in four different regions, the prefrontal, parietal, inferior temporal and posterior cingulate cortex. Against the background of normal aging, AD was compared with another degenerative disorder, frontal lobe degeneration of non-Alzheimer type (FLD). The synapse density was measured using synaptophysin as a marker. Astrocytes were also counted in the molecular layer. In normals, the cortex showed successively lower synaptic density from layer I to layer VI and relatively lowest density in the prefrontal cortex and a general decline with increasing age. A 46-49% decrease in synaptic density was found in all laminae in all regions of AD brains, a finding different from that in FLD. The number of astrocytes increased significantly in the prefrontal cortex both in AD and FLD but parietally only in AD. These results contribute to the understanding of normal synaptic organization of cortex, demonstrate the laminar and regional distribution of synaptic loss in AD and underscore the difference between AD and FLD. The gliosis appears to be secondary to the neurodegenerative changes. Synaptic loss is likely to be a common pathogenetic feature of neurodegenerative disorders and a likely cause of clinical symptoms and regional metabolic decrements in dementia.
8738415: !synaptophysin Axonal transport and targeting of the t-SNAREs SNAP-25 and syntaxin 1 in the peripheral nervous system. Axonal transport and targeting of the t-SNAREs SNAP-25 and syntaxin 1 were investigated in the rat peripheral nervous system using a stop-flow (crush) technique. In crush-operated sciatic nerves, accumulations of SNAP-25 and syntaxin 1 immunoreactivities were detected as early as 1 h after operation, indicating fast axonal transport. The amounts increased on the proximal side of the crush with time after crushing. Distal accumulations of SNAP-25, representing recycling to the cell body, were less than 10% of the proximal accumulations, but 40% for syntaxin 1, 50% for synaptobrevin II and 70% for synaptophysin. Immunoelectron microscopic studies demonstrated that SNAP-25 and syntaxin 1 are present on pleiotropic membranes within a diameter of 50 to 100 nm in axons proximal to a crush. Distal to the crush, labeling for syntaxin 1 and SNAP-25 were sparse and barely detectable, respectively. In addition, the two proteins were found in the axolemma. In nerve terminals of the spinal cord, both proteins were concentrated around small synaptic vesicles (about 50 nm in diameter), whereas only very few gold particles were observed near the presynaptic membrane or the active zones.
8738414: !synaptophysin Synaptobrevin is essential for secretion but not for the development of synaptic processes. The formation of small synaptic vesicles represents a hallmark during synaptogenesis. The small synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin is considered as a marker protein for synapses during neuronal development. Another small synaptic vesicle protein, synaptobrevin, is now well accepted to play an important role for the function of synapses in being a key component of exocytosis. Its role during synaptogenesis is not known. Tetanus toxin which exclusively proteolysis synaptobrevin thereby inhibiting secretion from all types of neurons was used to investigate consequences of inactivating synaptobrevin for the formation of small synaptic vesicles and synaptic contacts. In primary cultures of mouse hypothalamic and cerebellar neurons cultivated for 3 to 4 days, synaptobrevin appears earlier on small synaptic vesicles and in synaptic contacts than synaptophysin. Upon longer cultivation up to 12 to 14 days in vitro both proteins associated equally with small synaptic vesicles. Interestingly, GABA secretion stimulated by 50 mM potassium or 500 PM alpha-latrotoxin, did not vary during cultivation time. Tetanus toxin added to neuronal cultures at day 2 in vitro cleaved synaptobrevin and inhibited regulated GABA secretion during the whole cultivation time. Despite the impaired function of synaptobrevin other synaptic proteins such as synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, rab 3A, protein SV2, SNAP-25 and syntaxin were found in processes and synaptic contacts comparable to untreated cultures. The expression of various synaptic proteins was also followed in vivo. In mouse brains taken at different embryonic days, synaptobrevin, synaptotagmin, rab 6 and the membrane protein SNAP-25 were expressed earlier than synaptophysin and protein SV2. We conclude that synaptobrevin represents a marker for early events in synaptogenesis. Its proteolysis by tetanus toxin, however, does not interfere with the formation of synaptic contacts and neuronal differentiation.
8723766: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural distribution of synaptophysin and synaptic vesicle recycling at the frog neuromuscular junction. Synaptic vesicle recycling after intense acetylcholine (ACh) release was studied at the frog neuromuscular junction (NMJ) using the synaptic vesicle transmembrane protein synaptophysin as immunocytochemical marker of the synaptic vesicle membrane during the process of exo-endocytosis. ACh release in cutaneous pectoris nerve-muscle preparations was stimulated by three different means: K+, Cd2+ in Ca(2+)-free medium, and electrical stimulation in the presence of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP). Cd2+ stimulation produced synaptic vesicle depletion and nerve terminal swelling. Electrical stimulation in the presence of 4-AP produced a reduction in the number of synaptic vesicles, deep axolemmal infoldings, coated pits, and coated vesicles. K+ stimulation did not produce any observable ultrastructural changes. Synaptophysin was labeled using silver-intensified immunogold in dissociated muscle fibers. Unstimulated and K(+)-stimulated preparations showed synaptophysin immunolabeling associated only with synaptic vesicles. In contrast, in Cd(2+)-stimulated preparations, synaptophysin appeared along the axolemma, mainly at the active zones, and after electrical stimulation it appeared in both axolemmal infoldings and the remaining synaptic vesicles. The results show that when synaptic vesicle recycling is inhibited by Cd2+ in Ca(2+)-free medium, or when 4-AP is present during electrical stimulation, synaptic vesicle fusion is accompanied by translocation and incorporation of synaptic vesicle membrane proteins into the axolemma. However, during the latter condition, synaptic vesicles are recycled through coated vesicles arising from the axolemmal infoldings. Conversely, during physiological-like stimulation of ACh release by K+ the synaptic vesicles are rapidly recycled at the active zones, by a double and rapid process of exo-endocytosis, without collapse into the axolemma.
8723130: !synaptophysin Enhanced synaptophysin immunoreactivity in rat hippocampal culture by 5-HT 1A agonist, S100b, and corticosteroid receptor agonists. Serotonin (5-HT) has been shown to modulate brain maturation during development and adult plasticity. This effect in the whole animal may be due to activation of 5-HT1A receptors and a corresponding increases in S100b and corticosterone. Synaptophysin, an integral protein of the synaptic vesicle membrane that correlates with synaptic density and neurotransmitter release, is reduced by depletion of 5-HT in the cortex and hippocampus of the adult rat. Injections of a 5-HT1A agonist or dexamethasone can reverse the loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity (IR). In this study we used morphometric analysis of synaptophysin-IR to study the effects of the 5-HT1A agonist, ipsapirone, and the neuronal extension factor, S100b on hippocampal neurons grown in a serum and steroid free media. Both compounds increased the synaptophysin-IR at doses previously established to be highly specific. Ipsapirone (10(-9)M) was more effective on neuronal cell bodies staining and S100b (10 ng/ml) was more effective in increasing the number of synaptophysin-IR varicosities on neuronal processes. In addition both types of corticosteroid receptor agonists, at previously established specific doses, Ru28362 (10(-8) M) and aldosterone (10(-9) M) produced smaller increases compared to control groups in both the cell body staining and the number of varicosities. The effect of these differentiating factors on the expression of synaptophysin-IR suggests multiple regulation sites for producing and maintaining pre-synaptic elements in the brain.
8639052: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in gastric adenocarcinomas. An immunohistochemical study. The stomach contains a wide variety of neuroendocrine cells. Early studies with argyrophilic stains documented the presence of these cells in gastric adenocarcinomas. Immunohistochemical techniques for demonstrating hormones are more sensitive and specific and have been applied only sporadically to gastric adenocarcinomas. Thus, the true incidence of neuroendocrine cells in gastric adenocarcinomas is questionable.
8639050: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical markers of prolonged survival in small cell carcinoma of the lung. An immunohistochemical study. To investigate the association of a variety of cell surface and cytoplasmic antigens in small cell carcinoma of the lung with long-term survival (greater than 2 years).
8637690: !synaptophysin Rapid growth of an optic nerve ganglioglioma in a patient with neurofibromatosis 1. Optic nerve gangliogliomas are extremely rate tumors of the central nervous system composed of elements of glial and neuronal origin. The clinical and biologic behavior of gangliogliomas depends on the glial component. Pilocytic gangliogliomas generally have a low growth rate and good ultimate prognosis. No definitive relation has yet been established between gangliogliomas and neurofibromatosis type 1.
8626150: !synaptophysin Pilomatricoma-like endometrioid adenosquamous carcinoma of the ovary with neuroendocrine differentiation. A case of high-grade endometrioid adenosquamous carcinoma of the ovary showing pilomatricoma-like areas and neuroendocrine differentiation is presented. The pilomatricoma-like areas were strongly positive for cytokeratin and vimentin, whereas the poorly differentiated areas of the tumor were positive for cytokeratin, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase. Review of the literature did not show any published report of adenosquamous carcinoma with pilomatricoma-like areas either in the ovary or in the uterus.
8725306: !synaptophysin Characterization and ontogeny of synapse-associated proteins in the developing facial and hypoglossal motor nuclei of the Brazilian opossum. The characterization and ontogeny of synapse-associated proteins in the developing facial and hypoglossal motor nuclei were examined in the Brazilian opossum (Monodelphis domestica). Immunohistochemical markers utilized in this study were the synaptic vesicle-associated proteins synaptophysin and synaptotagmin; a synaptic membrane protein, plasma membrane-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25); a growth cone protein, growth-associated phosphoprotein-43 (GAP-43); and the microtubule-associated proteins axonal marker tau and dendritic marker microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP-2). In this study, we have found that, during the first 10 postnatal days (1-10 PN), the facial motor nucleus lacked immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, GAP-43, tau, and SNAP-25. After 10 PN, immunoreactivity increased in the facial motor nucleus for synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, GAP-43, and tau, whereas immunoreactivity for SNAP-25 was not evident until between 15 and 25 PN. Conversely, immunoreactivity for MAP-2, was present in the facial motor nucleus from the day of birth. In contrast, the hypoglossal motor nucleus displayed immunoreactivity from 1 PN for synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, SNAP-25, GAP-43, tau, and MAP-2. These results suggest that the facial motor nucleus of the opossum may not receive afferent innervation as defined by classical synaptic markers until 15 PN and, further, that characteristic mature synapses are not present until between 15 and 25 PN. These results indicate that there may be a delay in synaptogenesis in the facial motor nucleus compared to synaptogenetic events in the hypoglossal motor nucleus. Because the facial motor nucleus is active prior to completion of synaptogenesis, we suggest that the facial motoneurons are regulated in a novel or distinct manner during this time period.
8738250: !synaptophysin Effects of ciliary neurotrophic factor on retrograde cell reaction after facial nerve crush in young adult rats. Locally applied ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) has a powerful effect on retrograde axonal reaction following facial nerve crush in neonatal rats. We examined whether it also exerts a strong effect on retrograde axonal reaction in young adult rats when administered subcutaneously. The dose was 1 mg/kg body weight, three times a week, similar to that used in a previous experiment in which CNTF was reported to have an effect. We studied changes in the morphology of the motor nerve cell bodies, in the number of perineuronal microglial cells and in the expression of five proteins. It appeared that CNTF prevented swelling of the facial motoneuron cell bodies but it did not influence the swelling of the nucleus nor the shift of the nucleus towards the periphery. In saline-treated rats, facial nerve crush resulted from day two to day six in a marked increase in the number of perineuronal glial cells. This increase was neither diminished nor augmented by CNTF. Following facial nerve crush, the immunoreactivity of the proteins C3bi, GFAP, B-50 and CGRP increased in the glial cells and motoneuron cell bodies, whilst the immunoreactivity of synaptophysin at the membrane of the motoneuron cell bodies decreased. CNTF had no obvious effect on these changes. It was concluded that in young adult rats under the present conditions, CNTF had only a small effect on a specific aspect of the retrograde cell reaction. The small effects might be explained by the minor availability of CNTF to the motoneuron cell bodies. The gain in body weight of rats treated with CNTF was less than that of saline-treated rats.
8738246: !synaptophysin Changes of neurocalcin, a calcium-binding protein, in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease. We assessed the amount of neurocalcin, a calcium-binding protein, in samples from the postmortem normal human and Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains using a specific antibody. In the AD brains, the amount of neurocalcin in the temporal cortical tissues was significantly lower than that in the controls. Neurocalcin was detected immunohistochemically mainly in the neuropil in the temporal cortex, and its localization was very similar to that of synaptophysin. These findings suggest that reduced levels of neurocalcin reflect a biochemical deficit related to the synaptic degeneration in AD.
8723218: !synaptophysin Functional reconstitution of KCl-evoked, Ca(2+)-dependent acetylcholine release system in Xenopus oocytes microinjected with presynaptic plasma membranes and synaptic vesicles. We have developed a new method for the generation of functionally active presynaptic chimeras in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Frog oocytes injected with presynaptic subcellular fractions extracted from the electric organ of Torpedo marmorata release acetylcholine in a calcium-dependent manner upon chemical stimulation. Neither oocytes injected without presynaptic plasma membranes nor oocytes injected with ghost erythrocyte plasma membrane instead of presynaptic plasma membrane release acetylcholine. This suggests that specific presynaptic components necessary for KCl-evoked, Ca(2+)-dependent acetylcholine release become functionally integrated in the Xenopus laevis oocytes. Moreover, rhodaminated presynaptic plasma membranes and the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin are detected on the oocyte surface by fluorescence or immunofluorescence, respectively, showing that the injected presynaptic components are incorporated into the membrane of the frog oocyte. Furthermore, Botulinum neurotoxin type A, a specific blocker of acetylcholine release in the neuromuscular junction, inhibits the neurotransmitter release from the chimerical oocytes. This suggests that targets for toxin action are also functionally incorporated in the oocyte upon injection of membranous presynaptic components. Our results show that oocytes injected with presynaptic components behave as cholinergic nerve ending chimeras, at least in terms of neurotransmitter release and toxin targets. The system bypasses some problems associated with messenger RNA expression because not only proteins, but native presynaptic components are incorporated. This new technique may provide a useful approach for electrophysiological and pharmacological studies in order to characterize the synaptic transmission.
8608543: !synaptophysin Multivariate analysis of patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma. Prognostic significance and impact on treatment of clinical and pathologic variables. The prognostic significance of the histologic and clinical features of medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) and their impact on therapy and outcome have been evaluated infrequently in the same series.
8612696: !synaptophysin Synthesis of the mammalian synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin in insect cells: a model for vesicle biogenesis. The N-glycosylated integral membrane protein synaptophysin is one of the major polypeptide components of small presynaptic transmitter-containing vesicles in neurons and of similar vesicles in neuroendocrine cells of mammals. Functional properties, including a possible participation in channel formation, have been investigated by integration of purified synaptophysin into planar lipid bilayers. To overcome some of the inherent limitations of such an in vitro approach we have overexpressed the rat synaptophysin cDNA in nonneuronal, non-neuroendocrine insect cells with the help of recombinant baculovirus. The complete polypeptide was produced in infected ovarian Sf9 cells at levels exceeding those observed in rat brain. The partially N-glycosylated molecules could be extracted from membranes with non-ionic detergents, most effectively with n-octyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside, and could be enriched on chromatofocusing columns. By immunoelectron microscopy synaptophysin was shown to be integrated in the correct orientation into the endoplasmic reticulum, various pleomorphic vesicles and the plasma membrane. Using cell fractionation, including density gradient centrifugation and immunoisolation, we characterized distinct synaptophysin-rich vesicles. These vesicles may help to understand molecular principles of vesicle biogenesis in general and the function of synaptophysin in particular.
8610179: !synaptophysin Circuit-specific alterations of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 in the dentate gyrus of aged monkeys. Age-associated memory impairment occurs frequently in primates. Based on the established importance of both the perforant path and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in memory formation, we investigated the glutamate receptor distribution and immunofluorescence intensity within the dentate gyrus of juvenile, adult, and aged macaque monkeys with the combined use of subunit-specific antibodies and quantitative confocal laser scanning microscopy. Here we demonstrate that aged monkeys, compared to adult monkeys, exhibit a 30.6% decrease in the ratio of NMDA receptor subunit 1 (NMDAR1) immunofluorescence intensity within the distal dendrites of the dentate gyrus granule cells, which receive the perforant path input from the entorhinal cortex, relative to the proximal dendrites, which receive an intrinsic excitatory input from the dentate hilus. The intradendritic alteration in NMDAR1 immunofluorescence occurs without a similar alteration of non-NMDA receptor subunits. Further analyses using synaptophysin as a reflection of total synaptic density and microtubule-associated protein 2 as a dendritic structural marker demonstrated no significant difference in staining intensity or area across the molecular layer in aged animals compared to the younger animals. These findings suggest that, in aged monkeys, a circuit-specific alteration in the intradendritic concentration of NMDAR1 occurs without concomitant gross structural changes in dendritic morphology or a significant change in the total synaptic density across the molecular layer. This alteration in the NMDA receptor-mediated input to the hippocampus from the entorhinal cortex may represent a molecular/cellular substrate for age-associated memory impairments.
8845840: !synaptophysin Partial characterisation of murine huntingtin and apparent variations in the subcellular localisation of huntingtin in human, mouse and rat brain. Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by the expansion of a CAG repeat in a gene coding for a protein of unknown function. We have raised a polyclonal antibody against a 12 amino acid peptide (residues 2110-2121 of human huntingtin) which specifically recognises huntingtin on Western blots of human, rat and mouse brain. We have characterised huntingtin expression in the mouse. The protein was detected on Western blots of all mouse tissues examined, with the highest expression seen in brain. Human, mouse and rat brain were fractionated by differential centrifugation and discontinuous Percoll gradients. The fractions were analysed by Western blotting for huntingtin and synaptophysin (a synaptic vesicle localised protein). In mouse brain, huntingtin was localised in the soluble S3 fraction; in rat brain it was localised in the soluble S3 fraction and also in the membrane P2 and P3 fractions; in both normal and HD-affected human brain, huntingtin was membrane bound with a distribution essentially the same as that of synaptophysin. These observed differences in the subcellular localisation of huntingtin between mouse and human brain are important in the context of mouse models for HD.
8835761: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characteristics of colorectal carcinoma with DNA replication errors. It has recently been shown that nearly all cancers from hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer syndrome (HNPCC), as well as a subset of sporadic colorectal cancers, have DNA replication errors (RER) at repeated sequences distributed throughout their genome. These RER-positive cancers had pathological characteristics of more frequent exophytic growth, large size and poor differentiation. However, the histogenesis and immunohistochemical characteristics of these RER-positive cancers are not known. The poorly differentiated colorectal carcinomas are heterogenous group of neoplasms that differ in their histologic appearance and prognosis. We therefore examined RER from 69 sporadic colorectal carcinomas of poor differentiation and detected in 23 cases (33%). The pathological features of RER-positive cancers differed from those without RER. The RER-positive cancers had marked preponderance of proximal location (16/23, 70%, vs. 20/46, 43%, p < 0.04), no glandular differentiation with intense peritumoral immune response (12/23, 52% vs. 6/46, 13%, p < 0.001). Immunohistochemically, most of the RER-positive cancers were reactive for cytokeratin (22/23, 96%) and CEA (17/23, 74%), and negative for NSE (2/23, 9%), chromogranin (3/23, 13%) and synaptophysin (0/23, 0%). In comparison to 46 RER-negative tumors, RER-positive cancer had less frequent CEA expression (17/23, 74% vs. 44/46, 96%, p = 0.01). We conclude that the RER-positive colorectal carcinomas have histologic characteristics of predominantly solid, poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas with intense peritumoral reaction and the tumors should be distinguished from neuroendocrine carcinomas and other more aggressive non-glandular tumors of the colon.
8801317: !synaptophysin Is intestinal neuronal dysplasia a disorder of the neuromuscular junction? Intestinal neuronal dysplasia (IND) is a malformation of the enteric plexus and clinically resembles Hirschsprung's disease. The pathogenesis of IND is not known. There is no information available regarding the nature of the neuromuscular junction in this disease. The authors examined immunohistochemically full-thickness biopsy specimens from 14 patients (aged 3 weeks to 26 months) with IND and 10 age-matched controls, using monoclonal antibodies to growth associated protein-43 (GAP-43), synaptophysin, and neural-cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) as neuromuscular junction markers. In the normal bowel, GAP-43, synaptophysin, and NCAM immunoreactivity was abundant in the submucous and myenteric plexuses as well as in the muscularis mucosae and circular and longitudinal muscle layers. However, of the biopsy specimens from patients with IND, five had absence of GAP-43, synaptophysin, and NCAM immunoreactivity in muscularis muscosae and the circular and longitudinal muscle layers; five had no immunoreactivity in the longitudinal muscle; and four had no immunoreactivity in the muscularis mucosae. The submucous and myenteric plexuses of all patients with IND displayed strong immunoreactivity for GAP-43, synaptophysin, and NCAM. The findings demonstrate that patients with IND have defective innervation of the neuromuscular junction of the affected bowel.
8786207: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinoma arising in an ovarian mucinous cystadenoma. A case of neuroendocrine carcinomas arising in the form of a mural nodule in an ovarian mucinous cystadenoma is presented. This represents the third case of neuroendocrine carcinoma arising in an ovarian mucinous tumor. The carcinoma cells were moderately to strongly immunoreactive for enolase, keratin, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and focally, neuron-specific enolase, and contained 130-330 nm neurosecretory granules. The patient presented 9 months after surgery with liver metastases and peritoneal implants. She died of disease within 10 months of initial presentation.
8726854: !synaptophysin Renal primitive neuroectodermal tumor: an immunohistochemical and cytogenetic analysis. The cytogenetic and morphologic characteristics of a case with a primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) arising from the left kidney in a 22 year old man are presented. The patient was detected as having a left renal mass with a tumor embolus in the inferior vena cava and multiple pulmonary metastases. A radical nephrectomy with tumor embolectomy of the inferior vena cava, along with a resection of the pulmonary nodules were performed. Histologic examination revealed a dense proliferation of small round cells with many Homer-Wright type rosettes and perivascular pseudorosettes. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells stained strongly positive for HBA71(p30/32MIC2), a surface glycoprotein specific to PNET and Ewing's sarcoma. In addition, the tumor cells expressed several neural markers (neuron specific enolase, neurofilament, synaptophysin, and Leu-7) and vimentin, while the epithelial, muscular, and lymphocytic markers were negative in the tumor cells. Cytogenetic analysis of cultured tumor cells showed a reciprocal translocation t(11;22)(q24;q12) that is considered to be specific to PNET and Ewing's sarcoma. In conclusion, this case suggested that a karyotyping analysis is a useful diagnostic tool for renal PNET, and it may therefore be utilized to help distinguish between difficult cases of small round cell tumors and Wilms' tumor of the kidney.
8620929: !synaptophysin Identification in immunolocalization of a new class of proteoglycan (keratan sulfate) to the neuritic plaques of Alzheimer's disease. Previous studies have demonstrated three distinct classes of proteoglycans (PGs)/glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) localized to the characteristic lesions (i.e., neuritic plaques, cerebrovascular amyloid deposits, and neurofibrillary tangles) of Alzheimer's disease (AD). These include heparan sulfate (i.e., perlecan), dermatan sulfate (i.e., decorin), and chondroitin sulfate PGs/GAGs. In the present study, two different antibodies demonstrated the presence of a new class of PG (i.e., keratan sulfate) in the neuritic plaques of AD. Asynaptic vesicle keratan sulfate PG (known as SV2PG) was detected by the monoclonal antibodies, anti-SV2 and anti-SV4, which recognize the keratan sulfate core protein and GAG chains, of the SV2PG antigen, respectively. Both antibodies immunolocalized SV2PG primarily to synapses and to dystrophic neurites within neuritic plaques of AD and normal aged brain. The SV2PG was not immunolocalized to diffuse plaques, cerebrovascular amyloid deposits, or neurofibrillary tangles in AD or normal aged brain. SV2PG immunoreactivity in AD brain was similar in distribution to synaptophysin and showed apparent reduced immunoreactiviy+in AD cortex in comparison to age-matched controls. In conjunction with previous studies, these results now suggest that within the neuritic plaques of AD, there are at least four different classes of PGs present. Although heparan sulfate PGs are still the only class of PG immunolocalized to amyloid fibrils within the neuritic plaques of AD, the specific immunolocalization of keratan sulfate, dermatan sulfate, and chondroitin sulfate containing PGs to the periphery of plaques, suggests that these particular PGs/GAGs may also play distinct and important roles in neuritic plaque pathogenesis.
8609168: !synaptophysin The binding of plakoglobin to desmosomal cadherins: patterns of binding sites and topogenic potential. Plakoglobin is the only protein that occurs in the cytoplasmic plaques of all known adhering junctions and has been shown to be crucially involved in the formation and maintenance of desmosomes anchoring intermediate-sized filaments (IFs) by its interaction with the desmosomal cadherins, desmoglein (Dsg), and desmocollin (Dsc). This topogenic importance of plakoglobin is now directly shown in living cells as well as in binding assays in vitro. We show that, in transfected human A-431 carcinoma cells, a chimeric protein combining the vesicle-forming transmembrane glycoprotein synaptophysin, with the complete human plakoglobin sequence, is sorted to small vesicles many of which associate with desmosomal plaques and their attached IFs. Immunoprecipitation experiments have further revealed that the chimeric plakoglobin-containing transmembrane molecules of these vesicles are tightly bound to Dsg and Dsc but not to endogenous plakoglobin, thus demonstrating that the binding of plakoglobin to desmosomal cadherins does not require its soluble state and is strong enough to attach large structures such as vesicles to desmosomes. To identify the binding domains and the mechanisms involved in the interaction of plakoglobin with desmosomal cadherins, we have developed direct binding assays in vitro in which plakoglobin or parts thereof, produced by recombinant DNA technology in E. coli, are exposed to molecules containing the "C-domains" of several cadherins. These assays have shown that plakoglobin associates most tightly with the C-domain of Dsg, to a lesser degree with that of Dsc and only weakly with the C-domain of E-cadherin. Three separate segments of plakoglobin containing various numbers of the so-called arm repeats exhibit distinct binding to the desmosomal cadherins comparable in strength to that of the entire molecule. The binding pattern of plakoglobin segments in vitro is compared with that in vivo. Paradoxically, in vitro some internal plakoglobin fragments bind even better to the C-domain of E-cadherin than the entire molecule, indicating that elements exist in native plakoglobin that interfere with the interaction of this protein with its various cadherin partners.
8608504: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation is an independent prognostic factor in chemotherapy-treated nonsmall cell lung carcinoma. Neuroendocrine differentiation can be identified in 10-30% of patients with nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) by immunohistochemical or electron microscopic techniques. However, its clinical significance is not well established.
8604807: !synaptophysin Lipomatous medulloblastoma in adults. A distinct clinicopathological entity. We report on three patients who presented with a cerebellar medulloblastoma at age 48, 53, and 59 years. Histopathology showed typical features of medulloblastoma, in one case with marked neuronal differentiation. In addition, all neoplasms contained focal accumulations of mature fat cells. Immunoreactivity of adipocytes for S-100 protein, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, microtubule-associated protein-2, and glial fibrillary acidic protein and the lack of immunoreactivity to type IV collagen suggest lipomatous differentiation of neoplastic primitive neuroectodermal cells rather than an admixture of mesenchymal elements. Mitotic activity was low and the growth faction, as determined by the MIB-1 labeling index, was less than 5%. All patients are alive with a recurrence-free interval ranging from 3.5 to 12 years. These three patients and five similar previously reported cases all fit into the concept of the lipomatous medulloblastoma as a new clinicopathological entity characterized by (a) typical features of a cerebellar medulloblastoma with advanced neuronal differentiation, (b) areas of lipomatous differentiation, (c) low proliferative potential, (d) manifestation in adults (mean age, 50 years), and (e) apparent favorable clinical prognosis.
8861721: !synaptophysin Development and activity-dependent expression of neuronal marker proteins in organotypic cultures of rat visual cortex. We are interested in activity-dependent mechanisms which govern the structural and functional maturation of neurons in the visual cortex. We have asked whether the expression of neuronal markers microtubule-associated proteins tau, MAP-2, synaptophysin (p38), and the growth-associated protein GAP-43 are dependent on cortical afferents or spontaneous activity. As a model system we have employed organotypic monocultures of rat visual cortex (OTCs, isolated from subcortical structures) in comparison with visual cortex in vivo (innervated by thalamic and other afferents) at different postnatal ages. We know from previous work that the OTCs, like the cortex in vivo, display a high rate of spontaneously generated action potentials. Therefore, as a third objective, we have analysed OTCs grown as monocultures under chronic blockade of spontaneous action potentials. Protein expression was detected by protein blots and/or immunohistochemistry. The proteins examined in this study are expressed in OTCs, even when grown under activity blockade. However, the pattern of expression differs from the cortex in vivo. Tau is expressed much weaker in OTCs than in cortex in vivo. The expression of the major band of about 50 kDa increases over time in vivo and in OTCs. Smaller isoforms of tau are dramatically downregulated, and larger (adult) isoforms do not appear within 35 days in vitro (DIV). Under activity blockade the expression of tau reaches a maximum by 21 DIV and decreases dramatically, so that the protein is hardly detectable by 47 DIV. MAP-2-immunoreactive proteins are localized in somata and dendrites, but also persist in axons. The expression in OTCs of p38 and GAP-43 correlates well with the expression observed in vivo. Synaptophysin (p38) occurs with a similar time course and amount in OTCs as in cortex in vivo. Synaptic boutons appear in all layers, and specialized terminal elements have been observed. Activity blockade slightly affects the p38 expression, although the late postnatal decline in p38 immunoreactivity observed on protein blots from cortex in vivo and in normal OTCs appears more accentuated in activity-blocked OTCs. The GAP-43 expression is prominent from birth onwards in vivo and in OTCs. However, in normal OTCs GAP-43 is not declining as it is in vivo, although it is downregulated in activity-blocked OTCs. As a major finding we report that neuronal markers which are normally expressed in immature neurons and axons during the period of differentiation and structural plasticity are continuously expressed in OTCs, suggesting that a monocultured cortex retains the ability for growth and structural changes longer than the cortex in vivo.
8861719: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity in the rat olfactory bulb during postnatal development and after restricted early olfactory experience. Synaptophysin is a synaptic vesicle protein that provides a marker of synaptic distribution in the brain. We used synaptophysin immunohistochemistry to detect changes in synaptic distribution in the main olfactory bulb during normal early postnatal development and following early olfactory restriction. Synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity appears early in the postnatal development of most bulbar laminae. In the first postnatal week, the entire glomerular neuropil is stained intensely, but by PND 19, the glomerular perimeter becomes more intensely stained than its core. This immunoreactivity is especially dense along that aspect of the perimeter facing the olfactory nerve layer. To determine if this developmental pattern could be affected by early olfactory experience, unilateral naris closure was performed on PND 1. In deprived bulbs at PND 19, the difference in staining between the glomerular border and the glomerular core is significantly less than in either contralateral glomeruli or glomeruli from unoperated animals. The difference between the glomerular border and the glomerular core is greater in bulbs contralateral to a closed naris than in bulbs from unoperated animals. Staining intensity measured over entire glomeruli is not altered by naris closure, nor is staining of other laminae. The changes detected after naris closure indicate that the glomerular distribution of synaptophysin may be particularly sensitive to early olfactory experience.
8631808: !synaptophysin Clostridial neurotoxins and substrate proteolysis in intact neurons: botulinum neurotoxin C acts on synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa. Clostridial neurotoxins are zinc endopeptidases that block neurotransmission and have been shown to cleave, in vitro, specific proteins involved in synaptic vesicle docking and/or fusion. We have used immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting to demonstrate alterations in toxin substrates in intact neurons under conditions of toxin-induced blockade of neurotransmitter release. Vesicle-associated membrane protein, which colocalizes with synaptophysin, is not detectable in tetanus toxin-blocked cultures. Syntaxin, also concentrated in synaptic sites, is cleaved by botulinum neurotoxin C. Similarly, the carboxyl terminus of the synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) is not detectable in botulinum neurotoxin A-treated cultures. Unexpectedly, tetanus toxin exposure causes an increase in SNAP-25 immunofluorescence, reflecting increased accessibility of antibodies to antigenic sites rather than increased expression of the protein. Furthermore, botulinum neurotoxin C causes a marked loss of the carboxyl terminus of SNAP-25 when the toxin is added to living cultures, whereas it has no action on SNAP-25 in vitro preparations. This study is the first to demonstrate in functioning neurons that the physiologic response to these toxins is correlated with the proteolysis of their respective substrates. Furthermore, the data demonstrate that botulinum neurotoxin C, in addition to cleaving syntaxin, exerts a secondary effect on SNAP-25.
8636067: !synaptophysin Interaction of SNARE complexes with P/Q-type calcium channels in rat cerebellar synaptosomes. P- and Q-type calcium channels, which trigger rapid neurotransmitter release at many mammalian synapses, are blocked by omega-conotoxin MVIIC. 125I-omega-Conotoxin MVIIC binding to rat cerebellar synaptosomes was not displaced by omega-conotoxins GVIA or MVIIA (Ki > 1 microM), which are selective for N-type calcium channels. Solubilized 125I-omega-conotoxin MVIIC receptors were specifically recognized by antibodies directed against alpha1A calcium channel subunits, proteins known to constitute a pore with P/Q-like channel properties. Antibodies against syntaxin 1, SNAP 25, and VAMP 2 (synaptobrevin) each immunoprecipitated a similar fraction (20-40%) of omega-conotoxin MVIIC receptors. Immunoprecipitation was not additive, suggesting that heterotrimeric (SNARE) complexes containing these three proteins interact with P/Q-type calcium channels. Immobilized monoclonal anti-syntaxin antibodies retained alpha1A calcium channel subunits of 220, 180 and 160 kDa monitored by immunoblotting with site directed antibodies. Synaptotagmin was detected in channel-associated complexes, but not synaptophysin, Rab 3A nor rat cysteine string protein. Trimeric SNARE complexes are implicated in calcium-dependent exocytosis, a process thought to be regulated by synaptotagmin. Our results indicate that these proteins interact with P/Q-type calcium channels, which may optimize their location within domains of calcium influx.
8690889: !synaptophysin Leukophysin: an RNA helicase A-related molecule identified in cytotoxic T cell granules and vesicles. Leukophysin (LKP) is a 28-kDa protein of CTL and U937 monocytic cells that is located in the membrane of high density granules as well as lighter cytoplasmic granules or vesicles. mAbs to KLP were used to clone a full length cDNA clone with an open reading frame coding for a 235-amino acid polypeptide with a molecular mass of 24.3 kDa and two potential transmembrane regions. The nucleotide sequence was highly homologous to the 3' end of human RNA helicase A. Expression of the LKP was confirmed as a reverse transcriptase-PCR product that may be an alternately spliced product of RNA helicase A. The cDNA contained a repetitive motif that was similar to synaptophysin 1, a protein that is important for synaptic vesicle exocytosis. A polyclonal Ab directed against the 17 carboxyl-terminal amino acids of LKP detected the same 28-kDa granule membrane protein as the D545, one of the mAbs used to clone the cDNA. In addition, the D545 mAb reacted strongly with the GST fusion protein of the bacterially expressed LKP cDNA. In confocal immunofluorescence studies, the anti-LKP peptide Ab reacted with granzyme A-negative granules and vesicles in CD8+ CTL lymphocytes from normal and Chediak-Higashi patients. Thus, based on the expression of the C-terminal LKP epitope, vesicular structures an granules have been detected in CTL that are distinct from classical granzyme-containing cytolytic granules.
8700866: !synaptophysin Role of oxidation in the neurotoxic effects of intrastriatal dopamine injections. We have examined the biochemical and histological effects of high concentrations of dopamine (0.05-1.0 micromol) injected into the rat striatum. Twenty-four hours after such injections, the oxidation products of dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were detected as both free and protein-bound cysteinyl dopamine and cysteinyl dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. Protein-bound cysteinyl catechols were increased 7- to 20-fold above control tissue levels. By 7 days postinjection, the protein-bound cysteinyl catechols were still detectable, although reduced in concentration, whereas the free forms could no longer be measured. Histological examination of striatum at 7 days revealed a central core of nonspecific damage including neuronal loss and gliosis. This core was surrounded by a region containing a marked reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity but no apparent loss of serotonin or synaptophysin immunoreactivity. When dopamine was injected with an equimolar concentration of either ascorbic acid or glutathione, the formation of protein-bound cysteinyl catechols was greatly reduced. Moreover, the specific loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity associated with dopamine injections was no longer detectable, although the nonspecific changes in cytoarchitecture were still apparent. Thus, following its oxidation, dopamine in high concentrations binds to protein in the striatum, an event that is correlated with the specific loss of dopaminergic terminals. We suggest that the selective degeneration of dopamine neurons in Parkinson's disease may be caused by an imbalance between the oxidation of dopamine and the availability of antioxidant defenses.
9053802: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural localization of B-50/growth-associated protein-43 to anterogradely transported synaptophysin-positive and calcitonin gene-related peptide-negative vesicles in the regenerating rat sciatic nerve. The growth-associated protein-43/B-50 (B-50/GAP-43) is conveyed from the neuronal soma into the axon by fast axonal transport and moved to the nerve terminal. To visualize and determine the type of vesicles by which B-50/GAP-43 is anterogradely transported in the regenerating rat sciatic nerve, we have investigated Lowicryl HM20 embedded nerve pieces dissected from the proximal side of a collection ligature. Ultrastructurally, numerous vesicular profiles of various sizes, tubules and mitochondria were seen to accumulate proximal to the collection ligature. Both, in unmyelinated and myelinated axons, B-50/GAP-43 immunoreactivity was associated with vesicular profiles which had a diameter of 50 nm. A fraction of the B-50/GAP-43 label co-localized with the small vesicle marker synaptophysin. Co-localization of B-50/GAP-43 was not detected with the large dense-core vesicle marker calcitonin gene-related peptide. These results indicate that, in rat sciatic nerve axons, B-50/GAP-43 is anterogradely transported in small 50 nm vesicles of the constitutive pathway. These transport vesicles were distinguished in two types. We suggest that one type carrying, both, B-50 GAP-43 and synaptophysin has as destination the nerve terminal, whereas the second type, which only contains B-50/GAP-43 and no synaptophysin, may be primarily targeted to the axolemma for local membrane fusion.
8815186: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin expression in the anterior horn of Werdnig-Hoffmann disease. This report concerns the study of synaptophysin (SP) expression in the anterior horn in four cases of Werdnig-Hoffmann disease (WHD). All patients had distinct anterior horn cell degeneration, and died before the age of one year. Normal spinal cords from five age-matched children served as controls. Five cases of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (S-ALS), three cases of lower motor neuron disease (L-MND), three cases of peripheral neuropathy with axonal reaction, and six adult cases with normal spinal cords were included for comparison. Immunohistochemical techniques were used throughout. The results show that normal spinal cords of children have similar SP immunoreactivity patterns as those of normal adults. We also found that despite relatively preserved or slightly increased SP immunoreactivity on the surface of the cell body and proximal processes of the remaining neurons, there was a diffuse decrease of immunoreaction product deposits in the anterior horn neuropil of the WHD cases. The ballooned neurons in the anterior horns of patients with WHD, S-ALS, L-MND, and axonal reaction had few SP immunoreactive dots or granules around the cell bodies and proximal processes. The perikarya of some ballooned neurons of the children with WHD was diffusely stained for SP. There was no SP immunoreactive structures within the empty cell beds of these patients. The observed decrease in SP expression around ballooned neurons in these disorders is indicative of a disconnection of presynaptic terminals of afferent fibers from the proximal portion of the swollen degenerated anterior horn cells.
8772779: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin expression in the human spinal cord. Diagnostic implications of an immunohistochemical study. Surface perikaryal labeling on immunohistochemical assay for synaptophysin (SYN)--a glycoprotein component of synaptic vesicle membranes--has been posited to distinguish the neoplastic neuronal elements of gangliogliomas from native central nervous system neurons overrun by gliomas invasive of gray matter. To assess the validity of this criterion in the evaluation of intramedullary neoplasms, we screened formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections from 35 histologically unremarkable spinal cords (removed at autopsy) using commercially available monoclonal antibodies to SYN. All specimens exhibited anti-SYN reactivity, which was confined to gray matter, and all evidenced the concentrated deposition of reaction product along the perikarya of large neurons in the anterior horns, Clarke's columns, and intermediolateral cell columns. A majority (23 specimens) contained neurons completely outlined by reaction product rings comparable to those depicted as being pathognomonic of neuronal neoplasia. This phenomenon presumably reflects the rich complement of axosomatic synapses documented in fine structural studies of the normal spinal cord. Surface perikaryal labeling for SYN is not restricted to the neoplastic neurons of ganglion cell tumors and should be cautiously interpreted, particularly when neurosurgical material derives from the spinal cord.
8730927: !synaptophysin In vitro binding of synaptic vesicles to the synaptic plasma membrane: lack of effect of beta-bungarotoxin. To help characterize the mechanisms of neurotransmitter release, and the role of the specific neurotoxin beta-bungarotoxin in inhibiting release, the interaction of synaptic vesicles with the synaptic plasma membrane was investigated using two in vitro systems. Binding of radiolabeled synaptic vesicles to immobilized synaptic plasma membrane was specific, protein-dependent, and modulated by phosphorylation of membrane proteins. Stimulation of phosphorylation by phorbol ester increased binding, and reduction of phosphorylation by alkaline phosphatase or staurosporine reduced binding. beta-Bungarotoxin did not alter basal binding of synaptic vesicles to synaptic plasma membrane, nor did it affect the increase in binding induced by phorbol esters. Under conditions which stimulate acetylcholine release from synaptosomes, both phorbol ester and 4-aminopyridine caused an increase in attachment of the synaptic vesicle marker protein synaptophysin to the synaptic plasma membrane. beta-Bungarotoxin did not alter the change in localization of synaptophysin induced by either drug, under conditions in which it inhibits ACh release induced by 4-aminopyridine. It is concluded that beta-bungarotoxin inhibition probably does not occur at the level of the interaction of the synaptic vesicle and the synaptic plasma membrane, but occurs at an earlier stage in the neurotransmission process.
8611199: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma of the cauda equina. A case report and review of the literature. A 59-year-old man presented with clinical evidence of a primary tumor of the cauda equina region. It was well circumscribed and was completely removed by neurosurgery. Routine staining showed that it had structural similarities to an ependymoma, but immunohistochemistry with antisera to synaptophysin, NSE, chromogranin-A and PGP 9.5 proved it to be a neuroendocrine tumor, i.e. a paraganglioma. We propose the use of endocrine markers in cases with tumors of the cauda equina to differentiate a paraganglioma from an ependymoma. Paragangliomas appear to have a better clinical outcome than ependymomas. Recurrence after surgery for a paraganglioma in the cauda equina region, especially if it is encapsulated, is rarely encountered.
8593674: !synaptophysin Synaptotagmin I, synaptobrevin II, and syntaxin I are coexpressed in rat and gerbil pinealocytes. Recent studies have shown that mammalian pinealocytes contain a compartment of synaptic-like microvesicles that may serve secretory functions; however, knowledge of the molecular composition of these microvesicles is still incomplete. Therefore, we have analyzed rat and gerbil pineal glands for the presence of synaptotagmin I, synaptobrevin I and II, syntaxin I, and synaptoporin (synaptophysin II) by immunoblot analyses and immunostaining of serial semithin sections. These proteins, which are components of the synaptic vesicle membrane or presynaptic plasmalemma, are thought to be essential for synaptic vesicle trafficking and exocytosis. Antibodies against synaptotagmin I, synaptobrevin II, and syntaxin I label pinealocytes (identified with an antiserum directed against synaptophysin I) in pineal glands of both species, the coexpression of the latter proteins being demonstrable at the single cell level. In contrast, pinealocytes are not or only weakly stained by the synaptoporin antibody. Immunoreactivity for synaptobrevin I is restricted to intrapineal nerve terminals, thus indicating a differential expression of synaptic vesicle protein isoforms within endocrine tissues. Immunogold staining has been performed in the gerbil pineal and reveals that synaptobrevin II and synaptotagmin I can be localized to the synaptic-like microvesicles that are concentrated in pinealocyte process terminals. Syntaxin immunoreactivity is associated with clear microvesicles and with the plasma membrane. Our findings corroborate the hypothesis that the synaptic-like microvesicles of pinealocytes can be considered as the endocrine equivalent of neuronal synaptic vesicles. Since pinealocytes of several mammalian species contain abundant clear microvesicles, the pinealocyte may serve as a paradigm for studies aimed at elucidating the biogenesis and functions of synaptic-like microvesicles in neuroendocrine cells.
8593664: !synaptophysin Expression of neurotrophin receptor trkB in rat cochlear hair cells at time of rearrangement of innervation. The spatio-temporal distribution of the high-affinity neurotrophin receptor trkB was monitored during postnatal development of the rat cochlea. In addition to expression in presumptive afferent type I collaterals, afferent type II fibers, and efferent fibers, trkB immunoreactivity also transiently appeared in the sensory hair cells themselves, from postnatal days 5-9 in the basal turn, and from postnatal days 9-13 in the apical turn. A comparison of trkB with p75(NGFR), which is expressed in afferent and efferent fibers, and GAP-43 and synaptophysin, which are expressed in efferent fibers, revealed a time/space correlation of trkB receptor expression in hair cells with the rearrangement of their innervation. Co-expression of the neurotrophin receptor and its ligand has been proposed to be functionally involved in regulating the survival of neurons independent of target-derived neurotrophin factor. Thus, the presence of trkB in target hair cells, suggests that auto/paracrine mechanisms play a role during this critical period of rearrangement of neural connections.
9213893: !synaptophysin [Simple juxtathyroid cyst. Analysis of the possible origin of the lesion]. We report a 34 years old female who presented with a simple juxtathyroid cyst. Its content was translucent with a mPTH concentration 30 higher than in blood. This finding lead to the suspicion of a parathyroid cyst; however there were no laboratory evidence of hyperparathyroidism. Two years later and after repeated needle drainages, a surgical cystectomy was made. The immunohistochemical study of the samples was intensely positive for synaptophysin, a parathyroid tissue marker. Surprisingly, thyroglobulin was also found in some cyst wall cells.
9045092: !synaptophysin Distinct preganglionic neurons innervate noradrenaline and adrenaline cells in the cat adrenal medulla. Calretinin immunoreactivity was present in a subset of preganglionic neurons retrogradely labelled from the cat adrenal gland. Overall, one-third of adrenal preganglionic neurons showed calretinin immunoreactivity, and their proportion increased in the more caudal spinal cord segments. Calretinin-immunoreactive nerve terminals were prominent within the adrenal gland, but were found only in areas of noradrenergic chromaffin cells (approximately one-third of the area of the adrenal medulla). Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was used to label terminals with and without calretinin immunoreactivity. Nerve terminals lacking calretinin immunoreactivity were present among the adrenergic chromaffin-cells and also comprised 20% of the nerve terminals innervating noradrenergic chromaffin cells. Calretinin immunoreactivity thus labels a subpopulation of cat adrenal preganglionic neurons that innervate the noradrenergic chromaffin cells.
8962603: !synaptophysin Synaptotagmin, a synaptic vesicle protein, is present in human cerebrospinal fluid: a new biochemical marker for synaptic pathology in Alzheimer disease? Using a novel approach, including affinity chromatography, reversed-phase chromatography, and chemiluminescence immunoblotting, we have for the first time been able to demonstrate one of the small synaptic vesicle proteins, synaptotagmin I, in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Two other small synaptic vesicle proteins, rab3a and synaptophysin, were not detectable. The approximate molecular weight of CSF-synaptotagmin was 65 kDa, as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Further characterization of CSF synaptotagmin by high-performance capillary electrophoresis (HPCE) showed a single peak. These findings support that the whole synaptotagmin molecule is present in CSF, without significant proteolytic degradation. After high-speed centrifugation of CSF, synaptotagmin was exclusively found in the supernatant, suggesting that synaptotagmin is present in CSF as a free protein, and not as a constituent of synaptic vesicles. In a preliminary study, we found a marked reduction of CSF synaptotagmin in patients with early onset Alzheimer disease (EAD) as compared with age-matched healthy individuals. To elucidate the biological relevance of this finding, we also quantified synaptotagmin in brain tissue. A marked reduction in synaptotagmin was found both in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of EAD, suggesting that a decrease in synaptotagmin in the brain is followed by a concomitant decrease in the CSF. Analysis of CSF synaptotagmin might provide a tool to study synaptic function and pathology in the human brain.
8601729: !synaptophysin Merkel cells in mouse skin: intermediate filament pattern, localization, and hair cycle-dependent density. The distribution and antigen expression of Merkel cells in mouse skin is as yet ill defined. Since the mouse offers an excellent model for studying the origin and functions of Merkel cells, the Merkel cell distribution as well as the expression of intermediate filament proteins and neuronal markers was characterized in C57 BL/6 mouse skin by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. Merkel cells in whisker pads, back, and foot pad skin as identified by staining for neuron-specific enolase-an established neuroendocrine marker--expressed cytokeratins (CK) 8,18, and 20 (i.e., simple-epithelial CKs), but not CKs 4 and 13. Sequential double staining for neuron-specific enolase and CK 20 showed consistent co-expression in Merkel cells, establishing CK 20 as a specific immunocytochemical marker for mouse Merkel cells. The Merkel cells also were immunoreactive for synaptophysin but not for neurofilament proteins, peripherin, S-100 protein, and neural cell adhesion molecule. Using CK 8, 18, and 20 as markers, we detected many Merkel cells in the outer roots sheath of vibrissae hair follicles and in foot pad skin. However, only few Merkel cells were found in back skin. These were restricted to small clusters, localized basally within the Haarscheiben epidermis of tylotrich hair follicles, and formed close contacts to prominent nerve fiber terminals as shown by electron microscopy. In striking contrast to human skin, Merkel cells were never found in the epithelium of pelage hair follicles. Even more strikingly, the density of Haarscheiben-associated Merkel cells changed substantially during the highly synchronized, depilation-induced C 57 BL/6 hair cycle, with a minimum in back skin with all hair follicles in telogen or catagen, and a maximum in back skin with all hair follicles in anagen IV-VI. These observations on the Merkel cell hair cycle-dependent distribution in murine skin point to important differences in Merkel cell functions between humans and mice, and raise intriguing questions as to the role of Merkel cells in hair biology.
8558234: !synaptophysin Synapse formation and establishment of neuronal polarity by P19 embryonic carcinoma cells and embryonic stem cells. A number of different cell lines that exhibit a partial neuronal phenotype have been identified, but in many cases the full extent of their neuronal differentiation has not been directly addressed by functional studies. We have used electrophysiology and immunofluorescence to examine the formation of synapses and the development of neuronal polarity by murine embryonic stem (ES) cells and the mouse P19 embryonic carcinoma cell line. Within 2-3 weeks after induction by retinoic acid, subsets of P19 and ES cells formed excitatory synapses, mediated by glutamate receptors, or inhibitory synapses, mediated by receptors for GABA or glycine. In ES-cell cultures, both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors contributed to the excitatory postsynaptic response. Staining with antibodies to growth-associated protein-43 and microtubule-associated protein-2 revealed segregation of immunoreactivity into separate axonal and somato-dendritic compartments, respectively. Consistent with our physiological evidence for synapse formation, intense punctate staining was observed with antibodies to the synaptic vesicle proteins synapsin, SV2, and synaptophysin. These results demonstrate the in vitro acquisition by pluri-potent cell lines of neuronal polarity and functional synaptic transmission that is characteristic of CNS neurons.
8567678: !synaptophysin The V0 sector of the V-ATPase, synaptobrevin, and synaptophysin are associated on synaptic vesicles in a Triton X-100-resistant, freeze-thawing sensitive, complex. Anti-synaptobrevin 2 immunoprecipitates obtained from freshly prepared Triton X-100 extracts of rat synaptosomes contained, in addition to synaptophysin, a 10-kDa band, which we identified by peptide sequencing and Western blotting as the c subunit of the vacuolar proton pump (V-ATPase) also called ductin or mediatophore. Ac39 and Ac116, two other transmembrane subunits of the V0 sector of the V-ATPase, were also found by Western blotting to be enriched in the immunoprecipitates. None of these V-ATPase subunits, or synaptophysin, was present in anti-synaptobrevin 2 immunoprecipitates obtained from frozen-thawed Triton X-100 extracts, which were greatly enriched, instead, in SNAP-25 and syntaxin 1. Accordingly, V-ATPase subunit c was found in anti-synaptophysin immunoprecipitates. Thus, the two complexes appear to be mutually exclusive. Subcellular fractionation of rat brain demonstrated that V-ATPase subunit c is localized with synaptobrevin 2 and synaptophysin in synaptic vesicles. The coprecipitation of V-ATPase subunit c with the synaptobrevin-synaptophysin complex suggests that this interaction may play a role in recruiting the proton pump into synaptic vesicles. Freeze-thawing, which involves a mild denaturing step, may produce a conformational change which dissociates the complex and mimics a change which occurs in vivo as a prerequisite to SNARE complex formation.
8866711: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity and distributions of calcium-binding proteins highlight the functional organization of the rat's dorsal column nuclei. The mammalian dorsal column nuclei (DCN) are principally composed of the cuneate (CN) and gracile (GN) nuclei. Data presented here support previously published anatomical and functional evidence that the longitudinal organization of the CN and GN reflect the complex role of the DCN in somatosensory processing. The CN is organized longitudinally into three parts. Within the middle portion of this nucleus, primary afferent projections and cuneothalamic cells are concentrated. Although traditional cytoarchitectonic analyses had failed to detect this tripartite organization in rats, we found evidence for it, with a functional middle region, extending approximately 0.2-0.9 mm caudal to the obex, characterized by precise somatotopy of primary afferent terminations and corresponding somatotopy of cytochrome oxidase (CO) blotches. Additional evidence is presented here consistent with a functionally distinct middle region within the rat's CN: (1) patches of dense synaptophysin (a synaptic-vesical-associated protein)-immunoreactivity (SYN-IR) are limited to the middle CN region, coincident with the dense CO blotches; (2) neurons immunoreactive for the calcium-binding proteins calbindin-D28 (CB), calretinin (CR) and parvalbumin (PV) are concentrated in the middle CN region. Furthermore, in adult rats subjected to perinatal forepaw removal, (1) the patterns of SYN-IR in the middle region of the CN are disrupted, as had previously been shown for the patterns of CO blotches; (2) in contrast, however, distributions of CN cells with PV-, CB- and CR-IR are unaffected. Evidence for a tripartite division in the GN is also presented, based on the distributions of cells with PV-, CB- and CR-IR.
8624131: !synaptophysin Neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects of hAPP in transgenic mice. To better understand the role the human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP) plays in Alzheimer's disease (AD), it is essential to define its primary function(s). Here we expressed different hAPPs in neurons of transgenic (tg) mice to characterize their effects on the intact central nervous system (CNS). Immunolabeled brain sections of tg and non-tg mice were compared quantitatively by microdensitometry and computer-aided analysis of laser scanning confocal digitized images. Compared with non-tg mice, tg mice overexpressing hAPPs showed an increase in the number of synaptophysin immunoreactive presynaptic terminals as well as in the expression of the growth-associated marker GAP-43. While non-tg controls and tg mice expressing hAPP751 at moderate levels displayed a normal pattern of reinnervation of the dentate gyrus following perforant pathway transection, tg mice expressing hAPP695 at severalfold higher levels showed an accentuation of the synaptic loss and no sprouting reaction. In addition, expression of hAPP751 at moderate levels effectively protected neurons against excitotoxic injury induced either acutely by systemic injection of kainic acid or chronically by transgene-driven glial production of the soluble HIV-1 protein gp120. Neuronal expression of hAPP695 at higher levels provided less excitoprotection. Our findings are consistent with the postulate that APP plays a role in the formation/maintenance of synapses and that processes which affect this function could contribute to the synaptic pathology seen in AD. Our study also revealed that hAPPs can exert important excitoprotective functions in vivo and that the efficiency of this protection may depend on the hAPP isoform expressed as well as on the level of neuronal hAPP expression. Neuronal overexpression of hAPP beyond a certain level may have detrimental effects on the CNS, particularly in the context of secondary neural injuries.
8822372: !synaptophysin Prevention of HIV-1 gp120-induced neuronal damage in the central nervous system of transgenic mice by the NMDA receptor antagonist memantine. To investigate the in vivo role of NMDA receptor stimulation in HIV-1-related CNS neurotoxicity, we evaluated the neuroprotective potential of the NMDA receptor antagonist memantine in transgenic mice which have gp120-induced CNS damage. Brains of mice treated chronically with memantine and of untreated controls were analysed for structural damage by laser scanning confocal microscopy of sections immunolabeled for microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP-2) and synaptophysin. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of confocal images revealed that memantine treatment substantially decreased neuropathology in gp120 transgenic mice; this included statistically significant improvements in both dendritic and presynaptic terminal density. These results provide in vivo evidence that gp120 can activate neurotoxic pathways that can ultimately result in aberrant NMDA receptor stimulation and neuronal damage in the CNS. They also suggest that clinically tolerated NMDA receptor antagonists may be useful in the prevention of neuronal damage in HIV-1-infected patients.
8557647: !synaptophysin Stimulus-dependent phosphorylation of MacMARCKS, a protein kinase C substrate, in nerve termini and PC12 cells. MacMARCKS (also known as myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate (MARCKS)-related protein) is a member of the MARCKS family of protein kinase C substrates, which binds Ca2+/calmodulin in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. Immunoprecipitation demonstrated that MacMARCKS is present in both PC12 cells and in neurons. Upon depolarization of PC12 cells with 60 mM KCl, MacMARCKS phosphorylation increased 4-fold over basal levels in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. By immunofluorescence microscopy, MacMARCKS was colocalized in PC12 cells to neurite tips with the synaptic vesicle membrane protein synaptophysin and to vesicles in the perinuclear region. Subcellular fractionation demonstrated that MacMARCKS associates tightly with membranes in PC12 cells. In Percoll-purified rat cerebrocortical synaptosomes, depolarization with 60 mM KCl in the presence of exogenous Ca2+ transiently increased MacMARCKS phosphorylation, whereas phorbol ester promoted a sustained increase in MacMARCKS phosphorylation. Subcellular fractionation of rat brain indicated that MacMARCKS was present in both soluble and particulate fractions; particulate MacMARCKS was associated with both small vesicles and highly purified synaptic vesicles. These results are consistent with a role for MacMARCKS in integrating Ca(2+)-calmodulin and protein kinase C-dependent signals in the regulation of neurosecretion.
8720497: !synaptophysin Distribution of Rab3a in rat nervous system: comparison with other synaptic vesicle proteins and neuropeptides. In the present study we have investigated the distribution of Rab3a in rat peripheral nervous system and compared it with the distribution of other synaptic vesicle proteins (synaptophysin, synapsin I), neuropeptides (CGRP, SP, NPY) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Rab3a immunoreactivity (-IR) was always colocalized with synaptophysin-IR and synapsin I-IR in nerve terminals of the spinal cord and peripheral nerve endings. In many cases, Rab3a-IR was also present in the same axons and terminals as peptides. In crushed sciatic nerve axons, Rab3a was colocalized, proximal to the crush, with synaptophysin-IR, synapsin I-IR, CGRP-IR, and TH-IR, but only partially co-localized with NPY-IR and SP-IR. In the area distal to the crush, Rab3a-IR was very weakly positive in a few thin axons, while larger amount of synaptophysin, CGRP, NPY and SP immunoreactivities were detected. The subcellular distribution of peptides and Rab3a differed in that peptides were observed mainly in large granular structures, while Rab3a-IR was observed mainly as diffuse, finely granular immunoreactivity, in addition to a few exceptional large granules present in some axons. The results demonstrate that Rab3a is widely distributed in different types of neurons, i.e. motor, sensory, autonomic adrenergic and cholinergic neurons, and colocalized with other synaptic vesicle proteins, suggesting that Rab3a may play an essential role in neuronal function. Furthermore, Rab3a is present in many peptide containing axons and terminals, but with an apparently different subcellular distribution, being affiliated mostly with small synaptic vesicles and only occasionally with large vesicles, that may represent peptide contained vesicles.
12114804: !synaptophysin Overview of Neuroendocrine Cells and Tumors. The diffuse neuroendocrine system (DNES) is composed of cells and tumors with secretory granules ranging from 50-400 nm in diameter. Members of the DNES commonly stain for chromogranin and synaptophysin by immunohistochemistry and may express a variety of peptide hormones. Recent studies have shown that the proprotein convertases (proconvertases or PCs) are good broad-spectrum markers for members of the DNES. Gene expression can be readily detecting in neuroendocrine cells and tumors by in situ hybridization (ISH). Newer techniques such as in situ polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can be used to detect gene products that are expressed in low copy numbers in neuroendocrine cells. The concept of multidirectional differentiation is an important notion that helps to explain multiple patterns of phenotypic expression observed in some neuroendocrine tumors.
9812423: !synaptophysin Clinical, radiological and histological presentations of dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNT). Report of two cases. Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT) is a recently described rare brain neoplasm with characteristic clinical and morphological features and favorable prognosis. We report here two cases of DNT. The first concerned a 12 years old girl who presented complex seizures preceded by acoustic aura (melodies). Computed tomography revealed a hypodense tumor measuring 2 x 2.5 cm in diameter, located paracortically in the left temporal lobe. The second tumor was removed from a 21-year-old man with partial complex seizures. Nine years earlier patient underwent neurosurgery with partial removal of the tumor The tumor's histopathologic diagnosis is unfortunately lacking. Computed and magnetic resonance imaging showed a mass occupying the cortex and paracortical areas of the anterior pole of the temporal lobe. Histologically, both tumors consisted of small, S-100 protein immunopositive oligodendrocyte-like cells (OLCs) arranged between synaptophysin- and, to a lesser degree, NFP-immunopositive axons (glioneuronal element). In the second case, an area of pilocytic astrocytoma-like appearance was also found, these cells were immunopositive for GFAP. The present study provides clinical, radiological and histological data, which may be helpful in differential diagnosis of this newly recognised brain tumor.
9190699: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma: clinical, immunohistologic, and biologic findings of a human neuroglial progenitor tumor. Central neurocytomas are rare brain tumors recognized by their typical radiologic and histologic features. In general, a good prognosis is achieved by total removal. The histogenesis is still under debate, but a neuronal origin is widely assumed.
9106385: !synaptophysin Differentiation of epidermal growth factor-responsive neural precursor cells within neurospheres. Genetically unmodified neural precursor cells (NPCs) derived from rate embryonic cortex were stimulated with Long-epidermal growth factor in vitro to form multicellular neurospheres. In our study, histology and transmission electron microscopy was for the first time utilized for analysis of three-dimensional neurospheres. Immunohistochemical phenotypization carried out on paraffin-embedded section revealed that most cells in the neurosphere expressed high levels of vimentin that is normally found in immature neural cells. Majority of glial cells expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) that is a specific marker for differentiated astrocytes. On the other hand, myelin basic protein (MBP), a marker of oligodendrocytes, was found only in a discrete subpopulation of glial cells. Similarly, electron microscopy recognized only rate myelin sheaths surrounding axons. Some cells displayed neuron-like morphology and were labelled with antibodies recognizing the neuronal antigens: 210 kDa neurofilaments (NF 210) and microtubule associated protein-2 (MAP-2). Surprisingly well-developed interneuronal synapses were found electronmicroscopically. The presence of synaptic vesicles was also confirmed by immunohistochemical detection of synaptophysin. Our results show that NPCs in neurospheres gradually differentiate into glial and neuronal cells.
9017169: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical study in breast carcinoma. S100-protein positive cells and neuroendocrine differentiation. In this study S100-protein positive cells were found in all 12 cases of benign dysplastic changes and in all of the investigated 53 cases of breast carcinomas. These cells belong to interdigitating cells (IDC) and were located in a regular pattern in the basal cell layer of the ducts and alveolar nodules in benign lesions. However, in breast carcinomas S100-protein positive IDC were in various pattern of distribution; only in the stroma, in basal cell layer, between cancer cells and S100-protein positivity of IDC and epithelial cancer cells. This phenomenon suggests the antigenic modulation of cancer cells transferring them the property of S100-protein positive cells or it may be the consequence of fusion. Immunoreactivity for chromogranin A (ChgA) and synaptophysin (Syn) was found in epithelial cells in some cases of benign dysplastic changes. However, in some carcinoma cases ChgA and Syn were revealed in carcinoma cells, in myoepithelial cells, in some stromal mesenchymal cells and endothelial cells. Immunoreactivity to smooth muscle actin was shown in the endothelial and smooth muscle cells of the vessel's wall, in myoepithelial cells and was also sporadic in carcinoma cells.
9013418: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin in spinal anterior horn in aging and ALS: an immunohistological study. Aged-related spinal cord changes such as neuronal loss have been related to the degree of clinical severity of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS); morphological data on synapses are, however, wanting. Variations in synaptophysin (Sph) expression in aging and ALS were thus studied at the level of lower motor neurons in 40 controls with non-neurological diseases and 11 cases of ALS. Control sections of formalin fixed paraffin embedded cervical (C7/8), thoracic (T10) and lumbar spinal cord (L5) and C6, C7, C8 and L5 of ALS cases were stained with haematoxylin and eosin, luxol fast blue (LFB), and immunostained with a mouse monoclonal antibody against Sph. The neuropil of the anterior horn (AH) in all control cases demonstrated Sph positivity. A dot-like pattern of positivity of presynaptic terminals on soma of motor neurons and fine immunoreactivity along neuronal processes were observed. A significant reduction of Sph immunostaining was observed in the neuropil with increasing age and 3 different somatic patterns were seen: a- well preserved Sph reactivity around the soma and the proximal dendrites of histologically normal neurons; b- few chromatolytic neurons showing large numbers of dot-like presynaptic terminals around the cell body and in a "fused" pattern; c- intense, diffuse, and homogeneous reactivity of some neurons. Attenuation of Sph reactivity in the AH neuropil, to its complete loss, was observed in all ALS cases. In addition to patterns a-c, two additional microscopic findings were noted in ALS: d- chromatolytic neurons showing complete absence of Sph reactivity; e- absence of Sph reactivity around the soma and the proximal dendrites of histologically normal surviving neurons. Our findings demonstrate that there is a decrease in Sph immunostaining with aging, thus suggesting an alteration in dendritic networks of the AH with aging. Changes in the pattern of Sph immunoreactivity in cell bodies may represent synaptic plasticity and/or degeneration. Reinnervation may also be a possible mechanism as a response to neuronal loss in oldest control cases. Sph reactivity results may thus lend support to the presence of superimposed aging components in ALS cases which may give an insight into explaining the increasing severity of the disease which is encountered with advancing age.
9009691: !synaptophysin Redistribution of clathrin and synaptophysin at the frog neuromuscular junction triggered by nerve stimulation: immunocytochemical studies of vesicle trafficking. 
8971922: !synaptophysin PC12 cells show immunoreactivity to a number of proteins and peptides, including vasostatin. N-terminal chromogranin A (CGA) contains peptides with vasoinhibitory properties, called vasostatin I (VST) and II [CGA (1-76) and (1-113) in human and bovine; (1-128) in rat]. Three fragments of VST were synthesized and antisera raised: human CGA (68-76) (VST I) rat CGA (121-128) (VST II fragment 2), and bovine/human CGA (83-91) (VST II, fragment 3). Strong immunoreactivity was observed in PC12 cells with antisera to VST II, fragment 3, VST I, and neuron-specific enolase. Little or no immunoreactivity was observed using antisera to synaptophysin, whole molecule CGA, pancreastatin, protein gene product 9.5, somatostatin, pancreatic polypeptide, or with antibodies 875 and 876 to VST II, fragment 2. Most of the VST antisera cross-reacted, with a species of molecular weight, 61 kDa but one, 874, cross-reacted with two species of molecular weights, 7.2 and 12 kDa. Our results show the presence of N-terminally processed CGA in PC12 cells.
8963631: !synaptophysin Peripherin: a novel marker for the immunohistochemical study of malformations of the enteric nervous system. Pheripherin is a 57-kD type III intermediate filament that is a specific marker for peripheral neruons, including enteric ganglion cells (GCs). Hence antibodies to peripherin may be used to demonstrate abnormalities of the enteric nervous system (ENS). Serial longitudinal histologic sections of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded colons from 15 patients were immunostained for peripherin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), neurofilaments, S-100, and synaptophysin. Ten patients had variable degrees of colonic aganglionosis (Hirschsprung's disease), three were premature in infants, and two were controls. Peripherin labeling yielded the highest number of recognizable GCs. Overall, 56%, 78%, and 80% of the peripherin-positive GCs in the myenteric plexus were identified by staining for neurofilaments, NSE, and S-100, respectively. Intramucosal GCs were detected in 4 of 10 cases of Hirschspring's disease (HD), none of which had been evident by routine histology. The other neuronal markers were less specific for intramucosal GCs than peripherin, because they also added enterochromaffin cells. Peripherin immunohistochemistry also allowed exact quantification of GC density expressed as GCs/mm colon, which is important for the diagnosis of HD-related disorders. In three cases of HD the GC density of the transition zone was markedly elevated compared with more proximal ganglionic bowel segments, consistent with neuronal intestinal dysplasia type B, and two cases of HD showed low GC density within the transition zone. Hence peripherin immunolabeling may prove to be a valuable aid in the diagnosis and classification of congenital malformations of the ENS.
8963622: !synaptophysin An unusual cerebellar primitive neuroectodermal tumor with t(11;22) translocation: pathological and molecular analysis. Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) consistently demonstrate a reciprocal translocation, t(11;22)(q24;q12). This translocation has not been found in PNETs of the central nervous system including the cerebellar medulloblastoma. We report an unusual cerebellar PNET in a 4-year-old boy in which tumor cells were surrounded by pools of Alcian blue-positive material. Tumor cells were immunoreactive for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. Electron microscopy revealed well-developed rough endoplasmic reticulum, cell processes with intermediate filaments, microtubules, and dense core granules, and extracellular material reminiscent of mucopolysaccharide. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (PCR) revealed an 11;22 translocation-specific PCR product. Clinically the tumor was a cerebellar PNET with leptomeningeal dissemination and there was no evidence to suggest that it was metastatic. Histopathology, however, was indicative of an unusual PNET that also manifested t(11;22) and was associated with an aggressive clinical course.
8950315: !synaptophysin Vesamicol, an inhibitor of acetylcholine vesicle packaging, increases synaptophysin phosphorylation in rat cortical synaptosomes. Vesamicol (AH5183) is an inhibitor (IC50, 50 nM) of acetylcholine (ACh) vesicle packaging. Vesamicol increases the phosphorylation pattern of synaptophysin (p38), identified as a vesicle-specific phosphoprotein involved in vesicle-mediated neurotransmitter release. Percoll fractionation of the rat cortex yielded a cholinergic-enriched synaptosomal Fraction 4. Fraction 4 contained the highest enrichment of cholineacetyl-transferase activity (86 +/- 4.6 mumole AcCh/g protein/hr.) in the Percoll gradient. Fraction 4 demonstrated oxygen consumption (108 +/- 23.4 nmole/mg protein), levels of adenosine triphosphate, ATP, (10.29 +/- 0.45 nmole/mg protein) and adenosine diphosphate, ADP, (10.54 +/- 2.72 nmole/mg protein), energy potential (ATP/[ADP] [Pi], (0.49) phosphate uptake (65-80 nmoles phosphate/mg tissue), 32Pi labelling (130 +/- 12 x 10(5) DPM/mg tissue; 74 +/- 9.8 x 10(2) nmoles phosphate/mg tissue). Synaptophysin was identified by Western blotting and confirmed by qualitative immunoprecipitation. Synaptophysin phosphorylation was confirmed by autoradiograph. Synaptophysin phosphorylation increased (225%) in the presence of vesamicol (ED50, 1 nM) in Fraction 4. Vesamicol (50 nM) and vanadate (54 microM) were compared for their effects on synaptophysin. This study suggests that during the inhibition of acetylcholine packaging by vesamicol that synaptophysin is phosphorylated. Therefore, the phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of synaptophysin may be involved in the transport of acetylcholine in or out of the synaptic vesicle.
8929143: !synaptophysin [Melanotic neuroectodermal tumor in a newborn]. The tumor consists of two types of cells: small with abundant processes cells capable of dividing and probably being neuroblasts, and the big melanocytes forming bands and glandular-like structures. Tumor cells (mainly melanocytes) express pancytokeratins, S-100 protein, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and melanin antigen. These data are the additional indication that melanotic neuroectodermal tumor is the derivative of the neural crest.
8928613: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterization of subependymal giant cell astrocytomas. Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) is the most common neoplastic process involving the brain in patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). Morphologically, these tumors exhibit a wide range of cytoarchitecture with spindle and epithelioid cells resembling astrocytes, and also large, occasionally giant cells, some of which have a distinctly ganglion-like appearance. Unresolved questions regarding SEGAs center on: (a) their cytogenesis, i.e., whether they are derived from single or multiple precursors; and (b) their differentiating capacity along glial or neuronal lines. We sought to determine whether SEGAs represent truly mixed tumors or whether they consist of a single population of cells with a capacity for divergent differentiation. Twenty SEGAs were assessed for immunophenotypic features of either neuronal or glial differentiation or both. Only tumors from patients with a clinically confirmed diagnosis of TSC were included. Immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and/or S-100 protein was considered indicative of a glial phenotype, whereas the presence of neuronal differentiation was assessed by staining for cytoskeletal proteins [neurofilament epitopes, class III Beta-tubulin, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), synaptophysin], neurosecretory substances [serotonin, cholecystokinin, Beta-endorphin, substance P, somatostatin, metenkephalin, neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), and for the 28-kDa neuron-associated calcium binding protein calbindin. Of the tumors examined, 18 exhibited both glial and neuronal epitopes, the staining pattern being variable. In 19 tumors, the constituent spindle, polygonal and giant or ganglion-like cells showed variable immunoreactivity for GFAP and S-100 proteins both within the cell body and processes. Neuron-associated cytoskeletal proteins were present in 18 cases. Class III Beta-tubulin immunoreactivity was demonstrated in 17 tumors, both within the bodies of all three cell types and to varying degrees within their processes. Neurofilament protein and calbindin staining was present in 8 tumors, with reactivity for the former being distributed in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. MAP2 was detected in a few cells of two tumors. Immunoreactivity for neuropeptides was observed in 17 lesions. Somatostatin and metenkephalin staining was noted in 10 tumors (50%) being present particularly within polygonal cells. Neuropeptide Y, serotonin and Beta-endorphin reactivity was found in 6 (30%), 5 (25%), and 4 tumors (20%), respectively; Beta-endorphin was lacking in giant cells, whereas neuropeptide Y and serotonin were seen within their cell bodies. Substance P and VIP were evident in only occasional polygonal cells of 2 (10%) and 1 tumor (5%), respectively. Stains for cholecystokinin were negative. The observation of immunoreactivity for both glial- and neuron-associated epitopes within tumor cells of the same morphology suggests that SEGAs represent proliferations of cell lineages with the capacity to undergo divergent glioneuronal as well as neuroendocrine differentiation to a greater extent than do other mixed glial-neuronal neoplasms.
8852935: !synaptophysin Differential immunocytochemical localization of calretinin in the pineal gland of three mammalian species. Calcium plays an important role for signal transduction in the mammalian pineal organ. The regulation of the intracellular concentration of free calcium probably involves calcium-binding proteins of the calmodulin superfamily. In the present study, we have investigated the expression of calretinin, one member of this superfamily, in the pineal organ of hamsters, gerbils and guinea-pigs by means of immunochemical and immunocytochemical analyses with a calretinin-specific antiserum. In immunoblots this antibody recognized a single protein band of approximately 29 kDa in the brain and pineal organ of all three mammalian species. Immunocytochemical investigations of serial semithin sections of plastic-embedded pineals revealed the constant occurrence of variable numbers of calretinin-positive cells throughout all glands. In order to identify the immunopositive cells precisely, adjacent sections were exposed to antibodies against various marker proteins of pineal cell types, i.e., synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, protein gene product 9.5, S-antigen, vimentin and S-100. By this approach, calretinin could be localized to vimentin-positive cells in the gerbil which are generally considered as interstitial glial cells. Likewise, calretinin-positive cells in the guinea-pig probably correspond to interstitial cells, taking into account their morphology and the lack of calretinin immunoreactivity in pinealocytes. The unusual expression of calretinin in astrocyte-like cells further supports the notion that pineal glial cells are endowed with peculiar properties. In contrast to gerbil and guinea-pig, a subpopulation of pinealocytes displayed calretinin immunoreactivity in the hamster. This finding adds to the hypothesis that in pinealocytes of some species calretinin plays a role in calcium-mediated signal transduction which eventually is linked to melatonin synthesis. Our results demonstrate that calretinin is a regular constituent of pineal glands in three mammalian species, but that its cellular localisation shows interspecific variation. This variation suggests that the protein is involved in diverse calcium-mediated functions in the mammalian pineal gland.
8848126: !synaptophysin Morphological changes in sympathetic preganglionic neurons after spinal cord injury in rats. Spinal cord injury results in abnormal sympathetic control of the cardiovascular system, perhaps because of reactions of sympathetic preganglionic neurons to loss of their supraspinal afferent inputs. We investigated morphological changes in sympathetic preganglionic neurons in rats one week after midthoracic spinal cord hemisection or complete transection and one month after complete transection. Morphological changes in adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons retrogradely-labelled by cholera toxin were examined as well as changes in other thoracic preganglionic neurons identified by their expression of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase. Reactive astrogliosis around these neurons was determined by assessing changes in immunoreactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein. Changes in immunoreactivity to the synaptic vesicular protein synaptophysin were also evaluated in these areas. One week after transection, a comparison of sympathetic preganglionic neurons rostral and caudal to the lesion revealed significant loss of dendrites and decreased cell size caudal to the injury. Reactive astrocytes surrounded sympathetic preganglionic neurons as far as six segments below the transection. Constitutive expression of synaptophysin was observed rostral to the cord hemisection and synaptophysin expression was increased caudal to the lesion by seven days after the injury. One month after transection, the dendritic arbor of preganglionic neurons was re-established and the intensity of the reactive gliosis around the preganglionic neurons was diminished throughout the thoracic cord. These findings demonstrate that sympathetic preganglionic neurons undergo significant atrophy within a week after deafferentation and that this reaction is reversed within one month. Reactive astrogliosis could contribute to plastic changes in the neuropil that affect the sympathetic neurons, and the enhanced expression of synaptophysin in the gray matter caudal to a cord injury is consistent with fibre outgrowth leading to new synapse formation. Such re-organization could be one of the mechanisms for disorders in blood pressure control that occur after spinal cord injury.
8826014: !synaptophysin Three cases of carcinoid in the equine nasal cavity and maxillary sinuses: histologic and immunohistochemical features. Three cases of carcinoid tumor in horses are described. The tumors originated from the maxillary sinuses and the retrobulbar region and caused exophthalmos. Histologically, they had a characteristic endocrine pattern and were argyrophilic with the Grimelius stain. All tumors contained reactivity for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. Two of three tumors were reactive for both bovine and porcine chromogranin A. These immunohistochemical results confirm the neuroendocrine nature of these tumors. Neuroendocrine cells could not be detected in the nasal mucosa and maxillary sinuses of a normal horse; therefore, the origin of these carcinoid tumors remains obscure.
8787157: !synaptophysin Human central neurocytoma cells show neuronal physiological properties in vitro. Central neurocytoma is a rare brain tumor composed of small round synaptophysin-positive cells, suggesting a neuronal origin of these tumor cells. Glial properties are inferred, however, from the observation that the tumor cells exhibit a strong morphological similarity to oligodendroglioma cells and show an astrocytic differentiation in vitro. To test for neuronal or glial physiological properties, we studied cultured neurocytoma cells derived from a surgical specimen from a 44-year-old man, employing the patch-clamp technique. Early primary cultures were composed of morphologically unique bi- or multipolar cells which were positive for synaptophysin and negative for the astrocyte marker glial fibrillary acidic protein. In the majority of these cells, whole-cell membrane current recordings revealed physiological properties of neurons, i.e., a high density of Na+ currents, the capacity to generate action potentials, and the expression of inotropic neurotransmitter receptors. Metabotropic neurotransmitter receptors could be demonstrated by Ca2+ imaging techniques. The remaining bi- or multipolar cells and almost all cells in later culture stages and in vitro passage lacked these neuronal properties and showed physiological features characteristic of glial cells. We conclude that the major population of neurocytoma cells shows physiological properties of neurons and that with time in culture this population is replaced by electrically passive cells.
8781655: !synaptophysin Neuronal and glial characteristics of central neurocytoma: electron microscopical analysis of two cases. We have identified two central neurocytomas which contained cells co-expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein and synaptophysin defined by double-label immunostaining. Dual-positive cells were mostly polygonal in shape and with a morphological appearance similar to that of reactive astrocytes. This distinct morphology could be used to distinguish cells expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein from cells with round and clear cytoplasm which did not express glial fibrillary acidic protein and which composed the majority of the tumor. Samples containing polygonal cells were selected for electron microscopy from toluidine blue-stained semithin sections. Ultrastructural findings were similar in both neurocytomas, with both being composed predominantly of round cells with clear cytoplasm corresponding to the clear cells identified by light microscopy. Dense-core vesicles and clear vesicles were frequently observed in the cell processes. Apart from these clear cells, polygonal cells with electron-dense cytoplasm were noted. Paralleling the result of double immunostaining, these polygonal cells contained both dense-core vesicles and intermediate, presumably glial filaments. Microtubules and lipofuscin granules were also observed. These results suggest that cells expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein in central neurocytoma include tumor cells with both neuronal and glial characteristics.
8776173: !synaptophysin [Gastric hamartoma and thyroid gland carcinoma with follicular and neuroendocrine differentiation in Cowden syndrome]. A 40-year old male patient presented with a history of subtotal strumectomy, excision of multiple cutaneous lesions at the upper trunk and gastrointestinal polyposis of unknown origin. The patient was admitted for weight loss and intermittent diarrhea. Physical examination revealed craniomegaly, papillomatosis of the oral mucosa and epigastric tenderness. Endoscopically, multiple polyps were seen in the stomach, the duodenum, the terminal ileum, the distal colon and the rectum. Histologically, these lesions were classified as hamartomatous and hyperplastic polyps. In the punctate of the relapsed nodular goitre, neoplastic follicular cells were found. These findings led to the diagnosis of Cowden's disease. A complete thyroidectomy was performed. The histology verified a follicular thyroid carcinoma and showed a combined expression of thyroglobulin and of the neuroendocrine marker synaptophysin (appr. 50% of all tumor cells). Chromogranin A (a neuroendocrine tumor marker) was also elevated in the serum of the patient. Postoperatively, a radioiodine therapy was performed and the clinical condition of the patient has improved ever since. The presented case of Cowden's disease is the first male patient with thyroid carcinoma. Early consideration of Cowden's disease is substantial as multiple malignant neoplasms may occur in this disorder in increased incidence.
8767675: !synaptophysin [Immunohistochemical study of 17 cases of rectal neuroendocrine tumors]. Seventeen rectal neuroendocrine tumors ("Rectal Carcinoids") were studied by immunohistochemistry using antibodies directed against neuroendocrine markers: chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, neuroendocrine peptides (ACTH, glicentin, glucagon, pancreatic polypeptide, somatostatin, vasoactive intestinal peptide) and antibody against serotonin. All patients with tumors measuring 1 cm or less had no specific symptoms and survived between fifteen months and eight years. Only one patient with a 6 cm poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma died less than one year after diagnosis. Only five out of seventeen tumors secreted serotonin. Most tumors were derived from L cell secreting glucagon, glicentin or pancreatic polypeptide.
8739399: !synaptophysin Correlations between mental state and quantitative neuropathology in the Vienna Longitudinal Study on Dementia. Quantitative clinicopathological correlation studies are one way to address the question of the relevance of morphological abnormalities in Alzheimer's dementia (AD). This paper summarizes results of the Vienna Longitudinal Study on Dementia obtained during the past few years and presents a critical discussion on the relevance of clinicopathological correlation studies for the pathogenesis of AD. Plotting of psychometric test scores against the numbers of plaques, tangles and neuropil threads in various cortical areas shows that significant correlations are due primarily to very high lesion counts in severely demented patients. These data indicate that neocortical neurofibrillary pathology can be considered an end-stage marker in the pathology of AD. On the other hand, the topographical staging of neuritic Alzheimer changes proposed by Braak and Braak (1991) appears to be a better reflection of the progression of the degenerative process than numerical lesion counts; there is a linear correlation between the Braak stages and Mini-Mental State scores in 122 aged individuals. Significant correlations are further obtained between the severity of dementia and the levels of a number of synaptic proteins including synaptophysin and the chromogranins. Taken together, our data suggest that none of the classical AD lesions, plaques and tangles, play a central role in the pathogenesis of dementia, a fact that is supported by a molecular biological study showing that there is no close relationship between these lesions and the neurons undergoing degeneration in AD. Whereas neuritic pathology is a useful histopathological marker for the diagnosis and staging of AD, the major correlate of cognitive deficits is the loss of corticocortical and subcorticocortical connections reflected by a depletion of synapses. This pathology may be induced by a mismetabolism of the beta-amyloid precursor proteins or their interaction with cytoskeletal proteins related to neuronal degeneration.
8705269: !synaptophysin The immunohistochemistry and ultrastructure of ganglioglioma with chromosomal alterations: a case report. Ganglioglioma, together with its counterparts-ganglioneuroma and gangliocytoma are relatively uncommon neoplasms of the brain composed of neoplastic neurons (ganglion and ganglioid cells) and glial cells. We report here a case of ganglioglioma studied by electron microscopy. The case was further characterized by peculiar chromosomal alterations, 46,XX[6]/43,XX[1], der(1)t(1;5)(q21;q12), der(8;13)(q10;q10),-9,i(10)(q10). Routine light microscopy revealed mixed neuro-glial tumor composed of pilocytic astrocytes with abundant Rosenthal fibers and relatively numerous ganglion cells. The latter were immunoreactive with antibodies (Abs) against synaptophysin and neurofilament protein (NFP). Anti-NFP Abs also immunostained numerous distorted axons embedded in the tumor mass. Some of these showed bullous swellings and thus were analogous to dystrophic neurites or spheroids. Ganglion cells were characterized by abundant intracytoplasmic dense-core vesicles, absence of intermediate filaments and numerous microtubules. Occasionally a close apposition of ganglion cells and Rosenthal fibers were seen. Dense-cored vesicles were pleomorphic and ranged in diameter from small synaptic vesicles to large lysosome-like neurosecretory granules. The former occasionally formed characteristic dumbbell shapes. Neoplastic astrocytes were identical to those of other glial tumors of astrocytic lineage; numerous Rosenthal fibers were frequently seen.
8697656: !synaptophysin Reinnervation of post-arthritic joints in the rat. To clarify the role of articular innervation during the acute and post-arthritic phases, we investigated the changes taking place over time in the nerve fibers from joint tissues of adjuvant arthritic rats.
8546207: !synaptophysin Altered presynaptic protein NACP is associated with plaque formation and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. We have recently identified, in the brain tissue of patients afflicted with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the non-A beta component of AD amyloid (NAC) as a new constituent of amyloid. NAC is derived from a larger precursor, NACP, a presynaptic protein. To better understand the role of NACP/NAC in the pathogenesis of AD, we used semiquantitative immunoblotting and combined double-immunocytochemistry/laser scanning confocal microscopy to study the concentration and distribution of NACP/NAC in human brain, and compared them to the concentration and distribution of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin and the amyloid marker A beta. The semiquantitative immunoblotting demonstrated that the NACP concentration is slightly increased in the AD frontal cortex without statistical significance, whereas synaptophysin was reduced in its levels in AD. Consequently the proportion of NACP/synaptophysin was more than double in the AD frontal cortex as compared with controls. In the AD neocortex, NACP was colocalized with approximately 80% of the synaptophysin-immunoreactive structures (presumably the presynaptic terminals) and with the dystrophic neuritic component of the plaques. Computer-aided analysis showed that numbers of NACP-immunoreactive structures along synaptophysin-immunoreactive structures were significantly diminished (30 to 40%) in AD. Although the overall numbers of NACP-positive structures were decreased, there was a significant increase in the intensity of NACP-immunoreactivity per structure in AD. This increased intensity of NACP immunoreactivity per structure in AD was not observed with anti-synaptophysin, consistent with immunoblotting-based quantification. Antibodies against NAC immunoreacted with amyloid in 35% of the diffuse plaques and 55% of the mature plaques. Normal aged control brains containing small groups of diffuse plaques were negative with anti-NAC. Double-immunolabeling studies with A beta antibodies showed that NAC immunoreactivity is more abundant in the center portion of amyloid rather than in the periphery. These studies suggest that there is a connection between metabolism of presynaptic proteins and amyloid formation, and that NAC might follow diffuse A beta accumulation resulting in the formation of compact amyloid and mature plaques.
8540612: !synaptophysin Divergent differentiation in pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma. Evidence for a neuronal element and possible relationship to ganglion cell tumors. We report the detection of cytoplasmic immunoreactivity for neuronal/neuroendocrine antigens in a subpopulation of tumor cells within seven pleomorphic xanthoastrocytomas (PXAs). The expression of glial and neuronal polypeptides was examined in routinely prepared surgical resections by immunohistochemistry using well-characterized antibodies that recognize glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), synaptophysin (SYN), and neurofilament triplet polypeptides (NFPs) in microwave-enhanced single- and double-immunolabelling experiments. Each neoplasm contained cells that were immunoreactive for SYN and/or NFPs, GFAP, and occasionally for both GFAP and either NFP or SYN. We conclude that abortive neuronal/neuroendocrine differentiation may occur in PXAs, suggesting a relationship between PXA and other developmental neoplasms that reveal a more overt neuronal phenotype, such as ganglioglioma, dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor, and desmoplastic ganglioglioma, and with tumors expressing ambiguous glial/neuronal lineage, such as the subependymal giant cell tumor of tuberous sclerosis. These findings suggest that aberrant expression and accumulation of neuronal intermediate filaments may account for the large, pleomorphic cell morphology observed in many of these tumors.
8847415: !synaptophysin Adenosine A1 receptors are located predominantly on axons in the rat hippocampal formation. The nucleoside adenosine exerts potent biological effects via specific receptors, including the inhibitory A1 adenosine receptor (A1AR). In the hippocampus A1ARs play an important role in regulating neuronal activity. However, the cellular sites of hippocampal A1ARs are undefined. Using in situ hybridization, receptor autoradiography, and single- and double-label immunocytochemistry techniques, we have characterized the cellular sites of A1AR expression in the rat hippocampus. In situ hybridization and receptor autoradiography studies revealed strikingly different patterns of labeling. In situ hybridization studies revealed heaviest labeling of cell bodies in the granular layer of the dentate gyrus and the pyramidal layers of Ammon's horn. In contrast, using [3H]DPCPX, we observed heavy specific labeling over the neuropil in the dentate hilus stratum moleculare, stratum lacunosum-moleculare, stratum radiatum, and stratum oriens, and little labeling over cell bodies. Using single-label immunocytochemistry, A1AR immunoreactivity was found to be heaviest over fibers in regions corresponding with heavy [3H]DPCPX labeling. Double-label florescent confocal microscopy was then used to determine the identity of labeled fibers. A1AR immunoreactivity was found to co-localize with SMI-31 that labels axons, but not with MAP2a,b that labels cell bodies and dendrites, or with synaptophysin that labels synapses. These data identify axons as the predominant site of A1AR expression in hippocampus. Activation of A1ARs may be a powerful mechanism by which adenosine alters axonal transmission to inhibit neurotransmitter release.
7494232: !synaptophysin Irinotecan (CPT-11) and characteristic mucosal changes in the mouse ileum and cecum. Irinotecan--or CPT-11; 7-ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-piperidino]-carbonyloxy-camptotheci n--is an inhibitor of DNA topoisomerase I and is clinically effective against several cancers. A major toxic effect of CPT-11 is severe diarrhea; however, the exact mechanism by which the drug induces diarrhea has not been established. Cisplatin (CDDP; cis-diamminedichloroplatinum) and CPT-11 exhibit synergistic antitumor activity and have been used in combination-chemotherapy regimens. Single-agent chemotherapy with conventional doses of CDDP does not cause clinically relevant diarrhea.
7499863: !synaptophysin Subcellular distribution of docking/fusion proteins in neutrophils, secretory cells with multiple exocytic compartments. Neutrophils contain at least four distinct types of secretory organelles, which undergo exocytosis during infection and inflammation. The signaling pathways leading to secretion of individual granules and their kinetics of exocytosis vary greatly, causing temporal and regional differences in docking and fusion with the plasma membrane. As a step toward understanding the processes underlying differential granular secretion in neutrophils, we assessed the presence and distribution of a number of proteins reported to be involved in vesicular docking and/or fusion in other systems. Specific Abs were used for immunoblotting of cells fractionated by density gradients and free-flow electrophoresis, and for localization by confocal immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. Syntaxin 1, VAMP (vesicle-associated membrane protein)-1, synaptosome-associated protein-25 (SNAP-25), synaptophysin, and cellubrevin were not detectable in human neutrophils. In contrast, syntaxin 4, VAMP-2, and the 39-kDa isoform of secretory carrier membrane protein (SCAMP) were present. SCAMP was found mainly in secondary and tertiary granules and in a fraction containing secretory vesicles, but was virtually absent from the primary (lysosomal) granules. This profile is consistent with the proposed "post-Golgi" distribution of SCAMP. VAMP-2 was largely absent from primary and secondary granules, but concentrated in tertiary granules and secretory vesicles. This pattern of distribution parallels the increasing sensitivity of these exocytic compartments to intracellular free calcium. Accordingly, ionomycin induced translocation of VAMP-2 toward the plasma membrane. Syntaxin 4 was found almost exclusively in the plasma membrane, and it accumulated in lamellipodia of migrating cells. This regional accumulation may contribute to localized secretion into the phagosomal lumen.
8927219: !synaptophysin [A case of infantile ganglioglioma]. Gangliogliomas are common in childhood, but rare in infancy. The authors report a rare case of ganglioglioma who had an initial episode of complex partial seizure in infancy. A two-year-old girl was admitted for the surgical treatment of intractable seizures. She presented with an annual episode of seizure at two months old. The CT scan at 2 months old showed a light high-density tumor in the left medial temporal lobe. However, she had no treatment because she had no seizure since then and her psychomotor development was normal. She was treated with anticonvulsants from 1 year and 10 months old since seizures recurred. She was admitted to our ward at 2 years old because the frequency of seizures increased. Plain CT on admission showed an enlarged high density mass in left medial temporal lobe. The T1 weighted images of MRI demonstrated the mass to be isointense compared with the cortex, with homogeneously contrast enhancement. Total removal of the tumor was performed and histological diagnosis was ganglioglioma. She is seizure-free after surgery and synaptophysin was useful for the histological diagnosis. This case may indicate that gangliogliomas can be a congenital brain tumor which slowly enlarges.
8927215: !synaptophysin [Histogenesis of central neurocytoma: an immunohistochemical and electronmicroscopic study of four cases]. Four intraventricular central neurocytomas were studied histopathologically and intriguing findings were obtained with regard to the histogenesis of this tumor. The cases included 3 males and 1 female aged 17-25. The tumors had developed in the regions from the lateral to the third ventricles and were surgically removed in all the cases. A honeycomb appearance was recognized on H&E staining, and the calcification and latticed vascular findings closely mimicked the appearance of oligodendroglioma. A characteristic wide eosinophilic fibrous stroma was observed frequently. Immunohistochemically, all four cases were NSE-positive and strongly synaptophysin-positive, and by electronmicroscopy, neurosecretory granules and microtubules were observed in all cases and typical synapse structures in 2 cases. GFAP immunoreactivity and glial differentiation, including ependymal cells were exhibited electronmicroscopically, such as glial fibrils, basal bodies, centrioles and 9 + 1 patterned cilia-like structures in 2 cases. These findings suggest that central neurocytoma is an embryonal tumor in the wide sense, originating from the germinal matrix cell of the lateral ventricles and possessing multipotency, with potent differentiation from mature neurons.
8838953: !synaptophysin Melanotic neuroectodermal tumour of infancy: an immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. Two cases of melanotic neuro-ectodermal tumour of infancy (MNTI)--a rare neoplasm arising in the first year of life--are reported, with the results of immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination. The tumours consisted of a biphasic cell population in a fibrous stroma. The small, darkly staining cells comprising the first population stained positively for synaptophysin, showing them to be neuroblasts, and the large epithelioid cells comprising the second cell population stained positively with the antibodies HMB-45 and NKI-Beteb, showing them to be melanocytes. Ultrastructural examination of the second case confirmed the biphasic nature of the tumour cells, with secretory granules and neurofilaments in the neuroblastic population, and melanosomes in the epithelioid population. These results add to the evidence supporting the neural crest origin of MNTI and confirm its formation from two distinct cell lines. Both cases have responded to local excision, with no recurrence more than a year after initial treatment.
8808299: !synaptophysin Peripheral lung carcinomas associated with central fibrosis and mixed small cell and other histologic components. Three cases of peripheral small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) with central fibrosis are presented. Central fibrosis is usually present in adenocarcinomas. Cases 1 and 2 are combined SCLCs with components of papillary adenocarcinoma, and case 3 is a mixed SCLC with a large cell component. Small cell components showed intermediate cell type in all cases. In cases 1 and 2, there was a gradual transition between small cell carcinoma and papillary adenocarcinoma. Small cell components showed Grimelius argyrophilia, but other neuroendocrine markers such as neuron specific enolase, chromogranin A, Leu-7 and synaptophysin were negative. The chest X-ray examination of case 1 demonstrated rapid enlargement of a tumor shadow, which was present two years before, for a recent year. Central fibrosis, coexistence of small cell carcinoma and papillary adenocarcinoma, and a change of growth rate in the chest X-ray may suggest that some SCLC derive from papillary adenocarcinomas.
8747204: !synaptophysin Hebbian induction of LTP in visual cortex: perforated patch-clamp study in cultured neurons. 1. To see whether presynaptic activation paired with postsynaptic depolarization is necessary for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in visual cortex or whether an activation of postsynaptic receptors in conjunction with depolarization is sufficient, we carried out perforated patch-clamp recordings with nystatin from cultured cortical neurons of rats. 2. Recorded neurons were monosynaptically activated either by electrical stimulation of an adjacent neuron or by direct activation of glutamate on "hot spots" of dendrites through iontophoresis or pressure ejection. In experiments in which cultured neurons were stained immunocytochemically with antibody against synaptophysin after electrophysiological recordings, hot spots were found to correspond to probable synaptic sites. 3. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked by test stimulation applied to the adjacent neuron at 0.1 Hz were recorded at a holding potential of -60 or -70 mV for 5-10 min after an establishment of the whole cell recording configuration. Then, stimulation was paired with postsynaptic depolarization (0 mV for 200 ms) at 1 Hz for 30 or 60 s. LTP of EPSCs was induced in 7 of the 15 cells from which stable recordings were obtained for 18-30 min after pairing. 4. When postsynaptic depolarization was paired with direct glutamate application in the absence of presynaptic stimulation in 12 cells, only 1 showed LTP. Postsynaptic depolarization alone did not induce LTP in any of the six cells tested. Also, presynaptic stimulation alone did not induce LTP in any of the five cells tested. 5. These results suggest that the concurrent activation of presynaptic elements with postsynaptic depolarization is necessary for the induction of LTP in visual cortex.
8640896: !synaptophysin [Mixed carcinoid-carcinoma of the stomach]. Bioptical observation of a mixed carcinoid-carcinoma in a 75-year-old man's stomach was described. The subcardial tumour was 10-7 cm in diameter with secondaries in perigastric lymph nodes. A well differentiated adenocarcinoma with mucus production formed a minor marginal part of the carcinoid which expressed immunohistochemical markers common in gut cancers: carcinoembryonic antigen, epithelial membrane antigen and some cytokeratins. The well differentiated adenocarcinoma expressed different cytokeratins detected by AE1-AE3 antibody. The carcinoid was positive with Grimelius impregnation and strongly positive with chromogranin A and synaptophysin bound antibodies. Transition of both the tumour types was continuous.
8622802: !synaptophysin Selective vulnerability of hippocampal CA3 neurons to hypoxia after mild concussion in the rat. Immunohistochemical staining for microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and synaptophysin was used to investigate the effect of hypoxia on hippocampal neurons after mild concussion in the rat. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: Group 1 (n = 3) was subjected to a mild impact-acceleration closed head injury, group 2 (n = 3) was subjected to 30 min of moderate hypoxia, group 3 (n = 5) was subjected to head trauma followed by 30 min of moderate hypoxia, and group 4 (n = 3) comprised sham-operated controls. All rats were fixed by transcardial perfusion 24 h after insult. No damage was observed in CA1 or CA2 neurons in any of the rats. However, rats in group 3 showed selective damage of hippocampal CA3 neurons manifested by a pycnosis and a marked decrease in MAP2 immunoreactivity. Presynaptic terminals visualized by synaptophysin immunostaining showed no differences among groups. The loss of immunoreactivity for the post-synaptic somal and dendritic protein marker MAP2 from the CA3 subfield 24 h after combined insults indicates an increased vulnerability of pyramidal cells in this brain area.
8586569: !synaptophysin The neurochemical maturation of the rabbit cerebellum. The immunocytochemical distribution of several neuronal and glial antigens was investigated in the cerebellum of the developing and adult rabbit. Neurofilament positive neurons appeared at embryonic day (E) 25. Purkinje cells transiently expressed neurofilament polypeptides from postnatal day (P) 0 to 15. At later postnatal ages, staining was localised to the parallel fibres, the axonal arbors of the basket cells and fibres of the white matter. Neuron specific enolase (NSE) immunoreactivity was first detected at E25. At P0 Purkinje cells were positive and their staining intensity increased up to P25. From P30 to adulthood virtually all cells in the molecular and Purkinje cell layers were stained. Scattered PGP 9.5-immunoreactive neurons appeared in the cerebellar anlage at P25. Purkinje and Golgi cells were labelled by P0. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was first observed at P0 in the form of a fine punctate reaction surrounding the perikarya and proximal dendrites of Purkinje cells. By P10, it became particularly intense within the cerebellar glomeruli of the granular layer. Neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei expressed NSE and PGP 9.5 starting from E25. GFAP and S-100 immunoreactivities were first detected at P10. GFAP-immunopositive astrocytes progressively increased in number up to adulthood. S-100-immunoreactive glial cells were detected throughout the white and grey matter. Bergmann glial cells and their fibres were strongly immunoreactive. Vimentin positive glial cells and fibres were first observed at E15 and persisted up to adulthood. Double labelling experiments using a monoclonal antibody against the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a cyclin synthesised by mitotic cells, showed that neuronal and/or glial polypeptides are expressed only by fully differentiated postmitotic cells. These results indicate that major events in the neurochemical maturation of the rabbit cerebellum occur during the first month after birth, when the same pattern of the adult animal is attained.
8583659: !synaptophysin [The changes of central nervous synapses after transient cerebral ischemia]. Changes in drebrin, MAP2 (postsynaptic marker) and synaptophysin (presynaptic marker) in rat brains were examined after 20 min of transient cerebral ischemia. Immunoreactivity for drebrin and MAP2 in hippocampus CA1 area decreased 7 days after ischemia. The immunoreactivity for debrin in stratum lucidum of hippocampus CA3 area increased 7 days after ischemia. Sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis and immunoblot procedures using an antibody to drebrin, MAP2 and synaptophysin were carried out. The levels of drebrin and MAP2 in hippocampus decreased significantly 4 hours and 7 days after recirculation. In contrast, the level of synaptophysin was unchanged. The levels of each protein in cerebral cortex showed no significant changes. The changes after ischemia seemed to occur at the same time both in the dendritic spines and in their shafts, and the increase of the immunoreactivity for drebrin in CA3 might suggest the change of cytoskeletal protein synthesis in survived neurons.
8581936: !synaptophysin Mice lacking synaptophysin reproduce and form typical synaptic vesicles. Synaptophysin is one of the major integral membrane proteins of the small (30-50nm diameter) electron-translucent transmitter-containing vesicles in neurons and of similar vesicles in neuroendocrine cells. Since its expression is tightly linked to the occurrence of these vesicle types, we mutated the X-chromosomally located synaptophysin gene in embryonic stem cells for the generation of synaptophysin-deficient mice in order to study the consequence of synaptophysin ablation for the formation and function of such vesicles in vivo. The behavior and appearance of mice lacking synaptophysin was indistinguishable from that of their litter mates and reproductive capacity was comparable to normal mice. Furthermore, no drastic compensatory changes were noted in the expression of several other neuronal polypeptides or in the mRNA levels of synaptophysin isoforms, the closely related neuronal synaptoporin/synaptophysinII, and the ubiquitous pantophysin. Immunofluorescence microscopy of several neuronal and neuroendocrine tissues showed that overall tissue architecture was maintained in the absence of synaptophysin, and that the distribution of other synaptic vesicle components was not visibly affected. In electron-microscopic preparations, large numbers of vesicles with a diameter of 39.9nm and an electron-translucent interior were seen in synaptic regions of synaptophysin-deficient mice; these vesicles could be labeled by antibodies against synaptic vesicle proteins, such as synaptobrevin 2.
8557746: !synaptophysin Structure of synaptogyrin (p29) defines novel synaptic vesicle protein. Synaptogyrin (p29) is a synaptic vesicle protein that is uniformly distributed in the nervous system (Baumert et al., 1990). We have cloned and sequenced the cDNA encoding synaptogyrin, and the sequence predicts a protein with a molecular mass of 25,900 D with four membrane-spanning domains. The topology of the protein was confirmed by limited proteolysis using domain-specific antibodies. Database searches revealed several cDNA sequences coding polypeptides with sequence identities ranging from 32 to 46%, suggesting that synaptogyrin is a member of a multigene family. When the synaptogyrin cDNA is expressed in COS cells, the generated protein is indistinguishable from native synaptogyrin. To study intracellular sorting, synaptogyrin was expressed in CHO cells that revealed a punctate staining that was very similar to that of synaptophysin and endogenously expressed cellubrevin. Significant overlap with transferrin staining was also observed, suggesting that synaptogyrin is targeted to a recycling compartment involved in membrane traffic to and from the plasma membrane.
7498401: !synaptophysin Neurodegeneration in the central nervous system of apoE-deficient mice. Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is involved in the development and regeneration of the central nervous system (CNS). ApoE may also be necessary to maintain the integrity of the synapto-dendritic complexity. We analyzed the synaptic alterations in the CNS of apoE-deficient (knockout) mice during the aging process. In apoE-deficient homozygous mice, there was an age-dependent 15 to 40% loss of synaptophysin-immunoreactive nerve terminals and microtubule-associated protein 2-immunoreactive dendrites in the neocortex and hippocampus, when compared to controls. Dendritic alterations were observed as early as 4 months of age. Ultrastructural analysis revealed extensive dendritic vacuolization and disruption of the endomembrane system and cytoskeleton in apoE-deficient homozygous mice. Further immunocytochemical studies of the neuronal cytoskeleton showed that in apoE-deficient mice there was a decrease in the immunoreactivity of alpha and beta tubulin (but not kinesin) in the cell bodies and processes. These results support the contention that apoE might play an important role in maintaining the stability of the synapto-dendritic apparatus and that altered or deficient functioning of this molecule could underlie the synaptic and cytoskeletal alterations in Alzheimer's disease.
7491540: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical survey for neuroendocrine cells in regional pancreatic lymph nodes: a plausible explanation for primary nodal gastrinomas? Mayo Clinic Pancreatic Surgery Group. The existence of primary gastrinomas in lymph nodes continues to be controversial, because distinction from metastases from occult or regressed primary tumors may be difficult to exclude with certainty. If primary nodal gastrinomas do indeed occur, precursor neuroendocrine cells should be identifiable within lymph nodes. In a effort to detect these cells we undertook an immunohistochemical survey of regional pancreatic lymph nodes by using antibody against chromogranin, a highly specific marker for mature neuroendocrine cells.
8787964: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical characterization of two thyroid medullary carcinoma cell lines in vitro. The immunocytochemical characterization of cell lines originating from thyroid medullary carcinoma, i.e. human TT cells and rat rMTC 6-23 cells, was undertaken. The immunocytochemical studies were supplemented by ultrastructural studies, including ultrastructural immunocytochemistry, and by radioimmunological estimation of calcitonin secretion to the medium. In rMTC 6-23 cells (subcultures 24 to 30), no hormone presence was demonstrated immunocytochemically, which corresponded to the absence of secretory granules at the ultrastructural level. Of various proteins sought, only neuron-specific enolase could be demonstrated. Nevertheless, the cells secreted calcitonin into the medium. TT cells (passages 145 to 160) produced secretory granules. The granules contained calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, somatostatin, neurotensin, met-enkephalin, leu-enkephalin, gastrin releasing peptide, parathyroid hormone-related protein, functional proteins of the chromogranin group and synaptophysin. Other functional proteins found in the cytosol of TT cells included non-specific enolase, calbindin and tyrosine hydroxylase. Receptor for calcitriol was localized in the cell nucleus. Marker proteins were localized in the cytosol (carcinoembryonic antigen) and in the cell skeleton (alpha-tubulin, cytokeratin). Following changes in ionized calcium levels in the medium, changes in calcitonin secretion and in immunocytochemical detectability of some hormones and functional proteins were observed. TT cells demonstrated the expression of numerous hormones and functional proteins associated with calcitonin secretion. Further, the cells in their ultrastructure, immunocytochemical and secretory characteristics, resemble more closely normal parafollicular cells of the thyroid and, in our opinion, represent a more appropriate model for functional studies.
8597307: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine characteristics of human Leydig cell tumours. The neuroendocrine nature of a subset of Leydig cells has already been established. The present investigation deals with neuroendocrine characteristics of Leydig tumour cells. A number of neuroendocrine and neuronal markers were demonstrated in Leydig cell tumours of 7 men aged 25-41 years. The following substances were immunocytochemically tested in Leydig tumour cells: the monoamine-synthesizing enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase, the indoleamine serotonin, the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin, the microtubule associated protein-2, neurofilament protein 200, synaptophysin, neuron specific enolase, substance P and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Compared to the normal interstitial cells beyond the tumours, all neoplastic cells showed a significantly weaker immunoreactivity for nerve cell markers as well as for testosterone and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), which is usually accumulated by nitric oxide (NO). This provides evidence for a certain dedifferentiation of Leydig tumour cells. However, these results suggest that tumourous development of Leydig cells does not include loss of neuronal phenotype. Moreover, on the assumption that 'neuronal' Leydig cells exist beside 'non-neuronal' ones in normal testicular tissue, we propose the hypothesis that 'neuronal' Leydig cells can transform to tumour cells.
8586666: !synaptophysin A survey of GTP-binding proteins and other potential key regulators of exocytotic secretion in eosinophils. Apparent absence of rab3 and vesicle fusion protein homologues. We set out to identify potential key regulators of exocytotic fusion in the eosinophil, in the knowledge that granule exocytosis can be stimulated in these cells by intracellular application of nonhydrolyzable analogues of guanosine triphosphate, with Ca2+ acting as a modulator of guanine nucleotide-dependent secretion. To screen for GTP-binding proteins, guinea pig eosinophils were purified from peritoneal washings and subjected to western blotting analysis using specific immune sera raised against recombinant proteins or consensus peptide sequences within proteins of interest. We found a number of heterotrimeric G proteins (G alpha i3, G alpha o, G alpha q11, G alpha s and G beta subunits) and members of the small GTP-binding proteins expressed in eosinophils. Two subtypes of G-protein alpha subunits (G alpha i1 and G alpha z) could not be detected. Separation of subcellular organelles from homogenized eosinophils by density gradient centrifugation revealed that all of the detected GTP-binding proteins were mainly expressed in fractions containing peak plasma membrane and Golgi marker enzyme activities, while G beta subunits were also detected in secretory granule fractions. However, isoforms of Rab3, a putative GTP-binding regulator of exocytotic fusion, were undetectable in eosinophils. Neither, with the exception of syntaxin-3, could we detect any of the proteins belonging to the proposed synaptic vesicle fusion complex (SNAP-25; synaptobrevin (VAMP) and its non-neuronal homologue, cellubrevin; synaptophysin; synaptotagmin). The results from this study, based on western blotting, suggest that eosinophils express a different class of exocytotic fusion complex proteins from those found in neuronal tissues, although a number of potential candidates fulfilling the role of GE were identified in this important inflammatory cell.
8585938: !synaptophysin Localization of nerves adjacent to goblet cells in rat conjunctiva. Neural stimulation of the cornea induces conjunctival goblet cell mucous secretion. Immunofluorescence microscopy was used to determine if nerves are present near conjunctival goblet cells and what types of nerves are present. In euthanized rats, the local anesthetic lidocaine (1%) was placed topically on the ocular surface for 10 min to prevent goblet cell mucous secretion. The ocular surface tissues were removed and either fixed in formaldehyde and then frozen, or frozen first and then post-fixed in formaldehyde. Tissue was sectioned and nerves localized by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy, using antibodies to synaptophysin (indicates nerve, independent of type), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP, indicates parasympathetic nerves), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, indicates sympathetic nerves), dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH, indicates sympathetic nerves), phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT, indicates sympathetic nerves), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP, indicates sensory nerves). Goblet cells were identified by phase-contrast microscopy. Synpatophysin-containing nerves were present in the basolateral region of conjunctival goblet cells clusters. Nerve fibers immunoreactive to VIP were found in the conjunctiva along the epithelial-stromal junction and around the basolateral aspect of goblet cell clusters. Nerve fibers immunoreactive to TH and DBH were detected surrounding goblet cells and in the conjunctival stroma. Nerve fibers immunoreactive to CGRP were detected in the epithelium and at the epithelial stromal junction, but were not localized near goblet cell clusters. CGRP-containing nerve fibers were also detected in the conjunctival stroma under the epithelium. We conclude that efferent parasympathetic and sympathetic, but not afferent sensory, nerves appear to be located adjacent to conjunctival goblet cell clusters. Activation of efferent parasympathetic and sympathetic nerves could directly stimulate conjunctival goblet cell mucous secretion. Antidromic activation of afferent sensory nerves releasing neurotransmitters could stimulate goblet cell secretion by a paracrine mechanism.
8581156: !synaptophysin Aberrant insulinoma of the duodenal bulb. A rare insulin-immunoreactive neuroendocrine tumor of the duodenum in a 54 year old male is reported. The incidentally identified tumor was located on the anterior free wall of the duodenal bulb and measured approximately 6 mm in diameter. Uncomplicated endoscopic resection of the tumor was carried out. The lesion exhibited classic histologic features of insulinoma of the beta-islet cell type with stromal amyloid deposition. In addition to positive reactivities of chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, Leu 7 (CD57), cystatin C, CA15-3 and cytokeratin, the non-argyrophilic tumor cells were strongly immunoreactive for insulin and C-peptide. The stromal amyloid was clearly labeled for amylin. A few cells were stained for somatostatin, whereas other hormones were negative. Interestingly, a few isolated insulin-positive cells were identified in the non-neoplastic duodenal mucosa in the proximity of the tumor. Immunoelectron microscopy using paraffin sections disclosed insulin-immunoreactive secretory granules in the cytoplasm. The patient exhibited no signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia. Serum insulin levels were not measured prior to resection. No tumors were demonstrated in the pancreas. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a 1 cm asymptomatic pituitary mass, in association with moderately elevated serum prolactin levels. The patient is currently being followed up in the outpatient clinic.
8568932: !synaptophysin Immunolocalization of GLUT1 and GLUT3 glucose transporters in primary cultured neurons and glia. Immunofluorescence analysis was used to study the cellular localization of glucose transporters 1 and 3 (GLUT1 and GLUT3) in primary rat neuronal and glial cultures. In primary cultured cerebellar granule neurons and cortical neurons, GLUT3 was detected in a pattern consistent with a generalized cell surface distribution. GLUT3 distribution corresponded most closely with the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), and showed overlapping but distinct distributions compared to synaptophysin, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), neurofilament protein, and growth-associated protein (GAP43). Culture of neurons in the presence of glia did not alter the cellular localization of GLUT3. GLUT1 was detectable in primary cerebellar granule neurons both at the cell surface and in the cytoplasm, and appeared decreased in neurons cocultured with glia. GLUT1, but not GLUT3, was detected in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes present in mixed neuronal-glial cultures derived from cerebellum and cerebral cortex, as well as in cortical astrocyte cultures. GLUT1, but not GLUT3, was also detected in microglia and oligodendrocytes present in these cultures. This study indicates a generalized cell surface expression of the glucose transporters expressed in neurons and glia, rather than selective targeting to different cellular domains or subcellular locations.
8552236: !synaptophysin Synaptic expression of the high-affinity kainate receptor subunit KA2 in hippocampal cultures. Non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors are responsible for fast excitatory neurotransmission in the mammalian CNS. These receptors are rapidly activated and desensitized in the presence of glutamate, and are often further subdivided into alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid and kainate receptors based on their selective agonists. Non-NMDA glutamate receptors are composed of multiple subunits which recently have been cloned, and studies on the recombinant glutamate receptors have helped clarify the distinctions between AMPA and kainate-preferring glutamate receptors. Although the subunits which make up both AMPA and kainate receptors have a widespread distribution, most currents recorded in vivo are characteristic of recombinant AMPA receptors. To help clarify the functional role of high-affinity kainate receptors, we have characterized the expression of a high-affinity kainate receptor subunit, KA2, in cultured hippocampal neurons. Using immunocytochemistry, we found that KA2 was expressed in hippocampal neurons at all times during the development of the cells in culture, and the subunit was enriched in dendritic spines after about 14 days. The subcellular distribution of KA2 paralleled that of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1, with the AMPA and kainate subunits being colocalized at all times in culture. The enriched KA2 immunoreactivity co-localized with the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin at the resolution of light microscopy, indicating synaptic localization of KA2. Although the kainate subunit KA2 co-localized with the AMPA subunit GluR1, co-immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated a direct interaction between the AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2/3, but not between GluR1 and the kainate subunits GluR6/7 or KA2. We therefore, conclude that both AMPA and kainate receptor subunits are enriched in the same dendritic spines, yet do not combine to form receptor complexes.
8552231: !synaptophysin Decreased synaptophysin in the medial temporal lobe in schizophrenia demonstrated using immunoautoradiography. Synaptic alterations have been suggested, largely on theoretical grounds, to occur in the brain in schizophrenia. The messenger RNA encoding synaptophysin, a presynaptic terminal protein, is reduced in the medial temporal lobe in the disease, but immunocytochemical and immunoblotting data have not produced clear evidence for a loss of the encoded protein. Here we have used immunoautoradiography with an antisynaptophysin monoclonal antibody and a 35S-labelled secondary antibody in medial temporal lobe sections from 11 schizophrenics and 14 matched controls. In the schizophrenic cases there was an overall loss of synaptophysin (P < 0.02). Analysis by subfield showed significant reductions in the right dentate gyrus molecular layer, subiculum and parahippocampal gyrus, with similar trends in most other subfields. These data confirm that synaptophysin expression is decreased within the medial temporal lobe in schizophrenia. In the respect that synaptophysin is a marker of synaptic density, our findings suggest that reduced synaptic density may be a feature of the molecular neuropathology of the disease.
7581983: !synaptophysin Peptide-containing nerve fibres in normal human parathyroid glands and in human parathyroid adenomas. There are only a few studies on the innervation of the human parathyroid glands and the content of neurotransmitters. We therefore studied the occurrence and distribution of peptide-containing and adrenergic nerve fibres and the coexistence pattern of neuromessengers by immunocytochemistry in normal (unaffected) and adenomatous parathyroid glands from patients undergoing surgery for parathyroid adenoma. The unaffected parathyroid glands had a moderate-to-rich supply of nerve fibres and terminals containing two general neuronal markers, protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) and synaptophysin, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). They were seen close to blood vessels and, occasionally, among the endocrine cells. Only a few nerves contained calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), substance P (SP) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP). The general density of innervation, using PGP 9.5 and synaptophysin as markers, varied greatly among the different adenomas examined. This applied also to the density of fibres and terminals containing specific types of messengers. Some of the tumours had a rich supply of TH- and NPY-containing nerve fibres, while others contained only few scattered fibres. The CGRP-containing fibres varied from moderate in number to no detectable fibres. The PACAP-, SP- and VIP-containing fibres were always very few or not detectable. It is not inconceivable that the wide variation in general density of the innervation and frequency of peptide-containing nerves among individual parathyroid adenomas is of significance for their hormone secretory behaviour.
7573690: !synaptophysin Thymic carcinoid with prominent mucinous stroma. Report of a distinctive morphologic variant of thymic neuroendocrine neoplasm. Four cases are described of a distinctive morphologic variant of thymic carcinoid that was characterized by abundant stromal mucin admixed with the neuroendocrine elements resulting in a histologic picture reminiscent of metastatic mucin-secreting carcinoma. The patients were three men and a woman, aged 22 to 43 years. The tumors presented with symptoms of chest discomfort, cough, and dyspnea and were described as large anterior mediastinal masses on chest radiographs and computerized scans. Histologically, all cases showed nests and strands of tumor cells embedded in an abundant lightly eosinophilic, mucinous stroma with small cellular clusters as well as scattered single tumor cells seen floating in the mucin. The mucinous matrix was negative for periodic acid Schiff's and mucicarmine stains; alcian blue stains at pH 2.5 showed strong positivity of the mucinous material; this reaction was abolished by treatment with hyaluronidase, indicating the presence of nonepithelial stromal mucosubstances. Immunohistochemical stains showed strong positivity of the tumor cells with CAM 5.2, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific enolase, and negative staining with carcinoembyronic antigen and epithelial membrane antigen. Electron microscopy done in one case showed abundant dense-core cytoplasmic neurosecretory granules; there was no evidence of glandular secretory activity by the tumor cells. The tumors in two patients behaved in a highly aggressive fashion, with invasion of the chest wall, recurrence, and metastases to the lungs, pleura, and axillary, retroperitoneal, and mesenteric lymph nodes. Thymic carcinoid should be considered in the differential diagnosis of mediastinal neoplasms displaying prominent mucinous features. Application of immunostains and electron microscopy will be of value for establishing the correct diagnosis in this setting.
7482662: !synaptophysin Neocortical neural sprouting, synaptogenesis, and behavioral recovery after neocortical infarction in rats. Neuroanatomical plasticity is well described in lesions of the hippocampus but remains a subject of some controversy in the neocortex. The purpose of the present study was to measure the neocortical distribution and density of expression of proteins known to be involved in neurite growth or synaptogenesis and to correlate the neocortical expression with behavioral recovery after a focal neocortical infarction. Focal neocortical infarction creates a circumscribed lesion in the neocortex that provides a denervation stimulus for neurite growth and synaptogenesis.
7472493: !synaptophysin Acetylcholine receptor aggregation at nerve-muscle contacts in mammalian cultures: induction by ventral spinal cord neurons is specific to axons. We used a novel mammalian coculture system to study ACh receptor (AChR) redistribution and synaptic structure at nerve-muscle contacts. Ventral spinal cord (VSC) neurons were plated on cultures containing extensive myotubes but few fibroblasts. Neurite-induced redistribution of AChRs occurred within 6 hr after plating neurons and was maximal between 36-48 hr. This AChR redistribution appeared in two patterns: (1) AChR density at sites directly apposed to the neurite where neurites crossed preexisting AChR patches was sharply reduced, (2) Newly aggregated AChRs formed swaths lateral to the neurite path. VSC neurons induced more AChR aggregation than hippocampal, superior cervical ganglion and dorsal root ganglion neurons. The 43 and 58 kDa postsynaptic proteins were colocalized with AChR-enriched domains in all VSC neurite-induced aggregates whereas the colocalization of laminin was variable. Electron microscopy of regions with neurite-induced AChR aggregation showed postsynaptic membrane specializations characteristic of developing synapses and, in older cultures, features of more mature synaptic structure. Thus, the coculture system is useful for studying early stages of neuromuscular junction (NMJ) formation. Neurites in these cocultures were identified as axons or dendrites by morphological criteria and by their immunoreactivity for synaptophysin and phosphorylated heavy neurofilament subunits or for microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2), respectively. Axons showed a 10-fold higher induction of AChR aggregation than did dendrites. Thus, at least one essential signaling molecule necessary for the induction of AChR aggregation at sites of interaction with muscle appears to be expressed in a polarized fashion in developing VSC neurons.
8576420: !synaptophysin Sound stimulation induces Fos-related antigens in cells with common morphological properties throughout the auditory brainstem. Cells within the auditory brainstem of cat that respond to sound by producing the transcription factor Fos or related proteins were identified by immunostaining with antisera against Fos and Zif/268. Within the cochlear nucleus, all antisera showed similar staining patterns, however, in the superior olive and inferior colliculus, staining patterns differed between antisera. Immunostained cells were characterized by their size, location, by the presence of perisomatic terminals that immunostained for glutamate decarboxylase or synaptophysin, or by electron microscopy. Most cell classes were not immunopositive. In the ventral cochlear nucleus, roughly 99% of Fos-positive cells had few perisomatic terminals. Within the superior olivary complex (SOC), the majority of immunopositive cells had few perisomatic terminals. Lateral olivocochlear cells were identified as Fos positive by their size, location, lack of perisomatic terminals, and positive costaining for acetylcholinesterase as evidenced by a novel reaction product. This report appears to be the first demonstration of these cells responding to sound stimulation. Within the inferior colliculus, bands of positive cells produced by tonal stimulation extended from the central nucleus throughout the dorsal cortex and the posterior pericentral region, a finding unexpected on the basis of previous electrophysiological recordings and anatomical studies of ascending inputs to the colliculus. Approximately 35% of Fos-positive cells in the inferior colliculus had plentiful perisomatic terminals. Results demonstrate a high degree of specificity of auditory cell types that respond to sound by producing Fos-like proteins and show that previously intractable physiological questions can be addressed by assaying for sound-induced production of these antigens.
8575095: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin and GAP-43 proteins in efferent fibers of the inner ear during postnatal development. A rearrangement of afferent and efferent fibers occurs in the postnatal development of the inner ear. Growth and synaptogenesis was explored during this critical period by immunohistochemically monitoring the expression of GAP-43 and synaptophysin. Both proteins were colocalized in efferent fibers beyond postnatal day 3 (pn3). Two distinct synaptophysin- and GAP-43-positive fibers innervated different parts of inner hair cells in the first and second postnatal weeks, respectively. GAP-43-positive efferents projecting to outer hair cells upregulated synaptophysin with base to apex gradient between postnatal day 5 and postnatal day 14. In efferents projecting to outer hair cells GAP-43 was downregulated about 6 days beyond synaptogenesis. In efferents projecting to inner hair cells, however, GAP-43 remained upregulated even beyond pn18, indicating continuous synapse replacement of this fiber type. Both proteins thus improved as excellent markers for growth and synaptogenesis of distinct postnatal efferent fibers.
8583500: !synaptophysin Characterization of synaptic vesicles and related neuronal features in nerve growth factor and ras oncogene differentiated PC12 cells. PC12 cells can differentiate into neuron-like cells after treatment with either nerve growth factor (NGF) or transduction with a retrovirus which expresses the K-ras oncogene. The concomitant treatment of NGF plus ras differentiates PC12 cells further than either agent alone with respect to neurite outgrowth, acetylcholinesterase levels, and most strikingly, the number of synaptic vesicle (SV) clusters. These SV clusters in PC12 cell neurites closely resemble those in the presynaptic terminals of neurons. Such SV clusters have not been described in cell lines previously. The SV clusters from all three differentiated groups (NGF, ras, and NGF plus ras) were similar in size, shape, and configuration, except that the ones in the doubly treated group occur in higher frequency and have more vesicles. The synaptic nature of these vesicle clusters was demonstrated by their regulated depletion after potassium stimulation. Furthermore, these vesicle clusters stained positively for two SV-associated proteins, synapsin I and synaptophysin, by EM immunocytochemistry (ICC). Such SV clusters in a cell line are very useful for characterizing the regulated release of SVs and the distribution of SV-related antigens in intact cells. Analysis by SDS-gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting indicated that synapsin I levels are higher in all three differentiated groups compared to untreated cells; whereas synaptophysin levels are lower in cells exposed to NGF alone or with NGF and ras double treatment. Possible convergence and/or divergence on the mechanisms of NGF and ras differentiation in PC12 cells are discussed.
8552568: !synaptophysin An unclassified cerebral small cell tumor in a patient with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1-induced primary extranodal lymphoma. We describe an autopsy case of a thalamic tumor in a patient with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-induced extranodal lymphoma of the skull. Neither brain tumors associated with adult T-cell leukemia nor HTLV-1-induced extranodal lymphoma of bone have previously been reported. The tumor, which resembled an oligodendroglioma or dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor, was composed of medium-sized cells with dark, round-to-polygonal nuclei and a mucinous matrix that formed pericellular lakes. Tumor cells were immunoreactive with S-100 protein and neuron-specific enolase but not with glial fibrillary acid protein, synaptophysin, or vimentin. Tumor cells had prominent rough endoplasmic reticulum and free ribosomes with short processes, compatible with an oligodendroglial or small neuronal nature. Many atypical lymphocytes had infiltrated the leptomeningeal space, subependymal zone along the ventricular walls, fornices, corpus callosum, and right frontal lobe. Multinucleated or bizarre astrocytes and macrophages were found exclusively in the right frontal white matter. The coexistence of this unclassified peculiar brain tumor with bizarre astrocytosis suggests a cytopathic effect of HTLV-1 on human glioneuronal cells.
7593279: !synaptophysin In vitro differentiation of embryonic stem cells into glial cells and functional neurons. Mouse embryonic stem cells were induced to differentiate in culture with retinoic acid. Putative precursors of neurons and glial cells (nestin-positive cells) were clearly identified as early as three days after the onset of differentiation. At day 6, neuron-like cells could be clearly identified, either as isolated cells or as cellular networks. Some of these cells were positive for astrocyte- or oligodendrocyte-specific antigens (GFAP or O4 antigens, respectively). Other cells were positive for neuron-specific antigens (cytoskeleton proteins MAP2, MAP5 and NF200, as well as synaptophysin). Some neuronal-like cells were also positive for acetylcholinesterase activity or glutamic acid decarboxylase expression, indicating that ES cells could differentiate into GABAergic and possibly cholinergic neurons. Electrophysiological analyses performed in voltage clamp conditions showed that cell membranes contained voltage-dependent channels. Overshooting action potentials could be triggered by current injection. Taken together, these data provide evidence that embryonic stem cells can differentiate first into neuron-glia progenitors, and later into glial cells and functional neurons, in vitro. This technique provides an unique system to study early steps of neuronal differentiation in vitro.
7574463: !synaptophysin The CYP2D6B allele is associated with a milder synaptic pathology in Alzheimer's disease. Both genetic and environmental factors affect the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The presence of cortical Lewy bodies in AD patients is associated with an altered presentation of AD pathology suggestive of an interaction between the pathogenesis of Lewy bodies and AD lesions. Since the CYP2D6B mutant allele is often present in patients with Lewy body diseases (Parkinson's disease and Lewy body variant of AD), we extended these prior observations by studying the neuropathology associated with the presence of the CYP2D6B mutant allele in a pure AD population without Lewy bodies. AD patients who possessed the CYP2D6B mutant allele, in comparison with those without the CYP2D6B allele, were found to have a smaller decline in two synaptic markers, choline acetyltransferase and synaptophysin, in the frontal cortex relative to normal control values. On the other hand, senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles were not significantly affected by the presence of the CYP2D6B mutant allele in the frontal cortex of AD patients. Association of the CYP2D6B mutant allele with Lewy body formation in both Parkinson's disease and the Lewy body variant of AD and with the milder synaptic pathology in pure AD without Lewy bodies suggest that depending on the contribution of other genetic and environmental factors, this mutant allele may be involved with different aspects of neurodegeneration.
7572786: !synaptophysin Adrenal cortical tumors clinically mimicking pheochromocytoma. The authors report five patients with adrenal cortical tumors in whom the preoperative diagnosis of pheochromocytoma was made. All patients had biochemical evidence of elevated catecholamine secretion in serum or urine. Clinically, two patients presented with symptoms suggestive of pheochromocytoma, and one patient had systemic hypertension that resolved following surgical excision of the tumor. Histologically, the findings were typical of adrenal cortical tumors: two adrenal cortical carcinomas and three adrenal cortical adenomas. Nevertheless, the immunohistochemical studies showed evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation in four tumors. Three tumors were positive for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin and a fourth tumor was positive for synaptophysin only. All neoplasms were negative for chromogranin. Electron microscopic studies in three tumors showed abundant endoplasmic reticulum and tubulovesicular cristae consistent with adrenal cortical cell origin. Neurosecretory granules, 150-300 mu in diameter, were found in one tumor. This current series of patients provides evidence that adrenal cortical neoplasms may be associated with clinical findings that simulate pheochromocytoma (so-called pseudo-pheochromocytoma). These clinical findings may be mediated by the presence of neuroendocrine features in these tumors.
7568106: !synaptophysin Suppression of synapsin II inhibits the formation and maintenance of synapses in hippocampal culture. Numerous synaptic proteins, including several integral membrane proteins, have been assigned roles in synaptic vesicle fusion with or retrieval from the presynaptic plasma membrane. In contrast, the synapsins, neuron-specific phosphoproteins associated with the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles, appear to play a much broader role, being involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter release and in the organization of the nerve terminal. Here we have administered antisense synapsin II oligonucleotides to dissociated hippocampal neurons, either before the onset of synaptogenesis or 1 week after the onset of synaptogenesis. In both cases, synapsin II was no longer detectable within 24-48 h of treatment. After 5 days of treatment, cultures were analyzed for the presence of synapses by synapsin I and synaptophysin antibody labeling and by electron microscopy. Cultures in which synapsin II was suppressed after axon elongation, but before synapse formation, did not develop synapses. Cultures in which synapsin II was suppressed after the development of synapses lost most of their synapses. Remarkably, with the removal of the antisense oligonucleotides, neurons and their synaptic connections recovered. These studies lead us to conclude that synapsin II is involved in the formation and maintenance of synapses in hippocampal neurons.
8548299: !synaptophysin NGF-mediated synaptic sprouting in the cerebral cortex of lesioned primate brain. In the present study, coronal brain sections of cortically devascularized non-human primates (Cercopithecus aethiops) were used to assess the lesion-associated synaptic loss, and the effect of exogenous nerve growth factor (NGF) in preventing or reversing this neurodegeneration. The sections were immunolabeled with antibodies against the synaptic marker protein synaptophysin (SYN), as well as choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and parvalbumin (PV) markers that identify cholinergic neurons and interneurons, respectively. We found that, compared to sham-operated animals, in the lesioned vehicle treated animals SYN immunoreactivity near the lesioned site in the frontoparietal cortex was decreased by 31%. Similarly, corrected optical density values of immunostained sections specific for ChAT in the nucleus basalis of Meynert (ipsilateral to the lesion) decreased by 20% and PV-immunoreactive neurons near the lesion decreased by 47%. In contrast, NGF-treated lesioned animals showed levels of SYN, ChAT, and PV immunoreactivity similar to sham controls. These results are consistent with previous studies and support the view that NGF may not only prevent neurodegenerative changes after neocortical infarction by protecting vulnerable neurons, but also is capable of inducing sprouting and synaptogenesis.
8541475: !synaptophysin Localization of N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein in pinealocytes. N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF), a protein necessary for vesicular docking and/or fusion, was detected immunohistochemically in pinealocytes. NSF was distributed similarly to synaptophysin and vacuolar-type H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase), marker proteins for synaptic-like microvesicles (MVs) abundantly present in pinealocytes. A subcellular fractionation study indicated that .> 95% of NSF was present as a membrane-bound form and that some NSF was associated with MVs. Like neuronal NSF, the protein was not solubilized from membranes with either 2 mM Mg-ATP or 2% sodium carbonate, suggesting that NSF was tightly bound to the membranes. NSF was also detected in purified MVs from bovine posterior pituitaries. Since MVs are the organelles in which transmitters are stored, these results suggest that NSF is involved in the MV-mediated exocytosis of transmitters from endocrine cells.
8597859: !synaptophysin Molecular and cytogenetic analysis of a cerebellar primitive neuroectodermal tumor with prominent neuronal differentiation: detection of MYCN amplification by differential polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot analysis. Oncogene amplification is uncommon in cerebellar primitive neuroectodermal tumor (medulloblastoma) and its frequency and diversity are greater in medulloblastoma cell lines. We describe a medulloblastoma in a 10-year-old-girl with striking neuronal differentiation evident in the islands of ganglion cells intermixed with more primitive undifferentiated cells. The islands of ganglion cells showed prominent synaptophysin positivity. Karyotypic analysis revealed hypo- and hyperdiploidy with multiple random rearrangements and double minute chromosomes. Differential polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot analysis revealed up to 25-fold MYCN amplification.
8534282: !synaptophysin A lectin and synaptophysin study of developing brain. Lectins which bind to carbohydrate residues of glycoconjugates can be used as histochemical markers of these substances. A battery of lectins including peanut agglutinin, ricinus communis, wheat germ agglutinin, soybean agglutinin, concanavalin ensiformis, Ulex europaeus, and Dolichos biflorus as well as synaptophysin was used on paraffin-embedded human fetal and infant brains of varying gestation (20 weeks to term) to determine whether there were changes in the pattern of glycoconjugate staining. The findings indicate that lectin binding of several of these markers changes with gestation as does synaptophysin.
8525464: !synaptophysin Subcellular localization of synaptophysin in noradrenergic nerve terminals: a biochemical and morphological study. The subcellular localization of synaptophysin was investigated in noradrenergic nerve terminals of bovine vas deferens and dog spleen and compared with membrane-bound and soluble markers of noradrenergic storage vesicles. At the light microscopical level chromogranin A- and cytochrome b561-immunoreactivity revealed an identical and very dense innervation of the entire vas deferens. In the case of synaptophysin, most immunoreactivity was found only in the outmost varicosities closest to the lumen, which were also positive for chromogranin A. Small dense-core vesicles of dog spleen were purified using a combination of velocity gradient centrifugation and size exclusion chromatography. Small dense-core vesicles were enriched 64 times as measured by the noradrenaline content. Enrichments for dopamine-beta-hydroxylase were in a similar range. Synaptophysin-containing vesicles were smaller in size and they did not contain the typical noradrenergic markers dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, cytochrome b561, and noradrenaline. Instead, they might store adenosine triphosphate (ATP). A greater part of synaptophysin immunoreactivity was consistently found at high sucrose densities at the position of large dense-core vesicles. We conclude that in the noradrenergic nerve terminal: (1) small dense-core vesicles have a membrane composition similar to large dense-core vesicles, indicating that the former are derived from the latter, and (2) synaptophysin seems not to be present on small dense-core vesicles. We suggest the possibility that synaptophysin-containing vesicles form a residual population whose role in neurotransmission has been taken over by large and small dense-core vesicles following noradrenergic differentiation.
8520460: !synaptophysin Synaptic like microvesicles: do they participate in regulated exocytosis? Synaptic like microvesicles (SLMV) form a pleiomorphic population of vesicles present in neuroendocrine cells of the pituitary and the adrenal medulla. Their composition and biogenesis is very similar to small synaptic vesicles (SSV) present in nerve terminals. Membrane proteins of SSV involved in fusion (synaptotagmin) and trafficking (Rab 3) together with synaptophysin have been identified on SLMV. The SLMV from pancreatic beta cells store GABA, those present in chromaffin cells catecholamines and/or acetylcholine. We conclude that SLMV may participate in regulated exocytosis based on (a) their localization near release sites, (b) their content and (c) their membrane composition. The functional meaning and the way this process is regulated remain to be elucidated.
7666056: !synaptophysin Quantitative study of synaptophysin immunoreactivity of cerebral cortex and spinal cord in motor neuron disease. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity can be quantified by image analysis to evaluate loss of presynaptic terminals in human neurodegenerative diseases. The extent and regional distribution of such loss is reported in motor neuron disease (MND). Autopsy samples of spinal cord and cerebral cortex were examined from 28 cases of MND and 28 age and sex matched controls. The MND group included individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (17[ALS]), and progressive muscular atrophy (11[PMA]). In the spinal cord, there was significant reduction of presynaptic terminals in the lateral ventral horn (15%) in both the ALS (p < 0.01) and PMA (p < 0.05) groups. Perisomatic synaptophysin profiles on lower motor neurons are preserved late in the disease and are not related to corticospinal innervation. Less marked presynaptic loss was demonstrable more widely in the medial ventral, intermediate and dorsal spinal grey matter (10%) in both ALS (p = 0.03) and PMA (p = 0.05). In the cerebral cortex no synaptic loss was demonstrated in motor or anterior cingulate regions in any of the MND cases. Spinal degeneration in MND is associated with loss of presynaptic terminals in all grey matter regions. It is most marked in the limb motor neuron area and is independent of corticospinal tract degeneration. The cerebral pathology of ALS is not associated with significant loss of presynaptic terminals in the cortical areas studied.
7553774: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterisation of sympathetic and parasympathetic pelvic neurons projecting to the distal colon in the male rat. The pelvic ganglia are mixed ganglia containing both sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons that receive spinal input via the hypogastric (lumbar cord) and pelvic nerves (sacral cord), respectively. A recent study has utilised immunohistochemistry against synaptophysin (a protein associated with small vesicles) to visualise the preganglionic terminals in these ganglia. By selectively cutting the hypogastric or pelvic nerves and allowing subsequent terminal degeneration, the populations of parasympathetic and sympathetic preganglionic terminals, respectively, can be visualised. The present study has used this method in conjunction with retrograde labelling of pelvic neurons from the distal colon and double label immunofluorescence against tyrosine hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) to identify and characterise the sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons projecting to the distal colon from the major pelvic ganglia of the male rat. Approximately equal numbers of distal colonic-projecting pelvic neurons are sympathetic and parasympathetic. Almost all noradrenergic neurons are sympathetic. Of the VIP neurons that project to the distal colon approximately one third are sympathetic, one third parasympathetic and the remaining third are possibly innervated by both the lumbar and sacral cord. Extrapolation from our results also suggests that the majority of non-noradrenergic neuropeptide Y neurons (which are known to comprise the remainder of the neurons) are parasympathetic. These studies have demonstrated that the pelvic ganglia are a major source of sympathetic innervation to the distal bowel and have further shown that the distal colon is another target for the non-noradrenergic sympathetic neurons of the pelvic ganglia.
7553772: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical properties and spinal connections of pelvic autonomic neurons that innervate the rat prostate gland. Autonomic innervation of the prostate gland supplies the acini, and non-vascular and vascular smooth muscle. The activity of each of these tissues is enhanced by sympathetic outflow, whereas the role of the parasympathetic nervous system in this organ is unclear. In the present study, a range of methods was applied in rats to determine the location of autonomic neurons supplying this gland, the immunohistochemical properties of these neurons, the spinal connections made with the postganglionic pathways and the distribution of various axon types within the gland. Injection of the retrograde tracer, FluoroGold, into the ventral gland visualised neurons within the major pelvic ganglion and sympathetic chain. Fluorescence immunohistochemical studies on the labelled pelvic neurons showed that most were nonadrenergic (also containing neuropeptide Y, NPY), the others being non-noradrenergic and containing either vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) or NPY. Sympathetic dye-labelled neurons were identified by the presence of varicose nerve terminals stained for synaptophysin on their somata following lesion of sacral inputs. Parasympathetic innervation of dye-labelled neurons was identified by continued innervation after hypogastric nerve lesion. Most noradrenergic prostate-projecting neurons were sympathetic, as were many of the non-noradrenergic VIP neurons. Parasympathetic prostate-projecting neurons were largely non-noradrenergic and contained either VIP or NPY. All substances found in retrogradely labelled somata were located in axons within the prostate gland but had slightly different patterns of distribution. The studies have shown that there are a significant number of non-noradrenergic sympathetic prostate-projecting neurons, which contain VIP.
7544795: !synaptophysin Biogenesis of synaptic vesicles in vitro. Synaptic vesicles are synthesized at a rapid rate in nerve terminals to compensate for their rapid loss during neurotransmitter release. Their biogenesis involves endocytosis of synaptic vesicle membrane proteins from the plasma membrane and requires two steps, the segregation of synaptic vesicle membrane proteins from other cellular proteins, and the packaging of those unique proteins into vesicles of the correct size. By labeling an epitope-tagged variant of a synaptic vesicle protein, VAMP (synaptobrevin), at the cell surface of the neuroendocrine cell line PC12, synaptic vesicle biogenesis could be followed with considerable precision, quantitatively and kinetically. Epitope-tagged VAMP was recovered in synaptic vesicles within a few minutes of leaving the cell surface. More efficient targeting was obtained by using the VAMP mutant, del 61-70. Synaptic vesicles did not form at 15 degrees C although endocytosis still occurred. Synaptic vesicles could be generated in vitro from a homogenate of cells labeled at 15 degrees C. The newly formed vesicles are identical to those formed in vivo in their sedimentation characteristics, the presence of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, and the absence of detectable transferrin receptor. Brain, but not fibroblast cytosol, allows vesicles of the correct size to form. Vesicle formation is time and temperature-dependent, requires ATP, is calcium independent, and is inhibited by GTP-gamma S. Thus, two key steps in synaptic vesicle biogenesis have been reconstituted in vitro, allowing direct analysis of the proteins involved.
7477924: !synaptophysin Synaptic loss in cognitively impaired aged rats is ameliorated by chronic human nerve growth factor infusion. In the present study, we assessed the synaptic changes in aged impaired and unimpaired rats, and the effect of exogenous human nerve growth factor administration on behavioral activity and synaptic density. Human nerve growth factor was administered into the rat ventricles with a cannula connected to an osmotic pump in adult, aged impaired and unimpaired rats. Behavioral performance was evaluated in the Morris water maze. Aged impaired rats had an 18 +/- 4% decrease in the number of synaptophysinimmunoreactive presynaptic terminals as compared to aged unimpaired rats. After a continuous four-week human nerve growth factor, the aged impaired rats displayed a significant 16 +/- 3% increase in the number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals in the frontal cortex, as compared to aged impaired rats treated with vehicle. This increase correlated with an improvement in water maze performance (r = -0.74, P < 0.001). Measurements of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals in other cortical and subcortical regions did not show any statistically significant difference or correlations among the various groups. These results support the possibility that nerve growth factor mediates the induction of other trophic factors which, in turn, might potentially produce a sprouting response of non-cholinergic fibers that ameliorate the cognitive deficits in impaired, aged rats.
7496810: !synaptophysin Microglial responsiveness as a sensitive marker for trimethyltin (TMT) neurotoxicity. Activation of microglia is a well-documented phenomenon associated with diverse pathological conditions of the central nervous system. In order to investigate the involvement of microglial cells in the neurotoxic action of the heavy metal compound trimethyltin, three-dimensional brain cell cultures were treated during an early developmental period, using concentrations at or below the limit of cytotoxicity. Microglial cells were studied by cytochemical staining, using horseradish peroxidase-conjugated B4 isolectin (GSI-B4). In parallel, neurotoxic effects were assessed by determining the content of synaptophysin and synapsin I, both in the total homogenates and in the synaptosomal fraction of the cultures. Changes in the content of the specific growth cone protein, GAP-43, were also analyzed. It was found that low, non-cytotoxic concentrations of TMT (10(-9) to 10(-8) M) caused a significant increase in the number and/or the clustering of microglial cells. A decrease in the synaptic protein (synapsin I, synaptophysin) content was detected at 10(-8) M of TMT in synaptosomal fractions, whereas in the total homogenates, changes in synaptic proteins and GAP-43 were observed only at the cytotoxic TMT concentration (10(-6) M). Although it remains to be shown whether the microglial response is caused by direct or indirect action of TMT, the present findings show that microglial responsiveness can be detected prior to any sign of neuronal degeneration, and may serve as a sensitive indicator for heavy metal neurotoxicity in the brain.
7493399: !synaptophysin Cerebellar granule cells in vitro recapitulate the in vivo pattern of GABAA-receptor subunit expression. GABAA-receptor heterogeneity is based on the combinatorial assembly of a family of 15 subunits (alpha 1-6, beta 1-3, gamma 1-3, delta, rho 1-2) into multiple receptor subtypes. The factors regulating the differential expression of GABAA-receptor subtypes in the CNS are largely unknown. In the present study, we have used primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells as model system to analyze to which extent the expression, subunit composition, and subcellular localization of GABAA-receptors depend on signals available in the cerebellum in vivo, in particular GABAergic input which is lost in vitro. GABAA-receptor subunits were visualized immunohistochemically with subunit-specific antibodies and their subcellular localization was investigated by confocal laser microscopy with selective markers for dendritic proteins (microtubule-associated protein 2, non-phosphorylated neurofilaments) and synaptic vesicles (synaptophysin). Triple immunofluorescence staining experiments revealed that dissociated granule cells taken from 7-day-old rats and maintained in culture for 9 days co-expressed the subunits alpha 1 alpha 6 beta 2,3 gamma 2 delta, a subunit repertoire which is identical to that seen in vivo in the adult cerebellum. GABAA-receptor subunits were localized selectively in granule cell somata and in proximal neurites immunopositive for MAP-2. No staining was detected in distal neurites immunopositive for neurofilaments. GABAA-receptor subunits frequently were aggregated in clusters closely apposed to synaptophysin-immunoreactive varicosities, suggesting a post-synaptic localization. Thus, major functional determinants of GABAA-receptors in granule cells (subunit repertoire, subcellular segregation and clustering in post-synaptic sites) develop in vitro, indicating that they are regulated to a large extent by intrinsic factors, independently of GABAergic input.
8521869: !synaptophysin Rab3a, a small GTP-binding protein, undergoes fast anterograde transport but not retrograde transport in neurons. Rab3a is a small GTP-binding protein that is associated with synaptic vesicles in neurons and that undergoes membrane dissociation-association paralleling the synaptic membrane cycle. Using the sciatic nerve as a model, we have studied the axonal transport of Rab3a by quantitative immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting and electron microscopy. Ligation of the sciatic nerve resulted in a progressive accumulation of Rab3a proximal of the ligation site in virtually all axons with an onset of less than 1 h. Accumulation of Rab3a was accompanied by accumulation of synaptophysin and synapsin I, two synaptic vesicle membrane proteins, and accumulation of clathrin light chain. Immunogold electron microscopy revealed that organelles labeled for Rab3a were mainly small round vesicles with an average diameter of 50 to 60 nm, indistinguishable from those labeled for the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophsin. In contrast, no retrograde accumulation of Rab3a was observed in most axons, with sparse labeling being confined to few thin axons. For other synaptic vesicle membrane proteins as well as for clathrin light chain, substantial accumulations were observed on the distal side of the ligation. We conclude that Rab3a associates with synaptic vesicle precursors in the cell soma before entering the axon and being transported to the synapse. At the end of its useful life-span, however, Rab3a does not associate with retrogradely transported membrane material, suggesting that it is degraded within the nerve terminal.
7638193: !synaptophysin Neurosecretory vesicles can be hybrids of synaptic vesicles and secretory granules. We have investigated the relationship of the so-called small dense core vesicle (SDCV), the major catecholamine-containing neurosecretory vesicle of sympathetic neurons, to synaptic vesicles containing classic neurotransmitters and secretory granules containing neuropeptides. SDCVs contain membrane proteins characteristic of synaptic vesicles such as synaptophysin and synaptoporin. However, SDCVs also contain membrane proteins characteristic of certain secretory granules like the vesicular monoamine transporter and the membrane-bound form of dopamine beta-hydroxylase. In neurites of sympathetic neurons, synaptophysin and dopamine beta-hydroxylase are found in distinct vesicles, consistent with their transport from the trans-Golgi network to the site of SDCV formation in constitutive secretory vesicles and secretory granules, respectively. Hence, SDCVs constitute a distinct type of neurosecretory vesicle that is a hybrid of the synaptic vesicle and the secretory granule membranes and that originates from the contribution of both the constitutive and the regulated pathway of protein secretion.
7609154: !synaptophysin Abnormal innervation and altered nerve growth factor messenger ribonucleic acid expression in ureteropelvic junction obstruction. The pathophysiology of ureteropelvic junction obstruction is unknown. Using specific antibodies, we studied specimens from 35 cases of ureteropelvic junction obstruction and 32 of normal ureteropelvic junction by immunohistochemistry using protein gene product 9.5 (a general neuronal marker), S100 (a supporting cell marker), synaptophysin (a neuromuscular junction marker) and nerve growth factor receptor. Nerve growth factor expression was examined at the messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) level using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction technique in 11 ureteropelvic junction obstruction specimens and 7 controls. The most striking finding was the marked reduction of protein gene product 9.5, synaptophysin and nerve growth factor receptor staining positive nerve fibers in the muscle layers of ureteropelvic junction obstruction compared to the normal ureteropelvic junction. Supporting nerve cell fibers (S100) were preserved in cases of ureteropelvic junction obstruction and normal ureteropelvic junction. A significantly less intense signal for nerve growth factor mRNA was found in the ureteropelvic junction obstruction specimens compared to normal ureteropelvic junction. These findings suggest that defective innervation may have an important role in the pathogenesis of ureteropelvic junction obstruction, and decreased nerve growth factor mRNA expression may be important in the etiology of ureteropelvic junction obstruction.
7595664: !synaptophysin Cd(2+)-and K(+)-evoked ACh release induce different synaptophysin and synaptobrevin immunolabelling at the frog neuromuscular junction. Synaptophysin and synaptobrevin, two integral proteins of synaptic vesicles, have been used as immunocytochemical markers of the synaptic vesicle membrane during Cd(2+)- or K(+)-induced ACH release at the frog neuromuscular junction. ACh release was stimulated in cutaneous pectoris nerve-muscle preparations by: (1) 1 mM Cd2+ in Ca(2+)-free medium for a period of 3 h, (2) 25 or 40 mM K+ in normal Ringer's solution. Synaptophysin and synaptobrevin were immunolabelled in single fibres teased from fixed muscles using rabbit antisera raised against synaptophysin and synaptobrevin revealed with fluorescein-conjugated IgG. The postsynaptic ACh receptors were simultaneously labelled with rhodaminated alpha-bungarotoxin. Unstimulated and K(+)-stimulated preparations showed synaptophysin and synaptobrevin immunolabelling only after membrane permeabilization with 0.1% Triton X-100. In preparations stimulated with Cd2+ in Ca(2+)-free medium, the immunofluorescence was also observed in non Triton X-100 treated muscle fibres. Confocal laser scanning microscopy analysis revealed that in unstimulated and K(+)-stimulated preparations, synaptophysin and synaptobrevin immunofluorescence appears as bands regularly spaced along the permeabilized nerve terminals and that their distribution corresponds to clusters of synaptic vesicles. After Cd2+ stimulation in Ca(2+)-free medium, labelling for both proteins is irregularly distributed, being more intense at the lateral margins of swollen nerve terminals, suggesting a translocation of synaptic vesicle proteins to the axolemma. At the electron microscopic level, Cd2+ stimulation in Ca(2+)-free medium produces nerve terminal swelling and synaptic vesicle depletion. The results show that when ACh release is stimulated under an impairment of synaptic vesicle recycling, which leads to synaptic vesicle depletion, synaptophysin and synaptobrevin translocation occurs. These findings are in favour of a permanent incorporation of synaptic vesicle membrane into the axolemma. In contrast, after K+ stimulation, the immunofluorescence and the normal synaptic vesicle population observed, suggest that a double process of synaptic vesicle exo-endocytosis rapidly occurs, without incorporation of synaptic vesicle components into the axolemma.
7586853: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma: clinico-pathological study of 5 cases and review of the literature. Five cases of central neurocytoma, confirmed by immunohistochemical and electron microscopy studies, are reported and 127 cases from the literature are reviewed. Central neurocytomas are more frequent than previously thought, and will be diagnosed with increasing frequency in the future, if intraventricular tumors with histological aspect of oligodendroglioma or ependymoma will be routinely studied by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. The occurrence of an intraventricular tumor with a typical MR aspect in a young patient should suggest preoperatively the diagnosis of neurocytoma. The positivity for synaptophysin and neuron specific enolase, the negativity for neurofilament protein and glial fibrillary acid protein, and the finding of elements of neuronal differentiation on electron microscopy, are the main pathological features of these tumors. Complete removal of the tumor mass without radiotherapy is the treatment of choice. The prognosis is usually favorable without recurrence.
7496507: !synaptophysin Small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the rectum. Poorly differentiated small cell neuroendocrine (NE) carcinoma of the colon and rectum is a rare primary epithelial malignancy at this location. A case of a highly aggressive NE tumor of small cell type, combined with non-invasive well-differentiated papillary adenocarcinoma in villous adenoma is reported. The patient died rapidly with massive and progressive liver metastasis. The tumor cells were argyrophilic and diffusely immunoreactive for neuronspecific enolase and synaptophysin. Ultrastructural analysis disclosed NE-type cored granules in most of the small tumor cells. NE tumors of the colon and rectum are briefly reviewed.
8530041: !synaptophysin High-resolution comparative mapping of the proximal region of the mouse X chromosome. The murine homologues of the loci for McLeod syndrome (XK), Dent's disease (CICN5), and synaptophysin (SYP) have been mapped to the proximal region of the mouse X chromosome and positioned with respect to other conserved loci in this region using a total of 948 progeny from two separate Mus musculus x Mus spretus backcrosses. In the mouse, the order of loci and evolutionary breakpoints (EB) has been established as centromere-(DXWas70, DXHXF34h)-EB-Clcn5-(Syp, DXMit55, DXMit26)-Tfe3-Gata1-EB-Xk-Cybb-telomere. In the proximal region of the human X chromosome short arm, the position of evolutionary breakpoints with respect to key loci has been established as DMD-EB-XK-PFC-EB-GATA1-C1CN5-EB-DXS1272E-ALAS2-E B-DXF34-centromere. These data have enabled us to construct a high-resolution genetic map for the approximately 3-cM interval between DXWas70 and Cybb on the mouse X chromosome, which encompasses 10 loci. This detailed map demonstrates the power of high-resolution genetic mapping in the mouse as a means of determining locus order in a small chromosomal region and of providing an accurate framework for the construction of physical maps.
7622497: !synaptophysin Inhibition of neurotransmitter release by synthetic proline-rich peptides shows that the N-terminal domain of vesicle-associated membrane protein/synaptobrevin is critical for neuro-exocytosis. Tetanus toxin and clostridial neurotoxins type B, D, F, and G inhibit intracellular Ca(2+)-dependent neurotransmitter release via the specific proteolytic cleavage of vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)/synaptobrevin, a highly conserved 19-kDa integral protein of the small synaptic vesicle membrane. This results in the release of the larger part of the cytosolic domain of this synaptic protein into the cytoplasm. Microinjection of synthetic peptides corresponding to this fragment into identified presynaptic neurons of Aplysia californica led to a potent, long lasting, and dose-dependent inhibition (approximately 50% at 10 MicroM) of acetylcholine release, probably by hindering endogenous VAMP/synaptobrevin from interacting with synaptic proteins involved in exocytosis. Structure activity studies showed that this effect is confined to the N-terminal domain of VAMP/synaptobrevin isoform II and is related to the presence of a proline-rich motif (PGGPXGX3PP or PAAPXGX3PP). At higher concentrations, the inhibitory effect was lower and only transient, suggesting that the N-terminal proline-rich domain of VAMP/synaptobrevin plays opposing roles in neurotransmitter release very likely by interacting with different synaptic proteins. This probably occurs by disruption of the recently reported in vitro VAMP-synaptophysin interaction that involves the N-terminal domain of VAMP II and was proposed to hinder synatophysin-related formation of a fusion pore. The observed recovery of neurotransmitter release following injection of high concentration of N-terminal fragments of VAMP II brings a strong in vivo support to this hypothesis. The minimum active peptide GPGGPQGGMQPPREQS could be used for rationally designing potent synthetic blockers of neurotransmission.
7488746: !synaptophysin Differential effect of functional olfactory deprivation on synaptic vesicle proteins in rat olfactory bulb. The effects of functional odour deprivation on three different proteins associated with the membrane of the synaptic vesicle were examined in the rat olfactory bulb. Six weeks after neonatal unilateral nostril closure, Rab3a, a ras-like GTPase, was down-regulated in the odour-deprived bulb in the same manner as tyrosine hydroxylase. In contrast, synaptophysin, a protein of the channel family, and SV2, a putative transporter protein, were not altered. These results suggest that afferent activity is a factor controlling the level of some, but not all, proteins associated with presynaptic vesicles.
7607313: !synaptophysin Microvesicles isolated from bovine pineal gland specifically accumulate L-glutamate. Pinealocytes, endocrine cells that synthesize and secrete melatonin, possess a large number of synaptic-like microvesicles (MVs) containing synaptophysin. By monitoring cross-reactivity with anti-synaptophysin antibody, the MVs were highly purified from bovine pineal glands. The purified MVs were morphologically similar to but distinct from neuronal synaptic vesicles by their lack of synapsin I. Immunological study indicated that the MVs contained vacuolar H(+)-ATPase, synaptotagmin and synaptobrevin 2 (VAMP2). The MVs accumulated L-glutamate at the expense of ATP hydrolysis by vacuolar H(+)-ATPase. No uptakes of melatonin, serotonin, noradrenaline, gamma-aminobutyrate or acetylcholine were observed. These results indicated that the MVs are organelles for storage of L-glutamate in pinealocytes and suggested a possibility that pinealocytes transmit glutamate signals by MVs-mediated exocytosis.
21597772: !synaptophysin Positron emission tomography utilizing C-11 5-hydroxytryptophan, plasma biochemistry and neuroendocrine immunohistochemistry of metastatic renal-cell carcinoma. The aim of this study was to characterise metastatic renal cell carcinoma in 18 patients with positron emission tomography (PET) utilising C-11-5-hydroxytryptophan, plasma biochemistry and neuroendocrine immunochemistry. Of these 18 patients, ten underwent the PET investigations. The standardised uptake values (SUVs) in hepatic deposits were higher than those in pulmonary lesions, with mean values of 3.15 and 2.35, respectively. The immunohistochemical study included staining of 10/18 surgical tumour specimens with antibodies reactive with chromogranin (Cg), neurone-specific enolase (NSE), and synaptophysin (Sy). In 17/18 patients, plasma measurements of the neuroendocrine peptides, CgA, CgB, pancreastatin, and serotonin, were performed. The results obtained in this study show that PET with C-11-5-hydroxytryptophan, a precursor in serotonin synthesis in neuroendocrine cells, can be utilised to visualise primary renal cell cancer and its secondaries in vivo. The results obtained also suggest that neuroendocrine differentiation may occur in human RCC.
8630875: !synaptophysin Olfactory neuroblastoma. An immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and flow cytometric study. Olfactory neuroblastoma is an uncommon neuroectodermal tumor of the upper nasal cavity, microscopic features of which are not always homogeneous. No morphologic features have been found to correlate reliably with prognosis.
8584892: !synaptophysin [The neural basis of learning and memory declines in aged rats]. The synapses, AChE fibers, synaptophysin (SYP), parvalbumin (PV)-containing neurons, synaptosomal Ca2+ concentration and membrane fluidity were studied quantitatively in the brain tissues of young and aged memory-nonimpaired and aged memory-impaired rats according to their memory abilities in the Morris water maze. The results indicated that statistically significant decreases were found in SYP content, the density of synapses, AChE fibers, PV positive neurons and synaptosomal membrane fluidity while an increase was found in [Ca2+]i of neocortex and hippocampal formation in the aged memory-impaired rats as compared with the young and aged memory-nonimpaired rats. But there were no significant differences of these indexes between the young rats and the aged memory-nonimpaired ones. The study suggested that the abnormality of these indexes was closely correlated with the decline of learning and memory in aged rats.
8562996: !synaptophysin Adenocarcinoma and atypical carcinoid: morphological study of a gastric collision-type tumour in the carcinoma-carcinoid spectrum. We report the morphological features of an unusual cardial gastric tumour in a 72 year-old white man. Histologic examination revealed two adjacent, "side by side", but not merged, components: a poorly differentiated one and a typical moderately-differentiated gastric adenocarcinoma. Both components were also found in the metastatic lymph nodes. Histochemical (Grimelius) and immunohistochemical (neuron specific enolase, chromogranin A, synaptophysin) studies revealed the endocrine nature of the poorly differentiated component, which however, was not argentaffin and did not show immunoreactivity for specific endocrine substances. The neoplastic lesion was classified in the carcinoma-carcinoid spectrum as collision-type tumour. Our data suggest the double and independent origin of the two components.
8544899: !synaptophysin Alzheimer pathology of patients carrying apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 allele. A recent report suggested that brains of Alzheimer patients homozygous for APOE epsilon 4 show increased amyloid pathology compared to APOE epsilon 3 homozygotes. We studied APOE allele frequencies in 73 AD patients and 38 controls. We also investigated relation of APOE genotypes to beta/A4 immunopositive plaques, cerebrovascular beta/A4 deposition, neurons expressing paired helical filaments (PHFs), and synaptophysin-like immunopositivity in 22 neuropathologically verified AD patients. We also correlated APOE genotypes of definite AD patients to beta/A4 immunoreactivity in dermal vessel walls detected in lifetime skin biopsy samples. APOE allele epsilon 4 frequency was increased in AD compared to nondemented controls (0.37 vs. 0.11; p = 0.006). The number of beta/A4 immunoreactive plaques, PHFs-containing neurons, the degree of cerebrovascular beta/A4 deposition or synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity did not differ significantly in AD patients with or without epsilon 4. beta/A4 deposition in dermal vessel walls was more frequent in definite AD patients with epsilon 4 (43%) than in patients without epsilon 4 (22%). However, the difference did not reach the statistical significance.
8532141: !synaptophysin Affinity purification of rat cortical and chicken forebrain synaptosomes using a biotinylated derivative of omega-CgTx GVIA. We describe a magnetophoretic method for the affinity purification of synaptosomes expressing omega-CgTx GVIA-sensitive, N-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCCs). The method utilizes a biotinylated derivative of omega-CgTx GVIA which retains its ability to displace [125I] omega-CgTx GVIA from its binding sites on rat synaptic membranes. When coupled to streptavidin coated magnetizable beads, the hexanoyl spacer between omega-CgTx GVIA and the biotin:streptavidin bead complex is sufficiently long to allow flexibility of the toxin to bind to its receptor on synaptosomes. We have used this ligand successfully to isolate deaggregated synaptosomes from the parent fractions of chicken forebrain and rat cortex. In the chicken synaptosome parent fraction, omega-CgTx GVIA (1 nM-1 microM) produced a concentration-dependent block of the KCl-induced intracellular free Ca2+, [Ca2+]i, elevation with an IC50 of 28 nM. After affinity magnetophoresis no increase in [Ca2+]i elevation was observed in either the bound or unbound fractions. In the rat synaptosome parent fraction, the KCl-induced increase in free intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) elevation was partially blocked by omega-CgTx GVIA (17 +/- 2% / 1 microM) and to a greater extent by omega-Aga IVA (55 +/- / 1 microM): a combination of the two toxins was additive (72 +/- 4% / 1 microM). The block obtained by omega-CgTx GVIA (1 microM) in the unbound fraction was reduced to 3 +/- 2%, whereas that by omega-Aga IVA (1 microM) increased to 82 +/- 3%. The block obtained by a combination of both toxins (83 +/- 2%) was the same as that with omega-Aga IVA alone (82 +/- 3%). No increase in free [Ca2+]i elevation was observed in the bound fraction although single synaptosome-like structures, displaying synaptophysin immunoreactivity, were detected on the beads. We conclude that omega-CgTx GVIA-sensitive N-type calcium channels are present on all chicken forebrain synaptosomes but only a subset of rat cortical synaptosomes.
8519497: !synaptophysin Presence of neuroreceptors in normal and diseased temporo-mandibular joints. An immunohistochemical study was performed on the articular disk and periarticular tissues of the temporo-mandibular joint (TMJ) in order to ascertain the presence of neuroreceptors (NRec) in these sites. The study was carried out with the APAAP technique on tissue samples obtained from 10 subjects without known TMJ disease and from 5 patients with severe TMJ arthritis or arthrosis. The antibodies used were directed against the following antigens: Gliofibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP), Leu-7, Myelin Basic Protein (MBP), Neurofilaments 68 kD (NF), Neuron Specific Enolase (NSE), S-100 protein (S-100) and Synaptophysin (SYN). This study revealed that Ruffini's-like, Pacini's-like and Golgi's-like receptors can be demonstrated in TMJ periarticular tissues and that free nervous endings are present in the subsynovial but not within the articular disk. In the latter, elongated cytoplasmic processes of chondrocytes demonstrated strong S-100 immunoreactivity but they were unreactive with all other antibodies. These cytoplasmic processes were more abundant and thicker in the samples obtained from patients with diseased TMJ. The results of this study confirm that different NRec are detectable in TMJ periarticular tissues but they are absent within the articular disk. In the latter site, only chondrocytic processes are evident, especially in diseased TMJ, and they might have been confused with nervous endings in previous morphological studies. Nevertheless the absence of immunoreactivity for NF, NSE and SYN proves that they are not of neural origin.
7645740: !synaptophysin Development of a culture system for pure rat neurons: advantages of a sandwich technique. Primary cell cultures were derived from the cerebral cortices of embryonic rats (E 17). Survival of the cultures under serum-free conditions was improved by creating a sandwich: a poly-D-lysine-coated coverslip with plated cells was placed upside down in plastic culture dishes. Neurite outgrowth was observed within three hours after plating, and a neuronal network was established after 24 hours. The viability of the neurons gradually decreased. However, the cells could be cultivated for up to 24 days. Under these conditions the contamination with non-neuronal cells was minimized to less than 5%, as evidenced by immunohistochemical methods using the well-established cell marker proteins: neuron-specific enolase (NSE) as neuronal marker, and vimentin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as astroglial markers. Returning the coverslip to a normal open face position led to cell death within 24 hours. In order to investigate the maturation and differentiation of the cultured nerve cells, we looked for synapse formation by staining the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin (p38). It could be immunostained after three days in vitro (DIV) only in the neuronal perikarya, in perikarya and axons after six DIV, and in varicosities and contact points between axon terminals and adjacent axons or perikarya after 10-12 DIV. It appears that this simple culture method, which (i) yields highly enriched (> 95%) neuronal cultures with more than 85% cells surviving after five days in vitro, (ii) the absence of non-neuronal cells and (iii) the good maturation/differentiation of the cells, may be useful for the study of the neurochemical, physiological or regulatory mechanisms involved in nerve cell development.
7631560: !synaptophysin Fine needle aspiration cytology of a male breast carcinoma exhibiting neuroendocrine differentiation. Report of a case with immunohistochemical, flow cytometric and ultrastructural analysis. We present the cytologic, immunohistochemical, flow cytometric and ultrastructural findings of a case of invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast with features of neuroendocrine differentiation occurring in an 83-year-old male. Fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology of the patient's tumor demonstrated a markedly cellular specimen to discohesive tumor cells, present primarily singly, with occasional loose groups. The cells were relatively large, with pleomorphic, eccentrically placed, round to oval nuclei. The cytoplasm was abundant and contained prominent red granules (Papanicolaou stain) that were also argyrophilic. Immunohistochemical studies performed on the aspirate and the subsequently excised malignant breast tissue revealed positive staining for neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and gastrin. Also, the majority of the tumor stained positive with antibodies to both estrogen and progesterone hormone receptors. DNA flow cytometry demonstrated an aneuploid stemline population with a DNA index of 1.73 and an S-phase fraction of 4.5%. Electron microscopy was performed on the FNA material, and numerous variable-sized, membrane-bound, dense-core granules diffusely scattered within the cytoplasm of the neoplastic cells were identified. The specific cytologic features of this tumor, along with the immunocytochemical and ultrastructural features, can aid the pathologist in rendering an accurate FNA diagnosis of this specific subtype of breast carcinoma.
7623111: !synaptophysin Neurotrophins promote maturation of developing neuromuscular synapses. Although the effects of neurotrophins on survival and differentiation of various neuronal populations have been well studied, little is known about their role in synaptic development and function. We have investigated the long-term effects of neurotrophins in the maturation of neuromuscular synapses in Xenopus nerve-muscle cocultures. BDNF and NT-3, but not NGF, elicited significant changes in several properties of spontaneous synaptic currents (SSCs), indicative of more mature synapses. Most synapses treated by the neurotrophins exhibited a bell-shaped distribution of SSC amplitudes, which reflects mature quantal secretion. The neurotrophins also potentiated the efficacy and reliability of stimulus-induced synaptic transmission. Moreover, BDNF and NT-3 increased the levels of the synaptic vesicle proteins, synaptophysin, and synapsin 1 in the spinal neurons. The number of varicosities per neuron also showed a significant increase after neurotrophin treatment. The effects of the neurotrophins appear to be mediated by the Trk family of receptor tyrosine kinases, primarily through a presynaptic mechanism. These results suggest that BDNF and NT-3 promote functional maturation of synapses.
7601644: !synaptophysin Innervation of myofibroblast-like scleral spur cells in human monkey eyes. To study the innervation of the presumably contractile, myofibroblast-like scleral spur cells in human and cynomolgus monkey eyes.
7571089: !synaptophysin Neuroblastoma of the anterior mediastinum in an 80-year-old woman. A 7-cm anterior mediastinal tumor in an 80-year-old woman was found by light and electron microscopy to be a neuroblastoma. Immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and chromogranin supported the diagnosis. Neuroblastoma is an uncommon tumor in adults and we are not aware of a previous report of such a tumor in a patient of this age.
7561961: !synaptophysin Spongy degeneration in the zitter rat: ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies. Pathological changes in the grey matter of the zitter rat were examined by electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry to investigate the pathogenesis of spongy degeneration. Vacuole formation was first detected in the pons and the outer thalamus at 2 weeks of age. The vacuoles arose from the periaxonal or inter-myelinic spaces as well as the cytoplasm of some oligodendrocytes or astrocytes. With increasing age, some dendrites and the cytoplasm of neurons developed an electron lucent area with sparse organelles and the vacuoles occasionally fused together. Although spongy degeneration gradually extended to the entire CNS, no inflammatory or phagocytotic cell infiltration and no viral particles were detected. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity increased transiently in the vacuolated areas from 2 to 15 weeks of age (maximal at 7 weeks of age). Although zitter rats older than 65 weeks showed some reactive astrocytes in vacuolated areas, their numbers and the intensity of immunostaining decreased with advanced vacuolation suggesting astrocytic hypofunction in response to tissue damage. Immunoreactivity for synaptophysin was weaker in the zitter rats than in the control rats throughout the observation period, which suggested that synapse formation was disturbed in the zitter rats, probably due to a combination of hypomyelination and vacuole formation in the grey matter. These findings suggest that an unknown genetic abnormality, probably related to cell membrane biosynthesis or cell-to-cell interactions, produces both hypomyelination and spongy degeneration in the zitter rat.
7550601: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity is stable 36 h postmortem. The effects of postmortem time, age and tissue storage time on synaptic density were investigated in the prefrontal cortex of human brains. Thirty normal cases and 10 patients with a variety of neurologic diseases were studied, using quantitative immunohistochemistry with a monoclonal antibody to synaptophysin. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was stable during the first 36 h after death, showing no significant change at 1, 8, 12, 24 and 36 h postmortem in normals. However, at 48 and 72 h postmortem, synaptophysin immunoreactivity decreased significantly. A similar pattern of postmortem changes was found in the disease group. In 14 normal cases with a wide range of ages, a significant reduction in synaptic density with age was observed while the time of tissue storage as paraffin-embedded blocks had no significant effect on the synaptophysin immunoreactivity. These results support the validity of using synaptophysin immunohistochemistry as a measure of synaptic density in human brain autopsied within 36 h of death and stored as paraffin-embedded blocks for a long time.
7539720: !synaptophysin The neuron-specific kinesin superfamily protein KIF1A is a unique monomeric motor for anterograde axonal transport of synaptic vesicle precursors. Axonal transport has been intensively examined as a good model for studying the mechanism of organelle transport in cells, but it is still unclear how different types of membrane organelles are transported through the nerve axon. To elucidate the function of this mechanism, we have cloned KIF1A, a novel neuron-specific kinesin superfamily motor that was discovered to be a monomeric, globular molecule and that had the fastest reported anterograde motor activity (1.2 microns/s). To identify its cargo, membranous organelles were isolated from the axon. KIF1A was associated with organelles that contained synaptic vesicle proteins such as synaptotagmin, synaptophysin, and Rab3A. However, this organelle did not contain SV2, another synaptic vesicle protein, nor did it contain presynaptic membrane proteins, such as syntaxin 1A or SNAP-25, or other known anterograde motor proteins, such as kinesin and KIF3. Thus, we suggest that the membrane proteins are sorted into different classes of transport organelles in the cell body and are transported by their specific motor proteins through the axon.
7790918: !synaptophysin Expression of molecules associated with neuronal plasticity in the striatum after aspiration and thermocoagulatory lesions of the cerebral cortex in adult rats. Like the hippocampus, the striatum receives excitatory afferents from the cerebral cortex but, in the case of the striatum, very little is known about the molecular events associated with plasticity after lesions of this pathway. Using immunohistochemical techniques, we have examined the effects of cortical lesions induced either by aspiration of the frontoparietal cortex or by thermocoagulation of pial blood vessels on axonal and glial molecules associated with neuronal plasticity in the striatum. The growth associated protein GAP-43, a molecule present in axons and growth cones, decreased in the dorsolateral striatum after aspiration but not after thermocoagulatory lesions. In contrast, synaptophysin, a marker of synaptic vesicles, remained unchanged in the denervated striatum after both types of lesions. Immunostaining for basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) markedly decreased in striatal astrocytes after both lesions, despite an increased staining for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). The adhesion molecules tenascin, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, highly polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), and laminin did not change significantly in the gray matter of the dorsolateral striatum after either type of lesion. These effects differed from those observed after partial denervation of the hippocampus and spinal cord, revealing marked regional differences in the response of axonal and glial proteins to afferent lesions. In addition, the results further indicate that cortical lesions have both similar and distinct consequences, depending on the procedure by which the lesions are induced, suggesting that cortical lesions associated with different types of pathology may differentially affect subcortical structures.
7774894: !synaptophysin Is esthesioneuroblastoma a peripheral neuroectodermal tumor? Esthesioneuroblastoma (ENB; olfactory neuroblastoma) is a rare, locally aggressive neoplasm of the sinonasal area and anterior cranial fossa. The histogenesis of the lesion is not clearly delineated, and the broad histological spectrum of ENB has confounded the issue. The location, histological features (neuropil, Homer Wright, and olfactory rosettes), and reported immunocytochemical reactions (neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and chromogranin (CHR) positivity) suggest that ENB may be a neural or neuroendocrine neoplasm derived from the olfactory membrane. Recent demonstration in two of three metastatic putative ENB cell lines of the 11;22 chromosomal translocation, seen in Ewing's sarcoma (ES) of bone and peripheral neuroectodermal tumors (PNET) of bone and soft tissue, has led to the conclusion that ENB may be closely related histogenetically to PNET. The overwhelming majority of cases of ES and PNET express the protein product of MIC-2, a gene located on the pseudoautosomal region of the X and Y chromosomes. This protein can be identified immunocytochemically by antibodies 12E7, HBA71, and ON13. We studied the expression of MIC-2 using the 12E7 antibody as well as multiple neural markers in 18 ENB samples obtained from the files of The Johns Hopkins Hospital. The patients ranged in age from 19 to 90 years (mean, 47.5; median, 47) and included five men and 13 women. None of the 18 specimens reacted with antibody 12E7, but 16 were positive for NSE, nine reacted to synaptophysin (SYN), and 13 showed antibodies to chromogranin (CHR). Our studies agree with the previous suggestions that ENB is a primitive neural tumor but fail to support the hypothesis that it is a member of the PNET family.
7650760: !synaptophysin A serum-free, pyruvate-free medium that supports neonatal neural/glial cultures. Tissue culture media with serum generally cause excessive astrocyte proliferation in neonatal brain cultures, and often fail to support neonatal neurons. Published serum-free media for brain cultures contain sodium pyruvate, which interferes with lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assays for cell death. We wanted to use neonatal neural-glial cultures in LDH assays while avoiding astrocyte proliferation, so we developed a serum-free medium without sodium pyruvate. Our initial medium was based on that of Romijn et al. (J Neurosci Methods 23:75-83, 1988), testing selected additives. Cell survival in 8-10-day-old cultures was measured using 3-[4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT). N-acetylcysteine, citrate, superoxide dismutase, ascorbate, supplemental amino acids, and high levels of transferrin improved survival. The optimized medium supported neonatal brain cells in reaggregates or in monolayers of 400 cells/mm2 for several weeks with large, healthy-appearing neurons and very little astrocyte proliferation. Neurons stained strongly for the neuronal marker class III beta-tubulin and the synapse marker synaptophysin. Electron microscopy of reaggregate cultures demonstrated abundant neurons with synapses in a dense neuropil. This medium will be useful for various in vitro applications, especially those using LDH assays or requiring the use of neonatal cells.
7644029: !synaptophysin Visualization and immunohistochemical characterization of sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons in the male rat major pelvic ganglion. Pelvic ganglia contain a mixture of sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons which are innervated by either lumbar (sympathetic) or sacral (parasympathetic) preganglionic axons, respectively. However, until recently no stain for these axon terminals has been available. In the present study of the male rat major pelvic ganglion, a ganglion which supplies axons to the lower urinary and digestive tracts and internal reproductive organs, the total population of preganglionic axon terminals was immunostained using an antiserum against synaptophysin, a protein associated with all small synaptic vesicles (such as the presumptive cholinergic vesicles present in all preganglionic terminals). Selective bilateral lesions of either the hypogastric or pelvic nerves, which carry the sympathetic and parasympathetic preganglionic axons, respectively, were carried out and three to seven days later ganglia were examined immunohistochemically for the distribution of residual synaptophysin-positive terminals. Neurons remaining innervated following hypogastric nerve lesion were therefore classified as parasympathetic and those innervated after pelvic nerve section were defined as sympathetic. These two cell groups are present in approximately equal proportions. Double-staining immunofluorescence to identify which transmitters or peptides are present in either sympathetic or parasympathetic neurons showed that the majority (approximately 75%) of sympathetic neurons are presumed to be noradrenergic (i.e. contain tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity) and are also immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y; the remainder contain vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactivity but not tyrosine hydroxylase and may be cholinergic. Parasympathetic neurons were virtually all non-noradrenergic (tyrosine hydroxylase negative) and were also of two histochemical types, with some neurons containing neuropeptide Y- and others containing vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7636630: !synaptophysin Microwave antigen retrieval for immunocytochemistry on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded post-mortem CNS tissue. Microwave antigen retrieval methods were assessed for a panel of antibodies on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections from a range of human central nervous system (CNS) tissues taken at post-mortem. The immunoreactivity of a number of antigens (synaptophysin, PGP9.5, GFAP, carbonic anhydrase II, CD68, ferritin, HLA-DR, alpha beta-crystallin, measles and herpes viruses) was markedly enhanced by this procedure compared with other methods of antigen unmasking, such as trypsinization. Enhancement was noted both by an increased number of positive cells and by the intensity of reactions within individual cells and their processes. Furthermore, the microwave method produced uniform immunostaining over large surface area sections with no loss of morphological detail. Large cryostat sections of CNS tissue can be difficult to obtain with good morphology. The ability to retrieve a wide range of antigen in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded CNS tissue will greatly increase the range of investigations that can be carried out on this type of stored material.
7551295: !synaptophysin In situ hybridization analysis of chromogranin A and B mRNAs in neuroendocrine tumors with digoxigenin-labeled oligonucleotide probe cocktails. The chromogranin/secretogranin (Cg/Sg) molecules are a family of acidic proteins present in neuroendocrine cells and tumors with secretory granules. They have been frequently used to characterize neuroendocrine cells and tumors by immunohistochemical analyses. Immunoreactivity for CgA is related to the presence of secretory granules in these tumors, so immunohistochemical staining for CgA may be absent in neuroendocrine tumors with only a few secretory granules. RNA in situ hybridization with a series of oligonucleotide probes for CgA and CgB was used to detect the mRNA transcripts for CgA and CgB with digoxigenin-labeled probes in 31 neuroendocrine tumors. These results were compared to ISH with 35S-labeled probes and with immunohistochemical staining for CgA and synaptophysin in the same neoplasms. ISH with 35S-labeled probes for CgA and B detected mRNA transcripts in 31 of 31 tumors, whereas the digoxigenin-labeled probe cocktails for CgA and B were positive in 19 of 31 cases when used separately and in 24 of 31 cases when used together. Immunohistochemical staining for CgA was positive in 22 of 31 cases and for synaptophysin in 23 of 31 cases. The CgA and B oligonucleotide probe cocktails were highly specific, since nonneuroendocrine cells and tumors did not stain and the hybridization signal was abolished by ribonuclease A pretreatment. These results indicate that non-isotopic ISH with digoxigenin-labeled probe cocktails for CgA and B or with 35S-labeled probes can be used in characterizing neuroendocrine cells and tumors in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections even when the CgA protein is not detected by immunohistochemistry.
7496630: !synaptophysin Patterns of presynaptic gene expression define two stages of synaptic differentiation. To elucidate the sequence of molecular events leading to nerve terminal differentiation, we have examined the regulation of expression of presynaptic protein genes during synapse formation in vivo. In the chick ciliary ganglion (CG), synaptophysin IIa and synaptophysin IIb mRNAs showed threefold increases relative to neurofilament-M mRNA during the time of target contact [Embryonic Day 7 (E7)-E9]. Expression of synaptotagmin I mRNA also increased severalfold over this time interval. Thus, mRNAs for three synaptic vesicle proteins are upregulated coordinately during synaptogenesis. In contrast, the major increase in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) mRNA (four- to fivefold) occurred between E15 and E20, coincident with the maturation of synapses in the CG. Coincident with ChAT upregulation, there is a switch in the relative abundance of mRNAs encoding vesicle protein isoforms. In particular, mRNAs encoding synaptophysin IIb and synaptotagmin II (which is undetectable at E9) become predominant. Therefore, although synaptic vesicle protein mRNAs are upregulated in a first phase of differentiation at the time of synapse formation, a temporally distinct phase of presynaptic protein gene regulation, associated with the specific maturation of synapses, is also apparent.
7611650: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical study on synaptophysin in the spinal cord of chronic anterior poliomyelitis. 
7744779: !synaptophysin Microvesicles isolated from bovine posterior pituitary accumulate norepinephrine. Histochemical study indicated that the posterior pituitary possesses numerous microvesicles (MVs) containing synaptophysin, a marker protein specific for brain synaptic vesicles (Navone, F., Di Gioia, G., Jahn, R., Browning, M., Greengard, P., and De Camilli, P. (1989) J. Cell Biol. 109, 3425-2433). By monitoring cross-reactivity with anti-synaptophysin antibody, the MVs were highly purified from bovine posterior pituitaries by a combination of differential and sucrose density gradient centrifugations. The purified MVs had an average diameter of about 60 nm and were associated with synaptophysin as revealed by immunoelectron microscopy. The vesicles contained ATPase activity partially sensitive to bafilomycin A1 and to vanadate. The membrane fraction immunoisolated with anti-synaptophysin antibody also exhibited similar ATPase activity. The two ATPases could be purified separately; the vandate-sensitive enzyme was identified as a 115-kDa polypeptide immunochemically similar to chromaffin granule P-ATPase (forming phosphoenzyme intermediate), and the bafilomycin A1-sensitive ATPase showed essentially the same properties as those of vacuolar type H(+)-ATPases. Upon addition of ATP, the MVs formed an electrochemical gradient of protons and took up norepinephrine in a reserpine-sensitive manner, indicating the presence of secondary monoamine transporter coupled with vacuolar type H(+)-ATPase. No uptake of L-glutamate, gamma-aminobutyrate, glycine, or acetylcholine was observed. The identification of MVs as organelles responsible for storage of monoamines is important for understanding the physiological function of the posterior pituitary.
7753798: !synaptophysin Nonneuronal expression of Rab3A: induction during adipogenesis and association with different intracellular membranes than Rab3D. Rab3A is a small GTP-binding protein expressed predominantly in brain and neuroendocrine cells, in which it is associated with synaptic and synaptic-like vesicles, respectively. Here we report that adult mouse fat cells and 3T3-L1 adipocytes also express Rab3A mRNA and protein. They do not express synaptophysin, an abundant protein in synaptic vesicles or synaptic-like vesicles. The amount of Rab3A mRNA and protein, like that of the highly homologous isoform Rab3D, increases severalfold during differentiation of 3T3-L1 fibroblasts into mature adipocytes. In fat cells, most Rab3D and Rab3A protein is bound to membrane, irrespective of insulin addition. Rab3A and Rab3D are localized in different subcellular compartments, since about half of the Rab3A, but none of the Rab3D, is associated with a low-density organelle(s). Rab3D and Rab3A may be involved in different pathways of regulated exocytosis in adipocytes. Moreover, in adipocytes Rab3A may define an exocytic organelle that is different from synaptic vesicles or synaptic-like microvesicles found in neuronal and endocrine cells.
7648265: !synaptophysin Effects of decentralization on the levels of GAP-43 and p38 (synaptophysin) in sympathetic adrenergic neurons: a semi-quantitative study using immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy. The distribution of GAP-43 in superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and iris were studied in normal animals and following decentralization using immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). GAP-43-like immunoreactivity (LI) was compared with p38 (synaptophysin)-LI, and tyrosin hydroxylase (TH)-LI. In the control SCG, GAP-43-LI and p38-LI were mainly localized in nerve terminals around the principal neurons. The neuronal perikarya were negative for GAP-43, but positive for p38 in a perinuclear zone, as well as positive for TH. SIF cells (Small Intensely Fluorescent cells, ganglionic interneurons) were positive for GAP-43, TH and p38. One day after decentralization, GAP-43-LI and p38-LI in nerve terminals around principal neurons had disappeared. Some of the principal neurons showed a weak GAP-43-immunoreactivity. Three days post-decentralization, GAP-43- and p38-positive nerve terminals around the neurons had reappeared in considerable numbers and the intra-ganglionic nerve bundles were positive for both antibodies. In the control irides, GAP-43-LI and p38-LI were distributed in a varicose pattern in the nerve bundles, around blood vessels and in the network of terminals. Double labelling studies showed that GAP-43-LI was colocalized with TH-LI and p38-LI. The network of terminals in the dilator plate of the irides was quantified by measuring the fluorescence intensity of randomly selected areas, using CLSM. Three days after decentralization the intensity of GAP-43-LI and p38-LI had significantly increased. TH-LI had decreased 8 days after decentralization. The results indicate that GAP-43-LI and p38-LI are normally present in the nerve fibers and terminals of both pre- and post-ganglionic neurons in adult rats. The expression of GAP-43-LI and p38-LI in post-ganglionic neurons is preganglionically regulated, as indicated by the increased expression after decentralization. The expression of p38 in these neurons is probably regulated via mechanisms that are separate from those which regulate GAP-43, since it showed a different time course than that of GAP-43-LI.
8578897: !synaptophysin Round cell sarcomas of possible myelomonocytic origin localized at the lip of aged dogs. Four round cell tumors, situated at the lip of dogs older than 4 years of age, which could not be further classified, were examined light and electron microscopically, immunocytochemically and in part functionally and cytochemically. Immunocytochemically they were positive for vimentin, but negative for cytokeratin, desmin, neurofilament, synaptophysin, S-100 protein, neuron specific enolase, lysozyme, IgG and a pan-T-cell marker. Cell lines were established from two malignant neoplasms. In vitro, neoplastic cells had morphological, functional and cytochemical properties of myelomonocytic cells. A tumor cell-specific polyclonal rabbit antiserum reacted immunocytochemically positive with primary and recurrent tumors and metastases of the original and the three other round cell tumors. Immunoblotting demonstrated a main band with approximately 65-75 kDa. All four tumors were present in aged dogs and metastasized. They most likely represent a distinct group of malignant tumors among the canine round cell tumors.
7748555: !synaptophysin Huntingtin is a cytoplasmic protein associated with vesicles in human and rat brain neurons. The gene defective in Huntington's disease encodes a protein, huntingtin, with unknown function. Antisera generated against three separate regions of huntingtin identified a single high molecular weight protein of approximately 320 kDa on immunoblots of human neuroblastoma extracts. The same protein species was detected in human and rat cortex synaptosomes and in sucrose density gradients of vesicle-enriched fractions, where huntingtin immunoreactivity overlapped with the distribution of vesicle membrane proteins (SV2, transferrin receptor, and synaptophysin). Immunohistochemistry in human and rat brain revealed widespread cytoplasmic labeling of huntingtin within neurons, particularly cell bodies and dendrites, rather than the more selective pattern of axon terminal labeling characteristic of many vesicle-associated proteins. At the ultrastructural level, immunoreactivity in cortical neurons was detected in the matrix of the cytoplasm and around the membranes of the vesicles. The ubiquitous cytoplasmic distribution of huntingtin in neurons and its association with vesicles suggest that huntingtin may have a role in vesicle trafficking.
7671459: !synaptophysin Ganglioglioma of the brain stem: neurological dysfunction of 16-year duration. An autopsy case of a brain stem ganglioglioma in a 38-year-old male patient with neurological dysfunction of 16-year duration is reported. Immunohistochemical investigation of the tumor was performed using a panel of antibodies against neurofilament protein (NFP), synaptophysin (SY 38), beta-tubulin (TUJ1), neuron specific enolase (NSE), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). The value of these markers in the establishment of the diagnosis, as well as the general features, the prognosis and the therapeutic approach of the gangliogliomas are discussed.
7671455: !synaptophysin APP with Kunitz type protease inhibitor domain (KPI) correlates with neuritic plaque density but not with cortical synaptophysin immunoreactivity in Alzheimer's disease and non-demented aged subjects: a multifactorial analysis. The formation of beta A4 amyloid protein in neuritic plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and advanced age is a complex process that involves a number of both cellular and molecular mechanisms, the interrelations of which are not yet completely understood. We have examined quantitatively, in AD and aged controls an extended spectrum of amyloid plaque-related cellular and molecular factors and the cortical synaptophysin immunoreactivity (synaptic density) in order to check for interrelations between them by multifactorial analysis. In 3 cases of senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT) aged 72, 80 and 82 years, and 9 controls aged 43-88 (mean age 65) years, the cortical synaptophysin immunoreactivity was assessed, together with the numbers of neurons, astrocytes and microglial cells, senile plaques, of tangle-bearing neurons, and the amount of beta A4 amyloid precursor protein (APP) with and without the Kunitz type serine protease inhibitor (KPI) domain. The main results were: APP including the KPI domain (KPI-APP) correlated with the number of neuritic plaques, regardless of whether they occurred in SDAT or non-demented controls. There was no significant difference in the amount of KPI-APP between SDAT and controls. Conversely, APP695 (without KPI) was significantly reduced in SDAT. KPI-APP did not correlate with the synaptophysin immunoreactivity (RGVA), while APP695 showed a significant correlation with the latter in all evaluations. It also correlated with the neuron counts, which was not true for KPI-APP. These results support previous findings indicating that KPI-APP is an important local factor for amyloid deposition in the neuritic plaques, both in AD and in non-demented aged people. On the contrary, KPI-APP does not seem to be significantly involved in the mechanisms of synaptic change outside of the plaques.
7643959: !synaptophysin Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) as a quantitative marker in synaptic remodeling. The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) participates in adhesion and neuritic outgrowth during nervous system development. In the adult brain, NCAM is considered to be involved in neuronal sprouting and synaptic remodeling. The NCAM concentration of brain tissue has proved to be a useful marker of these processes, especially when viewed in comparison with the concentration of a marker of mature synapses, e.g. D3-protein (SNAP-25) or synaptophysin. The present review focusses on studies of adult brain in which NCAM concentration estimates and NCAM/D3 ratios have been used to evaluate the rate of synaptic remodeling in brain damage and degenerative diseases.
7631430: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumors: ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies. We report here ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies of neuroblastic differentiation in the retrospective (n = 17) and prospective (n = 26) series of primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs). By electron microscopy, neuritelike structures containing parallel-oriented microtubules, adhesive plaque junctions, and pleomorphic dense-core vesicles were found in the majority of tumor specimens while synaptic specializations were very rare. By immunohistochemistry, synaptophysin appeared to be the most reliable marker for neuroblastic differentiation present in the most reliable marker for neuroblastic differentiation present in the majority of tumors, while 200 kDa neurofilament protein was immunovisualized in a lower proportion of tumors. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was expressed in both reactive astrocytes and in a small proportion of otherwise typical neoplastic cells. We conclude that the majority of PNETs revealed diverse differentiation and that electron microscopy is still the most reliable tool for its detection followed by immunohistochemistry for synaptophysin.
7624829: !synaptophysin Increase in synaptic vesicle proteins in synapsin-transfected NG108-15 cells: a subcellular fractionation study. We have examined the subcellular distribution of synapsins and synaptophysin in density gradients from synapsin- and vector-transfected NG108-15 cells, since we recently found that transfection of synapsin IIb cDNA into neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells (NG108-15) resulted in cell lines that had a more neuronal phenotype than controls. The increase in synapsins and synaptophysin in the transfected cells was maximal in the region of the gradient containing small synaptic vesicles. The transferrin receptor, a marker for early endosomes, did not increase in the synapsin-containing fractions in the transfected cells. Secretogranin I, a soluble protein stored in and secreted from large dense cored vesicles, showed a very pronounced increase in the dense regions of gradients from transfected cells. These subcellular fractionation data suggest a possible role for the synapsins in the regulation of synaptic vesicle function.
7595626: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicle proteins, synaptophysin and chromogranin A in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) it is not known which motoneuron is affected first. The study of synaptic proteins may contribute to the clarification of the problem. Fifteen cases of ALS and five control cases were studied with the immunohistochemical demonstration of synaptophysin (Sy) and chromogranin A (CgA). Sy is a typical membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles (SSV), whereas CgA is found in large dense core vesicles (LDCV) and in neurosecretory granules. In controls, Sy is distributed as dots on the neuronal surface, on proximal dendrites and in neuropil, whereas CgA is found in perikarya and dendrites and as puncta in the neuropil. In ALS there is a marked decrease of Sy-positive dots. In chromatolytic neurons and spheroids a diffuse reaction may occur. CgA-positive dots disappear in ALS, sometimes replaced by a dust-like positivity. CgA is produced by Golgi apparatus and its reduction in ALS corresponds to the fragmentation of the Golgi complex, described in the literature. The findings are interpreted as secondary to the lower motoneuron degeneration and discussed in relation to our knowledge on vesicle production and migration in the neuron and on synapses in the anterior horns of spinal cord.
7567943: !synaptophysin Sinonasal intestinal-type adenocarcinoma: immunohistochemical profile and comparison with colonic adenocarcinoma. Sinonasal intestinal-type adenocarcinomas (ITAC), as their name implies, bear a striking resemblance to primary intestinal neoplasia. The value and limitations of immunohistochemistry in making this distinction have not been previously defined. We determined the immunohistochemical staining profile of 12 sinonasal ITAC and compared their staining with that of 12 histologically similar colonic adenocarcinomas. All ITAC stained for cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen. Additional positive reactions were as follows: B72.3, 11 of 12; Ber EP4, 11 of 12; Leu M1, 8 of 12; HMFG-2, 12 of 12; and BRST-1, weak staining in seven of 12 cases. All 12 ITAC were negative for vimentin, synaptophysin, and actin. Colonic carcinomas stained similarly for these markers. Three additional antigens differed in their expression in ITAC versus colonic tumors. Carcinoembryonic antigen was strongly present in only two of 12 ITAC, with focal positivity in six of 12 and no staining in four of 12 cases. In contrast, all 12 colonic adenocarcinomas were strongly positive for carcinoembryonic antigen. Chromogranin-positive cells were present and often numerous in nine of 12 ITAC, in contrast to only rare positive cells in three of 12 colonic tumors. Neuron-specific enolase was present in five of 12 ITAC but was absent from all colonic tumors studied. ITAC are less often and less strongly carcinoembryonic-antigen positive and more prone to exhibit divergent neuroendocrine differentiation. These features may be of some value in distinguishing ITAC and colonic metastases. Neuroendocrine differentiation in ITAC was associated with higher mortality. Of the five patients with ITAC having 1+ to 2+ chromogranin positivity, only one was free of disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7566340: !synaptophysin Neurons bearing neurofibrillary tangles are responsible for selected synaptic deficits in Alzheimer's disease. The observation that neurons containing neurofibrillary tangles are usually adjacent to neurons free of any morphological indication of disease, suggests the hypothesis that it is NFT-bearing neurons that are primarily responsible for the loss of function in AD. Quantitative Golgi postmortem studies from our laboratories have indicated that there is in many regions of the brains of nondemented humans an age-related increase in dendritic extent of single neurons. In Alzheimer's disease, this normal, age-related increase in dendritic extent was not found, leading to the hypothesis that one of the neurobiological defects in AD is a failure of neuronal plasticity. Message levels of the growth-associated protein, GAP-43, in frontal association cortex (area 9/46) indicated that AD brains with the highest density of neurofibrillary tangle-bearing neurons, showed GAP-43 message levels decreased of the order of 6-fold relative to AD brains with the lowest density of NFT. Combined immunocytochemistry to differentiate tangle-bearing from tangle-free neurons with in situ hybridization to define relative GAP-43 message levels in single neurons revealed that grain density over tangle-bearing neurons containing nuclei was reduced 3-fold compared to that over adjacent tangle-free neurons. This reduction in expression of GAP-43 message in tangle-bearing neurons was selective, because using probes for other messages showed that grain density over tangle-bearing neurons was, on average, increased or similar to that over adjacent non-tangle-bearing neurons. Message levels for the synaptic vesicle-associated protein, synaptophysin, have also been found to be reduced in tangle-bearing neurons relative to adjacent tangle-free neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7566338: !synaptophysin Correlations of synaptic and pathological markers with cognition of the elderly. It has been suggested that the physical basis for dementia is structural or functional loss of synapses. To confirm this finding, we performed an enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) with a monoclonal antibody (EP10) to a synaptophysin-like protein in brain samples from 45 prospectively studied elderly subjects with an average age of 83.3 +/- 10.1 years. We compared the synaptic marker to immunoreactivity with a newly developed PHF antibody (TG3). The cases were selected on the basis of availability of frozen tissue, and included subjects ranging from clinically normal to end-stage dementia. As an initial assessment, we determined Pearson product moment correlations for two clinical measures--the Blessed test of information, concentration, and memory (BICM) and the Fuld object Memory Evaluation (FOME)--with ELISA data and with traditional pathologic markers. We found strong correlations (p < 0.01-0.001) for BICM with brain weight, neuronal loss in the basal nucleus of Meynert (nbM), counts of senile plaques (SP) in the neocortex and hippocampus, and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) in all areas except the parahippocampal cortex. Except in the occipital lobe, where paired helical filament changes are relatively uncommon, TG3-immunoreactivity also correlated strongly with BICM. Weak correlations (p < 0.05) were found for BICM with EP10-immunoreactivity in only the temporal and parietal lobes. Only the pathologic variables showed any significant correlations with FOME. Because inclusion of normal subjects with few or no pathologic lesions could have been driving the strong correlations with pathologic markers, we limited the analysis to those subjects with dementia (BICM; 8). After making this correction, EP10-immunoreactivity in all cortical areas and the hippocampus correlated better (p < 0.05-0.01) with BICM but not FOME. The present univariate analysis suggests that synaptic markers may not be the best structural correlate of dementia and that markers indicative of cytoskeletal changes, e.g., SP, NFT and PHF protein accumulation, may be better correlates of dementia in the elderly.
7543118: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical demonstration of different latent membrane protein-1 epitopes of Epstein-Barr virus in lymphoproliferative diseases. To compare the immunoreactivity of monoclonal antibodies S12 and CS1-4, which recognise different epitopes of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent membrane protein-1 (LMP-1), in EBV associated benign and malignant lymphoproliferative disorders and control tissues processed using different methods.
7477874: !synaptophysin Altered synaptophysin expression as a marker of synaptic pathology in schizophrenia. It has been proposed that synaptic density or synaptic innervation may be altered in schizophrenia as a correlate of the neurodevelopmental pathology of the disease. Synaptophysin is a synaptic vesicle protein whose distribution and abundance provides a synaptic marker which can be reliably measured in post mortem brain. We have used in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunoreactivity to assess the expression of synaptophysin messenger RNA and protein respectively in medial temporal lobe from seven schizophrenics and 13 controls. In the schizophrenic cases, synaptophysin messenger RNA was reduced bilaterally in CA4, CA3, subiculum and parahippocampal gyrus, with a similar trend in dentate gyrus but no change in CA1. It was also decreased in terms of grains per pyramidal neuron in the affected subfields. In parahippocampal gyrus, the loss of synaptophysin messenger RNA per neuron in schizophrenia was greater in deep than superficial laminae. A parallel study in rats showed no effect of haloperidol treatment upon hippocampal synaptophysin messenger RNA, suggesting that neuroleptic treatment does not underlie the reductions found in schizophrenia. In the right medial temporal lobe of schizophrenics, we confirmed the correlation of synaptophysin messenger RNA abundance between ipsilateral subfields seen in both hemispheres of control brains. However, these correlations were not observed in the left medial temporal lobe of the schizophrenic cases. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in schizophrenia showed no significant differences in any subfield compared to controls. Our data support the broad hypothesis that synaptic pathology occurs in schizophrenia. In so far as synaptophysin expression is a marker for synaptic density, the data suggest that pyramidal neurons within the medial temporal lobe may form fewer synapses. However, the lack of any significant differences in synaptophysin immunoreactivity despite the loss of encoding messenger RNA means that this conclusion must be drawn cautiously. There are several plausible explanations for the preservation of synaptophysin immunoreactivity despite reductions in transcript abundance; one possibility is that the inferrred loss of synapses occurs in extra-hippocampal sites to which the affected pyramidal neurons project. For example, the reduction in synaptophysin messenger RNA in subicular neurons may be accompanied by decreased density of synaptic terminals in the nucleus accumbens. Such differences in the efferent synaptic connectivity of the hippocampus have previously been hypothesized to be an important component of the circuitry underlying schizophrenia.
7624058: !synaptophysin Human cerebrovascular nerve fibers immunoreactive for synaptophysin, chromogranin A and tyrosine hydroxylase. The innervation of human cerebral blood vessels has been examined using synaptophysin, a marker of synaptic vesicles, and chromogranin A, a marker of large dense-core vesicles. The catecholaminergic marker tyrosine hydroxylase was used for comparison. Synaptophysin and tyrosine hydroxylase demonstrated a similar distribution of nerve fibers whereas chromogranin A terminals were only sparsely evident. Our results suggest that there is not a subset of nerve fibers in existence which has a distribution different than that of catecholaminergic fibers. Furthermore, in view of its unexpected sparse distribution, chromogranin A in the nervi vasorum is not likely to be a significant contributor to cerebral blood flow regulation.
7727408: !synaptophysin Blockade by botulinum neurotoxin B of catecholamine release from adrenochromaffin cells correlates with its cleavage of synaptobrevin and a homologue present on the granules. Botulinum neurotoxin type B blocks transmitter release via a selective endoproteolysis of the small clear vesicle membrane protein synaptobrevin that is essential for neuro-exocytosis. In view of the distinct characteristics of exocytosis of adrenochromaffin granules and considering the controversy over the presence of synaptobrevin on the latter, this study aimed to determine the molecular basis of the inhibition by this toxin of secretion from chromaffin cells. Thus, affinity-purified antibodies against a synaptobrevin synthetic peptide were used to quantify its concentrations in subcellular fractions of bovine adrenal medulla. The latter, as well as density gradient centrifugation and size-exclusion chromatography, showed that > 70% of the protein copurifies with the granules and their marker, dopamine beta-hydroxylase. Notably, much lower concentrations of synaptobrevin and synaptophysin were found in chromaffin granules than in synaptic small clear vesicles (approximately 9% and approximately 2%, respectively); however, isolated granule membranes exhibited greater enrichments (approximately 35% and approximately 9%). A second immunoreactive protein was colocalized with synaptobrevin on chromaffin granules; in view of its susceptibility to the toxin and lower M(r), it is assumed to be cellubrevin and, also, because of its high homology. Involvement of synaptobrevin and cellubrevin in Ca(2+)-triggered granule exocytosis was established by the demonstrated correlation between the extent of botulinum neurotoxin B-induced inhibition of secretion and their selective proteolysis following introduction of the toxin into intact chromaffin cells. On the basis of these collective findings, it is concluded that these proteins occur on chromaffin granules and one or both are essential for exocytosis.
7552242: !synaptophysin 5-HT1A agonist and dexamethasone reversal of para-chloroamphetamine induced loss of MAP-2 and synaptophysin immunoreactivity in adult rat brain. Serotonin and dexamethasone act as differentiating agents during development. Reducing circulating adrenal steroids or central 5-HT levels via adrenalectomy (ADX) or the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor, para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA), respectively, has been shown to have de-differentiating effects in the adult brain. Morphometric analysis of 5-HT, S100 beta, MAP-2 and synaptophysin immunoreactivity (IR) was used to follow the molecular plasticity of several brain regions after lesioning of 5-HT nerve terminals by para-chloroamphetamine (PCA; 2 x 10 mg/kg s.c.), a serotonin neurotoxin. Two weeks after PCA treatment we observed reductions of 5-HT, S100 beta, and MAP-2 IR in parietal and temporal cortex, temporal pole, hippocampus and hypothalamus. The reductions in MAP-2 and synaptophysin-IR were reversed by 3 days of treatment with dexamethasone (10 mg/l drinking water) or ipsapirone, a 5-HT1A agonist (1 mg/kg s.c.). The loss of S100-IR was reversed only by the 5-HT1A agonist. These results indicate that both dexamethasone and serotonin have effects on adult neuronal plasticity but may work via different mechanisms. The implications of these findings to the loss of synaptophysin and MAP-2 staining in Alzheimer's disease are discussed.
7723281: !synaptophysin Overlapping expression of immunohistochemical markers and synaptophysin mRNA in pheochromocytomas and adrenocortical carcinomas. Implications for the differential diagnosis of adrenal gland tumors. The differential diagnosis of cortical versus medullary tumors of the adrenal gland may be a problem in diagnostic pathology. Conflicting results have been reported about the distribution of various immunohistochemical markers in the normal as well as neoplastic adrenal cortex and medulla.
7643134: !synaptophysin Synaptogenesis and distribution of presynaptic axonal varicosities in low density primary cultures of neocortex: an immunocytochemical study utilizing synaptic vesicle-specific antibodies, and an electrophysiological examination utilizing whole cell recording. Low-density primary cultures of neocortical neurons were utilized to examine: (i) early interactions of growing neurites with morphological characteristics of axons with other neuronal elements, and (ii) the distribution of presynaptic axonal varicosities closely apposed to MAP-2 immunoreactive, putatively postsynaptic, dendrites. At the light microscopical level axonal varicosities, presumably presynaptic terminals, were identified using immunocytochemistry incorporating antibodies specific for the synaptic vesicle antigens synaptophysin and synapsin. The presence of synaptophysin- and synapsin-immunoreactive swellings along axonal processes was first detected at 5 days post-plating and was also apparent in axons growing in isolation. At 5-7 days in vitro, immunolabelled axonal varicosities in close apposition to putative postsynaptic dendrites (MAP-2 immunoreactive) dendrites were detected. Electrophysiologically active synaptic contacts can also readily be detected at this stage. After 3 weeks in vitro presynaptic contacts do appear to be distributed heterogeneously along postsynaptic dendrites of many neurons in culture. As the culture matures a higher number of presynaptic profiles can be seen along dendrites, with a centrifugal distribution, e.g. a higher density of presynaptic axonal terminals in close apposition to more distal regions of larger dendrites, putatively considered to be apical dendrites of pyramidal-like neurons. In our cultures, the overall increase in the density and the pattern of distribution of presynaptic axon terminals immunoreactive for synaptic vesicle antigens closely apposed to putative post-synaptic structures mimics the general postnatal increase of synaptic density in the neocortex in vivo. Thus, low density primary cultures of neocortical neurons offer a valuable system to explore and manipulate (i) the molecular and cellular basis of neocortical synaptogenesis, and (ii) the pharmacology of neocortical synaptic transmission.
7615452: !synaptophysin Contractility and phenotype transitions in serosal thickening of obstructed rabbit bladder. Partial outlet obstruction of rabbit bladder induces serosal thickening and smooth muscle (SM) cell hypertrophy that are accompanied by phenotypic changes in the expression of cytoskeletal and cytocontractile proteins. In the present study, we compare the observed progressive phenotypic changes with the contractile responses of strips of the thickened serosa. At 15 days after partial outlet obstruction, although cells in thickened serosa demonstrate the presence of nonmuscle (NM) myosin of A-like type, vimentin, and SM alpha-actin, no contractile responses of this tissue were noted. At later times (30 days), this tissue expressed in addition SM myosin, and this pattern was paralleled by the development of KCl-stimulated contractility. It is only after 60 days that the serosa demonstrated the expression of desmin, phosphoglucomutase (PGM)-related protein, and was locally negative for NM myosin, indicating a maturation toward adult SM cells. Concomitant to this phenotypic change, the response to KCl increased, and a bethanechol-stimulated contractile response developed. At no time period did the serosal layer react with anti-synaptophysin or anti-neurofilament proteins nor did the strips respond to field stimulation (via release of neurotransmitters), showing that SM cell differentiation and development of contractile responses during serosal thickening are independent of innervation.
7609887: !synaptophysin Impairment of syntaxin by botulinum neurotoxin C1 or antibodies inhibits acetylcholine release but not Ca2+ channel activity. The involvement of syntaxin, an omega-conotoxin-sensitive Ca2+ channel-associated protein, in acetylcholine release was studied at synapses formed between rat sympathetic neurons in culture. Transmission at these synapses involved omega-conotoxin-sensitive Ca2+ channels because a dose-dependent inhibition was observed when omega-conotoxin was bath-applied. Confocal microscope examination of immunofluorescent staining showed that syntaxin had a similar distribution to synaptic vesicle-associated membrane proteins, synaptophysin and vesicle-associated membrane protein/synaptobrevin-2, indicating that syntaxin molecules are concentrated in the presynaptic terminals. Botulinum neurotoxin C1 applied extracellularly or intracellularly into presynaptic neurons blocked synaptic transmission. Introduction of a monoclonal antibody, or polyclonal antibodies, to syntaxin into the presynaptic neuron depressed the evoked release of acetylcholine without affecting Ca2+ influx through Ca2+ channels. These results suggest that syntaxin plays an important role in release of neurotransmitter by a nerve impulse and that this mechanism is downstream of Ca2+ influx.
7570635: !synaptophysin The enterotoxin of Clostridium perfringens type A binds to the presynaptic nerve endings in neuromuscular junctions of mouse phrenic nerve-diaphragm. The enterotoxin of Clostridium perfringens type A, a channel-pore forming protein toxin, inhibited neuromuscular transmission in isolated mouse phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparation at low concentrations of calcium. We investigated immunohistochemically the localization of the binding sites of the enterotoxin in the preparation under the conditions in which the enterotoxin reduced maximally the amplitudes of the twitch tension elicited by electrical stimulations to the phrenic nerve. Under the conditions, double immunohistochemical staining of the preparation with (1) rabbit anti-enterotoxin IgG-rhodamine-labeled goat anti-rabbit IgG and (2) mouse anti-synaptophysin (one of the synaptic vesicle-specific membrane proteins)-fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled goat anti-mouse IgG showed that the enterotoxin binds specifically to most of the sites which were stained with anti-synaptophysin exactly in the same configurations having the shapes of the nerve endings in the endplates. The thin section electron micrographs of the enterotoxin-intoxicated preparation showed no alterations in the ultrastructure of the neuromuscular junction and the nerve endings filled with numerous synaptic vesicles. The present results, together with our previous electrophysiological findings, indicate that the enterotoxin binds specifically to the presynaptic nerve endings and inhibits neurotransmitter release at the neuromuscular junction.
7540913: !synaptophysin Evaluation of the evidence for ion channels in synaptic vesicles. Synaptic vesicles (SVs) have been the focus of much research for many years, however only recently have ion channels from SV membranes been reported. There is now convincing evidence that SVs contain ion channels. This conclusion is based on direct experimental results from several different laboratories using the patch clamp or planar lipid bilayer technique on SVs and neurosecretory granules (NSG). Some limitations of patch clamping and of fusing synamptic vesicles to a bilayer are described and the advantages of the nystatin/ergosterol fusion method are presented. Six different channels appear to exist in SV (or NSG) membranes. Two large channels (250 and 154 pS) have been observed in SVs isolated from mammalian brain, two channels (180 and 13 pS) from Torpedo electric organ, and two channels (130 and 30-40 pS) from NSG. The three larger channels from each set (250, 180 and 130 pS7) are novel in that they have a subconductance state. The 154 pS channel has been identified as synaptophysin but the identity and function of the other channels is unknown. Although some of the channels are gated by voltage, only the 130 pS channel is modulated by Ca2+. Further knowledge of what regulates these channels is mandatory if we are to determine the physiological significance of these channels.
7890025: !synaptophysin Interaction of a synaptobrevin (VAMP)-syntaxin complex with presynaptic calcium channels. Nerve terminal protein complexes implicated in exocytosis were examined by immuno-isolation from rat brain synaptosomes. Immunoprecipitation with anti-syntaxin or anti-VAMP antibodies revealed a syntaxin-SNAP25-VAMP-synaptotagmin complex. Anti-VAMP antibodies also trapped a distinct VAMP-synaptophysin complex. A similar fraction (about 70%) of N-type calcium channels ([125I]omega conotoxin GVIA receptors), was immunoprecipitated by either anti-syntaxin or anti-VAMP antibodies, but not by anti-synaptophysin antibodies (< 4%). The majority of N- but not L-type calcium channels ([3H]PN200-110 receptors), appear to be associated with a synaptic vesicle prefusion complex.
7605916: !synaptophysin Calcium-dependent endogenous proteolysis of the vesicle proteins synaptobrevin and synaptotagmin. The synaptic vesicle integral protein synaptobrevin/VAMP is a target of the clostridial metalloproteases tetanus toxin and botulinum toxins. We provide evidence that synaptobrevin can also be cleaved by an endogenous protease. As revealed by Western blotting proteolysis is calcium-dependent, results in the formation of an 8 kD peptide that becomes apparent within 10 min. Proteolysis can be inhibited by the chelating agents EGTA and EDTA, whereas other protease inhibitors failed to prevent degradation. In addition, a proteolytic degradation of the synaptic vesicle specific protein synaptotagmin could be observed. Other proteins including the synaptic vesicle proteins synapsin I and synaptophysin remained unaltered. Partial calcium-dependent degradation of select synaptic vesicle proteins may play a role in the life cycle of the organelle.
8572112: !synaptophysin Adenomatous lesions of the temporal bone immunohistochemical analysis and theories of histogenesis. Adenomatous lesions of the temporal bone represent a diverse group of neoplasms. At least three histopathologic patterns have been described: glandular; ribbon-like, or "festooning;" and aggressive papillary. Combinations of glandular and ribbon-like histologies in the same lesion are not uncommon. The glandular and ribbon-like histologies have been associated with carcinoid tumors, and the aggressive papillary tumor has been considered a separate entity. Recently, the endolymphatic sac has been proposed as the site of origin of the aggressive papillary lesions. Previous reports have described neuroendocrine properties with characteristics embracing the three histologic types. The authors postulate that the neural crest is the site of origin of this unusual group of neoplasms. Immunohistochemical analysis on the pathologic specimens of patients with adenomatous lesions of the temporal bone was performed to test this hypothesis. From 1975 to 1992 seven patients were treated at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation with a diagnosis of middle ear adenoma. A panel of special stains for neuroectodermal markers, including synaptophysin, chromogranin, neuron specific enolase, calcitonin, and serotonin was used on the paraffin-embedded formalin-fixed specimens. Three lesions were also evaluated by electron microscopy, all demonstrating dense core, intracytoplasmic granules. Three ribbon-like tumors were positive for synaptophysin and chromogranin, and two of these were positive for serotonin. One glandular tumor was positive for synaptophysin, and an aggressive papillary tumor was positive for synaptophysin and neuron specific enolase. An additional papillary tumor was referred following a third recurrence without accompanying immunohistochemical data. Cholesteatoma-like material was identified with a few glandular cells interspersed, all negative by immunohistochemical evaluation. The seventh specimen, initially diagnosed as papillary adenoma on light microscopy, was not studied by the aforementioned stains, and was later identified as a papilloma of sinonasal origin. The neural crest gives rise to pluripotential stem cells with widespread anatomic distribution, including the temporal bone. Because immunomarkers used in this study are specific for neuroectodermal differentiation, results suggest that temporal bone adenomas have neuroendocrine characteristics and could be derived from the specialized neuroectoderm of the neural crest.
7788502: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural localization of cellular prion protein (PrPc) in synaptic boutons of normal hamster hippocampus. The cellular prion protein (PrPc) is a membrane sialoglycoprotein synthesized in the central nervous system and extraneural tissues. Its post-translational modification produces an accumulation of abnormal isoform PrPsc found in brains of transmissible neurodegenerative disorders in animals (scrapie and bovine spongiform encephalopathy) and humans (Kuru, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker syndrome). One major unanswered question relative to PrPc concerns its physiological role in brain neurons, depending largely on the limited knowledge of its subcellular localization. Using a highly-sensitive immunogold electron microscopy technique, we reported that in the hamster dentate gyrus, the synaptic boutons constituted the submicroscopic site where PrPc was observed. This detection was obtained with 2 highly-specific polyclonal antibodies for prion protein. PrPc localization was assigned, both on structural basis and on its co-localization with synaptophysin. The presence of PrPc in synaptic terminals should provide additional informations on its possible role in neuronal transmission and on the implication of synapses in the pathogenesis of spongiform encephalopathies.
7731659: !synaptophysin Cytoskeletal basis for contractility of outer hair cells in the normal adult human organ of Corti: comparisons with vestibular hair cells. The present study is the first consecutive analysis of the adult normal human organ of Corti and vestibular hair cells with regard to the expression of F-actin, actin-associated proteins (alpha-actinin, alpha- and beta-spectrins, vinculin and tropomyosin), beta-tubulin and the calcium-binding protein synaptophysin. The expression of these cytoskeletal and their associated proteins in man is largely similar to, although not identical with, that previously described for several other mammalian species. However, a few very unusual staining patterns were found. In several long outer hair cells a rod of F-actin extended from the infracuticular area to the cell nucleus. Fluorescence for tropomyosin occurred both in the cuticular plates of the outer and inner hair cells, and in the area of close apposition between the base of the outer hair cell and the apical part of Deiter's cell. In contrast, the vestibular hair cells showed immunoreactivity for tropomyosin only in the cuticular plates.
7651277: !synaptophysin Pathology of adrenal neoplasms. The use of immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy enables the strict separation of adreno-cortical and adreno-medullary tumors in every case, as tumors of the medulla are generally positive for neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin A, synaptophysin) and negative for D11 whereas those of the cortex are stained with D11 and are negative with the other markers. Our surgical collection of cortical tumors and tumor-like lesions (n = 104) covers adenomas (39%), carcinomas (15%), microadenomatosis (2%), macronodular hyperplasia (4%), hemangioma (1%), myelolipoma (2%), hematoma (1%), pseudocysts (2%), and metastases (6%). The often difficult interpretation of dignity was aided by a point system of criteria. Isolated nodules were differentiated from adenomas by their size (ie less than 3 cm), the histological pattern and the lack of cellular atypia. Correlations of the lesions with the endocrine functions were presented. The tumors of the medulla (n = 42) were differentiated in pheochromocytomas (88%), malignant pheochromocytomas (7%), neuroblastomas (2%), and ganglioneuroblastomas (2%). 8-10% of pheochromocytomas are malignant, but with the exception of invasion of the capsule or of the veins or the demonstration of metastases, no other reliable criteria for malignancy exist. The lack of S100-protein-immunoreacting satellite cells may indicate a malignant growth. 89% of pheochromocytomas in our collection were shown to be endocrine active secreting catecholamines and in one case additionally ACTH.
7622617: !synaptophysin The topogenic fate of the polytopic transmembrane proteins, synaptophysin and connexin, is determined by their membrane-spanning domains. The synaptophysins and connexins are polytopic transmembrane proteins of similar secondary structure that accumulate as multiple homo-oligomers in specialized membrane regions, the presynaptic transmitter vesicles or gap junctions. Transfection and expression of the respective genes in cultured epithelial cells results in the de novo formation of either small cytoplasmic, synaptophysin-rich vesicles, or functional gap junctions consisting of clustered connexin molecules. To examine the molecular requirements for the specific enrichment and topogenesis of both types of molecule, chimeric cDNAs were constructed composed of different parts of the rat synaptophysin and rat liver connexin32 genes. Expression of the encoded chimeric polypeptides in hepatocellular carcinoma-derived cells showed that only chimeras with all four transmembrane domains from either parent molecule were delivered to their specific destination. In contrast, chimeras with transmembrane domains from both connexin32 and synaptophysin were always retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. The topogenic nature of the transmembrane domains was further demonstrated by deletion mutagenesis, indicating that removal of cytoplasmic end domains or intravesicular loops does not abolish targeting. On the other hand, excision of individual transmembrane domains or introduction of point mutations in transmembrane segments resulted in retention in the endoplasmic reticulum.
7567679: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma. A clinicopathological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of 7 cases. Characterised by distinctive clinicopathological features, the central neurocytoma (CN) is an uncommon and possibly under-recognised primary cerebral neuronal neoplasm. We present clinical and pathological details of seven patients with CN. Histological examination revealed a greater diversity of morphological appearances than is typically described in CN. No anaplastic features were identified. Cellular areas resembling both oligodendroglioma and ependymoma were present in all cases, but each tumour also contained stroma rich areas with hyalinised or aneurysmal vessels. Synaptophysin was expressed by all tumours and probably represents the immunohistochemical marker of choice for identifying CN. Distinguishing ultrastructural features included rounded cell bodies separated by numerous cell processes containing microtubules, pleomorphic neurosecretory granules and occasional synapses. Ki-67 immunostaining revealed a low cell proliferation index in each case. The distinction of CN from other pathological mimics can be reliably made using this multiparametric approach to diagnosis. The generally benign behaviour of CN is confirmed, though there was one patient death in the follow-up period of 10-122 months. Aggressive behaviour in this case was not associated with anaplastic histological features.
7537360: !synaptophysin The human spiral ganglion. The adult normal human spiral ganglion (SG) was analyzed with regard to ultrastructure and immunohistochemistry. The cytoskeleton of the SG cells was found to comprise F-actin, intermediate filaments (IFs) and microtubules (MTs). The IF subgroups (cytokeratins, Cks; neurofilaments, NFs, vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic proteins, GFAP; desmin) displayed characteristic staining patterns. Ck No. 8 was found in all SG cells, whereas vimentin was lacking. GFAP stained only a small subpopulation of SG cells (type 2?). The light (68 kD) and medium-sized chains of NFs occurred in all SG cells and axons, whereas the 200-kD NF subunit was only found in the axonal hillock of (type 2?) SG cells, but in no other part of the cytoplasm, and regionally in nerve fibres. MAP-1 and MAP-2 occurred in all SG cells but only MAP-1 was found in the nerve fibres. The calcium-binding protein synaptophysin (SY) was expressed only in SG cells, in contrast to the S-100 which occurred more generally in the labyrinth. The neuropeptides VIP and substance P were identified in all SG cells, in contrast to NPY which was expressed in a small subpopulation of SG cell (type 2?). Staining for neuron-specific enolase (NSE) identified most (type 1?) but not all SG cells. The cell surface glycoprotein Thy-1 was expressed in SG cells in a way similar to that described for neurons in the CNS. The SG cells express a high degree of cytoskeletal complexity, allowing one to distinguish between type 1 and type 2 cells. The cell bodies and their adjacent nerve fibres show characteristic features of calcium-binding proteins, surface membrane glycoproteins, NSE and neuropeptides but the basic pattern is still similar to neurons in the CNS.
7783952: !synaptophysin Ageing affects cytosolic Ca2+ binding proteins and synaptic markers in the retina but not in cerebral cortex neurons of the rat. Two cerebral cortex areas (frontal and occipital) and the retina of rats varying in age from 0.4 to 30 months were investigated for the expression levels and distribution of two cytosolic high affinity Ca2+ binding proteins, calbindin-28 and calretinin, and of two presynaptic protein markers. Of these latter proteins, one is integral (synaptophysin) the other peripheral (synapsin I) to the synaptic vesicle membranes. In the cortex areas, no significant changes of the markers were observed, except for a drop of calretinin from 0.4 to 2 months, probably related to a stage of neuronal development. In the retina, calbindin-28 decreased progressively during ageing (-40% at 30 months) while calretinin remained unchanged. Concomitantly, the two synaptic vesicle proteins dropped, synaptophysin > 50% and synapsin I > 85%. The role of these changes in sustaining the functional alterations previously described in the retina of aged animals remains to be investigated.
8568338: !synaptophysin Pleomorphic nonfunctioning islet cell tumor of the pancreas. A nonfunctioning islet cell tumor of the pancreas in a 68-yr-old female is reported. All of the laboratory data, including serum hormones, glucose, and tumor markers, were within normal limits. A pancreatoduodenectomy was performed. Cut sections of the specimen revealed a cystic mass measuring 6.0 x 4.5 x 3.5 cm. Histologically, the tumor consisted of large acidophilic cells with bizarre giant nuclei. The tumor cells were positive for chromogranin-A, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, and S-100 protein. Multifocal proliferation of endocrine cells, centroacinar cells and changes in acinar cells were found in the adjacent uninvolved pancreatic tissue. Ultrastructural studies of the tumor revealed clear nuclei with no zymogen, but immature neurosecretory granules in the cytoplasm of the tumor cells. These findings were consistent with those of nonfunctioning islet cell tumors, especially of the pleomorphic type. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on pleomorphic nonfunctioning pancreatic islet cell tumors.
7860636: !synaptophysin The t-SNAREs syntaxin 1 and SNAP-25 are present on organelles that participate in synaptic vesicle recycling. Syntaxin 1 and synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kD (SNAP-25) are neuronal plasmalemma proteins that appear to be essential for exocytosis of synaptic vesicles (SVs). Both proteins form a complex with synaptobrevin, an intrinsic membrane protein of SVs. This binding is thought to be responsible for vesicle docking and apparently precedes membrane fusion. According to the current concept, syntaxin 1 and SNAP-25 are members of larger protein families, collectively designated as target-SNAP receptors (t-SNAREs), whose specific localization to subcellular membranes define where transport vesicles bind and fuse. Here we demonstrate that major pools of syntaxin 1 and SNAP-25 recycle with SVs. Both proteins cofractionate with SVs and clathrin-coated vesicles upon subcellular fractionation. Using recombinant proteins as standards for quantitation, we found that syntaxin 1 and SNAP-25 each comprise approximately 3% of the total protein in highly purified SVs. Thus, both proteins are significant components of SVs although less abundant than synaptobrevin (8.7% of the total protein). Immunoisolation of vesicles using synaptophysin and syntaxin specific antibodies revealed that most SVs contain syntaxin 1. The widespread distribution of both syntaxin 1 and SNAP-25 on SVs was further confirmed by immunogold electron microscopy. Botulinum neurotoxin C1, a toxin that blocks exocytosis by proteolyzing syntaxin 1, preferentially cleaves vesicular syntaxin 1. We conclude that t-SNAREs participate in SV recycling in what may be functionally distinct forms.
7857654: !synaptophysin The precursor protein of non-A beta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid is a presynaptic protein of the central nervous system. Non-A beta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NAC) is the second component in the amyloid from brain tissue of patients affected with Alzheimer's disease. Its precursor protein (NACP) was shown to be a brain-specific protein. In rat brain, NACP was more abundant in the neocortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, striatum, thalamus, and cerebellum and less abundant in the brain stem. Confocal laser microscopy analysis revealed that anti-NACP immunostaining was colocalized with synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals. Ultrastructural analysis showed that NACP immunoreactivity was associated with synaptic vesicles. NACP sequence showed 95% identity with that of rat synuclein 1, a synaptic/nuclear protein previously identified in rat brain, and good homology with Torpedo synuclein from the electric organ synapse and bovine phosphoneuroprotein 14 (PNP-14), a brain-specific protein present in synapses. Therefore, NACP is a synaptic protein, suggesting that synaptic aberration observed in senile plaques might be involved in amyloidogenesis in Alzheimer's disease.
7848269: !synaptophysin Vesicle-associated membrane protein-2 (synaptobrevin-2) forms a complex with synaptophysin. Vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) (or synaptobrevin), a type II membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, is essential for neuroexocytosis because its proteolysis by tetanus and botulinum neurotoxins types B, D, F and G blocks neurotransmitter release. The addition of cross-linking reagents to isolated small synaptic vesicles induces the formation of 30 and 50 kDa complexes containing the isoform 2 of VAMP (VAMP-2). Whereas the 30 kDa band is a VAMP-2 homodimer, the 50 kDa species results from the cross-linking of VAMP-2 with synaptophysin. This heterodimer also forms in detergent-solubilized vesicles and involves the N-terminal part of VAMP-2. The implications of the existence of a synaptophysin-VAMP-2 complex in the processes of vesicle docking and fusion with the presynaptic membrane are discussed.
7832277: !synaptophysin Immunostaining in the diagnosis of pulmonary neuroendocrine carcinomas. An immunohistochemical study with ultrastructural correlations. To determine the specificity of immunostaining in the diagnosis of pulmonary neuroendocrine carcinomas, we studied 66 ultrastructurally characterized lung cancers with a panel of markers considered to be selective for neuroendocrine tumors (neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, Leu 7, synaptophysin) and B72.3, which is reported to be selective for non-small-cell carcinomas. Neuroendocrine tumors studied included 13 small-cell carcinomas, four low-grade neuroendocrine carcinomas, and two large-cell carcinomas with neuroendocrine differentiation. Non-neuroendocrine tumors included 26 adenocarcinomas, 10 squamous cell carcinomas, and 11 large-cell undifferentiated carcinomas. The following percentages of neuroendocrine carcinomas showing immunoreactivity for the various "neuroendocrine markers" were found: synaptophysin, 100%; neuron-specific enolase, 74%; chromogranin A, 37%; and Leu 7, 5%. However, carcinomas without morphologic features of neuroendocrine differentiation showed the following immunoreactivity: synaptophysin, 62%; neuron-specific enolase, 60%; chromogranin A, 17%; and Leu 7, 9%. B72.3 immunostaining was seen in 81% of the carcinomas without neuroendocrine features and in 31% of the small-cell carcinomas. We conclude that many of the commercially available antibodies used as neuroendocrine markers are nonspecific in the diagnosis of pulmonary neuroendocrine carcinomas.
7828138: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation of adrenocortical tumors. The syndrome of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 frequently involves the adrenal cortex. The relationship between the diffuse neuroendocrine system and the adrenal cortex is not clear however, particularly as the adrenal cortex is not considered to be an intrinsic part of the diffuse neuroendocrine system.
7770120: !synaptophysin Early unsuspected neuron and axon terminal loss in scrapie-infected mice revealed by morphometry and immunocytochemistry. Neuronal loss is often quoted as an element of the pathology of the transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, but few data are published. To determine whether neuronal loss is a salient feature of murine scrapie, and whether there is a relationship with the other hallmark lesions of scrapie we compared the numbers of neurons, severity of vacuolation, axonal bouton density and distribution of prion protein (PrP) in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) following intraocular infection of C57BL/FaBtDk mice with ME7 scrapie. This route of infection limits the initial spread of infection to the retinal efferents, thus directing infectivity and subsequent pathological changes to the dLGN which is a major projection of the optic nerve. Morphometric assessment of neuron number in the dLGN was made on semi-serial sections from five infected and five normal brain injected controls at four 50-day intervals during the incubation period, and on terminally affected mice. The number of neurons decreased from around 20,000 at 50 days to under 1000 in the terminal group. Significant loss was identified in individual mice at 150 days post-infection, coincident with the onset of vacuolation: neuron number was found to have an inverse relationship to the severity of vacuolation. Axonal boutons in the dLGN (demonstrated by synaptophysin immunolabelling) were reduced at 200 days, and virtually absent in terminal mice. The intensity of PrP immunostaining progressively increased from 150 days, and in a separate experiment PrP was detected from 175 days by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of brain extracts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7701447: !synaptophysin Reliability of commercially available immunocytochemical markers for identification of neuroendocrine differentiation in bronchoscopic biopsies of bronchial carcinoma. Although neuroendocrine differentiation occurs quite commonly in non-small cell bronchial malignancies, its biological significance and implications for management remain uncertain. Determining these facts requires its recognition early, ideally at diagnosis, which is usually made on tissue from bronchoscopy, but the best means of its detection in such material is unclear. A prospective comparative study was performed of 10 commercially available antisera to a series of markers of neuroendocrine differentiation, to test their efficacy when applied to fibreoptic bronchoscopy biopsy specimens.
7835333: !synaptophysin Synaptobrevin binding to synaptophysin: a potential mechanism for controlling the exocytotic fusion machine. The synaptic vesicle protein synaptobrevin (VAMP) has recently been implicated as one of the key proteins involved in exocytotic membrane fusion. It interacts with the synaptic membrane proteins syntaxin I and synaptosome-associated protein (SNAP)-25 to form a complex which precedes exocytosis [Söllner et al. (1993b) Cell, 75, 409-418]. Here we demonstrate that the majority of synaptobrevin is bound to the vesicle protein synaptophysin in detergent extracts. No syntaxin I was found in this complex when synaptophysin-specific antibodies were used for immunoprecipitation. Conversely, no synaptophysin was associated with the synaptobrevin-syntaxin I complex when syntaxin-specific antibodies were used for immunoprecipitation. Thus, the synaptobrevin pool bound to synaptophysin is not available for binding to syntaxin I and SNAP-25, and vice versa. Synaptobrevin-synaptophysin binding was also demonstrated by chemical cross-linking in isolated nerve terminals. Furthermore, recombinant synaptobrevin II efficiently bound synaptophysin and its isoform synaptoporin, but not the more distantly related synaptic vesicle protein p29. Recombinant synaptobrevin I bound with similar efficiency, whereas the non-neuronal isoform cellubrevin displayed a lower affinity towards synaptophysin. Treatment with high NaCl concentrations resulted in a dissociation of the synaptobrevin-synaptophysin complex. In addition, the interaction of synaptobrevin with synaptophysin was irreversibly abolished by low amounts of SDS, while the interaction with syntaxin I was enhanced. We conclude that synaptophysin selectively interacts with synaptobrevin in a complex which excludes the t-SNAP receptors syntaxin I and SNAP-25, suggesting a role for synaptophysin in the control of exocytosis.
7712184: !synaptophysin Spatial periodicity of NADPH-diaphorase and synaptophysin, but not SNAP-25, reactivity in the monkey cerebellar cortex. We recently described a parasagittal patchy organisation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity in the granular layer of the rat cerebellum. We now report the pattern of NADPH-d distribution in the primate cerebellum and its relationship to two synaptic proteins, synaptophysin and synaptosomal associated protein 25 kDa (SNAP-25), using histochemistry and immunocytochemistry. NADPH-d reactivity was localised in the molecular and granular layers (ML, GL) and a subset of infraganglionic plexuses (IGPs), but not in the Purkinje cell layer and the white matter. In ML, the histochemical reactivity was dense and relatively homogeneous in the neuropil, and moderate in the stellate cells. A patchy organisation of NADPH-d in GL was detected in both horizontal and parasagittal sections. In the IGPs staining for NADPH-d revealed modular positive zones alternating with negative ones. The positive and negative IGP zones were usually congruent with the high and low NADPH-d reactivity in GL, respectively. Both synaptic proteins were strongly expressed in the neuropil in ML and GL, and their patterns were relatively homogeneous. However, synaptophysin was present in a subpopulation of IGPs organised in modules which corresponded to those expressing NADPH-d. Our results indicate that the NADPH-d modular system is more complicated in the primate cerebellum than in the rat. In addition, we have provided suggestive evidence of a co-expression of NADPH-d and synaptophysin in selected IGP modules in primate cerebellum, which suggests that nitric oxide may be involved in the activity of the Purkinje cells by affecting the basket cell synaptic input.
7712157: !synaptophysin Denervation induced abnormal phosphorylation in hippocampal neurons. This study demonstrates that combined dopaminergic and cholinergic denervation of the hippocampus results in the appearance of morphologically altered, Tau reactive, apical dendrites of granule cells in the rat dentate gyrus. The denervated granule cells and their apical dendrites also display immunoreactivity to a mitogen-activated protein kinase, ERK-1, and also evidence of abnormal phosphorylation of these dendrites as revealed by SMI-31 immunoreactivity. Dopaminergic denervation alone also causes mitogen activated protein kinase reactivity without the Tau-reactive apical dendrities. These results suggest an analogy to synaptophysin loss and the appearance of dendritic threads described in Alzheimer's disease (AD), as an early stage in the formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). This is the first animal model in which abnormal phosphorylation of Tau has been shown to be produced experimentally in vivo.
11322297: !synaptophysin The pineal body of the mink and horse with special reference to the reproductive cycle. An ultrastructural and immunocytochemical study. An ultrastructural and immunohistochemical analysis was performed on the epiphysis of two species of mammals: mink and horse. These animals present a reproductive cycle that varies along the year according to the light exposition. The aim of the study was to define possible structural changes connected with the gonadal activity. Structural aspects in common emerged such as those in concern with the epiphysis cells, their immunocytochemical characteristics (NSE and Synaptophysin positivity of pinealocytes, as well as CFAP positivity of further cells), and those in concern with the general ultrastructure. This latter has in particular revealed significant differences in relation to the biological cycles considered. In the presence of gonadal activity the mink pinealocyte displays a modest cytological organization which, on the contrary, after the mating and in arrest of the gonadal activity, appears as fully restored. In the horse, in both natural and artificially induced photoperiods, significant variations were noted these in connection with the various phases of development of the electron-dense granules, typical of the horse pinealocyte, interpreted as melanosomes. These aspects confirm the role of the epiphysis in the regulation of the reproductive cycle, albeit in the presence of species-specific peculiarities.
8867692: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and electron microscopic study of subependymal giant cell astrocytoma. Six cases of subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SGCA), five associated with tuberous sclerosis (TS), were reviewed by light microscopy, electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Histologically, all cases showed features typical of SGCA. GFAP and neurofilament expression were found in all cases. Synaptophysin and myelin basic protein were positive in single different cases. The MIB-1 positive rate was 0% in 4 cases, 3% in a case with recurrence after a partial resection, and 6.4% in another case with a rapid growing tumor. By electron microscope, glial filament was identified in the tumor cells of all cases, whereas none of them showed any ultrastructural evidence of a neuronal origin. We therefore suggest that SGCA is a glial origin tumor, arising from the astrocytic part of a subependymal nodule--the most common cerebral lesion of tuberous sclerosis caused by distorted migration of the germinal mantle-the neuronal part of which remains as entrapped remnants of dysgenetic, incompletely expressed neuronal cells.
8866661: !synaptophysin Establishment and characterization of four human medulloblastoma-derived cell lines. We have established four cell lines, UW228-1, UW228-2, UW228-3 and UW443, from two posterior fossa medulloblastomas. The three UW228 sublines originated from a tumor with a diploid DNA content, while the tumor of origin of UW443 was predominantly tetraploid. Both tumors displayed areas of immunopositivity for synaptophysin and glial fibrillary acidic protein. All four cell lines have been grown as monolayers in continuous culture for 50 to 200 passages, are not contact inhibited at high density, and form colonies in soft agar. The UW228 sublines are aneuploid, have similar modal chromosome numbers, similar chromosomal duplications and identical marker chromosomes, and display loss of heterozygosity for identical sequences at the distal end of chromosome 17p. UW443 is diploid and also shows loss of heterozygosity for a distal sequence on chromosome 17p. All lines are immunopositive for two or more neurofilament proteins, three lines (UW228-1, UW228-2 and UW443) are immunopositive for synaptophysin, and none are immunopositive for glial fibrillary acidic protein. The lines differ in sensitivity to the alkylating agents 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea and N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine. They also differ in dependence on the DNA repair protein O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase for alkylating agent resistance and in levels of the DNA repair activities apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease and DNA polymerase beta. These properties establish UW228-1, UW228-2, UW228-3 and UW443 as four new, phenotypically distinct medulloblastoma-derived cell lines.
8808182: !synaptophysin The use of chromogranin, synaptophysin and islet amyloid polypeptide as markers for neuroendocrine tumours. 
8773255: !synaptophysin Stable maintenance of glutamate receptors and other synaptic components in long-term hippocampal slices. Cultured hippocampal slices retain many in vivo features with regard to circuitry, synaptic plasticity, and pathological responsiveness, while remaining accessible to a variety of experimental manipulations. The present study used ligand binding, immunostaining, and in situ hybridization assays to determine the stability of AMPA- and NMDA-type glutamate receptors and other synaptic proteins in slice cultures obtained from 11 day postnatal rats and maintained in culture for at least 4 weeks. Binding of the glutamate receptor ligands [3H]AMPA and [3H]MK-801 exhibited a small and transient decrease immediately after slice preparation, but the binding levels recovered by culture day (CD) 5-10 and remained stable for at least 30 days in culture. Autoradiographic analyses with both ligands revealed labeling of dendritic fields similar to adult tissue. In addition, slices at CD 10-20 expressed a low to high affinity [3H]AMPA binding ratio that was comparable with that in the adult hippocampus (10:1). AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2/3 and an NMDA receptor subunit (NMDAR1) exhibited similar postcutting decreases as that exhibited by the ligand binding levels, followed by stable recovery. The GluR4 AMPA receptor subunit was not evident during the first 10 CDs but slowly reached detectable levels thereafter in some slices. Immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization techniques revealed adult-like labeling of subunit proteins in dendritic processes and their mRNAs in neuronal cell body layers. Long-term maintenance was evident for other synapse-related proteins, including synaptophysin, neural cell adhesion molecule isoforms (NCAMs), and an AMPA receptor related antigen (GR53), as well as for certain structural and cytoskeletal components (e.g., myelin basic protein, spectrin, microtubule-associated proteins). In summary, following an initial and brief depression, many synaptic components were expressed at steady-state levels in long-term hippocampal slices, thus allowing the use of such a culture system for investigations into mechanisms of brain synapses.
8673418: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET). A case report. The authors present a case of relatively rare tumor of the central nervous system (CNS) in a 19-year-old female, who died 18 months after the first manifestation of meningismus, increased intracranial pressure and secondary hydrocephalus. Brain autopsy revealed abundant neoplastic infiltrations, which spread through the subarachnoid space. Neoplastic infiltrations were also present in the third ventricle and in a form of small subependymal nodules along the whole ventricular system. The microscopical examination showed that neoplasm consisted of small cells, which formed neuroblastic Homer Wright rosettes. Immunohistochemical studies (for synaptophysin, chromogranin A, GFAP, vimentin) together with morphology and localization of neoplasm suggested diagnosis of primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) that spread mainly in the leptomeninges and caused obliteration of subarachnoid space.
8615075: !synaptophysin Structural changes of anterior horn neurons and their synaptic input caudal to a low thoracic spinal cord hemisection in the adult rat: a light and electron microscopic study. Structural changes in lumbosacral ventral horn neurons and their synaptic input were studied at 3, 10, 21, 42, and 90 days following low thoracic cord hemisection in adult rats by light microscopic examination of synaptophysin immunoreactivity (SYN-IR) and by electron microscopy. There was an ipsilateral transient decrease in SYN-IR at the somal and proximal dendritic surfaces of anterior horn neurons which extended caudally from the site of injury over a postoperative (p.o.) period of 42 days. Concomitantly, at 21 days p.o., perineuronal SYN-IR started to recover in upper lumbar segments. By 90 days p.o., a normal staining pattern of SYN was noted in upper and mid lumbar segments, but the perineuronal SYN-IR was still slightly below normal levels in low lumbar and sacral segments. Electron microscopy revealed ultrastructural changes coincident with the alterations in SYN-IR. At 3 days p.o., phagocytosis of degenerating axon terminals by activated microglial cells was observed at the somal and proximal dendritic surfaces of ventral horn neurons. These changes were most prominent up to two segments caudal to the lesion. At 10 days p.o., advanced stages of bouton phagocytosis were still detectable in all lumbosacral motor nuclei. Additionally, abnormal axon terminals, with a few dispersed synaptic vesicles and accumulations of large mitochondria, appeared at the scalloped somal surfaces of anterior horn neurons. At 21 days p.o., several large lumbosacral motoneurons had developed chromatolysis-like ultrastructural alterations and motoneuronal cell bodies had become partially covered by astrocytic lamellae. At 42 days p.o., there was a transient appearance of polyribosomes in some M-type boutons. In addition, at 42 and 90 days p.o., a few degenerating motoneurons were detected in all lumbosacral segments, but most displayed normal neuronal cell bodies contacted by numerous intact synapses as well as by astrocytic processes. In contrast to these striking alterations of synaptic input at somal and proximal dendritic surfaces of motoneurons, relatively few degenerating boutons were detected in the neuropil of motor nuclei at all the p.o. times studied. We suggest that the preferential disturbance of the predominantly inhibitory axosomatic synapses on ventral horn neurons may be involved in the mechanisms which influence the well-established increase in motoneuronal excitability after spinal cord injury.
8560965: !synaptophysin Anti-Leu-19 is a marker for nervous tissue in the mucosa of the human rectum. Despite numerous investigations on the enteric nervous system, the knowledge about the mucosal innervation of the human rectum and colon is very shallow and mainly based on ultrastructural studies. We performed an enzyme (NADH-Ach) and immunohistochemical (NF, synaptophysin, anti-Leu-19) study on cryostat sections of the human rectal mucosa in order to study the possible additional characteristics of the mucosal innervation in depth. Enzyme histochemistry reveals positively staining fibers in the muscularis mucosae. Staining with antibodies against neurofilaments and synaptophysin reveals positively staining fibers in the lamina propria and muscularis mucosae. The latter staining is comparable with the findings obtained with anti-Leu-19. The monoclonal antibody anti-Leu-19 is characterized by a nerve-like staining in the mucosa revealed by nerve-like fibers from the plexus submucosus internus (Meissner) penetrating the muscularis mucosae, and creating a real plexus of fine twisted fibers in the lamina propria, around the crypts and underneath the epithelium. The distribution of the mucosal nerve-like pattern in the areas with mucosa-associated lymphoid follicles differs from the pattern observed in the lamina propria in between. Since the monoclonal antibody anti-Leu-19 and the monoclonal antibody NKH1a show a great similarity, we were interested also in the possible relation between the nerve like mucosal staining pattern and the lymphocytic population. Comparing the distribution pattern of anti-Leu-19 with other lymphocytic markers, there was an apparent similarity with the distribution of the T-helper subgroup. Our data indicate that the monoclonal antibody anti-Leu-19 shows a nerve-like staining pattern in the mucosa.
8528296: !synaptophysin Malignant peripheral neuroectodermal tumors in urology. During the past few years, a new tumor type has emerged in the pediatric and adolescent group of cancer patients, which has been designated malignant peripheral neuroectodermal tumor (MPNT). This tumor has some clinical and pathological signs in common with either soft-tissue sarcomas or classic Ewing's sarcoma, but is defined as a distinct entity because of its immunohistological characteristics. The tumor expresses neuronal markers, but the pattern varies: chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, protein S-100 and others. MPNT can occur in the urogenital region. The differential diagnosis on clinical grounds must include Ewing's and soft tissue sarcomas, and also Wilms' tumor and its variants. MPNT are often wide spread in the urogenital region when first diagnosed. Response to radiotherapy and combination chemotherapy is limited. Radical surgery is not always possible. The prognosis therefore remains rather poor at this time. A selection of MPNT patients is presented to demonstrate the various problems associated with this diagnosis. MRI and CT of all patients showed large tumors with direct infiltration of the surrounding structures. MRI is the best imaging modality for diagnosis and therapy monitoring in these tumors, because of its high soft-tissue contrast.
8520575: !synaptophysin Role of myosin in neurotransmitter release: functional studies at synapses formed in culture. To determine the functional role of presynaptic proteins in the neurotransmitter release, I have employed cholinergic synapses formed between superior cervical ganglion neurons in culture. These synapses expressed proteins characteristic of mature synapses: immunofluorescence staining showed the presence of synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, VAMP/synaptobrevin-2, syntaxin and neurexin. The function of these proteins seems to be similar to that of mature synapses because botulinum neurotoxins A, E and C1 inhibited neurotransmitter release evoked by presynaptic action potentials. With this preparation, I have obtained evidence supporting roles for myosin II and myosin light chain kinase in neurotransmitter secretion. Acetylcholine release was inhibited by introduction of antibody against myosin II or inhibitors of myosin light chain kinase. This evidence suggests a model in which myosin light chain kinase phosphorylates myosin, and the resultant change in actin-myosin interactions is involved in some steps of transmitter release.
8520571: !synaptophysin The effect of calcium levels on synaptic proteins. A study on VAT-1 from Torpedo. In this study we compare major synaptic proteins from Torpedo electric organ to their homologues from mammalian brain. Most of these proteins are members of small gene families. We demonstrate a high degree of evolutionary conservation of most synaptic proteins. However, in the electric organ each gene family is represented only by a single member. We focus on VAT-1, a major protein of the vesicle membrane in Torpedo. VAT-1 is located on the synaptic vesicle membrane and is highly concentrated on the plasma membrane following the application of alpha-latrotoxin. Taking advantage of the relative simplicity of Torpedo synapses, we performed an in vitro study on the properties of VAT-1 affected by changes in Ca2+ levels. VAT-1 is a low affinity Ca2+ binding protein whose ability to bind Ca2+ resides mainly, but not entirely, on the carboxy-terminal domain of the protein. In the presence of Ca2+, the protein is organized in a high molecular mass complex, which is destabilized by depleting Ca2+. This effect occurs only by chelating Ca2+ ions, but not with other divalent ions. VAT-1 is not complexed to any of the proteins which were implicated in the docking/fusion complex such as VAMP, synaptophysin or syntaxin, regardless of Ca2+ levels. Dependence of the stability of protein complexes on Ca2+ levels is also demonstrated on Torpedo n-Sec1. The possible physiological implications of such Ca2+ dependence are discussed.
7883422: !synaptophysin Small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the endometrium. Ten cases of endometrial small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma are described. The ages of the patients ranged from 50 to 75 years (mean, 64 years). Most of the tumors were bulky, intraluminal masses that invaded at least half of the myometrial wall. Small cells were the only malignant element in two tumors. In the other eight, there were admixed elements of adenocarcinoma (five), adenosquamous carcinoma (two), or heterologous mesodermal mixed tumor (one). Histologic examination of metastatic deposits in six cases revealed solely small cells in all but one. Immunohistochemical evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation was demonstrated in all tumors using the markers chromogranin, synaptophysin, leu-7, or neuron-specific enolase. Six of these tumors were originally interpreted as mesodermal mixed tumors with a homologous, stromal-type sarcomatous component at initial pathologic examination, but were reclassified as carcinoma. Clinical follow-up of these 10 patients and an additional seven well-documented patients reported in the literature provided strong evidence for the aggressive nature of this neoplasm. Endometrial small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma is a rare, but aggressive neoplasm that can commonly be mistaken for a homologous-type mesodermal mixed tumor.
7823159: !synaptophysin Overexpression of synaptophysin enhances neurotransmitter secretion at Xenopus neuromuscular synapses. Previous studies have suggested the importance of synaptophysin (p38), a major integral membrane protein of the synaptic vesicle, in transmitter secretion, but few have directly addressed its functional role at intact synapses. In the present study, injection of synthetic mRNA for synaptophysin into one of the early blastomeres of a Xenopus embryo resulted in elevated synaptophysin expression in 1 and 2 d embryos and in cultured spinal neurons derived from the injected blastomere, as shown by immunocytochemistry. At neuromuscular synapses made by neurons overexpressing synaptophysin [p38(+)] in 1 d cell cultures, the spontaneous synaptic currents (SSCs) showed a markedly higher frequency, as compared to control synapses. This increase in frequency was not accompanied by a change in the mean amplitude or the amplitude distribution of the SSCs, suggesting that synaptophysin is not involved in determining the size of transmitter quanta. The impulse-evoked synaptic currents (ESCs) of synapses made by p38(+) neurons showed increased amplitude as well as reduced fluctuation and delay of onset of ESCs. Under high-frequency tetanic stimulation at 5 Hz, the rate of tetanus-induced depression was faster for p38(+) neurons. Taken together, these results suggest a role for synaptophysin in the late steps of transmitter secretion, affecting the probability of vesicular exocytosis and/or the number of synaptic vesicles initially docked at the active zone.
7823120: !synaptophysin Morphological analysis of dendritic spine development in primary cultures of hippocampal neurons. We monitored developmental alterations in the morphology of dendritic spines in primary cultures of hippocampal neurons using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) and the fluorescent marker Dil. Dissociated rat hippocampal neurons were plated on polylysine-coated glass cover slips and grown in culture for 1-4 weeks. Fixed cultures were stained with Dil and visualized with the CLSM. Spine density, spine length, and diameters of spine heads and necks were measured. Some cultures were immunostained for synaptophysin and others prepared for EM analysis. In the 1-3 week cultures, 92-95% of the neurons contained spiny dendrites. Two subpopulations of spine morphologies were distinguished. At 1 week in culture, "headless" spines constituted 50% of the spine population and were equal in length to the spines with heads. At 2, 3, and 4 weeks in culture headless spines constituted a progressively smaller fraction of the population and were, on average, shorter than spines with heads. Spines with heads had narrower necks than headless spines. At 3 weeks in culture, spines were associated with synaptophysin-immunoreactive labeling, resembling synaptic terminals. At 4 weeks in culture, only 70% of the Dil-filled cells had spiny dendrites, and the density of spines decreased. Ultrastructurally, the majority of dendritic spine-like structures at 1 week resembled long filopodia without synaptic contacts. The majority of axospinous synapses were on short "stubby" spines. At 3 weeks in culture, the spines were characteristic of those seen in vivo. They contained no microtubules or polyribosomes, were filled with a characteristic, filamentous material, and formed asymmetric synapses. These studies provide the basis for further analysis of the rules governing the formation, development, and plasticity of dendritic spines under controlled, in vitro conditions.
7821912: !synaptophysin Tumors of pineal parenchymal cells: a correlation of histological features, including nucleolar organizer regions, with survival in 35 cases. We studied 35 parenchymal neoplasms arising in the pineal gland, including 11 pineoblastomas, 21 pineocytomas, and three mixed pineocytoma-pineoblastomas. Pineoblastomas were most commonly found in children (mean age, 12.6 years). The median postsurgical length of survival for seven patients, including five with remote metastases, with fatal outcome was 24 months. The 21 pineocytomas were found in older individuals (mean age, 26.8 years). Four patients with pineocytoma died; two before surgery and two in the immediate postoperative period. The remaining 17 patients survived for intervals between 6 and 118 months after surgery. Two mixed pineocytoma-pineoblastomas were found in infants who died a few months after biopsy, whereas a third patient, an adult, was alive at 46 months after excision and irradiation. Both pineoblastoma and pineocytoma exhibited variable immunoreactivity to neurofilament proteins, synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, S-100 protein, retinal-S antigen, and rhodopsin; the highest percentages of positive cells stained with synaptophysin. Three pineocytomas exhibited ganglionic differentiation and two of them also showed a glial component. Prognosis could not be correlated with the degree of divergent differentiation. Comparison of silver-stained nucleolar organizer region (AgNOR) counts between pineoblastomas and pineocytomas suggests that the former are more actively proliferative than the latter, with mixed pineocytoma-pineoblastoma showing intermediate activity. There was no correlation between AgNOR score and prognosis within the three tumor groups.
7795910: !synaptophysin Temporal pattern of synaptophysin expression in cryopreserved fetal hippocampal cells transplanted into ischemically damaged adult rat hippocampus. 
7780694: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptophysin and neurofilament protein confirms predominantly neuroblastic differentiation of primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET). We report here that neuronal and glial differentiation is easily detected using synaptophysin (SF) and neurofilament protein (NFP) immunohistochemistry in primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET). Thus, for all practical reasons, every PNET should be regarded as PNET with "hidden" multipotential or bipotential differentiation.
7735281: !synaptophysin Reflex and morphological changes in spinal preganglionic neurons after cord injury in rats. Autonomic dysreflexia manifested as episodic hypertension after spinal cord injury may occur because of changes in sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) in response to loss of bulbospinal inputs. We studied dysreflexia in rats one week after midthoracic spinal cord hemisection or complete transection. After cord hemisection at the fifth thoracic segment all rats had hemiparaplegia and after complete transection they were paraplegic and exhibited dysreflexia characterized by pressor responses to distension of the urinary bladder. Changes in morphology of SPNs retrogradely labelled by cholera toxin and Fluoro Gold were examined and changes also were assessed in expression of the synaptic vesicular protein synaptophysin. A comparison of SPNs rostral and caudal to the lesion revealed significant dendritic degeneration and decreased soma size after the loss of supraspinal input. Expression of synaptophysin was normally observed rostral to a cord hemisection but this immunoreactivity was increased caudal to the lesion. In conclusion significant structural changes in SPNs occur within a week after cord injury. The abnormal cardiovascular control and exaggerated reflex reactions may be due to new synapse formation on these SPNs.
7732793: !synaptophysin Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma with a gangliomatous component: an immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. We report a case of a 24-year-old woman with left temporal pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) with atypical neuronal cells. Many neoplastic cells, otherwise typical of PXA, expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein, while neuronal cells with marked atypia were immunopositive for synaptophysin and neurofilament protein. This report supports a notion that PXA, like other astrocytic tumors, may have its gangliogliomatous counterpart.
7728332: !synaptophysin Ventral mesencephalic grafts in the neostriatum of the weaver mutant mouse: structural molecule and receptor studies. Mesencephalic cell suspensions were prepared from E12 wild-type (+/+) mouse embryos and stereotaxically implanted into the dorsal neostriatum of weaver mutant mice (wv/wv), which have a genetic mesostriatal dopamine (DA) deficiency. Survival of DA neurons in the grafts was documented by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunocytochemistry. Axon growth was monitored by immunocytochemistry using a battery of antibody markers, and the cellular localization of structural protein and receptor RNA transcripts was studied by in situ hybridization histochemistry using [32P]oligonucleotide probes. The cell suspension grafts exhibited strong immunoreactivity for neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM), growth-associated phosphoprotein GAP-43, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), beta-amyloid protein precursor (beta APP), and phosphorylated neurofilament epitopes (clone SMI-31); intermediate-to-high levels of immunoreactivity were seen for synaptophysin. High levels of hybridization were found in the grafts for the RNA transcripts of GAP-43, MAP2, and isoforms beta APP695, beta APP714 and beta APP751 of the beta APP. No hybridization signal was detected in the grafts for DA D2 or neurotensin receptor mRNAs, both of which are normally expressed by nigral DA neurons. DA receptor autoradiography using the D2/D3 agonist [3H]CV 205-502 as a ligand showed no binding in the transplants, indicating an apparent abnormality of grafted cells; neurotensin binding sites, labeled with [125I]neurotensin, were visualized in the suspensions, indicating the possibility that receptors could be present but that RNA message levels might be too low to allow detection. These findings offer a molecular correlate of axonal, dendritic and structural protein expression by transplanted mesencephalic neurons; further, they suggest that specific functional properties of grafted nigral cells are maintained after transplantation, while other aspects of their cellular biology may be compromised.
7704320: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumours and their separation from other gastrointestinal stromal tumours: an ultrastructural and immunohistochemical study of seven cases. Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) represent a heterogeneous group whose classification frequently requires ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies. In a retrospective study of the ultrastructural findings of 24 gastrointestinal stromal tumours, whose light microscopic study has yielded ambiguous results and in which accurate diagnosis had required ultrastructural support, seven were found to have the characteristics of gastrointestinal autonomic nerve (GAN) tumours. In all of them the diagnosis was based on the presence of dendritic processes with dense neuroendocrine granules. Immunohistochemically, the seven tumours were negative for smooth-muscle markers. All stained positively for vimentin. NSE, chromogranin, and synaptophysin were positive in most of them, while S-100 protein was positive only in two cases. We present the ultrastructural and immunohistochemical features of seven GANT against the background of the GISTs of our series. We conclude that GAN tumours cannot be diagnosed by light microscopy alone but this tumour group displays characteristic electron microscopic and immunohistochemical features and appears to represent a distinct type of GIST.
7700527: !synaptophysin Loss of synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity in the hippocampal formation is an early phenomenon in Alzheimer's disease. We studied a synatophysin-like immunoreactivity in the hippocampal formation of patients with definite Alzheimer's disease, multi-infarct dementia, patients with no evidence of clinical dementia with neuropathological findings fulfilling the criteria of possible Alzheimer's disease, and age-matched nondemented controls. Possible Alzheimer's disease cases were of special interest because they were considered to represent early Alzheimer's disease. We also studied the spatial relationship of synaptophysin-like immunopositivity with amyloid-beta-protein immunopositive senile plaques and anti-paired helical filament immunopositive degenerating neurons locally as well as considering the intrinsic circuits in the hippocampal formation. The synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity was decreased in the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex in patients with definite and possible Alzheimer's disease but not in multi-infarct dementia patients compared to controls. Equal loss of synapses in possible and definite Alzheimer's disease patients supports the hypothesis that synaptic loss is an early phenomenon in Alzheimer's disease. Unchanged synaptophysin-like immunopositivity in patients with multi-infarct dementia suggests that the loss of synapses is centrally involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and not dementia per se. There was no spatial correlation between loss of synapses and amyloid-beta-protein positive senile plaques. Moreover, we could not find a strict spatial relationship between senile plaques and degenerating neurons. Our results do not support the amyloid cascade hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease that local accumulation of amyloid-beta-protein leads to the loss of synapses.
7697220: !synaptophysin Melanotic paraganglioma of the posterior mediastinum. A melanotic paraganglioma occurred in a 57-year-old woman, located in the left paravertebral space of the upper mediastinum. It was totally resected. During a 5 year follow up period neither tumour recurrence nor metastasis were observed. Histological examination of the tumour revealed a paraganglioma with monomorphous chief cell like elements which were arranged in a "zellballen" pattern. Immunohistochemical results also were in accordance with the diagnosis since neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin and synaptophysin were found in tumour cells whereas keratin was not. Additionally, neurosecretory granules were found in tumour cells during electron microscopy. A peculiar feature of the tumour was its strong pigmentation due to melanin located within the tumour cells and tumour associated melanophages. The simultaneous expression of functional properties of two different neural crest derived cells in one tumour stresses the close relationship between all neural crest elements and is in accordance with the observation of other melanotic, non-melanomatous tumours.
7655737: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical features of the human retina and retinoblastoma. The immunohistochemical features of 24 retinoblastoma specimens from 22 patients, 15 with unilateral and 7 with bilateral disease, were examined by the labelled streptavidin biotin (LSAB) method and compared with those of specimens from the remaining morphologically normal retina. In the normal retina, S-100 protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin were detected in astrocytes and/or Müller cells. Neurofilament protein was seen in axons of the ganglion cells, synaptophysin was present in both plexiform layers, bcl-2 oncoprotein was seen in ganglion cells and bipolar cells, and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) was detected in ganglion cells, bipolar cells and photoreceptor cells and in their cell processes. While retinoblastoma (Rb) protein expression was noted in ganglion cells, bipolar cells, and some photoreceptor cells, p53 protein was not expressed at all. In all retinoblastomas, strong NSE expression and weak bcl-2 expression was observed in almost all tumour cells and synaptophysin was localized in rosette-forming cells, while tumour cells were devoid of S-100, GFAP, vimentin and neurofilament protein. These findings support the view that retinoblastomas are composed of neuron-committed cells. In addition, no Rb protein expression was detected in retinoblastomas, whereas p53 expression was found in 18 cases (75%).
7576941: !synaptophysin Biochemical evidence for a mature phenotype in morphologically poorly differentiated neuroblastomas with a favourable outcome. Neuroblastoma is an embryonal tumour of the sympathetic nervous system with marked heterogeneity in terms of histological maturity and clinical course. A previous study revealed that high tumour levels of the csrc protein, particularly its neuronal isoform (pp60csrcN), correlated with favourable outcome. To test whether this feature reflects a higher degree of neuronal maturation in these tumours, an extended series (47 consecutive neuroblastomas and 10 ganglioneuromas) were analysed for levels of csrc protein isoforms, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin. Immunoblotting and radioimmunoassay techniques were employed. The results were compared with conventional histological signs of neuronal maturation. High pp60csrcN levels were specific for prognostically favourable neuroblastomas and correlated with high neuronal marker levels. However, signs of histological maturation correlated poorly with these parameters. It is therefore concluded that low stage tumours are highly differentiated in biochemical terms despite their frequently immature histology. Furthermore, the clinical usefulness of these biochemical parameters as prognostic markers was compared with established parameters in a multivariate analysis. Stage 4 disease, MYCN amplification, and age above 18 months at diagnosis was the most powerful combination of variables found for predicting a poor outcome. As expected, none of the neuronal differentiation markers investigated could add to the prediction of aggressive disease when compared with this model. However, high expression of pp60csrcN appeared to be useful in predicting long-term survival in high stage infant neuroblastoma.
7568899: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicle proteins and regulated exocytosis. The recent identification of novel proteins associated with the membranes of synaptic vesicles has ignited the field of molecular neurobiology to probe the function of these molecules. Evidence is mounting that the vesicle proteins vamp (synaptobrevin), rab3A, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin (p65) and SV2 play an important role in regulated exocytosis, by regulating neurotransmitter uptake, vesicle targeting and fusion with the presynaptic plasma membrane.
7546678: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and fine structural characterization of primary carcinoid tumors of the larynx. Carcinoid tumors belong to the group of neuroendocrine tumors of epithelial origin, i.e., neuroendocrine carcinomas. These neoplasms usually occur in the gastrointestinal tract or bronchial system but are very rare neoplasms in the larynx. Since carcinoid tumors in this latter site may appear to be undifferentiated by light microscopy, they may possibly be misinterpreted and their neuroendocrine characteristics may remain unrecognized. Using immunohistochemical methods, three carcinoid tumors were studied and showed positive immunostaining for markers of epithelial origin (cytokeratins, epithelial membrane antigen, carcino-embryonic antigen) and, in particular, for markers of neuroendocrine differentiation (chromogranin, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase). All tumors expressed calcitonin-, serotonin- and adrenocorticotropic-hormone-like immunoreactivity. In contrast, three poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinomas showed positive immunostaining for epithelial markers but did not show any immunoreactivity with markers of endocrine characteristics. Fine structurally, carcinoid tumor cells contained neurosecretory-type granules scattered throughout the cytoplasm. The present study demonstrated that (1) carcinoid tumors of the larynx possess distinct immunohistochemical characteristics that allow a clear classification, (2) it is advisable to use a battery of primary antibodies rather than rely on specificity and sensitivity of a single marker to establish diagnosis and (3) the fine structural demonstration of neurosecretory-type granules serves as a reliable adjunct to diagnosis.
7541276: !synaptophysin Alpha fetoprotein-producing acinar cell carcinoma of the pancreas showing multiple lines of differentiation. An alpha fetoprotein (AFP)-producing tumour occurring in the head of the pancreas of a 30-year-old woman is reported. Histological examination revealed a markedly solid proliferation of tumour cells with prominent nucleoli and occasional luminal structures, some of which contained mucinous material stained with mucicarmine and alcian blue. No squamoid corpuscles were recognized. Immunohistochemistry showed intense positivity for lipase trypsin, and AFP basically, and single cells were also positive for carcino-embryonic antigen, CA19-9, synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase. Pancreatic hormone-positive cells were absent. Electron microscopical examination revealed numerous granules of variable sizes in the tumour cells, which were considered to be zymogen. The tumour is an acinar cell carcinoma with multi-directional differentiation including the ability to produce AFP. Among AFP-positive pancreatic tumours, acinar cell carcinoma and pancreatoblastoma seem to be the most frequent.
7538359: !synaptophysin Fast axonal transport of kinesin in the rat visual system: functionality of kinesin heavy chain isoforms. The mechanochemical ATPase kinesin is thought to move membrane-bounded organelles along microtubules in fast axonal transport. However, fast transport includes several classes of organelles moving at rates that differ by an order of magnitude. Further, the fact that cytoplasmic forms of kinesin exist suggests that kinesins might move cytoplasmic structures such as the cytoskeleton. To define cellular roles for kinesin, the axonal transport of kinesin was characterized. Retinal proteins were pulse-labeled, and movement of radiolabeled kinesin through optic nerve and tract into the terminals was monitored by immunoprecipitation. Heavy and light chains of kinesin appeared in nerve and tract at times consistent with fast transport. Little or no kinesin moved with slow axonal transport indicating that effectively all axonal kinesin is associated with membranous organelles. Both kinesin heavy chain molecular weight variants of 130,000 and 124,000 M(r) (KHC-A and KHC-B) moved in fast anterograde transport, but KHC-A moved at 5-6 times the rate of KHC-B. KHC-A cotransported with the synaptic vesicle marker synaptophysin, while a portion of KHC-B cotransported with the mitochondrial marker hexokinase. These results suggest that KHC-A is enriched on small tubulovesicular structures like synaptic vesicles and that at least one form of KHC-B is predominantly on mitochondria. Biochemical specialization may target kinesins to appropriate organelles and facilitate differential regulation of transport.
7535166: !synaptophysin Increased numbers of cytokeratin-positive interstitial reticulum cells (CIRC) in reactive, inflammatory and neoplastic lymphadenopathies: hyperplasia or induced expression? A total of 291 enlarged lymph nodes showing a range of reactive-inflammatory processes, primary and metastatic neoplasms were studied to determine the distribution and immunoprofile of their cytokeratin-positive interstitial reticulum cells (CIRC) in comparison with normal nodes. In 258/291 nodes (89%), CIRC numbers were distinctly increased in the subcapsular, paracortical and, occasionally, in the medullary zones; often, these increased CIRC formed networks around follicles, sinuses and vessels. CIRC had comparatively small, irregularly shaped bodies and dendritic processes; occasionally, giant forms were noted. CIRC contained cytokeratins (CK) 8 and 18 but not 19, as shown by immunohistochemistry, and by gel electrophoresis with subsequent immunoblotting. They co-expressed vimentin consistently, alpha-smooth-muscle actin frequently, and desmin less frequently. They did not contain desmoplakins, Factor VIII, S-100, LCA, B and T lymphocyte- and macrophage-associated antigens, chromogranin A, synaptophysin or the A-80 glycoprotein. We found no clear correlation between the increased CIRC and given nodal disease processes. However, CIRC were most abundant in nodes free of but draining malignant tumours; bizarre CIRC assemblies were noted in HIV lymphadenopathy. CIRC appear to represent a subset of the so-called "fibroblastic reticulum cells" of lymph nodes. Their function remains undetermined; their increase in diverse lymphadenopathies suggests that they partake in nodal reactions to injury. It remains unclear whether the increase in CIRC relative number is due to proliferation or to CK gene induction processes but their presence and potential capability to undergo hyperplasia with dysplastic forms should alert pathologists to possible diagnostic pitfalls. In addition, we discuss that CIRC may undergo transformation and represent the "cell of origin" of certain CK-positive tumours restricted to lymph nodes.
7806490: !synaptophysin Rabphilin-3A is associated with synaptic vesicles through a vesicle protein in a manner independent of Rab3A. Rabphilin-3A is a putative target protein for Rab3A small GTP-binding protein, which is implicated in regulated secretion, particularly in neurotransmitter release. Rabphilin-3A is associated with synaptic vesicles, although it has no transmembrane segment. Here we have studied how rabphilin-3A is associated with synaptic vesicles. Treatment of the synaptic vesicles isolated from rat brain with 1 M NaCl completely solubilized rabphilin-3A from the vesicles. These vesicles deprived of rabphilin-3A still contained Rab3A and synaptophysin. Exogenous rabphilin-3A bound to the vesicles deprived of endogenous rabphilin-3A in dose-dependent and saturable manners. The concentration of exogenous rabphilin-3A giving a half-maximal binding was about 50 nM and maximally 5 +/- 1 molecules of exogenous rabphilin-3A bound to one vesicle. Addition of exogenous Rab3A bound to one vesicle. Addition of exogenous Rab3A or removal of endogenous Rab3A by the action of Rab GDI did not affect the binding of exogenous rabphilin-3A to the vesicles. However, treatment of the vesicles with trypsin completely abolished the binding of exogenous rabphilin-3A. These results suggest that rabphilin-3A is associated with synaptic vesicles at least through a vesicle protein in a manner independent of Rab3A.
7809115: !synaptophysin A distinct class of intracellular storage vesicles, identified by expression of the glucose transporter GLUT4. Some cell types have cytoplasmic storage vesicles whose fusion with the cell surface is triggered by an extracellular signal. To explore the relationship between different classes of storage vesicles, we expressed, in the neuro-endocrine cell line PC12, the facilitative glucose transporter GLUT4, which is stored in small cytoplasmic vesicles in fat and muscle cells and mobilized to the cell surface when insulin is present. PC12 cells have two known types of storage vesicles, secretory granules and synaptic vesicles, but GLUT4 is targeted to neither. It is recovered, however, in a class of small vesicles that sediment approximately twice as fast as synaptic vesicles. Immunoelectron microscopy confirmed the presence of such small vesicles in transfected PC12 cells. By velocity sedimentation analysis, GLUT4 vesicles efficiently exclude the synaptic vesicle markers synaptophysin, SV2, and synaptobrevin; the transferrin receptor, a marker of conventional endocytosis; and the polymeric immunoglobulin receptor, a marker of transcytosis. The exclusion of synaptophysin and the transferrin receptor from most of the GLUT4-containing structures was confirmed by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. Like synaptic vesicles, therefore, GLUT4 vesicles of PC12 cells appear to be a unique type of organelle. A GLUT4-containing organelle of identical sedimentation properties was found in transfected fibroblast cell lines and in rat adipocytes. On stimulation of the adipocytes with insulin, GLUT4 was translocated from the peak of small vesicles to faster sedimenting membranes. We propose that the class of vesicles described here is present in a wide range of cell types and is involved in transient modification of the cell surface.
7899974: !synaptophysin Symptomatic lumbar spondylolysis. Neuroimmunologic studies. This study characterized the defect using neuroimmunologic and inflammatory cell analysis.
7882025: !synaptophysin Synaptotrophic effects of human amyloid beta protein precursors in the cortex of transgenic mice. The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD) because its degradation products accumulate abnormally in AD brains and APP mutations are associated with early onset AD. However, its role in health and disease appears to be complex, with different APP derivatives showing either neurotoxic or neurotrophic effects in vitro. To elucidate the effects APP has on the brain in vivo, cDNAs encoding different forms of human APP (hAPP) were placed downstream of the neuron-specific enolase (NSE) promoter. In multiple lines of NSE-hAPP transgenic mice neuronal overexpression of hAPP was accompanied by an increase in the number of synaptophysin immunoreactive (SYN-IR) presynaptic terminals and in the expression of the growth-associated marker GAP-43. In lines expressing moderate levels of hAPP751 or hAPP695, this effect was more prominent in homozygous than in heterozygous transgenic mice. In contrast, a line with several-fold higher levels of hAPP695 expression showed less increase in SYN-IR presynaptic terminals per amount of hAPP expressed than the lower expressor lines and a decrease in synaptotrophic effects in homozygous compared with heterozygous offspring. Transgenic mice (2-24 months of age) showed no evidence for amyloid deposits or neurodegeneration. These findings suggest that APP may be important for the formation/maintenance of synapses in vivo and that its synaptotrophic effects may be critically dependent on the expression levels of different APP isoforms. Alterations in APP expression, processing or function could contribute to the synaptic pathology seen in AD.
7982917: !synaptophysin p145, a major Grb2-binding protein in brain, is co-localized with dynamin in nerve terminals where it undergoes activity-dependent dephosphorylation. Three major rat brain proteins were recently found to bind the SH3 domains of Grb2: synapsin I, dynamin, and a novel 145-kDa protein (p145) (McPherson, P. S., Czernik, A. J., Chilcote, T. J., Onofri, F., Benfenati, F., Greengard, P., Schlessinger, J., and De Camilli, P. (1994) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 91, 6486-6490). We have now used antibodies raised against p145 which had been purified by Grb2 affinity chromatography and SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to characterize this protein. p145 is neuron-specific and co-distributes with dynamin in subcellular fractions of rat brain. Both proteins are partially recovered in soluble and particulate fractions. By immunofluorescence, p145 is closely co-localized with dynamin, which we show here to be highly concentrated in nerve terminals. In contrast to synapsin I, which is highly enriched in a purified synaptic vesicle fraction, both p145 and dynamin are de-enriched in this fraction. However, both proteins are found on membranes which are immunoisolated with antibodies directed against the synaptic vesicle membrane protein synaptophysin, suggesting that dynamin and p145 are localized in part on organelles which represent intermediate stages in the reformation of synapatic vesicles during recycling. Finally, we have determined that p145, like dynamin, is a phosphoprotein which undergoes dephosphorylation in response to nerve terminal depolarization. These findings suggest that p145 participates with dynamin in synaptic vesicle endocytosis and recycling.
7894334: !synaptophysin Co-storage in large 'dense-core' vesicles of dopamine and cholecystokinin in rat striatum. The subcellular localization of cholecystokinin in the striatum--an area where a high density of cholecystokinin containing terminals has been demonstrated--was studied using biochemical techniques. Cholecystokinin containing vesicles were partially purified using iso-osmotic Ficoll gradients. As judged from their size and their buoyant density in isopycnic gradients, cholecystokinin containing vesicles represent large 'dense-core' vesicles. Negative staining and subsequent immunolabelling for synaptophysin at the electron microscopical level, showed labelled vesicles of 50-70 nm. binding of dihydrotetrabenazine was detected in the cholecystokinin containing fractions. The results suggest that dopamine is co-stored with cholecystokinin in large dense vesicles in rat striatum.
7850868: !synaptophysin Glutamate immunoreactivity is enriched over pinealocytes of the gerbil pineal gland. Mammalian pinealocytes have been shown to contain synaptic-like microvesicles with putative secretory functions. As a first step to elucidate the possibility that pinealocyte microvesicles store messenger molecules, such as neuroactive amino acids, we have studied the distributional pattern of glutamate immunoreactivity in the pineal gland of the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus) at both light- and electron-microscopic levels. In semithin sections of plastic-embedded pineals, strong glutamate immunoreactivity could be detected in pinealocytes throughout the pineal gland. The density of glutamate immunolabeling in pinealocytes varied among individual cells and was mostly paralleled by the density of immunostaining for synaptophysin, a major integral membrane protein of synaptic and synaptic-like vesicles. Postembedding immunogold staining of ultrathin pineal sections revealed that gold particles were enriched over pinealocytes. In particular, a high degree of immunoreactivity was associated with accumulations of microvesicles that filled dilated process terminals of pinealocytes. A positive correlation between the number of gold particles and the packing density of microvesicles was found in three out of four process terminals analyzed. However, the level of glutamate immunoreactivity in pinealocyte process endings was lower than in presumed glutamatergic nerve terminals of the cerebellum and posterior pituitary. The present results provide some evidence for a microvesicular compartmentation of glutamate in pinealocytes. Our findings thus lend support to the hypothesis that glutamate serves as an intrapineal signal molecule of physiological relevance to the neuroendocrine functions of the gland.
7841234: !synaptophysin Identification of synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity in the sea anemone Condylactis gigantea (Cnidaria: Anthozoa). Synaptophysin is a membrane protein of synaptic vesicles that serves as an antigenic marker for nervous and endocrine systems in mammals. Monoclonal antisera generated against synaptophysin were used for immunocytochemical staining in tissues of the tentacles of the sea anemone Condylactis gigantea (Cnidaria: Anthozoa). Specific staining, visible at the light and electron microscope levels, was found in the tentacle. Proteins were extracted from the tissues and solubilized. Using SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western blotting, we identified proteins with apparent molecular weights of 38,000, 78,000, and 114,000. The data suggest the tissues of this anthozoan contain synaptophysin-like proteins with molecular properties similar to those of mammalian neurons.
7798315: !synaptophysin The polymeric immunoglobulin receptor accumulates in specialized endosomes but not synaptic vesicles within the neurites of transfected neuroendocrine PC12 cells. We have expressed in neuroendocrine PC12 cells the polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (pIgR), which is normally targeted from the basolateral to the apical surface of epithelial cells. In the presence of nerve growth factor, PC12 cells extend neurites which contain synaptic vesicle-like structures and regulated secretory granules. By immunofluorescence microscopy, pIgR, like the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, accumulates in both the cell body and the neurites. On the other hand, the transferrin receptor, which normally recycles at the basolateral surface in epithelial cells, and the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor, a marker of late endosomes, are largely restricted to the cell body. pIgR internalizes ligand into endosomes within the cell body and the neurites, while uptake of ligand by the low density lipoprotein receptor occurs primarily into endosomes within the cell body. We conclude that transport of membrane proteins to PC12 neurites as well as to specialized endosomes within these processes is selective and appears to be governed by similar mechanisms that dictate sorting in epithelial cells. Additionally, two types of endosomes can be identified in polarized PC12 cells by the differential uptake of ligand, a housekeeping type in the cell bodies and a specialized endosome in the neurites. Recent findings suggest that specialized axonal endosomes in neurons are likely to give rise to synaptic vesicles (Mundigl, O., M. Matteoli, L. Daniell, A. Thomas-Reetz, A. Metcalf, R. Jahn, and P. De Camilli. 1993. J. Cell Biol. 122:1207-1221). Although pIgR reaches the specialized endosomes in the neurites of PC12 cells, we find by subcellular fractionation that under a variety of conditions it is efficiently excluded from synaptic vesicle-like structures as well as from secretory granules.
7798314: !synaptophysin Sorting of synaptophysin into special vesicles in nonneuroendocrine epithelial cells. Synaptophysin is a major transmembrane glycoprotein of a type of small vesicle with an electron-translucent content (SET vesicles), including the approximately 50-nm presynaptic vesicles in neuronal cells, and of similar, somewhat larger (< or = approximately 90 nm) vesicles (SLMV) in neuroendocrine (NE) cells. When certain epithelial non-NE cells, such as human hepatocellular carcinoma PLC cells, were cDNA transfected to synthesize synaptophysin, the new molecules appeared in specific SET vesicles. As this was in contrast to other reports that only NE cells were able to sort synaptophysin away from other plasma membrane proteins into presynaptic- or SLMV-type vesicles, we have further characterized the vesicles containing synaptophysin in transfected PLC cells. Using fractionation and immunoisolation techniques, we have separated different kinds of vesicles, and we have identified a distinct type of synaptophysin-rich, small (30-90-nm) vesicle that contains little, if any, protein of the constitutive secretory pathway marker hepatitis B surface antigen, of the fluid phase endocytosis marker HRP, and of the plasma membrane recycling endosomal marker transferrin receptor. In addition, we have found variously sized vesicles that contained both synaptophysin and transferrin receptor. A corresponding result was also obtained by direct visualization, using double-label immunofluorescence microscopy for the endocytotic markers and synaptophysin in confocal laser scan microscopy and in double-immunogold label electron microscopy. We conclude that diverse non-NE cells of epithelial nature are able to enrich the "foreign" molecule synaptophysin in a category of SET vesicles that are morphologically indistinguishable from SLMV of NE cells, including one type of vesicle in which synaptophysin is sorted away from endosomal marker proteins. Possible mechanisms of this sorting are discussed.
7737929: !synaptophysin Supranuclear efferent synapses on outer hair cells and Deiters' cells in the human organ of Corti. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity and transmission electron microscopy have demonstrated vesiculated nerve endings synapsing on the supranuclear zone of outer hair cells and also of Deiters' cells in the human organ of Corti. These fibers seem similar to supranuclear fibers, apparently derived from the olivocochlear efferent system, which have been described in the animal. However, these endings were found throughout the cochlea in the human whereas in the animal such fibers were limited to the apical cochlea. Although such fibers have been demonstrated among supporting cells by immunohistochemical techniques, this is the first demonstration by transmission electron microscopy of morphology consistent with a chemical synapse between such fibers and Deiters' cells. Although the role of such fibers is unknown, neurophysiologic evidence suggests that they may modify the micromechanics of the outer hair cell. The function of neural innervation of Deiters' cells is speculative.
7723383: !synaptophysin Studies of childhood brain tumors using immunohistochemistry and microwave technology: methodological considerations. The immunohistochemical detection of antigens in archival tissue sections has been hampered by the poor reactivity of certain polypeptides in conventional formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded material. For example, the poor reactivity of neurofilament proteins (NFPs) in surgical and autopsy specimens has been a major drawback of previous large, retrospective, clinicopathologic studies of pediatric primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs), also known as medulloblastomas. We report our experience with a method of antigen retrieval which greatly enhanced the immunohistochemical detection of neuronal and glial intermediate filament proteins, retinal S-antigen (RSA), and the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in archival, paraffin-embedded, formalin or Bouin's-fixed, pediatric brain tumors, particularly PNETs. The technique involves adding a single brief step to an established avidin-biotin complex (ABC) immunohistochemical protocol (Vectastain Elite Kit). This step involves boiling tissue sections in distilled water for 5 min in a microwave oven. The specificity of staining was consistent with known cell and tissue specificities of the well-characterized monoclonal antibodies used and there was minimal background. Synaptophysin (SYN) staining was unaffected by heating and immunoreactivity of the low affinity nerve growth factor (p75NGFR) and the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) were lost. The enhanced detection of neuronal and glial antigens in routinely prepared, formalin-fixed, archival material should facilitate large retrospective clinicopathologic studies designed to assess the prognostic implications of differentiation in PNETs and to better understand the biology of these tumors.
7723064: !synaptophysin Combined fluid percussion brain injury and entorhinal cortical lesion: a model for assessing the interaction between neuroexcitation and deafferentation. Laboratory studies suggest that excessive neuroexcitation and deafferentation contribute to long-term morbidity following human head injury. Because no current animal model of traumatic brain injury (TBI) has been shown to combine excessive neuroexcitation and significant levels of deafferentation, we developed a rat model combining the neuroexcitation of fluid percussion TBI with subsequent entorhinal cortical (EC) deafferentation. In this paradigm, moderate fluid percussion TBI was induced in each rat, followed 24 h later by bilateral EC lesion (BEC). Six conditions were examined: (1) fluid percussion TBI followed 24 h later by bilateral EC lesion (TBEC), (2) fluid percussion TBI (TBI), (3) bilateral EC lesion (BEC), (4) sham fluid percussion TBI (SHAM), (5) TBI followed 24 h later by unilateral EC lesion (TUEC), and (6) unilateral EC lesion (UEC). The first four groups were assessed for motor (with beam-balance and beam-walk testing) and cognitive deficits (with the Morris water maze) and hippocampal morphology (with immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy). The TUEC and UEC groups were assessed for cognitive deficits alone. Motor deficits were greater in the TBEC injury than in TBI or sham alone; however, no significant difference was observed between the TBEC and BEC conditions in motor performance. Cognitive deficits were of a greater magnitude in the combined TBEC injury model relative to each individual insult. These cognitive deficits appeared to be additive for the two experimental injuries, BEC deafferentation producing deficits intermediate between TBI and TBEC insults. Morphologic analysis of the dentate gyrus molecular layer at 15 days after TBEC showed that the distribution of synaptophysin-positive presynaptic terminals was distinct from that observed after either TBI or BEC alone. Specifically, the laminar pattern of presynaptic rearrangement induced by BEC lesion did not occur after TBEC injury. The present results show that axonal injury and its attendant deafferentation, when coupled with traumatically induced neuroexcitation, produce an enhancement of the morbidity associated with TBI. Moreover, they indicate that this model can effectively be used to study the interaction between neuroexcitation and synaptic plasticity.
7720727: !synaptophysin Localization of Rab5 to synaptic vesicles identifies endosomal intermediate in synaptic vesicle recycling pathway. After exocytosis, synaptic vesicles rapidly endocytose and recycle but little is known about the molecular mechanisms involved. Rab5 is a ubiquitous low molecular weight GTP-binding protein required for endosomal fusion in fibroblasts. We have now raised polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to rat Rab5 and show that in rat brain, Rab5 is a major synaptic vesicle protein. Immunoisolation of vesicular organelles from brain with antibodies to either Rab3A and Rab5 as small GTP-binding proteins or with synaptophysin as general synaptic vesicle marker demonstrates that there are overlapping populations of synaptic vesicles containing either Rab5 or Rab3A or both, suggesting a stage-specific association of these low-molecular weight GTP-binding proteins with synaptic vesicles. Our data provide the first biochemical evidence that synaptic vesicle recycling involves an endosomal intermediate similar to that of the receptor-mediated endocytosis pathway.
7534885: !synaptophysin Synaptotagmin I is present mainly in autonomic and sensory neurons of the rat peripheral nervous system. The distribution of synaptotagmin I in the peripheral nervous system of the rat was investigated by immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy. After crushing of the sciatic nerve, synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity accumulated proximally as well as distally to the crushes in thin and medium-sized axons. Double labelling studies revealed that synaptotagmin I co-localized with tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of sympathetic adrenergic neurons, and with substance P, a marker for sensory neurons. No synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity was found in large axons, while accumulations of the synaptic vesicle proteins synaptophysin and synapsin I were found in all types of axons. Furthermore, no synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity was detected in motor endplates. In contrast, the protein was found in muscle spindles of young rats and in perivascular terminals, where it co-localized with synaptophysin and synapsin I. Lumbar sympathectomy resulted in a marked reduction of the amount and intensity of synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity in sciatic nerve. High magnification revealed that synaptotagmin I-like immunoreactivity was mainly distributed in a fine granular pattern, but large, brightly fluorescent granules which were not labelled by anti-synaptophysin or anti-synapsin I were occasionally observed. We conclude that synaptotagmin I is mainly expressed in adrenergic and sensory neurons and is absent from, or below detection levels, in motoneurons.
7998925: !synaptophysin Expression of vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP-2)/synaptobrevin II and cellubrevin in rat skeletal muscle and in a muscle cell line. Molecular studies have identified a family of synaptic vesicle-associated membrane proteins (VAMPs, also known as synaptobrevins) which have been implicated in synaptic vesicle docking and/or fusion with plasma membrane proteins. Here we demonstrate the expression of two members of this family, VAMP-2/synaptobrevin II and cellubrevin, in skeletal muscle, a tissue with both constitutive and regulated membrane traffic. The 18 kDa VAMP-2 polypeptide was detected in purified membrane fractions from adult skeletal muscle and from L6 myotubes in culture, demonstrating that the presence of this protein in the isolated muscle membrane fractions is not the result of contamination by ancillary tissues such as peripheral nerve. Furthermore, skeletal muscle and the muscle cell line also expressed cellubrevin, a VAMP-2 homologue of 17 kDa; which is much less abundant in brain cells. Both VAMP-2 and cellubrevin were preferentially isolated in membrane fractions rich in plasma membranes, and were less concentrated in light microsomes and other internal membrane fractions of mature muscle or muscle cells in culture. Interestingly, both VAMP-2 and cellubrevin were much more abundant in the differentiated L6 myotubes than in their precursor myoblasts, suggesting that they are required for functions of differentiated muscle cells. The identity of both polypeptides was further confirmed by their susceptibility to proteolysis by Clostridium tetanus toxin. Expression of these products was further established by the presence of mRNA transcripts of VAMP-2 and cellubrevin, but not of VAMP-1, in both skeletal muscle and L6 myotubes. In contrast, other synaptic vesicle and docking/fusion components were undetectable, such as VAMP-1, SNAP25 and syntaxin 1A/1B, as were synaptophysin and synapsin Ia/Ib, proteins which are believed to be involved in sensing the signal for neuronal exocytosis. It is concluded that VAMP-2 and cellubrevin are expressed in skeletal muscle cells and may each participate in specific processes of intracellular membrane traffic.
7965070: !synaptophysin Synaptogenesis in hippocampal cultures: evidence indicating that axons and dendrites become competent to form synapses at different stages of neuronal development. Hippocampal neurons in culture develop extensive axonal and dendritic arbors and form numerous synapses. Presynaptic specializations occur at sites of contact between axons and somata or dendrites but they do not appear until day 3 in culture, even though numerous contacts between cells develop within the first 24 hr (Fletcher et al., 1991). To determine whether this delay in the appearance of presynaptic specializations could be related to maturational events in the presynaptic axon or in the postsynaptic target, "heterochronic" cocultures were prepared by adding newly dissociated neurons to cultures containing mature neurons. The competence of axons to form presynaptic vesicle clusters in response to contact with the somata or dendrites of mature or immature neurons was determined by immunofluorescent staining for synapsin I or synaptophysin. After only 1 d of coculture, there was a fivefold increase in the number of synapses along the somata and dendrites of the mature neurons, compared to mature neurons cultured alone. If newly dissociated neurons were labeled with a fluorescent dye before coculture, dye-labeled axons frequently were colocalized with presynaptic specializations on mature cells. In contrast, when the axons of mature neurons contacted immature neurons, synapses were first observed only after coculture for 3 d. These results suggest that the axons of hippocampal neurons have the capacity to form presynaptic specializations soon after they emerge, provided they encounter appropriate targets, but that the cell bodies and dendrites of hippocampal neurons are not capable of inducing the formation of presynaptic specializations until they reach a critical stage of maturation.
7959661: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical demonstration of the lysosome-associated glycoprotein CD68 (KP-1) in granular cell tumors and schwannomas. The monoclonal antibody KP-1 that recognizes the lysosome-associated glycoprotein CD68 was used together with antibodies to other antigens (actin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, keratin, neurofilaments, chromogranin, synaptophysin, S-100 protein, HMB-45, lysozyme, and HLA-DR) in a labeled streptavidin biotin immunoperoxidase method to phenotypically characterize 27 granular cell tumors, five schwannomas, five neurofibromas, two ganglioneuromas, three ganglioneuroblastomas, five carcinoid tumors, five malignant melanomas, and five examples of histiocytosis X. The neoplastic cells in all 27 of the granular cell tumors and four of the five schwannomas strongly stained for CD68, whereas none of the neurofibromas, ganglioneuromas, ganglioneuroblastomas, or carcinoid tumors contained CD68-positive tumor cells. These findings further strengthen previous observations, suggesting a histogenetic relationship between granular cell tumors and Schwann cells. KP-1 reactivity also was demonstrated in cells of histiocytosis X and malignant melanoma, complementing other studies that extend the tumor types positive in immunoperoxidase stains using this antibody.
7946350: !synaptophysin Myosin II is involved in transmitter release at synapses formed between rat sympathetic neurons in culture. The presynaptic function of myosin II was studied at cholinergic synapses formed between rat superior cervical ganglion neurons in culture. Immunofluorescent staining showed that myosin II was colocalized with synaptophysin at the presynaptic nerve terminals. Antimyosin II antibody introduced into presynaptic neurons inhibited synaptic transmission. Transmission was also inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by two inhibitors of myosin light chain kinase: a peptide, SM-1, and an organic inhibitor, wortmannin. The inhibition produced by these agents was dependent on presynaptic activity. Extracellularly applied wortmannin also blocked synaptic transmission, but its effects were slower in onset. Wortmannin also decreased postsynaptic potentials and post-tetanic potentiation in intact superior cervical ganglia. These results suggest a model in which myosin light chain kinase phosphorylates myosin, and the resultant change in actin-myosin interactions is involved in neurotransmitter release.
7931321: !synaptophysin AMPA receptor development in rat telencephalon: [3H]AMPA binding and western blot studies. Telencephalic membranes from rats of different embryonic (E16, E19) and postnatal (P2, P7, P14, adult) ages were assessed for alpha-[3H]amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid ([3H] AMPA) binding and for immunoreactivity levels of AMPA receptor subunits (GluR1, GluR2/3, and GluR4). In addition, the synaptic markers synaptophysin and NCAM140 (a neural cell adhesion molecule isoform) were examined by immunoblot. The density of [3H]AMPA binding sites increased steadily with advancing age. This increase was due mainly to the development of the large low-affinity component (KD = 400 nM) that dominates the [3H]AMPA binding profile of adult rat brain membranes. As resolved by two-site regression analysis, the high-affinity component (KD = 15 nM) of the [3H]AMPA binding increased by approximately twofold from E16 to adult, whereas the low-affinity component increased by 25-fold. Staining for GluR1 and GluR2/3 increased steadily with increasing age at all time points examined; synaptophysin and NCAM140 exhibited similar ontogenic immunostaining profiles. GluR4 immunoreactivity was first evident at P14 and increased by adulthood.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7881758: !synaptophysin Human embryonic retinal cell transplants in athymic immunodeficient rat hosts. This study investigates the possibility to use the athymic "nude" rat as a host for the transplantation of human embryonic retinal cells without immunosuppression. The long-term development of such transplants is compared with results from our earlier study that used immunosuppressed rats, and showed transplant immunoreactivity for S-antigen. Several additional cell markers have been included: rhodopsin, rod (alpha-transducin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin (SYN), cone-specific opsins, vimentin, cellular retinaldehyde binding protein (CRALBP), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), rat major histocompatibility antigen class II (MHC-II) and a rat macrophage marker (Ox-42). Human retinal cells (9-13 wk postconception) were transplanted to the eyes of 28 athymic rats. Host rats were kept in microisolator cages for up to 48 wk after surgery. Host immune response and the development of the transplants were studied using histology, immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. When using retinas of donors 9-11 wk postconception, transplants grew to 2-3 mm in diameter with many rosettes, in 31 of 35 eyes. Transplants derived from donors 12-13 wk postconception did not survive as well (8 out of 11 eyes), were smaller and less organized. All transplants fused well with the host retina, better than corresponding transplants to immunosuppressed rat hosts. Most transplants appeared to be healthy, even after long survival times, and only occasionally were MHC-II positive macrophages observed in transplants or host retinas. All retinal layers were observed, except for an inner limiting membrane on the vitreous surface. The oldest transplants (34-57 wk total age = donor age + time after surgery) exhibited well developed photoreceptors, rods and cones, with inner and outer segments. SYN-staining showed the development of inner and outer plexiform layers. Although many cones stained for SYN and NSE, few were immunoreactive for red-green or blue opsin. Most rods became immunoreactive for S-antigen and rhodopsin. Transplant Müller cells stained for vimentin and CRALBP. Immunoreactivity for GFAP developed slowly and was not completely expressed in all transplant Müller cells until 44 wk total age. Nude rats offer an excellent model for the study of human retinal xenografts without the negative effects of immunosuppression. Compared to immunosuppressed rats, transplantation to nude rats gives consistent results and superior long-term survival of hosts and transplants.
7874316: !synaptophysin Differential expression of synaptophysin and synaptoporin during pre- and postnatal development of the rat hippocampal network. The closely related synaptic vesicle membrane proteins synaptophysin and synaptoporin are abundant in the hippocampal formation of the adult rat. But the prenatal hippocampal formation contains only synaptophysin, which is first detected at embryonic day 17 (E17) in perikarya and axons of the pyramidal neurons. At E21 synaptophysin immunoreactivity extends into the apical dendrites of these cells and in newly formed terminals contacting these dendrites. The transient presence of synaptophysin in axons and dendrites suggests a functional involvement of synaptophysin in fibre outgrowth of developing pyramidal neurons. Synaptoporin expression parallels the formation of dentate granule cell synaptic contacts with pyramidal neurons: the amount of hippocampal synaptoporin, determined in immunoblots and by synaptoporin immunostaining of developing mossy fibre terminals; increases during the first postnatal week. Moreover, in the adult, synaptoporin is found exclusively in the mossy fibre terminals present in the hilar region of the dentate gyrus and the regio inferior of the cornu ammonis. In contrast, synaptophysin is present in all synaptic fields of the hippocampal formation, including the mossy fibre terminals, where it colocalizes with synaptoporin in the same boutons. Our data indicate that granule neuron terminals differ from all other terminals of the hippocampal formation by the presence of both synaptoporin and synaptophysin. This difference, observed in the earliest synaptic contacts in the postnatal hippocampus and persisting into adult life, suggests distinct functions of synaptoporin in these nerve terminals.
7855003: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumor: a case report with electron microscopic and immunohistochemical analysis and review of the literature. A case of an adolescent girl with metastatic gastric stromal tumor is described. There were three metastatic nodules in the liver at the time of the admission. A subtotal gastrectomy was performed. The tumor had distinctly nodular appearance and was composed of a variety of cells suggestive of smooth muscle differentiation. Electron microscopy revealed cytoplasmic neural processes and densecore neurosecretory granules. Immunohistochemistry showed positive neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A in some of the tumor cells. Similar findings in the primary tumor and its liver metastases indicated a primitive neural differentiation and enabled us to classify the lesion as a gastric autonomic nerve tumor. No other tumors that would suggest that the gastric lesion is a part of Carney's triad were detected. The child was treated with chemotherapy but the liver metastases did not change significantly. She is alive with unresectable liver metastases 10 months after the gastrectomy.
7694997: !synaptophysin Cardiac rhabdomyoma and tuberous sclerosis in three fetuses: a neuropathological study. In spite of the development of modern imaging, most lesions of tuberous sclerosis (TS) remain difficult to detect before birth. Particularly, brain involvement at a fetal stage of development is poorly documented. We report three cases of fetuses examined after pregnancy was interrupted because of the detection of cardiac rhabdomyoma. In two of the three cases there were brain lesions suggestive of TS, including cortical tubers, subependymal nodules and scattered bizarre giant cells in the white matter. These observations confirm that brain lesions of TS can be present before birth; they can show, at an early period of development, an aspect quite similar to lesions described at an adult stage. The most characteristic cell abnormality is the so-called balloon cell. The majority of these cells exhibit a strong immunoreactivity with glial antibodies (GFAP, vimentin, S100). Immunoreactivity with neuronal markers (synaptophysin) is present in a small percentage of balloon cells.
7534876: !synaptophysin Fast and slow axonal transport-different methodological approaches give complementary information: contributions of the stop-flow/crush approach. This 'minireview' describes experiments in short term crush operated rat nerves, to study endogenous substances in anterograde and retrograde fast axonal transport. Immunofluorescence was used to recognize transported antigens, and cytofluorimetric scanning was employed to quantitate different antigens which had accumulated proximal and distal to the crushes. Vesicle membrane components p38 (synaptophysin) and SV2 accumulated on both sides of a crush. This was expected from a number of studies from different laboratories. Surface associated molecules, however, like synapsins and rab3a, have been studied by other groups with biochemical methods, and suggested to be transported with slow transport. The crush method, however, revealed that a considerable fraction of these two substances are transported with the fast transport system, and, thus, associated with fast transported organelles in the living neuron. Evidently, more than one technique is required to give a more complete picture of intraneuronal transport related events.
7525893: !synaptophysin Innervation and vasculature of human sweat glands: an immunohistochemistry-laser scanning confocal fluorescence microscopy study. Secreting tubules, nerves fibers, and blood vessels in human sweat glands (SGs) were fluorescently stained by immunohistochemical and lectin methods for examination with a laser scanning confocal microscope (LSCM). Using these techniques, the three-dimensional distribution of up to three substances within a single specimen was investigated by collecting a series of optical sections for each of three fluorophores. Each SG received several nerve fibers. These branched into delicate bands of one or more axons that ran longitudinal to the sweat tubule then encircled the tubule. A heavy complement of capillaries was interwoven among the sweat tubules. Sweat ducts were accompanied from the SG toward the skin surface by one or two longitudinally oriented nerve fibers and capillaries. Immunoreactive staining of nerves was heaviest with protein gene product 9.5 antibody, but triple labeling showed that immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, and synaptophysin was also present in the same axons. Substance P-immunoreactive axons were sparse in SGs but were present in other areas of the skin. The techniques used have considerable potential in examination of human skin biopsies for diagnosis of disorders affecting the somatic and autonomic nervous systems.
7533277: !synaptophysin Involvement of clathrin light chains in the pathology of Pick's disease; implication for impairment of axonal transport. Clathrin, which constitutes coated vesicles and plays important roles in neuronal functions, has been reported to be involved in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. In the brains of the patients with Pick's disease, distribution of clathrin was immunohistochemically investigated using monoclonal antibodies binding to different epitopes of clathrin light chain a and b. All the antibodies intensely labeled Pick's body and some perikarya of neurons, indicating impairment of slow axonal transport b (SCb). Antibodies against neurofilament, kinesin and synaptophysin also labeled Pick's body. These observations suggested impairment of axonal transport in the brains with Pick's disease, and might contribute to elucidating the pathology of Pick's body forming. It is implied that common pathological processes might lie in Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease.
7929121: !synaptophysin Vesicle-associated membrane protein and synaptophysin are associated on the synaptic vesicle. The synaptic vesicle membrane protein VAMP (vesicle-associated membrane protein or synaptobrevin) has been implicated in synaptic vesicle docking and fusion. Synaptophsin (p38), also a synaptic vesicle membrane protein, has four transmembrane domains and may function as a gap junction-like pore or channel. Here we report evidence for a direct interaction between VAMP and synaptophysin using chemical cross-linking followed by the identification of immunoreactive protein complexes. A prominent complex of 56 kDa was found to consist of VAMP and synaptophysin. Furthermore, we demonstrate that this VAMP-synaptophysin complex is enriched in the synaptic vesicle fraction of rat brain, is independent of detergent solubilization, and is present in PC12 cells subjected to in vivo cross-linking.
7992895: !synaptophysin Structural, morphometric, and immunohistological study of the accessory olfactory bulb in the dog. The study of the morphological, morphometric, and immunohistological characteristics of the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) in the dog is the main goal of this work.
7961133: !synaptophysin The innervation of the splenic capsule in the guinea pig: an immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. The innervation of the capsule of the guinea pig spleen was studied by light microscopy using an indirect fluorescent-labelled antibody technique, as well as by electron microscopy. A dense network of nerve fibres immunoreactive to the general neuronal marker, protein gene product 9.5 was observed in tangential sections through the capsule corresponding to the subcapsular compartment. The PGP 9.5-immunoreactivity in the fibres appeared to a large extent to be colocalised with tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y (NPY) immunoreactivities as well as with synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Only very occasional fibres with substance P or calcitonin-gene-related peptide immunoreactivity were observed in tangential sections of the capsular region. By electron microscopy unmyelinated nerve fibres in the capsule were found to contain a large number of small dense-cored as well as clear vesicles and large dense-cored vesicles in varicose parts of the axons. The axolemma of the varicose regions was often naked, devoid of Schwann cells, and sometimes appeared denser than the nonspecialised parts of the membrane. These naked regions were observed in single sections to be apposed to splenic cells with variable intervals of extracellular space and interposed basal lamina material. Another type of contact was characterised by a very close association with splenic cells with no basal lamina interposed between the plasma membranes of the axon and the splenic cell. An intimate ultrastructural relationship was often also seen between varicose vesicle-containing axons and neighbouring axons in the nerve fibre bundles. The results show that the splenic capsule and its immediate neighbouring regions are innervated by catecholaminergic, NPY-containing fibres, which appear to establish different types of relations with the splenic cells as well as with one another.
7944883: !synaptophysin Localization of the neuronal class III beta-tubulin isotype in foci of early neuritogenesis supports divergent neuroblastic differentiation potential in Wilms' tumors. Wilms' tumors are embryonic neoplasms that have been proposed to originate from the metanephric blastema and are capable of divergent epithelial and mesenchymal differentiation. Neuroepithelial differentiation in these tumors remains controversial. The aim of this study was to examine the phenotypic profile of certain neuronal and glial antigenic determinants in a series of 21 Wilms' tumors. Immunohistochemical studies were performed by using monoclonal antibodies against the neuronal class III beta-tubulin isotype (beta III), the phosphorylated and phosphorylation-independent epitopes of neurofilament protein, and synaptophysin; antisera to gamma-enolase (neuron-specific enolase) glial fibrillary acidic protein, and S100 protein were also used. Foci of neoplastic cells with neurite-like processes that exhibited intense beta III staining were demonstrated in blastemalike areas of three of 21 tumors. In one case, Homer Wright rosettes (stained for beta III) were identified. Areas of abortive neuritic development were also labeled with antibodies to gamma-enolase. No reactivity was obtained in these foci for phosphorylated and phosphorylation-independent epitopes of neurofilament protein, synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and S100 protein. The remainder of the tumors (18 of 21) were negative with the panel of neural markers. Our results indicate that divergent neuroblastic differentiation, evidenced as early neoplastic neuritogenesis, may be present in the blastematous component of Wilms' tumor subsets.
7892047: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumors: a clinicopathological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of 10 cases. Gastrointestinal Autonomic Nerve Tumors (GANTs) are an underrecognized group of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) putatively arising from the neural plexuses of the bowel wall. Approximately 24 cases have been previously reported. Their histogenesis, malignant potential, morphology and phenotypic features are not well defined. We present details of 10 GANTs iterating features, predominantly ultrastructural, allowing distinction from other GISTs. Clinical details are: sex-7M, 3F; age range 31-79 yrs, mean 53; symptoms/signs--abdominal pain 3, GI bleeding 3, mass 2, anemia 2. Follow-up ranged from 1-102 mths, mean 29. Seven tumors involved the small intestine and 3 were gastric. Tumor size ranged from 30-160 mm, mean 79. They were solid and cystic, often transmural and usually involved mesentery and retroperitoneum. Spindled and epithelioid cells were "compartmentalized" by a branching microvasculature. Eosinophilic, PAS positive stromal globules were prominent. Paraffin immunostaining results were (number positive/total): vimentin (8/9), NSE (10/10), S100 protein (6/10), neurofilament protein (0/9), synaptophysin (3/9), desmin (2/9, focal), smooth-muscle actin (0/9). Ultrastructural diagnostic features were elaborate, branching cytoplasmic processes containing microtubules, intermediate filaments and varying numbers of neurosecretory granules. Characteristic features were elaborate smooth endoplasmic reticulum enmeshed with intermediate filaments, pleomorphic mitochondria with lamellar cristae, mitochondrial-RER complexes, confronting RER cisternae, and circumscribed collections of stromal "skeinoid" fibres. There were no features of smooth muscle, Schwannian or perineurial differentiation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7845590: !synaptophysin Fine structural alteration in target-deprived axonal terminals in the rat thalamus. Lesioning of thalamic target neurons in the adult rat provokes a resorption of terminal axonal branches of afferent neurons from the dorsal column nuclei. There is, however, no massive neuronal loss in the dorsal column nuclei. In the adult, therefore, the thalamic post synaptic target cells influence primarily the extent of the terminal component of the afferent neurons. The subcellular changes underlying the regression of these adult terminals are unknown. To address this issue, we have looked at the electron microscopic level for the ultrastructural correlates of this retraction of the terminal compartment of target-deprived neurons in the adult rat thalamus. By analysing the fine structure of target-deprived axons and their immunoreactivity for a specific synaptic protein, synaptophysin, we have observed that all the organelles and the protein formed in the cell body, including dense-core vesicles, continue to be transported to the terminal compartment and accumulate at this level. At the terminal level, engorgement of organelles induces the formation of varicosities. An enormous increase in local degradative activity occurs in parallel to this accumulation. In contrast, organelles involved in membrane turnover and degradation (including synaptic and coated vesicles, multivesicular bodies, lysosomes) in the nerve terminals are clearly modified. There is a progressive loss of synaptic vesicles, whereas clathrin-coated vesicles and multivesicular bodies are numerous. We propose that the resorption of terminal axonal branches after thalamic target deprivation in the adult is associated with a bias of the system of membrane recycling at the axonal terminals towards degradation. In the absence of apparent changes in the pathways originating from the cell body in these conditions, it is unlikely that presynaptic neurons in the adult thalamus are dependent upon post synaptic target neurons for the delivery of organelles and proteins to the terminals.
7822737: !synaptophysin Neuropathology of Rett syndrome: case report with neuronal and mitochondrial abnormalities in the brain. Neuronal changes in the brain of a Rett syndrome patient were examined in a frontal lobe biopsy performed at age 3 years and in the postmortem brain at age 15 years. In the brain biopsy, frontal cortex contained numerous scattered pyramidal neurons with cytoplasmic vacuolation and increased cytoplasmic density, with no neuronophagia or inflammation detected; electron microscopy showed these neurons to have large, lucent-appearing mitochondria, very abundant ribosomal content, and some lipofuscin granules. Postmortem brain 12 years later showed scattered neurons in frontal cortex, substantia nigra, and cerebellar folia, with increased electron density of the cytoplasm, stacks of ribosomal endoplasmic reticulum, and large amounts of disorganized membranous material, including autophagic-type organelles. Mitochondria of these neurons contained electron-dense, finely granular matrix inclusions; in the substantia nigra, some spherical mitochondrial inclusions completely filled the matrix space. Golgi preparations of (autopsy) frontal cortex and cerebellar folia showed truncation and thickening of dendrites and a degenerate appearance of cortical pyramidal neurons, similar to changes found in aged brain. Synaptophysin immunohistochemistry indicated that the density of synapses was not greatly altered compared to controls in frontal cortex and cerebellum. The patient also had a second genetic defect, severe combined immunodeficiency with thymic aplasia, which may be X-linked.
7812040: !synaptophysin Analysis of the mechanism for acetylcholine release at the synapse formed between rat sympathetic neurons in culture. Superior cervical ganglion neurons (SCGNs) were isolated from 7-day-old rat SCG and cultured in MEM containing horse serum, fetal calf serum, and nerve growth factor. In this culture condition, it is well known that the SCGNs form cholinergic synapse. In 3-4 weeks cultured neurons, immunofluorescent staining for synaptophysin, a small synaptic vesicle associated protein, showed the presence of synaptophysin as small dots on the surface of the soma. Postsynaptic potentials could be recorded in 50-80% of the neurons responding to evoked action potentials elicited in neighboring neurons. Because of its relatively large cell size and the short distance to the terminal, this synapse is a useful model for studying the mechanisms of acetylcholine (ACh) release by introducing substances such as antibodies or selective inhibitors into the presynaptic neuron by means of the whole-cell clamp technique. In this model synapse we tested the possible role of myosin in ACh release. The distribution of myosin was studied by the immunofluorescent staining technique. Myosin was recognized by the anti-myosin II IgG at the same synaptic terminals that showed the presence of synaptophysin with its antibody. The functional blockade of myosin by the antibody itself, and that of myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) by a pseudosubstrate inhibitor of MLCK, SM-1, or by a selective inhibitor of MLCK, wortmannin, induced depression of synaptic transmission in a dose-dependent manner. These indicate that phosphorylation of myosin by MLCK may be necessary for ACh release mechanisms.
7812035: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry of small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells and of SIF cell-associated nerve fibers in the rat superior cervical ganglion. Double-labelling immunofluorescence was applied on single sections of the rat superior cervical ganglion to evaluate neurochemistry and connectivity of intraganglionic SIF cells. The synaptic vesicle membrane protein synaptophysin and secretoneurin, a newly discovered neuropeptide derived from secretogranin II, proved reliable molecular markers of this cell type, whereas serotonin and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivities were observed in slightly incongruent SIF cell subpopulations. Immunolabelling for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and neuropeptide Y occurred in few SIF cells. None of the above immunoreactivities were visibly altered by preganglionic or postganglionic denervation, while some SIF cells were immunolabelled for galanin or for the neuronal microtubule-associated protein MAP2 after postganglionic denervation. SIF cells were nonreactive for the pan-neuronal marker protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 or neurofilament 160 kD. Intense staining of NADPH-diaphorase in some SIF cells, suggesting catalytic activity of nitric oxide synthase, could not be substantiated by immunoreactivity for this enzyme. SIF cells were approached by nonidentical fiber populations immunoreactive for PGP 9.5, neurofilament, or neuropeptide Y, whereas immunoreactivities for galanin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were colocalized in fiber meshes around SIF cells. The findings indicate (1) neurochemical SIF cell heterogeneity, (2) SIF cell plasticity in response to ganglionic perturbation, and (3) a differentiated innervation of SIF cells in the rat superior cervical ganglion.
7524299: !synaptophysin The spectrum of immunohistochemical staining of small-cell lung carcinoma in specimens from transbronchial and open-lung biopsies. Immunohistochemistry is increasingly used as an aid in the diagnosis of small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC). Previous studies have investigated immunohistochemical staining of SCLC with small numbers of antibodies, but few have examined large series with a broad panel of antibodies. For this reason, the authors examined the distribution and intensity of staining of 20 open-lung biopsy (OLB) and 21 transbronchial biopsy (TBB) specimens of SCLC with a panel of epithelial, neuroendocrine, and hormonal markers. Small-cell lung carcinoma stained most frequently with epithelial markers, followed by neuroendocrine and hormonal markers. Similar percentages of OLB and TBB specimens stained for keratin (100% each) and epithelial membrane antigen (100% and 95%, respectively). Unexpectedly, BER-EP4 stained 100% of OLB specimens. Chromogranin A was the most frequent neuroendocrine marker in OLB and TBB specimens (60% and 47%, respectively) followed by neuron-specific enolase (60% and 33%), Leu-7 (40% and 24%), and synaptophysin (5% and 19%). No neuroendocrine immunohistochemical reactivity was found in 24% of TBB specimens and 20% of OLB specimens. Bombesin was the most sensitive hormonal marker (45% of OLB specimens). These results show that keratin, epithelial membrane antigen, and BER-EP4 are reliable epithelial markers for SCLC in both TBB and OLB specimens. In addition, negative staining for neuroendocrine markers, because it can occur in as many as 25% of cases, should not deter the diagnosis of SCLC.
7978889: !synaptophysin Rat pancreatic AR42J cells. Amphicrine cells as an in vitro model to study peptide hormone receptor regulation. The rat pancreatic acinar tumor cell line, AR42J, is widely used to study pancreatic acinar cell biology and biochemistry. In addition to the well-documented exocrine cell features, we have identified by immunofluorescence and by electron microscopy the co-expression of small neuroendocrine (NE) vesicles using the NE vesicle-specific markers synaptophysin and "protein S.V.2." AR24J cells store [3H]GABA, which is secreted upon potassium depolarization in a calcium-dependent manner. In addition, we found the expression of the receptor for the neurotransmitter substance P by using a receptor-specific cDNA probe. Glucocorticoid treatment, which profoundly inhibits cellular growth and induces differentiation, results in a rapid decrease of substance P receptor (SPR) gene expression as assessed by Northern blot analysis. Intracellular Ca2+ mobilization was then determined in response to substance P in control cells and glucocorticoid-pretreated cells by dual wavelength spectrophotometry using fura-2 in single cells. Glucocorticoid-mediated down-regulation of substance P receptors resulted in a dose- and time-dependent decrease of the intracellular Ca2+ mobilization stimulated by substance P. In summary, these data indicate that AR42J cells display an amphicrine phenotype with two differentially regulated secretory pathways; during glucocorticoid-induced differentiation, the cells become less sensitive to substance P stimulation as a consequence of reduced gene expression of the substance P receptor.
8088953: !synaptophysin Glycine receptors in the retinas of normal and spastic mutant mice. Spastic mutant mice have abnormal gait and righting behavior, and the responses of their retinal ganglion cells have recently been shown to be abnormal. The former defects have been linked to a reduction of glycine-receptor density in the spinal cord of spastic mutants, but the cause of the retinal defects has not yet been determined. The authors thus tested for reduced glycine-receptor density in the mutant retina by comparing the levels of glycine receptors in the retinas of spastic mutant mice with those found in normal mice.
8082518: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumor presenting as high-grade sarcoma. Case report and review of the literature. Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve (GAN) tumors, also known as plexosarcomas, are a rare distinct subtype of the gastrointestinal stromal tumors. These tumors are usually histologically low-grade, epithelioid or spindle-cell neoplasms that can be distinguished from the other gastrointestinal stromal tumors on the basis of their unique ultrastructural features. A 66-year-old female presented with a histologically high-grade sarcoma of the small bowel. Ultrastructural studies showed features of a GAN tumor. The light microscopic and ultrastructural features are described. The tumor cells gave strong, diffuse staining for vimentin and synaptophysin, and weak focal staining for neuron-specific enolase and S100. While usually presenting as low-grade neoplasms on histologic examination, this case demonstrates that GAN tumors should be considered in the differential diagnosis of a histologically high-grade sarcoma of the gastrointestinal tract, especially when evidence of smooth muscle, peripheral nerve sheath, or neuroblastic origin is not forthcoming.
8000572: !synaptophysin Cytosolic Ca2+ binding proteins during rat brain ageing: loss of calbindin and calretinin in the hippocampus, with no change in the cerebellum. The expression of two cytosolic, high affinity Ca(2+)-binding proteins, calbindin-28 and calretinin, has been investigated in the cerebellum and hippocampus of young and old rats (from 12 days to 30 months) by combining immunofluorescence and Western blotting. Three markers, calreticulin (the major Ca2+ binding protein within the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum), MAP-2 (a microtubule binding protein concentrated in neuronal dendrites) and synaptophysin (an integral protein of synaptic vesicles), were studied in parallel. In the cerebellar cortex a rise from 12 to 60 days was observed with calbindin-28 and, especially, calretinin, concentrated in the Purkinje and granule neurons, respectively. The level of expression of the two proteins subsequently remained high and the distribution was unchanged, even in the cerebellum of old animals. A completely different pattern was observed in the hippocampus. Here calretinin, present especially in fibres and interneurons, was abundant in the young, decreased in the adult and reached low values in the old rats. Calbindin-28 accumulated during growth, especially in a subpopulation of CA1 pyramidal cells and in the mossy fibres of CA3, then declined, although irregularly, during ageing. These changes of the two proteins were more marked in the dorsal and central parts than in the ventral part of the hippocampus. In the same brain areas the levels of expression of the three additional markers and their distribution within neurons and synapses were unchanged by ageing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7925845: !synaptophysin Induction of beta-amyloid-containing polypeptides in hippocampus: evidence for a concomitant loss of synaptic proteins and interactions with an excitotoxin. Long-term cultures of brain slices were used to test if the lysosomotropic agent chloroquine induces beta-amyloid-related peptides in hippocampus and if such effects are accompanied by other manifestations of brain aging. Chloroquine administration resulted in the appearance of a carboxyl-terminal fragment of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP); the 27-kDa antigen was detectable after 24 h, increased rapidly for 6-10 days, and was eliminated upon drug washout. Immunocytochemical analyses showed that beta-amyloid immunoreactivity accumulated in the perikarya of pyramidal neurons, primarily in the form of punctate bodies. These effects were accompanied by a correlated loss (and recovery) of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin and by a delayed reduction of postsynaptic glutamate receptors, while cytoskeletal proteins were unchanged. Acute administration of chloroquine had no evident effects on synaptic responses but prolonged applications caused a decrease in the maximum amplitude of field potentials. Finally, a brief pretreatment with the excitotoxin kainic acid had little effect with regard to APP fragments or synaptophysin, but altered the events following from a subsequent infusion of chloroquine. Buildup of the 27-kDa APP fragment and loss of synaptophysin were more rapid and, more importantly, did not reverse upon washout of chloroquine. These findings indicate that lysosomal dysfunction in hippocampus results in the accumulation of a particular APP fragment and suggest that this event, or a variable correlated with it, is linked to the loss of synaptic proteins. They also raise the possibility that certain aspects of brain aging reflect a synergism between lysosomal disturbances and excitotoxicity.
7917013: !synaptophysin Establishment of a human retinal cell line by transfection of SV40 T antigen gene with potential to undergo neuronal differentiation. Recently, a number of laboratories have been interested in developing cell lines of ocular tissues to understand the pathogenesis of ocular diseases. Toward this end, we report here the generation of cell lines of human retina by transfection of simian virus SV40 T antigen gene. Established retinal cells grow as a monolayer and exhibit limited serum dependence. Phase-contrast and electron microscopic studies revealed distinct morphological cell types. Immunofluorescence studies showed that the established retinal cells were positive for neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament protein, glycine receptor, synaptophysin, and secretogranin. Cells were negative for glial fibrillary acidic protein, glutamine synthetase, galactocerebroside, and carbonic anhydrase II. In addition to neuronal features, a small percentage of flat cells were, however, positive for cellular retinaldehyde binding protein, and cells with the phenotype of rod and cone photoreceptor coexpressed opsin and interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein. An important feature of this cell line is that addition of phorbol ester and cAMP induced dramatic changes, with 100% of the cells extending long, thin neuritic processes. Thus, the established retinal cells would be useful for studies dealing with differentiation and plasticity of the cells of the nervous system.
7833536: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin expression during in vitro neuronal differentiation. An immunocytochemical and a confocal laser microscopic study. Primary neuronal cultures from mammalian fetal brains are widely used for morphological, biochemical and pharmacotoxicological studies. The usefulness of relatively pure neuronal cultures are now demonstrated for such studies. We have compared the neuronal survival and differentiation, the synaptophysin expression and the glial cell percentage in primary neuronal cultures using two different media: a M1 medium containing 10 % fetal calf serum and a M2 medium supplemented with hormones, ions and chemicals. Our study demonstrates that the M2 medium (a serum-free defined medium) is associated with an increased survival at 14 days of culture, an earlier neuronal differentiation and synaptophysin expression in cell bodies and neurites as it was confirmed by immunocytochemical and confocal laser microscopic studies.
7807593: !synaptophysin Decreased synaptic density in aged brains and its prevention by rearing under enriched environment as revealed by synaptophysin contents. Changes in synaptic density in various brain regions were assessed among different age groups of rats maintained in ordinary small cages, as determined by synaptophysin assay. The synaptophysin content in hippocampus decreases as early as in the adult stage. The most remarkable decrement occurs in occipital cortex. In other regions, synaptophysin contents decrease in senescence to 60-77% of the respective peak values during young and adult stages. The other rat group reared under enriched environment in a large cage until 30 months of age was examined for synaptic density, and was revealed to maintain the similar levels as in young, or even higher levels in frontal, temporal, entorhinal cortices and hippocampus. These results indicate that the synaptic density in cerebrum decreases in senescence and this decrease can be prevented by rearing under enriched environment.
7807164: !synaptophysin Synaptic pathology of spinal anterior horn cells in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: an immunohistochemical study. We have applied immunohistochemical techniques to study synaptic alterations of the spinal anterior horn in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and other disorders involving upper or lower motor neurons. A monoclonal antibody to synaptophysin was used. Spinal cord tissues from normal individuals served as controls. As compared to these, a decrease in synaptophysin immunoreactivity was evident in the neuropil in the spinal anterior horn of ALS patients. However, synaptophysin expression in the perikarya and dendrites of remaining normal-appearing neurons in these patients was not decreased and occasionally it was even higher than in control neurons. Similar results were obtained with specimens from patients with lower motor neuron disease. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the neuropil and perikarya of the cases with focal spinal cord lesions with bilateral descending tract degeneration was similar to normal controls. Our data suggest that the alterations in synaptophysin expression occurring in ALS are mainly associated with the loss of lower motor neurons, and that the occasional increased perikaryal expression may be due to the neuronal atrophy, compensatory accumulation or abnormal synaptic vesicle degradation.
7531932: !synaptophysin Unusual immunostaining pattern of chromogranin in normal urothelium and in transitional cell neoplasms. We report an unusual pattern of immunostaining for chromogranin A in 24 transitional cell carcinomas (TCC). Positive immunostaining was seen with chromogranin A antisera in 10 of 16 urinary bladder TCC, neither of 2 prostatic TCC, 3 of 3 ureteral TCC and 2 of 3 metastatic TCC. This staining was demonstrated within the cytoplasm of transitional cells at all levels of the neoplastic epithelium, including cells near the basement membrane and at the free surface (umbrella cells). In 5 of 7 cases there was also immunoreactivity of the non-neoplastic urothelium. Immunostaining with neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin was negative in all of these cases and no neuro-secretory granules were identified in 7 cases examined by electron microscopy. This pattern of immunostaining is probably due to reactivity with chromogranins or certain chromogranin-like proteins in the transitional cells, particularly in the umbrella cells.
7528651: !synaptophysin Differential distribution of the HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope in the vertebrate retina. The expression of the cell adhesion-related HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope in the retina and ciliary body was studied in different vertebrates and in man. A series of eyes from 4 fish, 5 bird, and 9 mammalian species was analyzed by immunohistochemistry with monoclonal antibodies (MAb) HNK-1 and VC1.1 to the HNK-1 epitope, and with MAb SY38 to synaptophysin. Additionally, 7 morphologically normal human eyes were studied. In all fishes, as well as in baboons and man, the radial glia and all retinal layers except the photoreceptor cell layer were immunoreactive for the HNK-1 epitope. In all birds, the nerve fiber layer and both plexiform layers were labelled. In nonprimate mammals only the plexiform layers were immunoreactive. Fine differences in this general immunoreaction pattern were seen in different species. Mab SY38 labeled both plexiform layers of mammals only. In the ciliary body, immunoreaction for the HNK-1 epitope was seen in the inner connective tissue layer only in man, but the ciliary nerves were labelled in all species except the mouse and rat. The HNK-1 epitope seems to be phylogenetically conserved in the retina, where the HNK-1 immunoreactive plexiform layers possibly are overlapped with HNK-1 reactive radial glial cells in fishes and primates. Instead in the inner connective tissue layer of the ciliary body, the HNK-1 epitope is not phylogenetically conserved.
8070574: !synaptophysin Association of N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor with synaptic vesicles. N-Ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) mediates docking and/or fusion of transport vesicles in the multi-pathways of vesicular transport. NSF was highly expressed in brain and adrenal gland. Immunostaining of cerebellum with an anti-NSF monoclonal antibody showed that NSF is predominantly localized in the molecular layers and the glomeruli of the granule cell layers. This distribution coincided well with that of synaptophysin, a marker protein of synaptic vesicles. Purification and immunoprecipitation revealed that NSF is associated with brain synaptic vesicles. The present results suggest that NSF is associated with synaptic vesicles without Ca2+ influx.
7807585: !synaptophysin Human neurocytoma cells in culture show characteristics of astroglial differentiation. Cultured human neurocytoma cells from two neurosurgical patients were analysed for their immunocytochemical staining patterns and growth characteristics. In both cases, the cells stained positive for glial acidic fibrillary protein (GFAP) within one day of tissue culture in medium, with and without fetal calf serum, whereas the histological tumor specimens were negative. Both cases contained cells concomitantly expressing GFAP and synaptophysin (SNP) in the primary cultures. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) was mitogenic for the cultured cells but not platelet derived growth factor alpha (PDGF AA) or nerve growth factor (NGF). It is concluded that the human neurocytomas may represent neoplasms of a pluripotent neuroglial cell which can provide an interesting model to study the determinants for human glial/neuronal differentiation in vitro.
8082115: !synaptophysin Analysis of the heterogeneity within bovine pineal gland by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. In the present study, we demonstrate a cortical and medullary arrangement of parenchymal cells in the bovine pineal gland by using antibodies for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and hydroxyindole O-methyltransferase (HIOMT) as markers of pinealocytes, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as a marker of interstitial (glial) cells. Furthermore, by means of probes specific for HIOMT mRNA, we have examined possible differences in melatonin synthesis between the cortex and the medulla. Immunoreactive pinealocytes for each antigen investigated are more densely distributed in the cortex than in the medulla. In the cortex, GFAP-positive interstitial cells have large intenselystained somata endowed with several long, thin cytoplasmic processes, whereas in the medulla, they display smaller, less intensely labeled perikarya from which numerous fine short processes emerge. Golgi staining has confirmed these morphological differences between the interstitial cells in the cortex and those in the medulla. An analysis using confocal laser microscopy together with in situ hybridization for HIOMT mRNA has shown that the expression of mRNA transcripts in the cortex is more intense than that in the medulla. The expression of the HIOMT gene in a cluster of cells in the medial habenular nucleus is lower than that in pinealocytes of the pineal organ proper.
8056420: !synaptophysin Malignant neurocytic tumor. Two patients, 14 and 46 years of age, presented with diffuse, rapidly growing intracerebral tumors leading to death 6 1/2 and 9 1/2 months, respectively, after diagnosis. Histological examination showed sheets of moderate-sized tumor cells with clear cytoplasm and central nuclei interrupted by delicate arciform vasculature, an appearance distinctly different from that of neuroblastoma. Malignant features were present in the form of significant nuclear pleomorphism, numerous mitotic figures, and small foci of necrosis with some suggestion of adjacent pseudo-palisading in one case. Ultrastructural examination showed neuronal differentiation, including prominent neuritic processes, microtubules, dense-core neurosecretory-type granules, and synaptic bouton-like structures containing small, empty-appearing synaptic-type vesicles and synapse-like membrane "thickenings." Immunohistochemistry showed focal immunopositivity for synaptophysin, neurofilaments, neuron-specific enolase, and S100 protein. Immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was found at the margins of the tumors adjacent to some intratumoral blood vessels and in some tumor cells. These tumors seem to occupy a nosological "middle ground" between neuroblastoma and central neurocytoma.
8042583: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical detection of neuroblastomatous foci in composite adrenal pheochromocytoma-neuroblastoma. To determine if immunohistochemistry might aid in the identification of neuroblastomatous foci in composite adrenal tumors, the authors analyzed two examples of composite adrenal pheochromocytoma-neuroblastoma, 18 pure pheochromocytomas, and six pure neuroblastomas using peanut agglutinin and a panel of antibodies directed against neuroendocrine and neural-associated antigens. Pure pheochromocytoma had the following immunopositivity: vimentin 14/18, chromogranin 18/18, synaptophysin 18/18, S100 protein 0/18 (tumor cells), neurofilament 14/18, J1 beta-tubulin (J1) 18/18, microtubule-associated protein-2 13/18, glial fibrillary acidic protein 13/18, and peanut agglutinin 17/18. Pure neuroblastoma reacted positively as follows: vimentin 0/6, chromogranin 5/6, synaptophysin 4/6, S100 protein 0/6 (tumor cells), neurofilament 5/6, J1 6/6, microtubule-associated protein-2 6/6, glial fibrillary acidic protein 1/6, and peanut agglutinin 6/6. Each component of both composite tumors reacted similarly to the pure neoplasms. Although the frequency of positive staining was similar for pheochromocytoma and neuroblastoma, the intensity and pattern differed for several antigens. Pheochromocytoma was diffusely positive for synaptophysin and chromogranin, whereas staining was focal and punctate in neuroblastoma. Microtubule-associated protein-2, J1, and neurofilament antibodies highlighted the fibrillar background of neuroblastoma, which pheochromocytoma lacked. Pheochromocytoma contained focal, ball-like immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin, which was absent in neuroblastoma. These immunohistochemical distinctions can assist the clinically important recognition of neuroblastomatous foci in composite adrenal pheochromocytoma-neuroblastoma.
8037290: !synaptophysin Mixed acinar-endocrine carcinomas of the pancreas. Acinar cell carcinoma is a rare pancreatic neoplasm that may contain scattered endocrine cells in as many as 40% of cases. In addition, unusual tumors exist in which the acinar and endocrine components each constitute a significant proportion (> 25%) of the neoplasm; we propose to designate them as "mixed acinar-endocrine carcinomas." In a study of five such cases, we found one case with segregated areas of acinar and endocrine cells that were identifiable in routinely stained sections and four cases with morphologically uniform cell populations where the divergent differentiation was only detected immunohistochemically. The tumors occurred in adults (age range, 48-81; mean, 68); there were two men and three women. None of the patients presented with symptoms related to either enzyme or hormone liberation. Histologically, the tumors were very cellular; various combinations of solid, trabecular, acinar, and glandular growth patterns were noted. The cells contained d-PAS-positive granules and showed immunohistochemical positivity for pancreatic enzymes (trypsin, chymotrypsin, and lipase) and endocrine markers (chromogranin and synaptophysin); specific endocrine hormones were found in two cases. Double immunohistochemical staining for acinar and endocrine markers showed that most cells expressed only one line of differentiation. Ultrastructural study of two cases showed two populations of granules. Two of the patients died of their tumors (mean survival, 10.5 months), one with widespread metastases. Two patients were alive with disease at 12 months after diagnosis, and one patient was lost to follow-up after 3 months. This rare type of pancreatic neoplasm provides further evidence of the close histogenetic relationship between the exocrine and endocrine components of this organ.
8027814: !synaptophysin Central neurocytomas of the cervical spinal cord. Report of two cases. Central neurocytoma is a neuronal neoplasm that occurs supratentorially in the lateral or third ventricles. The authors report the clinical, neuroradiological, and neuropathological features of two neurocytomas arising in the spinal cord of two men, aged 65 and 49 years. The patients presented with progressive neurological deficits referable to the cervical spinal cord. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed isodense intramedullary spinal cord tumors at the C3-4 level. Both tumors were initially misdiagnosed as gliomas. In Case 1 the correct diagnosis was made after electron microscopy revealed neuronal features. Immunostaining in Case 2 revealed that tumor cells were positive for synaptophysin and negative for glial fibrillary acidic protein, strongly indicating a neuronal tumor. It is suggested that this spinal cord neoplasm be included under the designation "central neurocytoma."
8000244: !synaptophysin Light-induced retinopathy in the albino rat in long-term studies. An immunohistochemical and quantitative approach. Retinas from male Wistar rats which were housed during a long-term drug safety study at short, medium and long distance from a fluorescent light source were examined. Retinal atrophy was pronounced in the central retina of rats housed closest to the light source, and was characterized by a loss of photoreceptor cells and of S-antigen immunoreactivity in the outer nuclear layer (ONL), absence of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the outer plexiform layer (OPL), decrease of the number of nuclei in the inner nuclear layer (INL), astrocytic proliferation, and Müller cell activation. The peripheral retina of these rats had a laminated architecture, although the number of photoreceptor cells and nuclei in the INL was reduced. Retinas from rats housed a medium distance from the light source did not have any apparent histological or immunohistochemical changes, except for a lower number of photoreceptor cells and nuclei in the INL. The rats housed a long distance from the light source had the highest number of nuclei in the ONL and INL of the central and peripheral retina, and were used as control group. Our data indicate that retinal atrophy occurs in male Wistar rats maintained under light conditions currently used in long-term toxicity studies, and suggest that photoreceptor cell loss is followed by trans-synaptic anterograde degeneration of neurons in the INL, astrocytic proliferation and Müller cell activation.
7830941: !synaptophysin Altered synaptophysin-immunoreactive pattern in human olivary hypertrophy. We examined the inferior olivary nucleus from four cases of olivary hypertrophy and six control cases immunohistochemically with an anti-synaptophysin (SYP) antibody. Our study revealed the altered SYP-immunoreactive pattern in the hypertrophied olives, consisting of an increased number of SYP-immunoreactive dots on neuronal cell bodies in spite of its decreased immunoreactivity in the neuropil. Because SYP is a marker protein for presynaptic vesicles, presynaptic terminals in the inferior olivary nucleus seem to change their distribution during the course of olivary hypertrophy.
7820876: !synaptophysin Redistribution of synapsin I and synaptophysin in response to electrical stimulation in the rat neurohypophysial nerve endings. To understand the dynamics of synaptic vesicles and synapsin I, we have studied the localization of synapsin I and synaptophysin in resting and stimulated nerve endings by ultracryomicrotomy and colloidal gold-immunocytochemistry. First, we characterized microvesicles in resting nerve endings of the rat neurohypophysis, which was chosen as the model of nerve ending in this study. Synaptophysin was localized in microvesicles that were clustered beneath the plasma membrane. Quick-freeze deep-etching electron microscopy showed that short strands cross-linked microvesicles to each other, which highly resemble the structures observed in our studies of the presynaptic nerve terminals of central and peripheral nervous system and in vitro reconstitution of synapsin I and synaptic vesicles. Immunocytochemistry showed that synapsin I was localized to the region of cluster of microvesicles. Second, using this system, we examined localization of synapsin I and synaptophysin in nerve endings after electrical stimulation. Besides release of neurosecretory granules, clusters of microvesicles dissappeared and both microvesicles and synaptophysin were scattered over nerve endings. These changes were also confirmed by quick-freeze, freeze-substitution. Immunocytochemistry of the stimulated sample revealed that synapsin I was also scattered. The results show that microvesicles in neurohypophysis have similar characteristics of typical synaptic vesicles and synapsin I has a role as a scaffold to cross-link microvesicles to be clustered in resting nerve endings. This scaffold of synapsin I was disengaged after stimulation to redistribute microvesicles and synapsin I itself, which may be the mechanism of synapsin I to regulate the availability of synaptic vesicles for release.
7527016: !synaptophysin Neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin, tau, and MAP2 in the D-283 Med cell line and in primary explants of human medulloblastoma. The D283 Med human medulloblastoma cell line and primary explants of five surgically excised medulloblastomas were cultured using a three-dimensional Gelfoam matrix system. The cultures were evaluated immunohistochemically for a series of antigenic determinants associated with neuronal or glial differentiation. Focal immunolocalization of class III beta-tubulin, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), and to a lesser degree tau, was demonstrated in all cultures. Class III beta-tubulin isotype, MAP2, and tau protein were also detected by immunoblot in Gelfoam matrix cultures, monolayer cultures, and suspension cultures of D283 Med cells. Staining for neurofilament protein epitopes was highly variable, even among different cultures derived from the same original tumour, but time-dependent changes in neurofilament protein, which may have reflected neuronal differentiation, were not consistently shown. Widespread gamma-enolase and focal synaptophysin reactivities were visualized in all cultures, but no S-antigen staining was detected. Leu 7 labelling was variably present in half of the cultures of D283 Med cells, but was more abundant in explants derived from four of the five original tumours. Vimentin was consistently found in D283 Med cultures at all time points. No immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein was detected in the D283 Med cell line. Conversely, staining for this protein was demonstrated in scattered astrocytic cells in the surgical specimens of all five medulloblastomas. Concomitant with increased time in culture, three of the primary tumours displayed increased numbers of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells when cultured in the Gelfoam system, but the other two tumours had a minimal astrocytic component.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7955364: !synaptophysin Photoreceptor and glial markers in human embryonic retina and in human embryonic retinal transplants to rat retina. The purpose of this study was to compare the development of photoreceptor and glial cells in human embryonic retinal transplants with the development of normal human embryonic retina (13-20 weeks postconception). Human embryonic retinal cells (donor age 6-11 weeks postconception) were transplanted to the retinas of adult immunosuppressed rat hosts. Host animals were killed when the transplants were of 13-37 weeks total age (donor age+survival time after surgery). Immunohistochemistry was performed with antibodies specific for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin (SYN), cone-specific opsins, rhodopsin, rod alpha-transducin, S-antigen, vimentin, cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein (CRALBP) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). With regards to photoreceptors, NSE and SYN immunoreactive cones were seen in transplants from 14-16 weeks of age, but cone opsin immunoreactivity was not seen until 25 weeks. Developing graft rods became S-antigen immunoreactive at 17-18 weeks. At 20 weeks, inner segments and some cell somas of graft rods stained faintly for alpha-transducin and rhodopsin. At 31 and 37 weeks, inner and outer rod segments were intensely labelled for the rod-specific antigens. The grafts exhibited areas of varying maturation with different staining intensities. Concerning the glial cells, vimentin immunoreactivity was seen in the earliest transplants studied (total age 14-16 weeks), but only in stages older than 19 weeks was the immunoreactivity of graft Müller cells comparable in intensity to those of the host retina. Host Müller cells were immunoreactive for GFAP near the lesion site at all times. At 20 weeks, some GFAP immunoreactive processes were seen inside the graft, apparently coming from the host retina. At 25 weeks, faintly stained Müller cells intrinsic to the graft were observed, indicating a gliosis within the graft. Graft Müller cells were first seen to express CRALBP immunoreactivity at 19-20 weeks and, at 25 weeks, intense immunoreactivity was seen in the transplant, mostly in regions near the host. In the transplants only the Müller cells were stained, whereas both Müller and retinal pigment epithelium cells were CRALBP immunoreactive in the host retina. The development of human embryonic retinal transplants appears to parallel approximately normal in utero development. Transplant cones, rods and Müller cells all express their cell-specific proteins. The photoreceptors develop both inner and outer segments and contain several essential proteins for processing light. The transplants can reach a degree of maturity comparable to newborn retina.
7955350: !synaptophysin The expression of GAP-43 and synaptophysin in the developing rat retina. We have undertaken a detailed study of the expression of GAP-43 and synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the developing postnatal rat retina. We found that these two 'presynaptic' proteins have quite different expression patterns. GAP-43 was first expressed in the optic nerve and the optic fiber layer of the retina, where it disappeared between the 8th and 16th postnatal day. From the 5th postnatal day on, GAP-43 also appeared in the inner plexiform layer, where it was present in three distinct bands. This expression changed little in postnatal development and persisted in the adult retina. GAP-43 was not detected in the outer plexiform layer of the retina. Synaptophysin was absent from the optic nerve and optic fibers at all postnatal stages. It was first expressed in the developing outer plexiform and, with reduced intensity, in the outer nuclear layer between postnatal days 2 and 5. In the inner plexiform layer, synaptophysin could be first detected between postnatal days 8 and 12. The intensity of staining increased during postnatal development in both plexiform layers. The developmental sequence of synaptophysin expression can be correlated with the maturation of presynaptic terminals of photoreceptors and bipolar cells. The rather complex pattern of GAP-43 expression is not easily compatible with a single model of GAP-43 function, and suggests diverse functions of this molecule in the retina.
8043272: !synaptophysin The involvement of the small GTP-binding protein Rab5a in neuronal endocytosis. Rab5a is a small GTPase that regulates fusion of endocytic vesicles to early endosomes. We investigated whether Rab5a is involved in early endocytic traffic in both the axonal and the somatodendritic domains of polarized neurons. Using immunofluorescence, endogenous Rab5a was detected in axons and dendrites. Its localization in axons strongly overlapped that of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. Indeed, Rab5a co-immunoisolated with synaptophysin-containing vesicles, and antibodies against Rab5a labeled synaptic vesicle-like structures in nerve terminals. The functional association of Rab5a with dendritic and axonal early endosomes was assayed by electron microscopy after overexpression of wild-type and mutant Rab5a in cultured hippocampal neurons. This induced the formation of abnormal endosomes in both the somatodendritic and the axonal domains. These results show a role for Rab5a in axonal and dendritic endocytosis, and the presence of Rab5a on synaptic vesicles indicates that the axonal endosomes participate in the biogenesis of these vesicles.
8040264: !synaptophysin Coordinate pulsatile insulin secretion by chronic intraportally transplanted islets in the isolated perfused rat liver. In the present studies we sought to address the following questions: do chronically transplanted intrahepatic islets (IHI-Tx) secrete insulin in a coordinate pulsatile manner, and, if so, is reestablishment of this coordinate pulsatility a function of time after transplantation? We studied isolated perfused livers at 10 mM glucose from 27 rats rendered diabetic with streptozotocin and then transplanted with approximately 2 x 10(3) islets, 2 (n = 5), 7 (n = 5), 30 (n = 5), and 200 (n = 12) d after transplantation. 12 out of 12 of the 200-d IHI-Tx secreted insulin in coordinate pulses (frequency 3.9 +/- 0.3 pulses/h, amplitude 15.2 +/- 2.4 nmol/min). In contrast, one out of five 2-d, zero out of five 7-d, and one out of five 30-d IHI-Tx showed pulsatile insulin secretion. Insulin secretion was markedly greater (76 +/- 13 vs 13 +/- 3 nmol/min, P < 0.0001) in the 200-d versus early IHI-Tx. Pentobarbital 25 micrograms/ml had no effect on total (13.9 +/- 3.9 vs 15.9 +/- 3.9 nmol/min), nonpulsatile (12.9 +/- 3.5 vs 14.1 +/- 3.3 nmol/min), or pulsatile (pulse amplitude 17.6 +/- 4.5 vs 20.0 +/- 4.2 nmol/min, pulse frequency 4.1 +/- 0.3 vs 4.0 +/- 0.7 pulses/h) insulin secretion. Using synaptophysin, islet innervation was documented in 12 out of 12 200-d IHI-Tx but in none of the early IHI-Tx. We conclude that established (approximately 200 d) IHI-Tx secrete insulin in a coordinate pulsatile manner and that establishment of coordinate pulsatile insulin secretion by IHI-Tx is accompanied by increased total insulin secretion and is associated with islet reinnervation.
8017565: !synaptophysin Mucinous carcinoma of the breast. A clinicopathologic, histochemical, and immunocytochemical study with special reference to neuroendocrine differentiation. We studied the clinical, histologic, histochemical, and immunocytochemical characteristics of 61 mucinous tumors (38 pure, 23 mixed) retrieved from a consecutive series of 1,689 infiltrating carcinomas of the female breast. The only statistically significant predictors of favorable survival were histologic (pure) type coupled with the absence of axillary lymph node metastases. Other factors, including classification into A and B types according to Capella et al., and neuroendocrine status, as assessed by the presence of argyrophilia, granins, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and synaptophysin (SYN),-all had no influence on survival. Argyrophilic cells were found in 16 pure mucinous tumors (42%) and in the mucinous component of four mixed tumors (17%). Granin (chromogranin A or B), NSE, and SYN immunoreactivities were demonstrated in all the argyrophilic tumors. We also found NSE- and SYN-immunoreactive cells in 31 of 41 and 16 of 41 nonargyrophilic (granin-unreactive) mucinous tumors, which supports the view that mucinous carcinomas of the breast as a whole are neuroendocrine-programmed tumors.
7941042: !synaptophysin Amphicrine differentiation in bronchioloalveolar cell carcinoma. We report for the first time a classical bronchioloalveolar cell carcinoma with both exocrine and endocrine differentiation (amphicrine) in the same cell. At electron microscopy the tumor cells showed a mixed type II alveolar cell/Clara cell and mucous differentiation. In addition, there were many dense-core neurosecretory granules at the base of the majority of the cells. Immunocytochemically the tumor showed positivity for surfactant and a panel of neuroendocrine antibodies, including NSE, PGP9.5, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A. The presence of neuroendocrine differentiation was not hinted at by routine histology and did not indicate a more aggressive behavior in this case since the patient is well 3 years after the resection.
7937695: !synaptophysin Sodium butyrate induces neuroendocrine cytodifferentiation in the insulinoma cell line RINm5F. The differentiating agent sodium butyrate inhibits proliferation and stimulates cell-specific hormone expression in rat insulinoma cells. In this study, we investigated the effect of sodium butyrate on neuroendocrine cytodifferentiation in the rat insulinoma subclone, RINm5F. The cells were cultured with 0.5, 1, or 1.5 mM sodium butyrate for up to 72 h. Ultrastructurally, cells cultured with 1 mM sodium butyrate revealed a more differentiated appearance with an induction of cellular compartments involved in regulated insulin secretion. Morphometric analysis showed a significant elevation of neuroendocrine granule density. The total area of the specific granules was increased after incubation with 1 mM sodium butyrate for 48 and 72 h. Proliferation of RINm5F cells was inhibited by sodium butyrate in a dose-dependent manner. DNA production ceased completely within 24 h at 1.5 mM sodium butyrate. This concentration of sodium butyrate increased the cellular insulin content 8.9-fold and the insulin production 2-fold after 72 h. The insulin release was reduced from 79 +/- 3.5% in controls to 37 +/- 5.6% of total in a 24-h incubation period after 3 days of culture with 1.5 mM sodium butyrate. Insulin mRNA levels increased to a maximum of 324% compared with controls after 48 h of culture with 1.5 mM sodium butyrate. Chromogranin A mRNA levels increased to a similar extent (368 +/- 26%), whereas sodium butyrate did not stimulate the expression of synaptophysin, a major membrane component of small neuroendocrine vesicles. In conclusion, our data suggest the selective induction of neuroendocrine cytodifferentiation by sodium butyrate in RINm5F cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7802968: !synaptophysin Neuropeptide Y and somatostatin in the neocortex of young and aging rats: response to nucleus basalis lesions. Lesions of the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) have been used to mimic, in part, cholinergic deficits occurring in age-related neurodegenerative disorders, i.e., Alzheimer's disease. In our study, the effect of a persistent cholinergic denervation of the fronto-parietal cortex on neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin (SOM) was examined in young adult (3 months old) and aging (> 18 months old) rats, 1, 3 and 6 months after bilateral stereotaxic NBM lesions with quisqualic acid. In aging, non-lesioned rats a significant decrease in radioimmunologically and immunohistochemically detectable NPY and SOM was found with no further changes after lesions. Morphological markers for these peptidergic populations (cell size and number, NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry, electron microscopy) demonstrated no signs of alterations in both age groups after lesion. Densitometric analysis of peptide fibre networks displayed a heterogeneous response with a significant rarefication in young rats 1 month after the lesion, followed by restoration and a tendency towards increase 6 months post lesioning in individual animals. These findings were confirmed by radioimmunological measurements. Examination of synaptic and cytoskeletal markers, i.e., synaptophysin, GAP-43, MAP-2, Tau-1 and amyloid precursor protein, did not reveal any signs for neuronal reorganization or sprouting. These data are discussed in the context of plasticity and pathology in age-related neurodegenerative disorders with cholinergic impairment.
8205550: !synaptophysin Characterization of five new cell lines derived from human primitive neuroectodermal tumors of the central nervous system. Medulloblastoma (MB) represents the most frequent malignant brain tumor of childhood but only a few cell lines and animal models of this primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) have thus far been established. Using specific cell culture conditions, we were able to derive four human MB cell lines (MHH-MED-1-4) as well as a cell line from a spinal PNET (MHH-PNET-5). The four MB cell lines grew in suspension as floating cell aggregates or as slightly adherent cells. They consisted of undifferentiated cells that did not express markers of late neuronal or glial lineages such as neurofilaments or glial fibrillary acidic protein. They also lacked expression of major histocompatibility complex class I or II antigens on the cell surface. All four MB lines were positive for vimentin and neuron-specific enolase, whereas synaptophysin, neural cell adhesion molecule, galactocerebroside, GD2, GD3, and the A2B5 antigen were expressed inconsistently. In contrast, MHH-PNET-5 grew as adherent monolayer and expressed major histocompatibility complex class I antigen. By cytogenetic analysis, the lines were near diploid with clonal aberrations. The MB lines showed no losses of chromosome arm 17p by either cytogenetic or microsatellite analyses. The cell line MHH-MED-2 exhibited double minute chromosomes, amplification of the c-myc gene, and overexpression of c-myc mRNA and protein. N-myc, p53, and Rb protein expression were unaltered. All four continuously passaged MB cell lines and the MHH-PNET-5 line were xenotransplanted s.c. into athymic mice; three of four MB lines and the spinal PNET line gave rise to tumors. These cell lines will be useful tools for biological and preclinical studies on PNETs.
7970158: !synaptophysin Synaptic and neuritic alterations during the progression of Alzheimer's disease. Extensive synaptic and neuritic alterations in the neocortex and limbic system are characteristically found in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it is not known how early in the development of the disease these alterations occur. For the present study, we compared the synaptic and neuritic alterations among cases classified clinically and neuropathologically as early, mild and advanced AD. In early AD there was a 20% loss of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals in the outer molecular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (but not in the neocortex and entorhinal cortex), accompanied by increased amyloid precursor protein (APP) and Alz50 immunoreactivity in hippocampal and entorhinal cortex pyramidal neurons. These results suggest that abnormal neuronal expression of APP and cytoskeletal proteins in early stages might be involved in the mechanisms of synaptic pathology in AD.
8194028: !synaptophysin Malignant transformation in a ganglioglioma with anaplastic neuronal and astrocytic components. Report of a case with flow cytometric and cytogenetic analysis. Malignant transformation of a ganglioglioma is rare and is generally restricted to the glial component. The authors described a unique case in which neuronal and glial elements exhibited anaplasia in a ganglioglioma. A subtotal resection of a large left temporal tumor extending into the diencephalon and brain stem in a 10-year-old boy revealed a ganglioglioma with no atypical features. The histologic findings were unchanged at further resections 4 and 12 months later. Radiotherapy was instituted with 5500 cGy in 30 fractions 21 months after initial resection. The patient returned 3 years later with a massive midline tumor recurrence.
8187076: !synaptophysin The prognostic significance of neuroendocrine markers and carcinoembryonic antigen in patients with resected stage I and II non-small cell lung cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer with neuroendocrine differentiation may represent a subset of patients with a more aggressive (like small cell lung cancer) or less aggressive (like carcinoid) biological behavior. To investigate their prognostic significance, immunohistochemical stains for 4 neuroendocrine markers (neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, Leu-7, and synaptophysin) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) were studied in 260 patients with surgically resected stage I and II non-small cell lung cancer. The following percentages of cases were positive for each marker: neuron-specific enolase, 70.0%; chromogranin A, 14.2%; Leu-7, 7.7%; synaptophysin, 11.2%; and CEA, 68.5%. Sixty-one (23.5%) were positive for > or = 2 neuroendocrine markers. When compared to adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma displayed lower positivity for CEA and > or = 2 neuroendocrine markers. There was no significant difference in stage, site of relapse (distant versus local), disease-free, or overall survival for each marker individually or for those with > or = 2 neuroendocrine markers. Multivariate analysis showed that higher nodal stage (N1 versus N0), tumor stage (T2 versus T1), older age, and the presence of mucin predicted for poorer overall survival. Neuroendocrine markers and CEA were not of prognostic significance in this group of patients with resected stage I and II non-small cell lung cancer.
8033966: !synaptophysin 192 IgG-saporin causes a major loss of synaptic content in rat olfactory bulb. An immunotoxin composed of a monoclonal antibody that recognizes the p75 nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor disulfide-linked to the ribosome-inactivating protein saporin selectively eliminates p75-expressing cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain, while sparing other neurons in the forebrain, both cholinergic and noncholinergic. We now report the effect that intraventricular administration of this immunotoxin has on the synaptic content of the olfactory bulb, one of the major terminal fields of the cholinergic basal forebrain system. Control substances or immunotoxin were given to rats followed by a 2-week survival. Unilateral transection of the olfactory tract and peduncle was also studied. Both qualitative and quantitative evaluation of olfactory bulbs processed for synaptophysin immunohistochemistry indicated dramatic loss of synapses in the four regions of neuropil evaluated (glomeruli, outer and inner halves of the external plexiform layer, and internal plexiform layer) compared with the administration of control substances. Surgical transection of the bulb produced a visually similar decrement, but quantitative studies showed synaptic loss to be consistently greater following tract transection. The effects of these two insults on the glial response were remarkably different. Transection produced an obvious hyperplasia and hypertrophy of both astrocyte and microglial elements, while immunotoxin produced small, almost undetectable reactions by these two cell types. The results in the glomeruli strongly suggest an effect of the immunotoxin on either periglomerular cells or olfactory nerve terminals, whether directly by NGF receptor (+) structures or by trans-synaptic mechanisms. We conclude that the immunotoxin produces a specific and large loss of synapses that does not produce much glial response.
7967715: !synaptophysin Dual channel confocal laser scanning microscopy of lucifer yellow-microinjected human brain cells combined with Texas red immunofluorescence. A method for visualization of individual human brain cells and their dendritic extensions in combination with immunofluorescence is described. Microinjection of Lucifer Yellow was used to reveal the dendritic morphology of cortical brain cells. Indirect immunofluorescence with Texas Red as label was used to investigate the distribution of 3 different groups of immunogens: enzymes (monoamine oxidase A and B), receptors (beta-adrenoceptor protein), and synaptic vesicle proteins (synapsin I and synaptophysin) in each cortical slice. A dual-channel confocal laser scanning microscope with an argon/krypton laser was used for imaging these double-stained fluorescent specimens. Lucifer Yellow and Texas Red were recorded simultaneously or separately, taking advantage of the different activating lines (488 lambda and 568 lambda) of the laser and using the two filter blocks (K1 and K2) supplied with the instrument (BioRad MRC-600) for recording the emission of either fluorophore. Using this technique we have demonstrated the localization of immunoreactive material in relation to the dendritic morphology of cortical cells.
7942094: !synaptophysin Neural cell adhesion molecule and D3 protein in the cerebellum of weaver mutant mice. Weaver (wv/wv) mutant mice are characterized by extensive granule cell degeneration and can therefore be used as a model for brain degeneration that does not involve blood-brain barrier damage. The ontogeny of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and the neuronal antigen D3 protein were investigated in cerebellum and forebrain of weaver mutant mice up to post-natal day 60. In the forebrain the concentration of both proteins was virtually unchanged. In cerebellum, in contrast, the concentration of D3 decreased markedly whereas that of NCAM remained unchanged. Similar findings were obtained at post-natal day 30 in the cerebellum of other neurologic mutants, namely the staggerer (sg/sg) and reeler (rl/rl). At this age the concentration of a synaptic vesicle marker, synaptophysin, was severely decreased in the cerebellum of all three mutants. The concentration of neuron-specific enolase was less affected, whereas the concentrations of the glial markers glutamine synthetase and glial fibrillary acidic protein were both increased. The NCAM/D3 concentration ratio, which probably reflects the ongoing rate of synaptic remodelling, was increased during the whole ontogeny of weaver mutant mice as compared with heterozygous controls. At post-natal day 30, the ratio was increased by 180% in weaver, by 170% in staggerer and by 60% in reeler cerebellum. These findings lend further support to the usefulness of the NCAM/D3 ratio as a marker of neural plasticity and synaptic remodelling in both animals and man.
8088032: !synaptophysin Dendritic spines and immunoreactivity of synaptophysin in the frontal cortex of humans with infantile brain damage. A correlative study. Some neurodegenerative disorders of adults involving mental retardation are associated with reduction of dendritic spines and number of synapses. A study was performed to prove the changes in the density of dendritic spines and synaptophysin-immunoreactive granules in the frontal cortex of cases with infantile brain damage and a possible correlation between them. Specimen from cortex of children and adolescents with severe mental retardation, aged 3 to 24 years and a group of non-psychiatric age-matched controls were processed according to the Golgi-Kopsch method. Density of dendritic spines on the apical dendrites of layer V pyramidal neurons (Brodman area 10) was analysed in correlation to the density of synaptophysin-reactive granules (counts/microns 2) in the same region. Both density of spines and number of immunoreactive granules were reduced in brains with infantile damages, but there was no correlation between spine density and the number of immunoreactive granules against synaptophysin.
8064316: !synaptophysin CT changes associated with normal aging of the human brain. CT was used to measure changes in cerebral gray and white matter tissue densities associated with normal aging, using a cross-sectional design, in order to provide normative data for comparisons with abnormal aging such as dementias of Alzheimer's and vascular types. Cerebral compartmental densities were measured using plain CT, and their perfusion values were recorded during stable xenon inhalation (CT-CBF), among 81 neurologically and cognitively normal volunteers of different ages. Results led to the conclusion that cortical gray matter tissue densities progressively decline (polio-araiosis) after age 60. Cortical polio-araiosis is coupled with regional hypoperfusion but not with cortical atrophy. It is speculated that the cortical hypodensity identified by CT imaging parallels declines in cortical synaptic density, as reported from autopsy studies using anti-synaptophysin staining of cerebral cortex obtained from normal people above and below age 60. The coupling of cortical hypoperfusion with polio-araiosis is believed to reflect age-related reductions of cortical metabolic demands as reported by PET. During normal aging leuko-araiosis correlates directly with cortical atrophy, suggesting that anterograde axonal degeneration resulting from cortical neuronal dearborization play a role in its causation.
8034131: !synaptophysin Expression of the synaptophysin gene family is not restricted to neuronal and neuroendocrine differentiation in rat and human. The integral membrane protein synaptophysin is one of the major polypeptide components of the small, electron-translucent, transmitter-containing vesicles in neurons and of similar vesicles in neuroendocrine (NE) cells. In an attempt to identify synaptophysin-related molecules, such as synaptoporin, it was noticed in polymerase chain reaction (PCR) experiments that products having the expected size could be amplified not only from neuronal and NE cells, but also from non-NE cells. Northern blot hybridization analyses demonstrated that certain non-NE cells express low amounts of synaptophysin mRNA although the encoded polypeptide could not be detected. These observations, however, did not explain the consistent amplification of cDNA fragments regardless of cell type. PCR products were therefore cloned and a novel type of cDNA was identified in rat and human. The partial human cDNA was completed by isolation of phage cDNA clones constructed from a human keratinocyte cell line (HaCaT) and by PCR. When used in hybridization experiments with genomic DNA, this clone recognized a single gene. The 2106 bp cDNA contains an open reading frame coding for a polypeptide of calculated molecular weight 28,565 and having an isoelectric point of 8.45. This polypeptide is very similar to synaptophysin in the four transmembrane domains and the connecting loop regions but lacks the characteristic cytoplasmic tail. Extensive PCR analyses and Northern blot hybridization experiments demonstrated that the synaptophysin-related gene is ubiquitously expressed in vitro and in vivo. To stress the ubiquity of expression in contrast to the restricted distribution of synaptophysin and synaptoporin, I propose to refer to the encoded polypeptide as pantophysin.
7914357: !synaptophysin Increase in synaptic vesicle proteins accompanies long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus. Maintenance of long-term potentiation in synapses formed by the perforant path on to granule cells of the dentate gyrus is accompanied by a sustained increase in the extracellular concentration of glutamate, the presumed transmitter at this excitatory hippocampal pathway. Quantal analysis indicates that, at least in the first hour of induction, this reflects an increase in transmitter release rather than a decrease in glutamate uptake, while biochemical studies have suggested that the increase in release persists for several hours. Morphological studies have described early but persistent increases in the spine number and area. Increases in the number of segmented/perforated synapses persisting for at least 1 h after induction of long-term potentiation, have also been reported. These morphological changes suggest both presynaptic and postsynaptic modifications. Increases in synaptic vesicle number and distribution lasting for at least 1 h specifically indicate presynaptic changes. To explore further the role of the presynaptic terminal in long-term potentiation, we have investigated changes in three synaptic vesicle proteins, synapsin, synaptotagmin and synaptophysin, in control tissue and in tissue prepared from potentiated dentate gyrus 45 min and 3 h after induction of long-term potentiation. We found that there was an increase in the concentration of the three proteins 3 h after induction of long-term potentiation. No such increase was observed 45 min after induction or in tissue prepared from animals in which an intraventricular injection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, blocked induction of long-term potentiation.
8197066: !synaptophysin [Molecular genetic detection of t(11;22)(q24;12) translocation in Ewing sarcoma and malignant peripheral neuroectodermal tumors]. Ewing's sarcomas and malignant peripheral neuroectodermal tumors (MPNTs) show very little evidence of differentiation and lack characteristic morphological features at the light-microscopic level. These malignancies have always presented a significant differential diagnostic challenge to the pathologist. Electron microscopy, immunohistochemical staining for neural antigens such as neuron-specific enolase (NSE), Leu 7, synaptophysin and, more recently, the detection of Mic-2 gene expression have been included in the routine histopathological diagnostic procedure. However, the expression of these antigens is not restricted to this entity. Thus, further modalities are required to prove diagnostic reliability. One consistent feature of the Ewing's sarcoma family is the presence of the reciprocal chromosomal t(11;22)(q24;q12) translocation. Recent cloning of the t(11;22) break point has led to the identification of the genes involved in this translocation. This provides the possibility of molecular genetic detection of the t(11;22) translocation in Ewing's sarcomas and MPNTs. We have established a method using reverse transcription and the polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the detection of the specific gene fusion transcript caused by the 11;22 translocation. The validity of our approach was proved by analyzing Ewing's tumor cell lines and tissue material obtained from primary biopsies and tumor resections. Molecular genetic detection of the 11;22 translocation by RT-PCR analysis should perhaps be included in the diagnostic work-up of suspected Ewing's sarcoma and MPNT.
8141432: !synaptophysin Paraganglia of the prostate. Location, frequency, and differentiation from prostatic adenocarcinoma. In contrast to paraganglia of the urinary bladder, prostatic paraganglia have been largely unreported. Following the discovery of paraganglia in two separate radical prostatectomy specimens, we reviewed 100 randomly selected radical prostatectomy specimens to document the location and frequency of prostatic paraganglia. Twelve additional paraganglia were identified in eight resections, for a total of 14 paraganglia in 10 cases. Most paraganglia were located in or adjacent to lateral neurovascular bundles and, rarely, in lateral prostatic stroma. The size of paraganglia ranged from 0.1 to 1.7 mm (median 0.9 mm). Paraganglia consisted of clusters of cells in patterns that ranged from lobular to diffuse, usually with a prominent stromal vascular component. The cells contained bland oval nuclei and clear cytoplasm, which was often abundant. Occasionally, larger cells with larger nuclei were present. Immunohistochemical stains for chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin were positive; those for prostatic-specific antigen were uniformly negative. In one of our cases, histologic similarity was noted between a paraganglion and an adjacent prostatic adenocarcinoma with a "hypernephroid" pattern. Recognition of prostatic paraganglia, with appropriate immunohistochemical stains when necessary, will obviate the possibility of confusing these structures with prostatic adenocarcinoma.
8077873: !synaptophysin Dynamics of presynaptic endosomes produced during transmitter release. The movements of the presynaptic endocytotic structures produced during tetanic stimulation at 10 Hz were examined morphometrically and cytochemically in the cat superior cervical ganglion in vivo. The longitudinal profiles of the axon terminal and preterminal area were subdivided into five zones, I-V. Zone I, the area adjacent to the active zone, was assigned a hemicircle with a diameter equivalent to the active zone width (2R). Zones II-IV were defined by subdividing successively the presynaptic and preterminal areas within hemicircles with diameters equivalent to three-, five-, and sevenfold of 2R, respectively. Zone V was composed of the rest of the preterminal profile. The endocytotic structures, macropinocytotic endosomes and coated vesicles, observed in each zone were morphometrically analyzed with the time course of stimulation. The lateral surface of zone II was shown to be the main site for internalization of the terminal surface membrane during transmitter release. A large amount of the plasmalemma of zone II was rapidly retrieved by macropinocytosis to produce early endosomes at an increased rate of about three times that at rest. The population of coated vesicles, few in number at rest, increased to two- to threefold in zones II-V following the stimulation. Cytochemical examinations showed the incorporation of HRP into synaptic vesicles, endosomes and multivesicular bodies. An antibody against synaptophysin labeled the presynaptic endosomes, multivesicular bodies, coated vesicles as well as synaptic vesicles. The results have suggested that a considerable part of these endosomes was transported retrogradely at an increasing rate from zone II to zone V via zones III and IV. On the other hand, synaptophysin was observed to be distributed on the tubular protrusions of the presynaptic endosomes, suggesting the segregation and recycling of a part of synaptic vesicle proteins from the early endosomes in the nerve endings of the cat superior cervical ganglion.
8075479: !synaptophysin Serotonin immunoreactivity in the carotid body of adult humans. The distribution of serotonin immunoreactivity (-IR) was studied in adult human carotid bodies, obtained at post-mortem, using both the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method on paraffin sections and a double-labelling immunofluorescence on frozen sections. Antibodies against synaptophysin and protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 were used for identification of serotonin-IR cells. Serotonin-IR was demonstrable in the carotid bodies of adult humans and it was coexpressed mostly with synaptophysin or PGP 9.5 in type I cells. Some serotonin immunopositive type I cells were located in close proximity to capillaries. Serotonin-IR was also observed in a few endothelial cells.
8058126: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin gene expression in human brain: a quantitative in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical study. Synaptophysin is a presynaptic vesicle protein. Its quantitative detection has become established as a molecular marker of synaptic density. We have studied synaptophysin messenger RNA in the neocortex, hippocampus and cerebellum using in situ hybridization histochemistry to see if the encoding transcript can be detected in post mortem human brain and to investigate factors which might influence its abundance. Synaptophysin was also measured immunocytochemically in the hippocampus. The level of synaptophysin messenger RNA expression was uniform in all neocortical areas examined. Strong correlations were found for the amount of synaptophysin messenger RNA between individual regions and between homologous areas in the two hemispheres. Synaptophysin messenger RNA declined with increasing age and prolonged post mortem interval. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity also reduced with age, as well as with duration of formalin fixation but not post mortem interval. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity correlated with the abundance of the messenger RNA in neurons within, and projecting to, each hippocampal subfield. Significantly greater synaptophysin immunoreactivity was seen in the left than the right CA4 and CA1 regions. These data show that quantitative detection of synaptophysin messenger RNA as well as synaptophysin itself can reliably be carried out in post mortem human brain sections. They are in keeping with other findings that synaptic density is relatively uniform through the neocortex and decreases with age. They also suggest a possible asymmetry of hippocampal synaptophysin expression. The level of synaptophysin messenger RNA paralleled that of synaptophysin immunoreactivity, indicating that changes in gene expression contribute to variations in the latter observed in aging and other situations. Detection of synaptophysin messenger RNA broadens the range of methods by which synaptic protein gene products can be studied and used as markers of synaptic density and synaptic involvement during physiological and pathological processes in human brain.
8045526: !synaptophysin Atypical carcinoid tumour of the thymus: a study of eight cases. Atypical carcinoids of the thymus are rare neoplasms of uncertain prognosis. We have studied eight cases (six male, two female; age range 48-60 years, mean 55 years), none with evidence of a paraneoplastic neuroendocrine syndrome. Tumour size was large and ranged from 7.5 to 10 cm. Microscopically, all had a nesting/insular or trabecular pattern, eosinophilic cytoplasm, round nuclei with fine chromatin and small nucleoli. No small cell features were evident. Mitotic activity ranged from 2 to 21 per 1.52 mm2. Focal necrosis was seen in all cases. All were positive for cytokeratin (AE1/AE3, CAM 5.2) and the neuroendocrine markers NSE, synaptophysin and chromogranin; five cases were positive for calcitonin. On electronmicroscopy all contained dense core granules, often numerous. Three cases were stage I and five stage III (infiltrating lung or chest wall). Follow-up information was available in four cases (one stage I and three stage III): the stage I tumour had local recurrence and metastasis to the lung within a year whilst the three patients with stage III tumours died of liver, bone and brain metastases within 3 years.
8045525: !synaptophysin Atypical carcinoid tumour of the lung: a study of 33 cases with prognostic features. Atypical carcinoids of the lung (well-differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas) are rare tumours of uncertain prognosis. We have studied 33 cases--male to female ratio 2:1, age range 22-75 years, mean 55 years, 80% smokers, 15 peripheral and 18 central, tumour size 1.2-9.5 cm. Microscopically they had a nesting/insular, trabecular or lobular pattern. Nuclear morphology was variable, round cells, large cells and spindle cells being identified with small cell areas in five tumours. Mitotic activity varied from 4 to 80 per 1.52 mm2. Areas of necrosis were seen in all tumours. All 33 tumours were cytokeratin positive (AE1/AE3 and CAM5.2), 32 were positive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and chromogranin A. Electronmicroscopy showed dense core granules in 29 available cases. Nineteen cases were stage I, nine stage II, four stage III and one stage IV. Follow-up information was available for 22 cases. Size, location, stage and large cell/small cell morphology were important prognostic indicators. Large tumour size, large cell or mixed large cell/small cell morphology, peripheral localization and advanced stage were adverse prognostic indicators. Mitotic activity and the presence of necrosis did not appear to influence stage or behaviour.
7523335: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical studies of neurochemical markers in normal human buccal mucosa. The content of various substances, such as regulatory peptides, hormones and structural proteins, was investigated in normal buccal mucosa using indirect immunofluorescence. Thin nerve fibres, which from a morphological point of view were most probably sensory, showed immunoreactivity for substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), neuropeptide K (NPK) and neurokinin A (NKA). Also galanin (GAL), gamma-melanocyte stimulating hormone (gamma-MSH) and somatostatin (SOM) stained thin fibres were found in the propria, which were, however, few in number and the gamma-MSH staining was weak. CGRP, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), peptide histidine isoleucine amide (PHI) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) immunoreactive nerve fibres were observed in close connection to blood vessels. SOM positive cells with processes were found, mostly scattered, in the connective tissue. A population of cells within the epithelium also showed somatostatin immunoreactivity. Protein S-100 (S-100) stained distinct populations of cells at two separate locations. In the propria, cells with one or two slender processes were seen, being mostly single but sometimes forming groups. In the epithelium, dendritic cells with many processes with or without 'spines' were observed, mainly located to the basal layer of the lamina epithelialis. Single nerve fibres and nerve bundles were also stained. Neurofilament (NF) positive fibres, singly and in bundles, as well as endorgan-like structures were seen. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) both stained the same structures, namely single fibres, nerve bundles, nerves surrounding vessels and innervating muscles and glands (if present in the section), as well as Merkel cells. Also with these two markers endorgan-like structures were seen. No clear innervation of the epithelium could be observed with the markers used. No methionine-enkephalin (ENK) or synaptophysin (SYN) immunoreactive material was found.
8209189: !synaptophysin Localization of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the human liver. The distribution of synaptophysin, specifically located in nerve terminals, was investigated immunohistochemically in normal and diseased human livers in 4 patients with normal liver, 6 with chronic active hepatitis, 12 with cirrhosis, and 8 with hepatocellular carcinoma. In normal liver and chronic hepatitis synaptophysin immunoreactivity was detected in the lobules and portal areas. In cirrhosis it was found in the fibrous septum but in no pseudolobules. Parenchymal innervation would thus appear to cease with the development of cirrhosis, and denervation from the parenchyma may lead to various functional abnormalities in liver cirrhosis. In hepatocellular carcinoma no synaptophysin immunoreactivity was found along carcinomatous sinusoids. Immunoreactive spots were present in the capsules of hepatocellular carcinoma to a much lesser extent than in the fibrous septum of cirrhosis. Neural functions may thus have little effect on the microcirculation of hepatocellular carcinoma.
8208785: !synaptophysin Electroconvulsive stimulations, learning, and protein changes in the rat brain. Two groups of rats were subjected to 17 training sessions on an operant task demanding the sequential operation of two manipulanda, while two other groups were left with no training experience. Within both the trained and passive groups one was exposed to a series of 12 electroconvulsive stimulations. The series of training and stimulation sessions were concurrent but arranged in such a way that at least 24 h always separated training and stimulation. Upon completion of the behavioural part of the experiment the concentrations of the marker proteins neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), D3, synaptophysin, and S100 were estimated in the prefrontal and occipital parts of the cortex, the hippocampus, and in the total forebrain. The electroconvulsively stimulated animals demonstrated severe impairment of learning. The pattern of marker protein concentrations indicated that acquisition and/or performance of the task and exposure to electroconvulsive stimulation were both accompanied by similar patterns of synaptic changes: an increased concentration of small synaptic vesicles in both the prefrontal cortex and the total forebrain and an increased synaptic remodulation in the prefrontal cortex.
8208364: !synaptophysin Isolation and characterization of peptides derived from the cleavage of the cytoplasmic domain of synaptophysin in frog brain. Three overlapping peptides have been isolated from the whole brain of the European green frog, Rana ridibunda and identified as fragments of the cytoplasmic domain of the synaptic vesicle membrane protein, synaptophysin. The primary structures of the peptides define the amino acid sequence of the 58 residues at the COOH-terminus of the protein and indicate that fragments arose from proteolytic cleavages at the COOH-terminal side of aspartyl residues. The overall conservation of structure of the cytoplasmic domain between the mammalian and amphibian proteins is relatively poor (58% sequence identity between frog and rat synaptophysin). However, the pattern of repeating tyrosine residues that is present in mammalian and Torpedo synaptophysins is also found in the frog protein suggesting that this structural motif is necessary for the, as yet unknown, function of the protein. The cytoplasmic region of frog synaptophysin is also rich in glutamine and glycine residues, but the putative consensus repeating sequence Tyr-Gly-Pro/Gln-Gln-Gly in mammalian synaptophysins does not occur in the frog protein. The data raise the possibility that synaptophysin, like the chromogranins and secretogranin II, may function as the precursor of biologically active peptides.
8125727: !synaptophysin Nerve endings with structural characteristics of mechanoreceptors in the human scleral spur. The innervation of the scleral spur region was investigated to learn whether mechano-receptors are present in this region.
8120541: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical studies on synaptophysin in the anterior horn of lower motor neuron disease. This report concerns the study of synaptophysin (SP) expression in the anterior horn of three cases of lower motor neuron disease (L-MND). All patients studied had anterior horn cell degeneration without neuropathological evidence of corticospinal tract degeneration. Spinal cords from six patients with no neurological disease served as controls. Immunocytochemical techniques were used. The results show that in L-MND there is decreased SP immunoreactivity of the anterior horn neuropil, but preservation of immunoreactive dots around the cell body and proximal processes, and the presence of some residual neurons in the affected gray matter that are surrounded by a dense accumulation of immunoreaction products. These findings resemble those of classical amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), indicating similarities in the distribution patterns of presynaptic terminals in the anterior horn of L-MND and classical ALS.
8120540: !synaptophysin Dysembryoplastic neuroeptihelial tumor (DNT): an immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. To assess the range of differentiation of the cells comprising dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT), particularly the oligodendrocyte-like cells (OLC), 14 DNT were immunochemically studied with a spectrum of neuronal and glial markers. Eight tumors were also studied ultrastructurally. Neurofilament protein, class III beta-tubulin, and synaptophysin preparations stained a few OLC in two, six and one lesion, respectively. In addition, many OLC within a single cortical nodule were reactive for class III beta-tubulin. The vast majority of OLC were strongly S-100 protein positive. Glial fibrillary acidic protein labeled a fair number of OLC in two cases and one nodule consisted almost entirely of immunoreactive astrocytes. Ultrastructurally, many OLC resembled oligodendrocytes in exhibiting microtubules, prominent Golgi and short cell processes; pericellular lamination of cell processes, a characteristic of oligodendroglia, was noted in only one tumor. In two cases, OLC with astrocytic features were seen to contain small numbers of intermediate filaments. In four cases, a few OLC resembled immature neurons with scant dense-core granules or synapses. This study confirms the glioneuronal nature of DNT, a lesion composed of heterogeneous cells, many resembling oligodendrocytes and a few showing early astrocytic and neuronal differentiation. Although their relation to OLC is unclear, the presence and peculiar distribution of mature neurons is nonetheless an integral diagnostic feature of the lesion.
8120418: !synaptophysin Establishment and characterization of two Merkel cell tumor cultures. Two Merkel cell tumor cultures (MC-MA1, MC-MA2) have been established from metastases of typical Merkel cell tumors. The mestastases in vivo were characterized by co-expression of cytokeratins 8, 18, 19, 20 and neurofilaments, presence of intermediate filament whirls, expression of synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, and chromogranin A, rare and weak immunostaining for plakoglobin but absence of cadherins and desmoplakins. Both cultures grow, using supplemented RPMI medium on human irradiated fibroblast feeder layers, as loosely arranged floating small aggregates. Their karyotypes are mostly hyperdiploid. The mean doubling times were about 84 h in the first 8 months and later increased. Ultrastructural and immunoelectron microscopic studies of the Merkel cell tumor cells in vitro (MC-MA1, MC-MA2) revealed sparse membrane-bound neuroendocrine granules and typical IFs that were partly arranged in paranuclear whirls and were labeled by antibodies against cytokeratins and neurofilaments. In immunocytochemical studies using antibodies to cytokeratins 8, 18, 19, and 20 and neurofilament protein NF-L, Merkel cell tumor cells in vitro showed a uniform staining appearing as paranuclear whirls and cytoplasmic fibrils as well. Double-labeling experiments showed a co-localization of both intermediate filament types in most cells. Biochemically we found cytokeratins 8, 18, 19, and 20, and NF-L in tumor cells in vitro. Immunocytochemical staining was negative for desmoplakins, various cadherins, and cell adhesion molecules, whereas plakoglobin was only rarely detectable in some Merkel cell tumor cells in vitro. By immunoluminometric assay chromogranin A was detected in cell homogenates and culture supernatants as well. Immunocytochemically, synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase were detectable additionally in some of the cells. These established cell cultures will allow further studies devoted to the biology, differentiation, and hormone secretion of Merkel cell tumors that may also increase our knowledge about normal Merkel cells.
8116794: !synaptophysin Neuroblastoma-like neurilemoma. We report three cases of neurilemoma occurring in the superficial soft tissue of the palm, posterior neck, and flank that closely resembled neuroblastoma by virtue of a predominance of small, round hyperchromatic schwann cells with scant cytoplasm which, in one case formed perivascular rosettes and, in the others, giant rosettes with central collagen cores. Although the diagnosis of neuroblastic tumor was seriously entertained in all cases, the diagnosis of a schwannoma was substantiated by the finding of focal areas of conventional schwannoma and by the typical immunophenotypic profile. All tumors strongly and diffusely expressed S-100 protein but lacked neurofilament protein, protein gene product (PGP), and synaptophysin. Ultrastructurally the cells contained slender cytoplasmic processes invested with basal lamina, but no dense core granules. All were excised conservatively, and none has recurred during the 2, 12, and 27 month follow-up periods.
8038870: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity of the cortical neuropil in vascular dementia of Binswanger type compared with the dementia of Alzheimer type and nondemented controls. It has been shown recently that in Alzheimer's disease the degree of dementia is strongly correlated with a reduction of the synaptophysin reactivity of the cortical neuropil as a measure of synapse density, while counts of neuritic plaques showed a weak correlation. This suggests that mechanisms acting at the synaptic level, finally resulting in a numerical decline of synapses, may represent an important factor in the pathogenesis of dementia. Under these aspects, we wanted to examine whether changes of synaptophysin immunoreactivity may also occur in dementia of vascular origin such as Binswanger's disease, where the white matter atrophy is usually conceived to be the main morphologic correlate of dementia. However, infrequently patients with morphologically typical Binswanger's subcortical encephalopathy including white matter atrophy are not demented. We found in 9 cases of vascular dementia of Binswanger type a significant reduction in synaptophysin immunoreactivity of the cortical neuropil (9.1%), the magnitude of which was not much less than in Alzheimer type dementia (10.9%). These results suggest that a reduction in cortical synaptic population density may also play a significant role in the pathogenesis of dementia in Binswanger's disease. In view of the fact that similar conditions have been shown to occur in neurodegenerative disorders with dementia other than Alzheimer type dementia, there seems to be evidence for a possible common pathogenetic link between these forms of dementia at the synaptic level, where different etiologic factors may result in similar changes.
7509861: !synaptophysin Synaptic properties of serotonergic growth cones in developing rat brain. In order to gain insight into the events that take place when serotonergic growth cones are remodeled into synapses, we tested the hypothesis that neurotransmitter-related properties of presynaptic terminals are already present in these growth cones before synaptogenesis begins. The ontogeny of markers for the specific reuptake of 5-HT and for 5-HT-storing synaptic vesicles was studied in isolated growth cone (IGC) fractions from developing rat brain. High-affinity 3H-imipramine binding (a marker for the plasma membrane 5-HT transporter) was significantly enriched in IGC fractions prepared before the beginning of cortical synaptogenesis [embryonic day 15 (E15) and E20]. Radioautography with 3H-imipramine or 3H-paroxetine (another marker for the transporter) confirmed that the 5-HT transporter is present in the cerebral cortex when it contains serotonergic growth cones, but not serotonergic synapses. Specific uptake of 3H-5-HT was found in IGC fractions as early as E15; this uptake was inhibited by fluoxetine. Electron microscopic radioautography demonstrated directly that growth cones were the structures in IGC fractions that took up 3H-5-HT. The synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin and a 45 kDa protein found specifically in serotonergic synaptic vesicles, serotonin-binding protein (SBP), were each enriched in IGC fractions from E15 to postnatal day 5; SBP immunoreactivity increased approximately 10-fold between E15 and E20. Endogenous 5-HT was detected in IGC fractions at E15 and increased in amount as development proceeded. The ratio of 5-HT to 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid suggested that 5-HT within growth cones is protected from catabolism by monoamine oxidase. Reserpine-induced depletion of 5-HT, a marker for the vesicular carrier of 5-HT, was apparent in IGC fractions at E20, but not at E15. These data suggest that properties that characterize the presynaptic components of mature serotonergic synapses develop in growth cones before synapses are formed. The early development of these properties may permit neurotransmission to be established rapidly during synaptogenesis or, alternatively, enable 5-HT to play a role in ontogeny.
8199336: !synaptophysin Striatal synaptophysin expression and haloperidol-induced synaptic plasticity. Synaptophysin is a presynaptic vesicle protein and a marker of synaptic density. We have studied the expression of its encoding mRNA in the brains of rats treated with haloperidol (2 mg kg-1 d-1) for two weeks. A significant increase in synaptophysin mRNA content was observed in the dorsolateral striatum but not in other brain areas compared with control animals. A similar trend was observed for synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Quantification of synaptophysin mRNA per cell showed that the increase was pronounced in large putatively cholinergic, striatal neurones. These data provide further evidence that localized synaptic plasticity occurs after neuroleptic treatment and indicate that such alterations are manifested in terms of expression of a synaptic protein gene by striatal neurones.
8311655: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterization of teratomatous and fetal neuroendocrine pancreas. Six extragonadal teratomas that contained pancreatic tissue were retrieved from archival material at the University of Minnesota Hospital, Minneapolis. The neuroendocrine cells were studied immunohistochemically for insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, pancreatic polypeptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, gastrin, chromogranin, and synaptophysin. Pancreatic tissue from autopsies of 10 stillbirths (20 to 40 weeks' gestational age) was evaluated similarly. The features of the teratomatous pancreatic tissue were compared with those of the fetal pancreata and with data from previous studies of normal pancreatic development and adult pancreata. The pancreatic tissue in all six teratomas contained abundant mature islets that contained beta, alpha, delta, and pancreatic polypeptide cells; however, they also showed widespread nesidioblastosis with the same cell types, resembling third-trimester fetal and neonatal pancreata. Increased proportions of alpha and delta cells were observed in three and five cases (relative to those of adult tissue), respectively, providing further evidence of immaturity. Two cases showed a lack of alpha cells. None of the teratomas contained pancreatic cells that were positive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or gastrin. Mechanisms that regulate neuroendocrine cell differentiation in the normal pancreas also seem to operate in the teratomatous pancreas; they may eventuate in features similar to those of the late fetal and neonatal pancreas. Abnormal differentiation in teratomas may result in deficient hormone production.
8288869: !synaptophysin A simple dot-immunobinding assay for quantification of synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity in human brain. Neocortical decreases in synaptic density correlate significantly with the cognitive impairment seen in Alzheimer disease. Recently available monoclonal antibodies (MAb) have made possible the highly specific and sensitive detection of synapse-associated proteins in immunocytochemical and immunochemical techniques. We describe a simple yet highly sensitive dot-immunobinding assay for relative quantification of the synapse marker protein synaptophysin in human brain homogenate fractions with the mouse MAb SY38. Fractions prepared from control and Alzheimer specimens were blotted to nitrocellulose membranes and reacted with SY38, rabbit secondary antibody, and iodinated protein A. A relative standard curve was constructed to normalize results from multiple assay runs. We correlated the results with the more complex immunocytochemical synaptic density measurement technique of immunolabeling coupled with laser confocal imaging, showing good correlation at r = 0.821. Results from Alzheimer cases showed a 40% decrease in synaptophysin immunoreactivity in midfrontal cortex compared with normal controls.
8178691: !synaptophysin [Central neurocytomas]. Central neurocytomas are a well-characterized group of neuronal tumors usually arising in the supratentorial ventricular cavities. We describe the anatomical and clinical study of seven of these neoplasms. Patients were in the first four decades of life, and tumors were usually located in one of the lateral ventricles. Surgical resection was subtotal in 6 cases. Light microscopic examination revealed predominantly benign lesions with morphological features similar to the so-called ependymoma of the foramen of Monro, of the oligodendrogliomas, and of the neuroblastomas. Immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy confirmed the diagnosis in each case, showing expression of neuron specific enolase and synaptophysin and containing microtubuli, neurosecretory granules, and presynaptic vesicles. In agreement with the literature, the authors stress the benign behaviour of most of these tumors and the need for systematic immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. The actual roles of the extent of resection and of postoperative radiotherapy are still a matter of discussion.
8115951: !synaptophysin Polar spongioblastoma with cerebrospinal fluid metastases. We presented a rare case of polar spongioblastoma occurring in a 12-year-old boy with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spread in the basal cisterns and contralateral ventricle, as well as metastases to the spinal dura. Apart from the typical palisades of elongated cells, immunohistochemically, the tumor cells stained for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, and ultrastructural examination revealed features of neuronal differentiation. Our case adds to the small number of cases of polar spongioblastoma with clinicopathologic features and ultrastructural appearance described and confirms the neuronal nature of the tumor. It also represents the second documented case with CSF metastases.
7911997: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumor arising in the pancreas. Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) are extra cranial primitive small round blue cell tumors showing histologic, immunohistochemical or electron microscopic evidence of neuroectodermal differentiation. They are most commonly encountered in the soft tissue or bone in children and young adults. We report an unusual case of a PNET arising in the pancreas. A 17-yr-old male presented with a pancreatic mass and underwent a pancreatoduodenectomy. Histologically, the neoplasm was composed of sheets of small round cells that stained for cytokeratin, neuron specific enolase, and 12E7 but not muscle specific action, desmin, common leukocyte antigen, chromogranin, synaptophysin, or other islet cell markers. The diagnosis of PNET in this unusual location was confirmed by cytogenetic analysis which showed the chromosomal translocation characteristics of PNETs, t(11;12)(q24;q12). This case highlights the difficulty in the diagnosis of PNET when it is present in visceral organs where other neuroendocrine neoplasms and adenocarcinomas are more common.
7512800: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin (Merkel cell carcinoma). An immunoelectron-microscopic case study. An unusual tumor with a controversial name as well as histogenesis, the neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin (also known as "Merkel cell carcinoma," "trabecular carcinoma of the skin") has previously been extensively studied by immunohistochemical methods at the light-microscopic level. Ultrastructural descriptions of this tumor have also been extensive, although immunocytochemical study of this neoplasm at the electron-microscopic level has been limited. In this report, we have used postembedding protein A-gold immunocytochemistry on thin sections from tumor embedded in Lowicryl K4M to investigate the expression and ultrastructural localization of a panel of commercially available, diagnostically useful antibodies. Antibodies associated with epithelial derivation included anti-keratin monoclonal antibody AE1/AE3, polyclonal anti-keratin, and monoclonal anti-cytokeratin cocktail (MAK-6), as well as a monoclonal antibody against epithelial membrane antigen (EMA). Antibodies associated with neuroendocrine derivation included monoclonal anti-chromogranin A and monoclonal anti-synaptophysin. Although staining with a polyclonal antibody directed against neuron-specific enolase (NSE) was equivocal, there was no labeling with a monoclonal anti-neurofilament antibody. The finding of positive keratin labeling of filaments arranged in paranuclear aggregates correlates well with the previously described immunohistochemical staining pattern at the light-microscopic level. Moreover, the presence of cytoplasmic synaptophysin and chromogranin positivity over dense-core granules exemplifies the neuroendocrine differentiation present in this fascinating tumor of the skin.
7509326: !synaptophysin Species differences in choroidal vasodilative innervation: evidence for specific intrinsic nitrergic and VIP-positive neurons in the human eye. There is evidence that vasodilation of choroidal vessels results from facial nerve stimulation. To obtain more information about the role of this innervation, the authors examined the presence and spatial organization of nitrergic and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) immunoreactive nerves in the human choroid. For comparison, the choroid of rabbit and rat eyes, with different types of retinal vascularization and no fovea, were studied.
7478757: !synaptophysin Innervation of recurrent aphthous ulcers. Specimens from nonkeratinized oral mucosa were obtained from diseased and clinically healthy mucosa from 7 patients with minor recurrent aphthous ulcers. The innervation of the specimens was visualized using antibodies to neuron-specific intermediate cytoskeletal neurofilament fiber, the cytoplasmic protein gene product 9.5 and a 38 kDa integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles applied in avidin-biotin-peroxidase staining. Mapping with these 3 antibodies revealed dense and basically similar pattern of innervation in the specimens of the clinically healthy oral mucosa. In recurrent aphthous ulcers, all 3 general markers disclosed peripheral nerve fibers also in the lesions, apart from the necrotic area, among the inflammatory cells without signs of retraction from the diseased area. Synaptophysin staining suggested that these peripheral nerve fibers in the inflammatory areas still contained synaptic vesicles. Accordingly, they were shown to contain substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, which are known to be released upon stimulation of the nerve and can exert potent paracrine actions, possibly on the local inflammatory cells as suggested by a close spatial relationship between neuropeptide-containing nerves and inflammatory cells.
8131084: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin and chromogranin A immunoreactivities of Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease brains. Lewy bodies commonly observed in brains with Parkinson's disease (PD) histochemically contain both protein and lipid as chemical components. Ultrastructurally, they are composed of filamentous, vesicular and granular structures. We investigated PD brains with light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry using antibodies against two marker proteins for neuronal secretory vesicles, synaptophysin and chromogranin A. Both antibodies immunolabeled the peripheral zones and occasionally central cores of Lewy bodies of the classical and intraneuritic types. In addition, the diffuse immunolabeling was observed in Lewy bodies of the cortical type. Furthermore, the ultrastructural immuno-decoration was found mainly in the vesicular structures, and also in the filamentous and granular structures of Lewy bodies. Immuno-blot analysis of each antibody showed no difference between PD and normal control brains. The present observations suggest that vesicular profiles of Lewy bodies represent presynaptic and dense core secretory vesicles, and therefore that the lipid elements of Lewy bodies are derived from membrane lipids of these vesicles.
8137149: !synaptophysin Membrane-bound choline-O-acetyltransferase in rat hippocampal tissue is associated with synaptic vesicles. Some of the choline-O-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.6; ChAT) in rat hippocampal nerve terminals is non-ionically associated with membranes. The intent of the present report was to ascertain whether any of this membrane-bound ChAT might be associated with synaptic vesicles. To test this possibility, synaptosomal (P2) fractions were hypo-osmotically shocked in water, salt washed to remove ionically-bound ChAT, subjected to sucrose density gradient centrifugation, and the activity of ChAT compared with the amount of occluded ACh in the various subcellular fractions. A peak of ChAT and occluded ACh occurred in that fraction of the gradient (0.4 M sucrose) acknowledged to be enriched in synaptic vesicles. In other experiments, Immunobeads coated with an antibody directed against the synaptic vesicle specific SV2 protein immunoprecipitated both ChAT and occluded ACh from the 0.4 M sucrose fraction, but no other fraction. Immunobeads coated with an anti-ChAT antiserum immunoprecipitated synaptophysin from the 0.4 M sucrose fraction, an effect which was blocked by pretreatment of the anti-ChAT Immunobeads with purified ChAT. These results suggest that some of the membrane-bound ChAT in rat hippocampal nerve terminals is associated with cholinergic synaptic vesicles.
8191648: !synaptophysin Cushing's syndrome secondary to olfactory neuroblastoma. A case of olfactory neuroblastoma in a 36-year-old woman who presented with florid Cushing's syndrome is reported. A nasal polyp, which proved to be an olfactory neuroblastoma, was resected. The procedure was followed by complete remission from the endocrinologic abnormalities. Postoperatively, the patient was well for 5 years until recurrence of both Cushing's syndrome and the nasal polyp was noted. Following combined transnasal-transcranial resection of the tumor, which extended into the anterior cranial fossa, the patient again experienced complete remission of Cushing's syndrome. Immunohistochemistry showed the tumor to be positive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin, adrenocorticotropic hormone, beta-endorphin, and S-100 protein. Electron microscopy revealed neuritic processes containing microtubules and neurosecretory granules. This is the first reported case of Cushing's syndrome secondary to olfactory neuroblastoma.
8191626: !synaptophysin Aggressive small cell tumor of the skull base. A 40-year-old Black man presenting with increasing nasal discharge of bloody, mucoid pus as well as nasal obstruction over a 2-month period is described. Magnetic resonance imaging of the skull showed a tumor eroding through the skull base into the clivus and extending into the sphenoid sinus. Endoscopy of the sphenoid sinus demonstrated a polypoid mass extending into the posterior choanae. The lesion was partially resected. Histologic evaluation showed a cellular small blue cell tumor punctuated by bland, epithelial-lined microcysts. Electron microscopy revealed epithelial cells with abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and electron-dense membrane-bound endocrine granules, some undergoing misplaced exocytosis. Immunohistochemical evaluation demonstrated cytoplasmic reactivity for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and prolactin. Stains for leukocyte common antigen, HMB-45, desmin, cytokeratin, chromogranin, and the remaining spectrum of pituitary hormones including growth hormone, corticotropin, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, and thyrotrophic hormone were negative. In contrast, the epithelium lining the cysts was cytokeratin positive and synaptophysin negative. This ostensibly small cell tumor therefore represented a remarkably extensive and aggressive prolactin cell adenoma with unusual light microscopic features. Characterization of the lesion required electron microscopy and further confirmation by immunocytology. The distinction of pituitary adenomas and particularly of prolactin cell tumors from other adenoma types and from other small cell lesions markedly affects therapy and patient prognosis.
8186897: !synaptophysin Neurofilament profile in olfactory mucosa of patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. In an attempt to find a reliable peripheral marker of Alzheimer's disease (AD), pieces of olfactory mucosa were removed by biopsy from 11 patients with probable AD and from eight control patients. The samples were analysed immunocytochemically using monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies. The olfactory and peripheral neurons of the olfactory mucosa in both AD and control patients typically exhibited immunoreactivity to neurofilament (NF) triplet proteins, including both phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated epitopes, as well as to synaptophysin, but lacked reactivity to other intermediate filament proteins, microtubule-associated protein 2 and tau. Our results do not support the recent findings suggesting the lack of NF proteins in olfactory neurons or the preferential phosphorylated status of NF proteins in olfactory neurons solely in AD.
8185264: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and electronmicroscopic effects of a new 2.1 microns Ho:YAG laser on the rat brain. Using an experimental animal model, the thermal single-pulse lesion derived from a mid-infrared 1.0 Joule 300 microns fibre-conducted Holmium: Yttrium-Aluminum-Garnet (Ho:YAG) laser was examined, with special emphasis on the orientation and depth of the tissue reaction. Performing biparietal craniotomy in Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 250-300 g, both hemispheres were targeted by different radiant exposures from 20 to 140 J/cm2 derived from a 600-800 microsecond single pulse. After survival periods of one to 30 days, the animals were sacrificed and both hemispheres were processed for light- and electronmicroscopic investigations. To resolve the depth and orientation of the tissue reaction regarding the localization of reactive astrocytes, we looked for the expression of glial proteins like glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), Vimentin and S 100 with a three-step biotin-avidin immunoperoxidase method. Neuronal and secondary axonal damage was investigated by labelling Neurofilament and Synaptophysin. The tissue reaction beneath the ablated material, consisting of a vacuolation and coagulation zone resulting from heat diffusion, was further elucidated by localization of the heat shock protein (HSP 72 kilo Dalton). Revealing the extension of reactive astrocytes and the degree of the electronmicroscopically depicted glial oedema, the depth of the tissue damage was estimated to reach about 700 microns beneath laser excision. Since McKenzie predicted the depth of tissue damage beneath CO2 and YAG laser excisions in a theoretical mathematical model, the authors were able to develop a sensitive model for testing new laser systems and as a promising instrument for neurosurgery.
8171963: !synaptophysin Topographical distribution of synaptic-associated proteins in the neuritic plaques of Alzheimer's disease hippocampus. Studies of the molecular composition of the abnormal neuritic processes of the plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have shown that these structures are immunoreactive with antibodies against growth-related molecules, synaptic/axonal proteins, and cytoskeletal proteins. These studies suggest that a subpopulation of abnormal neurites in the plaque are sprouting axons that eventually degenerate. To test this hypothesis further we studied the regional distribution of plaques in the hippocampus using a panel of monoclonal antibodies against synaptic proteins. With these antibodies we found a greater proportion of immunoreactive plaques compared to previous studies where a monoclonal antibody against synaptophysin was used. The most sensitive antibodies to detect neuritic plaques were SP11 and anti-p65, and the largest number of positive plaques was found in the entorhinal cortex and CA1 region. These results further support the theory that synaptic and axonal damage are involved in plaque formation in AD.
8171961: !synaptophysin Decreased synaptophysin immunoreactivity of the anterior horns in motor neuron disease. This study concerns the synaptophysin expression in anterior horn neurons of 15 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and of 4 patients with lower motor neuron disease, who had no upper motor neuron and corticospinal tract involvement. Immunohistochemical procedures were employed and specimens from 13 patients without neurological disease served as controls. A decrease in synaptophysin expression was observed in the anterior horn neuropil of all motor neuron disease patients and this reduction was correlated with the degree of degeneration or neuronal loss of anterior horn cells. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was preserved in the proximal dendrites and around the somata of the remaining normal-appearing neurons, but it was reduced around the somata and dendrite, especially the distal portion of the proximal dendrites of small degenerated neurons with central chromatolysis, pigmentary atrophy, or simple neuronal atrophy. These observations suggest that presynaptic terminal loss is not secondary to motor cortical neuronal loss, but that the synaptic alterations in anterior horns occur in the wake of motor neuron degeneration.
8059608: !synaptophysin Neurocytoma of spinal cord. We report a case of spinal cord neurocytoma in a 67-year-old man who had experienced a progressive numbness of the left foot during the previous 4 years. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a well-defined intramedullary tumor located at the T10-T11 level. The pathological examination revealed histological characteristics described in neurocytomas. The tumor cells showed a uniform small nucleus and clear or slightly eosinophilic cytoplasm with frequent perinuclear halos, resembling the picture of oligodendroglioma. Some tumor cells exhibited mature ganglion cell appearance. Electron microscopy showed cells with microtubules and dense-core vesicles in their cytoplasm and cytoplasmic process. Immunohistochemically, the majority of tumor cells expressed synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase. We conclude that this tumor is an exceptional case of neurocytoma located in the spinal cord, and consider that the term neurocytoma can be applied to tumors with neuronal differentiation intermediate between neuroblastoma and ganglioneuroma, even if arising in CNS outside of the intracranial ventricular system.
8059597: !synaptophysin Bundles of amyloid precursor protein-immunoreactive axons in human cerebrovascular white matter lesions. Cerebral white matter lesions commonly observed in Binswanger's disease, multi-infarct encephalopathy and elderly people are neuropathologically characterized by diffuse incomplete demyelination and considered to be ischemic in nature. Arteriolosclerosis in the white matter is a common feature in these white matter lesions. To investigate a possible alteration of the distribution of amyloid precursor protein (APP), chromogranin A (CgA) and synaptophysin (Syn) in such white matter lesions, we examined 15 cases with white matter lesions and 5 without white matter lesions. Many bundles of axons with APP-like immunoreactivity (LI) were observed particularly in mild white matter lesions. Such bundles of axons showed similar but less intense CgA-LI and Syn-LI. They appeared to occur in areas with many ameboid or ramified microglia labeled with anti-leukocyte common antigen and few astrocytes labeled with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein. In the center of moderate of severe white matter lesions bundles of axons with APP-LI were never observed. Since APP, CgA and Syn undergo fast axonal transport, and since following ischemic insults to central nervous system microglial reaction occurs earlier than astroglial changes, our results suggest that axonal damage, which induces disturbance of fast axonal transport, can occur even in the early stage of white matter lesions.
8009961: !synaptophysin Evidence for an origin of ethyl-nitrosourea-induced rat central nervous system tumors from pluripotent germinal neuroepithelium. Brain tumors induced by transplacental application of ethyl-nitrosourea (ENU) in F344 rats were immunohistochemically demonstrated to consist of undifferentiated cells, astriocyte-like cells, oligodendroglia-like cells, and two distinct types of vimentin-expressing cell groupings termed as perivascular small cell nests (PSCNs) and large cell nests (LCNs). Co-distribution of vimentin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was sparsely observed in the astrocyte-like cells, which suggested an immature glial phenotype. PCSNs contained cells expressing GFAP, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), beta-tubulin isotype III, and low-affinity nerve growth factor receptors (LNGFRs). LCNs contained cells showing a neuronal phenotype with expression of low- and middle-molecular mass neurofilament proteins (NF-L and -M) as well as NSE, beta-tubulin isotype III and LNGFR. Double-labelling immunohistochemistry revealed the NF-L-expression in LNGFR-positive LCN-forming cells. Oligodendroglia-like cells and their intercellular neuropil-like structures expressed beta-tubulin isotype III, synaptophysin and NSE, in addition to the expressions of vimentin and GFAP. Electron microscopically, synapse-like structures were formed between these oligodendroglia-like cells and their dendritic processes. Topographically, bidirectional cell transitions from PSCNs to astrocytes and LCNs were indicated. The present study strongly suggests that so-called ENU-induced "gliomas" originate from pluripotent germinal neuroepithelium. Furthermore, LNGFR expression may be responsible for acquisition of neuronal phenotype in these tumors.
7919816: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin and neurofilament expression in neurons infected with dengue virus. The expression of two genes encoding the neuronal specific proteins synaptophysin and high molecular weight neurofilaments was investigated in primary cell cultures of embryonic mouse brain infected with dengue virus type 2, using immunocytochemistry and Western blot analysis with monoclonal antibodies. The viral infection leads to a 20-fold induction in the expression of the mentioned synaptogenesis-related proteins. These results suggest a correlation between virus infection and neuropathology of immature neurons in vivo.
7910711: !synaptophysin Tumors of the endocrine/neuroendocrine system: an overview. For the sake of discussion, the markedly diversified tumors of the endocrine/neuroendocrine system are classified as those originating in classic epithelial endocrine organs (eg, adrenal cortical adenomas), from the diffuse endocrine cells (eg, jejunal carcinoid tumors), or from clusters of these cells (eg, islet cell tumors); and those arising from neurosecretory neurons (eg, neuroblastoma) or paraganglia (eg, carotid body tumor). Although traditional transmission electron microscopy is useful for identifying neurosecretory or endosecretory granules as such, with few exceptions (eg, insulin-containing granules with a complex paracrystalline core) it is not possible to ascribe a granule type (size, shape, or ultrastructure) to a distinct nosologic entity or secretory product because of their overlapping fine structures in different cell types. Immunoelectron microscopy methods utilizing colloidal gold-labeled secondary antibodies can be used to localize virtually any antigen (peptide or neuroamine) to a specific neurosecretory or endosecretory granule or other cell structure. General endocrine/neuroendocrine cell markers such as neuron-specific enolase, the chromogranins, and synaptophysin are useful in identifying neuroendocrine differentiation in a neoplasm using routine immunohistochemical procedures. The current relevance of the APUD concept of Pearse as well as the biologic importance of endocrine/neuroendocrine secretory products such as bombesin and insulinlike growth factors also are discussed.
7889337: !synaptophysin Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma and desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma--have these neoplasms a common origin? We report a case of a 24-year-old woman with left temporal pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) with atypical neuronal cells. Many neoplastic cells, otherwise typical of PXA, expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein, while neuronal cells with marked atypia were immunopositive for synaptophysin and neurofilament protein. This report supports a notion that PXA, like other astrocytic tumors, may has its gangliogliomatous counterpart as superficial cerebral astrocytoma of infancy has it in desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma.
7889336: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical study in two cases of dysplastic gangliocytoma of cerebellum (Lhermitte-Duclos disease). We report here immunohistochemical study of two cases of dysplastic gangliocytoma of cerebellum (Lhermitte-Duclos disease) a rare entity which is recently classified as a tumor but which hamartomatous nature is also considered. Dysplastic cells of our cases expressed neuronal markers (synaptophysin and NFP), thus their origin from neurons or neuronal precursor is clearly demonstrated. The exact progenitor cell is, however, unknown. The glial involvement was not easily judged based on our histochemical study. While a few GFAP-immunopositive astrocytes were seen in all specimens, including the recurrence of the first case, they appeared of normal size and non hypertrophic in the second case. Furthermore, they did not much increased in number in the recurrent tumor. Thus, it seems that they are not the primary target for the pathogenetic process, whatever it is, of Lhermitte-Duclos disease.
7879603: !synaptophysin Ciliary neurotrophic factor improves muscle fibre reinnervation after facial nerve crush in young rats. In the present study we examined the effect of recombinant human ciliary neurotrophic factor (rH-CNTF) on muscle fibre reinnervation. After facial nerve crush, rats were treated systemically with either rH-CNTF (1 mg/kg per 48 h) or saline and were killed on days 10-13 after nerve crush when muscle fibre reinnervation becomes apparent. Blind counting of the number of reinnervated motor endplates and the length of the synaptophysin-positive staining was used to assess the effect of CNTF treatment on muscle fibre reinnervation in the whisker muscle. On day 10, both treatment groups showed a limited number of reinnervated motor endplates. Both the saline- and CNTF-treated rats showed a significant increase in the percentage of reinnervated motor endplates and in the length of the synaptophysin-positive staining with time. On days 10 and 11, there was no difference in muscle fibre reinnervation between the treated groups. On days 12 and 13, the CNTF-treated rats showed an increased muscle fibre reinnervation which was significant compared to the saline-treated rats. These results suggest that after facial nerve crush in young rats, CNTF enhances muscle fibre reinnervation, most probably by stimulating the intramuscular branching. There is no support for an effect of CNTF on nerve sprouting in the proximal axonal part or on axonal elongation; the CNTF effect on intramuscular branching might be mediated by the muscle fibres.
7859097: !synaptophysin Coerulospinal fiber regeneration in transected feline spinal cord. After complete cat spinal cord transection, a collagen matrix was used to bridge the gap. Vascular supply was increased to the transection site with an omental pedicle. Before hardening, either 4-aminopyridine, laminin, glia maturation factor, or lipid angiogenic factor were mixed into the collagen. Surgically reconstructed animals were compared to transection-only controls and observed for 90 days. Fluoro-Gold was injected distal to the transection site on day 75. Immunocytochemical examination of brain and spinal cord tissue was done on day 90. Examination revealed supraspinal catecholaminergic fibers present in the collagen bridge and distal cord tissue only in cats with surgical reconstruction. Fluoro-Gold particles were found localized in locus coeruleus and other noradrenergic pontine neurons. Distal to the transection, double immunostaining with synaptophysin and tyrosine hydroxylase or dopamine-beta-hydroxylase revealed dot-like deposits closely apposed to preganglionic sympathetic neurons suggestive of synaptic connectivity to these targets. Results indicate that considerable outgrowth of specific supraspinal fibers can be induced following spinal transection and reconstruction, and that such fibers may be extending and contacting appropriate distal target tissue in the cord.
7857629: !synaptophysin Differences in glial, synaptic and motoneuron responses in the facial nucleus of the rat brainstem following facial nerve resection and nerve suture reanastomosis. Transection and reanastomosis of the facial nerve with microsurgical sutures in rats (facial-facial anastomosis) results in the complete regeneration of the facial nucleus, whereas resection of a 10 mm length of the peripheral facial nerve leads to degeneration and loss of neurons in the nucleus. Nerve sutures or resections were performed in 84 female Wistar rats, and the time course and differences between regenerative and degenerative reactions in the facial nuclei were compared after survival times of 4-112 days. The volume of the facial nucleus, number of facial motoneurons and motoneuron density were estimated stereologically by the physical dissector method. Synaptic plasticity, activation of astroglia and microglia were studied cytochemically with anti-synaptophysin, anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein and the isolectin Griffonia simplicifolia I-B4 (GSA I-B4). After facial-facial anastomosis the volume of the facial nucleus and its number of motoneurons remained constant, whereas resection of the facial nerve caused shrinkage of the facial nucleus and loss of one-third of facial motoneurons within 112 days post-operation. Synaptic stripping, activation of microglia and astroglia occurred in the same sequence and were reversible after both operations, but these reactions were more severe and prolonged after resection, i.e. without suture of the facial nerve. It appears to be most important clinically that differences between de- and regeneration become clear within 7 days post-axotomy. Our results strongly support reconstruction of the facial nerve as early as possible after a nerve lesion.
7847079: !synaptophysin Severe panencephalic Pick's disease with Alzheimer's disease-like neuropil threads and synaptophysin immunoreactivity. We report a case of a 69-year-old woman with an 11-year history of progressive dementia, who was found at autopsy to have classic Pick's disease pathology, as well as extensive paired helical filament -- immunoreactive neurities, with few Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like neurofibrillary tangles and no senile plaques. Both Pick bodies and neuritic degeneration were extensive in the neocortex and hippocampal complex. In addition, synaptophysin immunostaining of the hippocampal complex showed a bilaminar pattern of immunoreactivity in the outer molecular layer as previously described in AD.
7847074: !synaptophysin Pleomorphic pineocytoma with extensive neuronal differentiation: report of two cases. Two pineal parenchymal tumors are presented, arising in a 54-year-old man and a 72-year-old woman; respectively. They showed isomorphic, cellular areas of small cells, often with characteristic pineocytomatous rosettes, and of medium-sized cells, as well as less cellular regions with highly pleomorphic, often ganglioid large cells. Immunohistochemistry disclosed extensive neuronal differentiation. There was intense positivity for neurofilament protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 in the pleomorphic areas and more variable expression in the isomorphic regions. Diffuse synaptophysin positivity was seen, accentuated along the borders of pleomorphic cells and in the rosettes, as well as diffuse interstitial and/or cytoplasmic expression of neuron-specific enolase, PGP 9.5 and tau. beta-Tubulin III was detected in most cells and slight positivity was found in the rosettes. Expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein, however, was restricted to resident astrocytes and an interstitial network of processes. These neuronally differentiated pleomorphic pineocytomas underline the broad histomorphological spectrum of pineal parenchymal tumors.
7847072: !synaptophysin Markers of axonal injury in post mortem human brain. beta-Amyloid precursor protein (beta APP) can be detected immunocytochemically at sites of axonal injury in the brain, and has recently been found to be a useful marker for injured axons in patients who survived for only 3 h after head trauma. It is transported by fast axonal transport and is thought to accumulate in detectable levels where the cytoskeleton breaks down. If this theory is correct, other substances should accumulate here in the same way, so we have used antibodies to other neuronal proteins to compare their efficacy as markers of axonal injury. SNAP-25, chromogranin A and cathepsin D also marked injured axons at all survival times studied (2.5 h-2 weeks), although they were not as sensitive or specific as beta APP. Immunolabelling for the 68-kDa neurofilament subunit (NF68) was present in most uninjured axons, and allowed axonal swellings to be seen in some cases. Synaptophysin, GAP-43, ubiquitin or tau did not label any normal or injured axons in this study. We, therefore, suggest that beta APP should be the immunocytochemical marker of choice for the detection of injured axons. This study also showed that microwave antigen retrieval significantly enhances the immunoreactivity of SNAP-25, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, GAP-43, ubiquitin and tau, in addition to that of beta APP, in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue, and reveals NF68 antigenicity where it was not previously detectable.
7843463: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical studies on pancreatic endocrine cells at early stages of development of the pig. The studies were performed on pig embryos between 23rd and 31st day of intrauterine life. Immunocytochemical markers of neuroendocrine cells, i.e. neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin and synaptophysin as well as basal hormones, i.e. insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, pancreatic polypeptide and, additionally, serotonin and gastrin were detected in serial sections. Our studies indicate that differentiation of pancreatic endocrine cells does not take place unitemporally. At the first stage, the cells acquire the traits of neuroendocrine cells and secrete more than one hormone while final specialization toward cells secreting individual hormones take places at a later stage.
7839831: !synaptophysin Hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis (Dutch): a model for congophilic plaque formation without neurofibrillary pathology. Plaque-like lesions and amyloid angiopathy were investigated in the frontal cerebral cortex of four patients with hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis (Dutch) (HCHWA-D), using immunohistochemical [antibodies to beta amyloid protein (A beta), beta protein precursor (beta PP), synaptophysin, ubiquitin (UBQ), cathepsin D, paired helical filaments (PHF) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)], enzymehistochemical (acid phosphatase) and silver [methenamine silver (MS) and Palmgren] staining methods. Whereas A beta- and MS-positive diffuse plaques were found in all patients, only the three older patients showed neuritic or congophilic plaques, which were acid phosphatase and cathepsin D positive and contained beta PP-, synaptophysin- and UBQ-positive, but PHF-negative neurites. These plaques were surrounded by reactive astrocytes. Similar immuno- and enzymereactivity was found around congophilic blood vessels. Thus, apart from neuronal degeneration in a subset of plaque-like lesions and around blood vessels, this study shows an age-related morphology of the plaques in HCHWA-D, corresponding to that in Down's syndrome (DS), with the difference that neurofibrillary (NF) pathology is absent in HCHWA-D in contrast to DS. HCHWA-D may be considered as a model for congophilic plaque formation not associated with NF pathology.
7839826: !synaptophysin Structural and ultrastructural characteristics of human pineal gland, and pineal parenchymal tumors. We have studied 20 pineal parenchymal tumors (PPT) and 4 normal or cystic pineal glands both by light and electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry with antibodies against glial markers [glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and protein S-100] or neural/neuroendocrine markers [neurofilaments (NF), synaptophysin and chromogranin A]. Light microscopy revealed the cellular organization of pinealocytes in the normal gland and in different morphological types of pineal tumors (typical pineocytomas, PPT with intermediate differentiation, mixed PPT exhibiting elements of both pineocytoma and pineoblastoma and pineoblastomas). Immunohistochemistry showed the presence of GFAP and protein S-100 in interstitial cells in non-neoplastic pineal gland. Cell processes were labeled with anti-synaptophysin and anti-NF antibodies. No immunoreactivity was found for chromogranin A in non-neoplastic pineal gland. In pineocytomas, GFAP and protein S-100 were observed in interstitial cells. Synaptophysin and NF were present in the large rosettes of pineocytomas. Synaptophysin, NF and chromogranin A were present in pineocytomas with a lobular arrangement of cells. Anti-chromogranin A immunoreactivity was also seen in lobular areas of some PPT with intermediate differentiation. Analysis of normal human pineal gland by electron microscopy showed the presence of vesicle-crowned rodlets (VCR or synaptic ribbons), fibrous filaments (F), paired twisted filaments but few dense-core vesicles (DCV) in normal pinealocytes. Tumoral pineal cells appeared to differentiate either towards a neurosensory pathway characterized by the presence of sensory cells elements (VCR and F), or towards a neuroendocrine pathway, with the occurrence of many DCV. Immunogold labeling demonstrated the presence of chromogranin A in neurosecretory granules.
7658976: !synaptophysin [Esthesioneuroblastomas. Clinico-pathological, immunohistochemical and nuclear ploidy study]. Nine cases of esthesioneuroblastoma were studied; 5 males and 4 females, ages ranging from 13 to 75 years (mean 46). All had polypoid masses located in the nasal cavity and/or paranasal sinuses: 8 cases had a surgical resection and 1 a biopsy due to an unresectable tumor. Histologically, all were cellular tumors composed of small round cells growing in sheets or nests with a fibrillary background. Immunohistochemical studies showed positivity for neuron-specific enolase (9/9), S-100 protein (8/9), synaptophysin (7/9), chromogranin (6/9), neurofilaments (6/9), 013 (4/9), GFAP (1/9), cytokeratin (1/9), and negativity for desmina and CD 45. PCNA index showed three tumors with high proliferative activity (30-50%) and low in 6 cases (0-20%). DNA analysis revealed three diploid and six aneuploid tumors. One patient with an unresectable tumor died and the remaining 8 are alive with a mean follow up of 83 months (6 months to 22 years). We emphasize the utility of several antibodies in the diagnosis of esthesioneuroblastoma, the predominance of aneuploid tumors and the possible unfavorable prognostic value of diploid histograms.
7532535: !synaptophysin Neural elements in the normal and experimentally injured porcine intervertebral disk. There is increasing evidence that-back pain may originate from degenerated or damaged disks, even in the absence of disk herniation. For a study of the pattern of innervation in injured disks, the anterior part of the annulus fibrosus of a lumbar disk in 11 domestic pigs was incised with a scalpel through a retroperitoneal approach. The animals were killed 2 weeks, 1, 2, 3, and 5 months postoperatively, and the whole anterior annulus of each injured disk and corresponding tissue from intact animals were excised. Cryostat sections 20 microns thick were cut from the surface downward, fixed, and stained with different antisera. Antisera to neurofilament triplet protein (R39), protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 and synaptophysin were used as general neural markers. Antiserum to substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were used to localize nerves mainly of the sensory type, and C flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y (CPON) to visualize nerve fibers of the sympathetic type. It was observed that in the intact porcine disk, the outer and middle parts of the anterior annulus were innervated to a depth of 7 mm from the annular surface, but the innermost annular layers showed no immunoreactivity to any of the neural antibodies. Disk injury did not cause any major changes in the nerve topography of the wound area, even though there were granulation tissue and neovascularization in this area.
7525594: !synaptophysin Pineal parenchymal tumors: cell differentiation and prognosis. Eleven pineal parenchymal tumors were studied using various antibodies specific to the central nervous system and cell-proliferation-related antigen MIB-1 in order to examine the divergent types of cell differentiation and also evaluate prognosis. Electron microscopy was also performed. All tumors were immunohistochemically positive to chromogranin A and alpha B crystallin, and were also highly positive to retinal S protein. Pineocytoma cells contained microtubules, intermediate filaments, glial bundles, clear-centered vesicles and synaptic apparati. Pineoblastoma cells also had microtubules and neurofilaments, but glial filaments and definite synapses were not identifiable. Pineal parenchymal tumors were considered to be of pinealocyte origin, and there was a continuous spectrum of divergent cell differentiation between pineocytoma and pineoblastoma cells. The MIB-1 labeling index correlated well with histological malignancy, neuronal differentiation evaluated immunohistochemically by both neurofilament protein and synaptophysin, and cases with seeding potentials. Although histopathological features of neuronal development were, until recently, seen as the hallmark of benign prognosis in pineal parenchymal tumors, they are now thought to be only one of the pieces of evidence that may be used for purposes of prognosis.
7522390: !synaptophysin Development of polyclonal antibodies and evaluation of a sensitive radioimmunoassay for detection and measurement of synaptophysin. Polyclonal antibodies directed towards synaptophysin were raised against a synthesised peptide corresponding to amino acids 246 to 260 of the human synaptophysin sequence. The antibodies, when applied for immunocytochemical staining, showed a staining pattern identical to that of the commercially available monoclonal antibody SY-38. A radioimmunoassay for measurements of synaptophysin was developed using these antibodies and the peptide as standard and tracer. The radioimmunoassay was used for optimising the conditions for purification of synaptophysin from rat brain. No synaptophysin was detected in blood plasma in humans, not even during an embolisation treatment of tumour metastases in the liver, which induced tumour cell necrosis, in a patient with carcinoid tumours. By radioimmunoassay, synaptophysin was detected in cell homogenate from the PC-12 (160 ng/mg) and LCC-18 (40 ng/mg) cell lines and in the cell culture media. In the LCC-18 cell line the synaptophysin immunoreactivity was found in the plasma membrane, and the presence of synaptophysin was confirmed both by radioimmunoassay measurements and by the Northern blot technique. These data indicate that measurements of synaptophysin using this radioimmunoassay are reliable and that the assay can serve as a useful tool in further explorations of the biological effects of synaptophysin.
7515034: !synaptophysin Cluster-10 lung-cancer antibodies recognize NSPs, novel neuro-endocrine proteins associated with membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum. We have identified a novel gene (the NSP gene) encoding 3 transcripts and coding for 3 neuroendocrine-specific proteins (NSPs), by screening a cDNA expression library of the small-cell lung-cancer (SCLC) cell line NCI-H82 with the cluster-10 lung-cancer antibodies RNL2 and RNL3. The 3 transcripts code for NSPs with apparent molecular weights of 135 kDa (NSP-A), 43 to 45 and 35 kDa (NSP-B) and 23 kDa (NSP-C). NSP-A and NSP-B are recognized by antibodies RNL2 and RNL3, while second-generation antibodies, specifically recognizing NSP-A and NSP-C, have been produced after immunization with a hybrid protein obtained after bacterial expression of the largest NSP-transcript or with a synthetic peptide specific for NSP-C. The NSPs exhibit a highly restricted distribution pattern and are found mainly in neural and neuro-endocrine cell types, and in neuro-endocrine tumours. Of the different types of lung tumours, mainly SCLC and carcinoids were positive in immunocytochemical assays using the anti-NSP antibodies, while non-SCLC were in general negative. The subcellular distribution of the NSPs was studied in human SCLC cell lines. They do not co-localize with components typical of neuro-endocrine granules, such as synaptophysin and chromogranin. The use of NSP antibodies in the immunofluorescence technique applied to cultured SCLC cells, made it obvious that these proteins localize in the endoplasmic reticulum. Cell fractionation procedures, monitored by immunoblotting assays, indicated an association of the NSPs with the microsomal fraction, from which they could be solubilized with Triton X-100. Gel filtration studies with this solubilized fraction revealed that NSPs form supramolecular aggregates with a molecular weight of more then 500 kDa.
7508007: !synaptophysin Molecular phenotype of simian virus 40 large T antigen-induced primitive neuroectodermal tumors in four different lines of transgenic mice. We compared the molecular phenotypes of central nervous system tumors arising in four different lines of transgenic mice (TGM) carrying the Simian virus 40 large T antigen driven by different promoters or enhancers. Two of the four lines developed primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) in the brain stem or pineal gland. A third TGM line developed retinoblastomas (a PNET-like tumor of the retina) as well as PNETs in the mesencephalon, while the fourth TGM developed retinoblastomas and adrenal pheochromocytomas.
7507782: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder. A clinicopathological study of six cases. To study the clinical, histological, and immunohistochemical findings of small cell carcinoma (SCC) of the urinary bladder, and also to delineate its behaviour in comparison with transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder.
7505312: !synaptophysin Differences in the distribution of cytochrome b561 and synaptophysin in dog splenic nerve: a biochemical and immunocytochemical study. Compared with neurons of the CNS, the organization of the peripheral adrenergic axon and nerve terminal is more complex because two types of neurotransmitter-containing vesicles, i.e., large (LDVs) and small dense-core vesicles, coexist with the axonal reticulum (AR) and the well-characterized small synaptic vesicles. The AR, which is still poorly examined, is assumed to play some role in neurosecretion. We have studied the subcellular localization of noradrenaline, cytochrome b561, and synaptophysin in control and ligated dog splenic nerve using both biochemical and ultrastructural approaches. Noradrenaline and cytochrome b561 coaccumulated proximal to a ligation, whereas distally only the latter was found. Despite a codistribution with noradrenaline at high densities in sucrose gradients, synaptophysin did not accumulate on either side of the ligation. At the ultrastructural level, cytochrome b561 immunoreactivity was found on LDVs and AR elements, both accumulating proximal to the ligation. Distally, the multivesicular bodies (MVBs), immunolabeled for cytochrome b561, account for the retrograde transport of LDVs and AR membranes retrieved at the nerve terminal. No synaptophysin immunoreactivity could be detected on LDVs, AR, or MVBs. The results obtained from the ligation experiments together with the ultrastructural data clearly illustrate that synaptophysin is absent from LDVs and AR elements in adrenergic axons.
7507786: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunocytochemistry in the regenerating sprouts from the nodes of Ranvier in injured rat sciatic nerve. Following crush injury of rat sciatic nerve, strong synaptophysin immunoreactivity was demonstrated in the regenerating sprouts that emerged from the proximal nodes of Ranvier and in their growth cones that extended through the space between Schwann cell basal lamina and myelin sheath of the parent axon. These findings suggest that synaptophysin is involved in the growth regulation of regenerating sprouts.
7905296: !synaptophysin Glutamate transporter mRNA and glutamate-like immunoreactivity in spinal motoneurones. Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. The release of glutamate is terminated by rapid uptake of glutamate into the presynaptic nerve terminals and into surrounding glial cells. Recently, a neuronal glutamate transporter was cloned from rabbit small intestine, thereby providing the possibility to study the distribution of cells that express glutamate transporter mRNA. Using oligonucleotide probes and in situ hybridization, glutamate transporter mRNA was demonstrated in large cell bodies, presumably motoneurones, in the thoracic spinal cord of the rabbit. Immunohistochemical analysis with rabbit polyclonal antibodies to glutamate showed immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm of large cell bodies in the ventral horn, presumably motoneurones, of the rat spinal cord. Glutamate-LI was in addition demonstrated in the motor end plate in hindlimb muscle of the rat, as visualized by double-labelling with mouse monoclonal antibodies to synaptophysin. Taken together, these data raise the possibility that glutamate has a function at the vertebrate neuromuscular junction.
7508589: !synaptophysin Subcellular distribution and immunological detection of retrograde axonally transported proteins in acrylamide and diabetic neuropathies. Neuropathies produced by both acrylamide- and streptozotocin-induced diabetes in the rat are accompanied by a deficit in the retrograde axonal transport of a defined group of proteins that can be visualized on two-dimensional polyacrylamide gels. In this work, these proteins are identified as being primarily soluble and being absent from rat brain. They are not immunologically related to the major retrogradely transported protein synaptophysin. Polyclonal antiserum to the proteins was produced in mice and used to confirm the reduction in their retrograde transport in sciatic nerve of diabetic and acrylamide-treated rats.
8118698: !synaptophysin Permanent increase of the GAD67/synaptophysin ratio in rat cerebral cortex nerve endings as a result of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy sustained in early postnatal life: a confocal laser scanning microscopic study. The aim of this study was to investigate whether perinatal hypoxia-ischemia preferentially destroys GABAergic nerve endings in rat cerebral cortex tissue which, in its turn, could then account for the reported higher risk of developing epilepsy later in life. To that end rat pups, with an age of 12-13 days postnatally, were unilaterally exposed to hypoxic-ischemic conditions. After a survival period of 2 to 6 months, the animals were sacrificed by perfusion fixation and their brains were used for cutting transversal vibratome and frozen sections. These sections were double-stained with primary antibodies against one of the two GABA synthesizing enzymes, glutamic acid decarboxylase with a mol. wt. of 66,600 (GAD67) and one of the intrinsic membrane proteins of small synaptic vesicles, synaptophysin, followed by fluorophore-conjugated second antibodies. By using the confocal laser scanning microscope, we determined the ratio between the amount of GAD67/synaptophysin immunofluorescence in nerve endings per unit volume of tissue in the hypoxia-damaged neocortex. It turned out that this ratio, contrary to expectations, was significantly higher in the hypoxia-damaged cortical areas than in matched areas on the contralateral side. It appeared, moreover, that this effect was directly proportional to the severity of the incurred damage. The conclusion was drawn that these observations do not support the hypothesis that perinatal hypoxia-ischemia ultimately leads to a preferential loss of GABAergic nerve endings in the damaged neocortex and, as such, to a shortage of inhibition.
8309535: !synaptophysin GAP 43-like immunoreactivity in normal adult rat sciatic nerve, spinal cord, and motoneurons: axonal transport and effect of spinal cord transection. Using immunofluorescence and cytofluorimetric scanning techniques in the rat, the fast anterograde and retrograde axonal transport of growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity in normal sciatic nerves, and after spinal cord transection in the lower thoracic region, were investigated. Spinal roots and motor endplates in the peroneal muscles were also studied. For comparison, anti-synaptophysin (p38) was used. In intact adult animals, the amounts of immunoreactive growth-associated protein-43 increased linearly, both proximally and distally to the crush site, between 1 and 24 h after crushing the sciatic nerve. The accumulations were present in thick as well as in thin axons. Distal accumulations in the sciatic nerve were about 40-60% of the proximal amounts, indicating a recycling of organelles with growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity. During the week after spinal cord transection, no clear changes were observed; the anterograde transport of growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity showed a tendency to decrease at day 1 and then a tendency to increase, reaching 120% of control at seven days (not significant). Transported p38-like immunoreactivity showed similar but smaller changes. In the lumbar spinal cord gray matter many nerve terminals with growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity were seen in intact animals. After spinal transection, these terminals gradually decreased, suggesting that they belonged to descending pathways. However, p38-positive terminals were not obviously decreased. After crushing ventral and dorsal roots, accumulations of pf growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity were present in thick axons in the ventral roots and in thin to medium-sized axons in the dorsal roots. In peroneal muscles, growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity was present in some (but not all) motor endplates in all groups. These results indicate that: (i) growth-associated protein-43 is normally present in nerve terminals of many descending projections of the spinal cord; (ii) growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity is expressed and bidirectionally transported in neurons (motor as well as sensory) of normal sciatic nerves; (iii) growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity is present in some adult motor endplates; and (iv) inhibited supraspinal input causes minor, if any, alterations--paralleled by p38--in axonal transport of growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity.
8287927: !synaptophysin Synaptic and dendritic pathology in murine retroviral encephalitis. Central nervous system (CNS) damage occurs during retroviral infection in both man and animals. As a model of human disease, we studied the distribution and extent of CNS damage during retroviral infection with two molecularly cloned, neurotropic murine leukemia viruses. Both viruses mediate a spongiform encephalopathy involving predominantly the brainstem and spinal cord. During the course of disease, immune reactivity for synaptophysin (SYN) (to identify presynaptic elements) and microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP-2) (to identify postsynaptic elements) were quantified using confocal laser microscopy. Immunostaining of SYN in the cerebral cortex (an area not exhibiting spongiform lesions) was similar in viral infected and age-matched control mice. However, compared to age matched controls, SYN staining in the brainstem (an area exhibiting spongiform lesions) of viral infected mice progressively declined during the course of disease. Quantitative analysis showed greater reduction of MAP-2 immunostaining in viral-infected mice compared to age-matched controls. In infected mice, both regions with and without spongiform lesions showed diminished MAP-2 staining. Widely distributed microscopic vacuolation of dendritic processes was observed in confocal preparations. These findings suggest primary dendritic damage in murine retroviral infection of the CNS similar to what has been described in human immunodeficiency virus-1 encephalitis.
8246054: !synaptophysin Central nervous system gangliogliomas. Part 1: Pathology. Histopathological features that suggest the diagnosis of ganglioglioma require, in most cases, confirmation by special stains to distinguish these tumors from other gliomas. For this purpose, immunostaining for synaptophysin, which has previously been shown to selectively label the cell surface of neoplastic ganglion cells, was used to retrospectively examine glioma tumor specimens. Sixty-three cases of ganglioglioma were identified. The files of the Division of Neuropathology of New York University Medical Center contained 45 tumors that had been diagnosed as ganglioglioma, of which 42 were verified by synaptophysin; three cases were reclassified, two as astrocytomas and one as a gangliocytic paraganglioma. Thus, a tumor identified as ganglioglioma based on other criteria was likely to be a ganglioglioma. The other 21 cases of gangliogliomas were originally diagnosed as astrocytoma or mixed glioma, but were shown by synaptophysin staining to be gangliogliomas. In some cases the ultimate diagnosis was obtained after radical surgery provided relatively abundant amounts of tissue, thereby limiting sampling errors, in contrast to the biopsies from which the original diagnoses were made. Histopathological review of these cases demonstrated that four features represent important clues to the correct diagnosis: 1) clusters of large cells potentially representing neurons (without such cells the tumor cannot be classified as a ganglioglioma); 2) no perineuronal clustering of the glial cells around the alleged neoplastic neurons; 3) fibrosis (desmoplasia); and 4) calcification. Binucleate neurons, previously suggested to be common in gangliogliomas, were not frequently found in this series, and lymphocytic infiltrates, while common, are so often found in other tumors that they gave no specific hint that any single neoplasm was a ganglioglioma. The glial elements were astrocytic in all cases, except that one tumor also had oligodendroglial and ependymal patterns. Four tumors also had small mature neurons, as seen in neurocytomas. Cells from one tumor were successfully grown in short-term tissue culture; the culture contained large dividing neurons with synaptophysin immunoreactivity as well as smaller dividing cells, demonstrating that the neuronal cells are a proliferating element in gangliogliomas.
8183732: !synaptophysin Round cell tumours of bone. Ewing's sarcoma is a very rare tumor which has, however, attracted much oncological interest since the dramatic improvement of its prognosis under chemotherapy. Its histogenesis has been discussed controversially for a long time, including a possible origin in immature reticulum, myogenous, endothelial and undifferentiated mesenchymal cells. Repeated reports have also suggested a possible neuroectodermal genesis. Convincing arguments, however, have only been brought forward during recent years, since it was found out that Ewing's sarcoma and malignant peripheral neuroectodermal tumor share a common chromosome translocation 11;22. In the meantime this hypothesis has been strengthened by numerous cell biological analyses. Histological differential diagnosis of Ewing's sarcoma has been improved by immunohistological methods. In most cases, they can be distinguished from lymphoma (leucocyte common antigen, B and T markers) and embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (muscle specific actin, desmin). Apart from this, we now have an antibody specific for Ewing's sarcoma and malignant peripheral neuroectodermal tumors but not with neuroblastoma. Recent investigations regarding the prognosis under chemotherapy have shown that tumors with neural differentiation have a comparatively poor prognostic outcome. This is why in addition to the demonstration of Homer Wright pseudo-rosettes different neural markers such as neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin and chromogranin are to be analysed. Small cell osteosarcoma is a very rare sub-entity of osteosarcomas. Recent studies have shown that the tumor resembles Ewing's sarcoma with partial mesenchymal differentiation including osteoid formation.
8163390: !synaptophysin Colocalization of retinal dystrophin and actin in postsynaptic dendrites of rod and cone photoreceptor synapses. In this paper we demonstrate immunostaining specific for dystrophin in photoreceptor synapses of human, bovine and rat retinas. Cryosections of retinas incubated with dystrophin-specific monoclonal antibodies displayed a punctuate staining pattern in the outer plexiform layer. This pattern resulted from binding of the antibodies to synaptic complexes of both rods and cones, shown by double-labelling with antibodies to either synaptophysin or actin. Confocal laser fluorescence microscopy demonstrated that dystrophin staining colocalized predominantly with actin, which is concentrated in the postsynaptic portions of the synaptic complex. No significant dystrophin immunolabel was seen in the presynaptic terminals labelled with antibodies to synaptophysin, a marker of synaptic vesicles. Immunoblot analysis confirmed the presence of approximately 420 kDa and approximately 360 kDa dystrophin-like polypeptide bands associated with membranes of the bovine retina. We speculate that retinal dystrophin is involved in the linkage of actin filaments to the postsynaptic plasma membrane. Such a linkage may be important for the generation of synaptic microdomains and for certain phenomena of synaptic plasticity. The absence of dystrophin in patients suffering from Duchenne's muscular dystrophy is accompanied by visual problems and abnormalities of the electroretinogram. Therefore it is likely that retinal dystrophin plays a role in certain stages of synaptic transmission between photoreceptors and the postsynaptic dendritic complex formed by horizontal and bipolar cells.
7521264: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation as a prognostic factor in non-small cell lung cancer. The prognostic value of clinical and pathological factors in 97 patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), were analyzed through immunohistochemical methods. The impact on response rate and survival of age, Karnofsky performance status (PS), sex, NSCLC subtype and grade, extent of disease, objective chemotherapy response, LDH values, metastatic sites involved and immunohistochemical markers of neuroendocrine differentiation (neuron specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin (Sy 38), chromogranin (Chr A) and Leu-7) were analyzed. Median age was 61 years and seven patients were women. Histologically, 58 had squamous cell carcinoma, 28 adenocarcinoma and 11 large cell undifferentiated carcinoma. One patient had Stage II, 35 Stage IIIa, 19 Stage IIIb and 42 Stage IV. Six patients achieved complete response, 18 partial response, 34 stable disease and 39 progressive disease. NSE was negative in 54.3% of cases as was Sy 38 (77.4%), Chr A (97.8%) and Leu-7 (95.8%). We have found correlation between neuroendocrine differentiation and absence of P-Glycoprotein expression; patients included in this subset had a higher response rate but no evidence of longer survival. The univariate analysis showed that four parameters had significant adverse effect on survival: non-responders, poor PS, abnormal LDH value and absence of NSE expression. Multivariate analysis showed that the best combination of independent prognostic factors in predicting survival was: PS and NSE expression by immunohistochemical methods.
8306430: !synaptophysin Ontogenic development and distribution of mRNAs of chromogranin A and B, secretogranin II, p65 and synaptin/synaptophysin in rat brain. We have studied by in situ hybridization the mRNA levels of several constituents of transmitter storing vesicles during ontogenic development of rat brain. The following vesicle components were investigated: chromogranin A and B and secretogranin II, representing secretory peptides of large dense core vesicles, and the membrane proteins p65 and synaptin/synaptophysin which are found in both large and small synaptic vesicles but are concentrated in the latter ones. Several ontogenic patterns were observed: concomitant increases of most or all mRNAs in certain brain regions, e.g. in the thalamic nuclei at gestational day 18 or in the cortex at postnatal day 6. For some areas selective increases for the various chromogranin mRNAs occurred, thus throughout development the substantia nigra compacta contained only the chromogranin B mRNA, whereas the lateral and medial geniculate nuclei and the medial tuberal nucleus expressed only secretogranin II mRNA. In the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, secretogranin II mRNA declined at P1 and then increased again. In the intermediate cortex there was a rather selective appearance of a high level of chromogranin A mRNA already at gestational day 16. In general the mRNAs for the membrane components become detectable by in situ hybridization together with the chromogranin mRNA, however, in the claustrum a high level of the p65 mRNA is present already at gestational day 16 whereas the chromogranin mRNA only appears at day 20. In some nuclei there was also a differential expression of the membrane components with e.g. the synaptophysin mRNA being present without any concomitant appearance of p65. These results establish that the ontogenic development of the investigated components in many brain areas simply indicate the starting point of biosynthesis of both types of vesicles finally leading to functional synapses. In those cases where a selective dissociation in the biosynthesis of these components occurs, a functional relevance of one component for a certain stage of development might be postulated. Since these data define the time of onset of vesicle biosynthesis in the various brain regions, future studies on single components of these vesicles can be interpreted in the context of the present findings.
8121636: !synaptophysin Acute increase in expression of growth associated protein GAP-43 following cortical ischemia in rat. Focal cerebral ischemia creates an area of infarction that is surrounded by neuronal tissue that may respond to nearby damage by creating neurite growth. To determine if axonal sprouting occurs after infarction, antibodies to growth associated protein MW 43,000 (GAP-43), a protein expressed on axonal growth cones, were used to assess the level of GAP-43 immunoreactivity as a measure of sprouting. Cerebral ischemia was induced in spontaneously hypertensive rats by permanently occluding the distal middle cerebral artery and ipsilateral common carotid artery. After 1 week of recovery, the animals were perfused, the brains removed, processed, and optical densities of the immunoreaction were measured. The cortex surrounding the infarcted area had increased optical densities (mean +/- S.D. = 14.2% +/- 5.5) compared to the optical density values measured in similar areas in the contralateral hemisphere (mean +/- S.D. = 6.0% +/- 3.3), a 136% increase that is statistically significant, P < 0.05 Student's t-test. We hypothesize that this increase in GAP-43 reaction product is due to axonal sprouting in the cortex surrounding an area of infarction. These data, coupled with previous work examining synaptophysin levels after cortical infarction, support the hypothesis of sprouting and synaptogenesis in the cortex following cerebral infarction.
8287627: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry of synapsin I and synaptophysin in human nervous system and neuroendocrine tumors. Applications in diagnostic neuro-oncology. Synapsin I is a phosphoprotein localized to the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles and is one of the best characterized neuron-specific proteins. Synaptophysin is an integral membrane glycoprotein, also located on presynaptic vesicles, which has been shown to be a useful immunohistochemical marker for neuroendocrine/neuronal differentiation in tumor diagnosis. The sensitivity and specificity of immunohistochemical staining for these two proteins in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues was studied in a series of 67 neuroectodermal, neuroendocrine, and non-neural tumors. Intense immunoreactivity for both synapsin I and synaptophysin was observed in tumors containing well-differentiated neurons (gangliocytoma, ganglioglioma, neurocytoma). In these tumors, immunostaining was primarily concentrated along the outer surface of the cell membrane of the neuronal cells. Primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) (cerebral PNET, medulloblastoma, neuroblastoma) and most neuroendocrine tumors generally showed less intense and more variable immunoreactivity for these proteins. In most cases, immunostaining for synapsin I was sharper and often more intense than for synaptophysin. Some PNETs and neuroendocrine tumors that were immunoreactive for synapsin I did not stain for synaptophysin. We conclude that synapsin I is a reliable, sensitive immunohistochemical marker for neuronal/neuroendocrine differentiation in human neoplasms and may offer some advantages over synaptophysin when applied to formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues, particularly in the evaluation of primitive neuroectodermal tumors and neuroendocrine tumors.
8265114: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the cochlear nuclei of mammals: a comparative study. Synaptophysin is a Ca(2+)-binding glycoprotein located in the presynaptic membrane and synaptic vesicles. This glycoprotein has been also involved in the release of neurotransmitters. The presence of synaptophysin within the cochlear nuclear complex of several animal species was analyzed. Differences in size and neuronal density of the cochlear nuclei were observed between the animal species studied. In fact, cat and rat cochlear nuclei showed a very similar morphology and neuronal distribution, while mouse, hamster and guinea pig exhibited important differences. The morphology and arrangement of synaptic boutons, for each neuronal type considered, were similar among species.
8229211: !synaptophysin Relative properties and localizations of synaptic vesicle protein isoforms: the case of the synaptophysins. Synaptophysins are abundant synaptic vesicle proteins present in two forms: synaptophysin, also referred to as synaptophysin I (abbreviated syp I), and synaptoporin, also referred to as synaptophysin II (abbreviated syp II). In the present study, the properties and localizations of syp I and syp II were investigated to shed light on their relative functions. Our results reveal that syp II, similar to syp I, is an abundant, N-glycosylated membrane protein that is part of a heteromultimeric complex in synaptic vesicle membranes. Cross-linking studies indicate that syp II is linked to a low-molecular-weight protein in this complex as has been observed before for syp I. Furthermore, after transfection into CHO cells, syp II, similar to syp I, is targeted to the receptor-mediated endocytosis pathway. Immunocytochemistry of rat brain sections reveals that syp II expression is highly heterogeneous, with high concentrations of syp II only in selected neuronal populations, whereas syp I is more homogeneously expressed in most nerve terminals. In general, nerve terminals expressing syp II also express syp I. In addition to high levels of syp II observed in selected neurons, a rostrocaudal gradient of syp II expression was observed in the cerebellar cortex. Immunoelectron microscopy confirmed that syp II is localized to synaptic vesicles. Immunoprecipitations of synaptic vesicles from rat brain with antibodies to syp I demonstrated that syp II is colocalized with syp I on the same vesicles. However, after detergent solubilization, no coimmunoprecipitations of the two proteins were observed, suggesting that they are not complexed with each other although they are on the same vesicles. Together our results demonstrate that syp I and syp II have similar properties and are present on the same synaptic vesicles but do not coassemble. The presence of the two proteins in the same nerve terminal suggests that they have similar but nonidentical functions and that the relative abundance of the two proteins may contribute to the functional heterogeneity of nerve terminals.
8229081: !synaptophysin Re-evaluation of the structural organization of neuritic plaques in Alzheimer's disease. We re-examined the relationship among synaptic pathology, subcellular abnormalities within neurites in the plaques and beta-amyloid deposits of Alzheimer's disease (AD) using laser confocal imaging and computer-aided serial section reconstruction techniques. Analysis of serial optical sections of neuritic plaques double-immunolabeled for anti-beta-amyloid/anti-tau-2 revealed that 35% of this type of plaque contained a dense amyloid core with clusters of peripheral abnormal neurites. The other 65% were without a dense core and were mainly composed of abundant abnormal neuritic clusters with bundles of amyloid distributed throughout the neuritic plaque. While two-dimensional (2-D) analysis of the plaques has suggested that neurites are distributed in the plaque periphery with beta-amyloid localized in its center, serial section analysis showed the opposite arrangement can also be true. Three-dimensional (3-D) reconstructions of serial optical sections showed that the tau-positive tortuous axons clustered in the neuritic plaques were often continuous with synaptophysin-positive distended terminals. Analysis of electron micrographs from serial sections showed continuity among the different segments of the neurites. Further analysis of the computer generated 3-D reconstructed neuritic plaques (both from serial electron micrographs and serial optical sections), viewed as continuous rotating loops, confirmed that a great majority of the plaque volume was occupied by the clustered and continuous abnormal neurites, while the amyloid fibrils were compressed and displaced to the periphery of the plaque. The 3-D imaging of the neuritic plaques in AD suggests a more widespread and active neuritic damage than that predicted from 2-D observations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8120798: !synaptophysin Close microtopographical relationships between sympathetic nerve terminals and bulbous process endings of pinealocytes in the pineal gland of the Mongolian gerbil. Previous studies have shown that pinealocytes of the gerbil pineal gland exhibit processes that form terminal swellings filled with abundant electron-lucent microvesicles. The membrane of these presumptive secretory microvesicles is known to contain synaptophysin, a major integral glycoprotein of neuronal synaptic vesicles. The present study was conducted to evaluate the microtopographical relationships between the vesicle-rich process swellings and intra-pineal nerve terminals. For this purpose, both nerve terminals and pinealocyte process endings were visualized immunohistochemically in the same semi-thin sections of plastic-embedded gerbil pineals, using antibodies directed against synaptophysin. This approach consistently revealed close spatial associations of punctate immunopositive nerve endings with intensity stained bulbous process terminals of pinealocytes in or near the perivascular spaces. The light-microscopic observations of intimate neuronal-pinealocytic relationships were corroborated at the electron-microscopic level. Perivascular varicosities with ultrastructural features characteristic of sympathetic nerve terminals were frequently juxtaposed to vesicle-filled process endings of pinealocytes. Analysis of serial thin sections showed that multiple point-to-point contacts are encountered between noradrenergic nerve terminals and pinealocytic process swellings. Our morphological findings imply that bulbous process terminals, at least in the gerbil pineal gland, are major targets for the neuronal control of the secretory activity of pinealocytes.
7901222: !synaptophysin The synaptic vesicle proteins SV2, synaptotagmin and synaptophysin are sorted to separate cellular compartments in CHO fibroblasts. We expressed the synaptic vesicle proteins SV2, synaptotagmin, and synaptophysin in CHO fibroblasts to investigate the targeting information contained by each protein. All three proteins entered different cellular compartments. Synaptotagmin was found on the plasma membrane. Both SV2 and synaptophysin were sorted to small intracellular vesicles, but synaptophysin colocalized with early endosomal markers, while SV2 did not. SV2-containing vesicles did not have the same sedimentation characteristics as authentic synaptic vesicles, even though transfected SV2 was sorted from endosomal markers. We also created cell lines expressing both SV2 and synaptotagmin, both synaptotagmin and synaptophysin, and lines expressing all three synaptic vesicle proteins. In all cases, the proteins maintained their distinct compartmentalizations, were not found in the same organelle, and did not created synaptic vesicle-like structures. These results have important implications for models of synaptic vesicle biogenesis.
7505840: !synaptophysin Synaptic and photoreceptor components in retinal pigment epithelial cell transplanted retinas of Royal College of Surgeons dystrophic rats. Plexiform layer synaptic and photoreceptor cell components were investigated in retinas of Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) dystrophic rats transplanted with normal retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells by immunocytochemistry using previously characterized monoclonal antibodies. In retinas of normal adult rats and RPE-cell transplanted retinas of 4 month-old RCS rats, HNK-1, a marker for a carbohydrate of the neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM), was detected immunocytochemically in the inner and outer plexiform layers and ganglion cell bodies and their axons. HNK-1 was also detected in the inner plexiform layer of nontreated retinas of 4 month-old RCS rats, but was reduced to scattered patches in the outer plexiform layer. In addition, immunoreactivity for the SVP-38 antibody recognizing synaptophysin was found in both plexiform layers of normal adult rat retinas and RPE-transplanted retinas of 4 month-old RCS rats. Furthermore, photoreceptor cell bodies and their inner and outer segments were immunostained for the opsin monoclonal antibody RET-P1 in retinas of normal adult rats and RPE-cell transplanted retinas of 4 month-old RCS rats. However, in nontreated retinas of 4-month-old RCS rats, only immunostained debris material was detected. These results strongly suggest that normal RPE transplants not only rescue photoreceptor cells in RCS rats, but also maintain an essential functional capacity, in this case, synaptic components in the plexiform layers.
7503935: !synaptophysin Small cell osteosarcoma of bone: an immunohistochemical study with differential diagnostic considerations. Seventy-nine cases of small round cell tumors involving bone were studied in an attempt to learn whether the immunohistochemical features of the lesions might allow distinction of small cell osteosarcoma from other potential differential diagnostic considerations, including Ewing's sarcoma, atypical Ewing's sarcoma, primitive neuroectodermal tumor, mesenchymal chondrosarcoma, lymphoma, and the Askin tumor. The tissues studied were all formalin-fixed, decalcified, paraffin sections from patients between the ages of 16 and 48 years. With one exception (a small cell osteosarcoma), none of the lesions was cytokeratin positive. Moreover, none of the lesions was epithelial membrane antigen, desmin, factor VIII-related antigen, synaptophysin, or Leu-M1 positive. Accordingly, strong positivity for these antibodies in a majority of tumor cells should prompt inclusion of tumor types other than those listed above in the differential diagnosis. Vimentin positivity was seen in a majority of the tumors studied irrespective of histologic type. Scattered tumor cells (< 25%) showed positivity with antibodies to muscle-specific actin and smooth muscle actin in several of the different tumor types studied. No lesions other than lymphoma were leukocyte-common antigen (LCA) positive; all but two lymphomas were LCA positive, while all but one lymphoma were L26 positive. One (lymphoblastic) lymphoma was LCA and L26 negative. S-100, neuron-specific enolase, and Leu-7 did not prove to be specific for "neural-associated" tumors, but rather appeared in some small cell osteosarcomas, Ewing's sarcomas, atypical Ewing's sarcomas, primitive neuroectodermal tumors, mesenchymal chondrosarcomas, lymphomas, and Askin tumors. Antibody to cell surface antigen HBA71 was positive in three Ewing's sarcomas (two typical and one atypical) and negative in small cell osteosarcoma (three cases), mesenchymal chondrosarcoma (two cases), and lymphoma (one case). While some guidance may be derived from analysis of immunohistochemical staining patterns in a given lesion, the results reported in the present study do not suggest that routine immunohistochemistry alone will permit distinction of these small cell tumors of bone from one another. The value of immunohistochemical studies appears to lie particularly in the use of antibodies to LCA and S-100 protein to distinguish lymphoma and mesenchymal chondrosarcoma, and perhaps antibody to HBA71 to distinguish neural family lesions (such as Ewing's sarcoma), from other small cell tumors, such as small cell osteosarcoma.
8274580: !synaptophysin Significant reductions in synapsin but not synaptophysin specific activity in the brains of some schizophrenics. The levels of the synaptic vesicle-associated proteins, synapsin and synaptophysin, were examined in human postmortem hippocampus from the brains of schizophrenics and age-matched controls using a quantitative western blot analysis. The schizophrenic samples had significantly lower levels of synapsin I than controls. In individual data, five of the seven schizophrenic samples had extremely low levels of synapsin, whereas two of the schizophrenic samples had normal levels of synapsin. This deficit in synapsin does not appear to be due to some non-specific neuronal loss as the levels of the other synaptic vesicle marker, synaptophysin, were near normal in all seven schizophrenics. Given that synapsin is thought to regulate neurotransmitter release, it is possible that this deficit in synapsin could result in abnormal processing of neuronal information as is seen in various sensory processing abnormalities associated with schizophrenia.
7505833: !synaptophysin Nerve growth factor stimulates GAP-43 expression in PC12 cell clones independently of neurite outgrowth. Expression of the growth associated protein GAP-43 (B-50, F1, neuromodulin) increases with the onset of neuronal development as seen by the growth of axons. To investigate the relationship of the signaling events leading to GAP-43 expression and neurite outgrowth, we examined PC12 clones with different phenotypes. Three clones, PC12-N09, PC12-N15, and PC12-N21, responded to NGF with increased expression of GAP-43, but only two clones, PC12-N15 and PC12-N21, responded with growth of neurites. Similar increases in expression of GAP-43 were obtained when these clones were exposed to the phorbol ester PMA. Thus, NGF and PMA induced GAP-43 expression in PC12-N09 cells in the absence of neurite outgrowth. In contrast, all three clones, were able to respond to forskolin (FOR) by initiation of long neurites which had synaptophysin in the growth cones, but showed only low levels of GAP-43. Combined stimulation of PC12-N09 cells with FOR and PMA both initiated neurites and increased expression of GAP-43 as seen in normal PC12 cells. These results show that PC12-N09 cells, in response to either NGF or PMA, can express GAP-43, but without neurite outgrowth, and that all the PC12 clones were also able to respond to FOR with increased neurite outgrowth in the presence of low levels of GAP-43. The dissociation of GAP-43 expression and growth of neurites observed in PC12-N09 cells suggests that signaling mechanisms can independently regulate GAP-43 expression and neurite outgrowth during neuronal differentiation.
7505208: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical distribution of amyloid precursor protein during normal rat development. This study focused on the immunohistochemical identification of the beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein (APP) in various developmental stages of both the rat central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). A comparative study with myelin basic protein (MBP) and synaptophysin (SYP) facilitated the understanding of neuronal maturation and synaptogenesis on both prenatal and postnatal development. Our immunohistochemical study revealed APP to be widely distributed through the nervous system while existing mainly in the cytoplasm, dendrites and axons of the neurons. However, immunoreactivity was also observed in either the ependymal cells or the choroid plexus epithelial cells. Our immunostaining was carried out by the hydrated autoclaving method and revealed the expression of APP at embryonic day 15 in the neuron of the mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve and the anterior horn of the spinal cord, trigeminal and spinal ganglion, ependymal cells and the choroid plexus. We thus observed dramatic changes of APP expression in the cerebellum from the embryonic stage. The maturation of synaptogenesis in the cerebellar molecular layer was parallel to the extension of the dendrites of Purkinje cells, which revealed immunoreactivity for APP. These findings suggested that APP played an important role in neuronal maturation and synaptogenesis. Thus, APP is considered to be a useful marker for neuronal development.
8405477: !synaptophysin A review of clinicopathologic features of pheochromocytomas in Hong Kong Chinese. Twenty-two Chinese patients with pheochromocytomas including 18 surgical and four autopsy cases were reported. The incidence at autopsy was 0.048%. The tumours were most common in the sixth and the fourth decades in males and females, respectively. There was no sex predilection. The incidence of bilaterality was 4.5% and the tumours were more common on the right side. 9.1% of the tumours were malignant and they were larger than their benign counterparts. Solid and diffuse pattern and mixed pattern were the most common histologic patterns. Minor histological features included hyaline globules (64%), nuclear pseudo-inclusions (55%), lipid degeneration (4.5%) and peri-adrenal brown fat (18%). All of them were strongly positive for the three pan-neuroendocrine markers (neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and chromogranin) confirming the usefulness of these markers in diagnosing pheochromocytoma.
8297787: !synaptophysin Brain synapses contain inducible forms of the transcription factor NF-kappa B. We investigated the rat brain for the presence and activation state of the inducible transcription factor NF-kappa B. Two forms of NF-kappa B containing the transactivating p65 subunit were found in all brain regions investigated. The majority of NF-kappa B was in an inducible cytoplasmic form by virtue of its association with the inhibitory subunit I kappa B. Significant amounts of inducible NF-kappa B forms were present in synaptosomes, as suggested by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and Western blot analysis of subcellular brain fractions. A synaptic localization of NF-kappa B was further evident from immunostaining of inner and outer plexiform layers of the retina with an antibody directed against the p50 subunit of NF-kappa B. In cerebral cortex and striatum, NF-kappa B-specific antibodies showed a punctate immunostaining partially overlapping with that for the synaptic marker protein synaptophysin. NF-kappa B is thus the first transcription factor found in synapses of neurons. With its unusual subneuronal localization, the inducible transcription factor has the potential to function as retrograde messenger mediating stimulus-response coupling and long-term changes in gene expression following presynaptic stimulation.
7904297: !synaptophysin Spatial distribution of excitatory and inhibitory synapses on a Purkinje cell in a rat cerebellar culture. 1. The spatial distribution of excitatory and inhibitory synapses on cultured Purkinje cells was studied with fluorescence, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and electrophysiological techniques. 2. Presynaptic terminals were identified with immunohistochemical staining of synaptophysin and the results were correlated with SEM micrographs. 3. Excitatory and inhibitory inputs onto the Purkinje cell were identified from the direction and pharmacology of the postsynaptic current. 4. The localization of the presynaptic terminals on the Purkinje cell was observed after electrophysiological identification by filling the presynaptic neuron with Lucifer yellow and the Purkinje cell with Texas red. 5. The axon and presynaptic terminals of excitatory and inhibitory inputs had a different spatial organization. Excitatory inputs from granule cells were exclusively localized on the dendrites of Purkinje cells, whereas inhibitory contacts were found on both the soma and dendrites. This result is similar to that described in vivo.
8260609: !synaptophysin GAP43 identifies developing muscle cells in human embryos. GAP43 has long been regarded as a neurone specific molecule present intraneuronally in both the central and peripheral nervous system, especially during development and regeneration. GAP43 has, however, recently been demonstrated in developing muscle cells of the chicken. In the prsent investigation, we have used immunohistochemistry to investigate whether GAP43 is also expressed in developing human muscle cell. Using specific monoclonal antibodies as markers for developing muscle cells (desmin) and axon terminals (synaptophysin), our results show that GAP43 is expressed in aneural, human embryonic muscle cells.
8239314: !synaptophysin Synaptic pathology of Alzheimer's disease. Prospective clinico-pathological studies on dementia in Alzheimer's disease (AD), performed during the past decades, revealed a relatively poor correlation between the degree of clinical deficit and the severity of the typical neuropathological lesions of AD, the amyloid plaques and the neurofibrillary tangles. More recent data, obtained by electron microscopy, immunocytochemical as well as immunochemical techniques indicate that synaptic loss may be a better structural correlate of dementia than other brain lesions. Synaptic pathology is reflected by a loss of all major components of small synaptic vesicles and most peptides, stored in large dense cored vesicles. The significant increase of chromogranin A proprotein, a major component of large dense cored vesicles, may rather represent a defect of protein processing than preservation of a specific synaptic subpopulation. Within the brain of AD patients, the degree of synaptic loss is uneven. Most prominent reduction of synapses is found in the outer parts of the dentate gyrus molecular layer, possibly reflecting the destruction of neurons, located in the layer 2 of the entorhinal cortex. However, within the neocortex, no preferential loss of synapses in any of the cortical layers has been found. Cerebral amyloid deposition in diffuse plaques has little effect on synapse density and structure. However, within the dense amyloid core of a classical plaque, synapses are completely lost. In the surrounding neuritic portion of the plaques, synaptophysin reactivity is frequently increased, due to enlargement of synaptic boutons and to accumulation of synaptophysin in dystrophic axons. Although the reason for synapse loss in AD is yet unknown, most results suggest that it may reflect degeneration of neurons, projecting into the respective cortical areas.
32370430: !synaptophysin Squamous-cell nests in the pars tuberalis of the human pituitary: Immunocytochemical and in situ hybridization studies. Twenty-one autopsy-obtained human pituitaries were studied by histology, immunocytochemistry, and in situ hybridization to elucidate the characteristics of squamous-cell nests in the pars tuberaiis. Histologically, squamous-cell nests were composed of aggregates of squamous epithelial cells or squamous epithelial cells and adenohypophysial cells, which were immunoreactive mainly for FSH, LH, and the α-subunit (less frequently for ACTH). A gradual transition was seen from adenohypophysial cells to squamous cells at the periphery of several squamous-cell nests. Squamous-cell nests were immunoreactive for cytokeratin and EMA but were immunonegative for vimentin, demin, GFAP, S-100 protein, synaptophysin, chromogranin, and estrogen receptor. In situ hybridization revealed ER receptor mRNAs in both squamous-cell nests and adenohypophysial cells, but GH PRL, and POMC mRNAs could not be demonstrated in squamous-cell nests, and α-subunit mRNA was found only in 2 of 11 samples. Our results indicate that squamous-cell nests in the pars tuberalis derive by metaplasia from adenohypophysial cells rather than from remnants of the Rathke's pouch.Endocr Patho! 4:155-161,1993.
8394854: !synaptophysin Modulation of retinoblastoma cell characteristics by hexamethylene bis-acetamide and other differentiating agents in culture. The undifferentiated Y-79 retinoblastoma cell line can be induced by specific agents to express characteristics of mature retinal cells. In the present study, attached Y-79 cell cultures were treated with hexamethylene bis-acetamide (HMBA) and other differentiating agents and examined for "neuronal" and other properties. Immunocytochemical staining was performed with antibodies against neuron- and retina-specific antigens, [synaptophysin, interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP), neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM), and rod- and cone-specific transducin (TR alpha and TC alpha)] and microtubule-associated protein (MAP-1) and tubulin. Enhanced expression of tubulin was observed with cAMP treatment in FBS media. Expression of N-CAM was observed in all groups. Morphological differentiation was pronounced with HMBA and butyrate treatment, with HMBA inducing increased tubulin expression after 2 weeks of treatment. Expression of TR alpha was minimal under all culture conditions, whereas TC alpha was ubiquitously expressed. This supports the concept that Y-79 retinoblastoma is predominantly of cone neuronal origin and that, surprisingly, immunocytochemical differentiation is not correlated with the marked morphological changes induced by the major differentiating agents used.
8376458: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicle proteins and early endosomes in cultured hippocampal neurons: differential effects of Brefeldin A in axon and dendrites. The pathways of synaptic vesicle (SV) biogenesis and recycling are still poorly understood. We have studied the effects of Brefeldin A (BFA) on the distribution of several SV membrane proteins (synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, synaptobrevin, p29, SV2 and rab3A) and on endosomal markers to investigate the relationship between SVs and the membranes with which they interact in cultured hippocampal neurons developing in isolation. In these neurons, SV proteins are detected as punctate immunoreactivity that is concentrated in axons but is also present in perikarya and dendrites. In the same neurons, the transferrin receptor, a well established marker of early endosomes, is selectively concentrated in perikarya and dendrites. In the perikaryal-dendritic region, BFA induced a dramatic tubulation of transferrin receptors as well as a cotubulation of the bulk of synaptophysin. Synaptotagmin, synaptobrevin, p29 and SV2 immunoreactivities retained a primarily punctate distribution. No tubulation of rab3A was observed. In axons, BFA did not produce any obvious alteration of the distribution of SV proteins, nor of peroxidase- or Lucifer yellow-labeled early endosomes. The selective effect of BFA on dendritic membranes suggests the existence of functional differences between the endocytic systems in dendrites and axons. Cotubulation of transferrin receptors and synaptophysin in the perikaryal-dendritic region is consistent with a functional interconnection between the traffic of SV proteins and early endosomes. The heterogeneous effects of BFA on SV proteins in this cell region indicates that SV proteins are differentially sorted upon exit from the TGN and are coassembled into SVs at the cell periphery.
8366350: !synaptophysin Synaptotagmin: a membrane constituent of neuropeptide-containing large dense-core vesicles. Synaptotagmin is known to be a major membrane protein of synaptic vesicles (SVs) in neurons. We have now used an immunoisolation procedure to demonstrate that synaptotagmin is also present in the membranes of peptide containing large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs) of rat hypothalamus and bovine posterior pituitary. Synaptotagmin bead-immunoisolated organelles from these tissues primarily consisted of SVs but contained occasionally larger structures reminiscent of LDCVs that were absent from vesicle populations immunoisolated with a synaptophysin antibody. Furthermore, the vesicles immunoisolated with synaptotagmin beads contained significant amounts of neuropeptide Y (NPY). In contrast, vesicles immunoisolated with synaptophysin beads did not contain detectable levels of NPY. Sucrose density gradient fractionation of postnuclear supernatants obtained from the bovine posterior pituitary resulted in a bimodal distribution of synaptotagmin, corresponding to the positions of both SVs and neurosecretory granules. A similar distribution was found for cytochrome b561 and the 116 kDa subunit of the vacuolar proton pump. In contrast, the SV proteins synaptophysin, SV2, and p29 were restricted to the SV-containing fractions. Immunoisolation of small and large vesicles from the sucrose gradient confirmed the differential distribution of synaptotagmin and synaptophysin in the two types of secretory vesicles in nerve endings of the posterior pituitary. We conclude that synaptotagmin is a constituent of both SVs and peptide-containing secretory vesicles in the nervous system. Since both types of organelles undergo Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, these findings support a general role of synaptotagmin as an exocytotic Ca2+ receptor.
8365570: !synaptophysin Coordinate and noncoordinate regulation of synaptic vesicle protein genes during embryonic development. Because the formation of a mature nerve terminal requires the accumulation of large quantities of synaptic vesicles, the expression of synaptic vesicle proteins would be expected to correlate with synaptogenesis. However, previous studies have provided conflicting evidence on this point. We have examined the developmental pattern of expression of mRNA and protein for three RNAs derived from two genes coding for synaptic vesicle membrane proteins. For these experiments, we cloned a chick p65 (synaptotagmin) cDNA using a reduced stringency screen with a rat p65 cDNA probe. We examined p65 expression in chick forebrain in conjunction with that of synaptophysin II. RNase protection assays for p65 and the two isoforms of synaptophysin II (Bixby, 1992) show essentially coordinate increases of these three mRNAs in embryonic forebrain during the peak period of synaptogenesis (E17 to E20). However, each of the three mRNAs has a distinct temporal pattern of expression during the early stages of embryogenesis. In the ciliary ganglion, upregulation of synaptophysin II mRNA correlates very well with synaptogenesis. Our results suggest that the regulation of expression of vesicle membrane protein mRNA can serve as a marker for synaptogenesis, despite temporal differences in early expression patterns. In contrast to mRNA expression, assays for vesicle protein expression show a relatively steady rise in both p65 and synaptophysin II throughout the embryonic period, without a sharp increase corresponding to that seen in message levels. These results suggest that the expression both of the p65 and of the synaptophysin II proteins is post-transcriptionally regulated.
8362971: !synaptophysin Pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma. An analysis of cell lineage markers, p53 expression, and Ki-ras mutation. In a series of 22 pancreatic acinar cell carcinomas, including two acinar cystadenocarcinomas, cellular differentiation was analyzed by immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy. In addition, overexpression of p53 protein and Ki-ras codon 12 mutation was studied. Four of the 20 noncystic acinar cell carcinomas showed a pure acinar pattern, nine an acinar-solid, and seven a solid pattern. All tumors stained for at least one of the following pancreatic acinar markers: trypsin (21 of 22), lipase (19 of 22), chymotrypsin (13 of 22), phospholipase A2 (nine of 22), and pancreatic stone protein (19 of 22). One-third of the tumors expressed neuroendocrine markers (synaptophysin, eight of 22; chromogranin A, six of 21) and duct cell markers (CA19.9, nine of 21; B72.3, six of 21). Cellular coexpression of trypsin and synaptophysin was demonstrated in one tumor. Electron microscopy revealed zymogen granules (nine of nine). In only one of 16 tumors a Ki-ras mutation at codon 12 was found, whereas in none of 19 tumors could overexpression of p53 protein be demonstrated. The results suggest that acinar cell carcinomas show obvious capacity to differentiate into several directions, but nevertheless constitute an entity different from ductal adenocarcinomas or endocrine tumors.
8186682: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin (p38) immunolabelling at the mouse neuromuscular junction. The synaptophysin (p38), a transmembrane glycoprotein of synaptic vesicles, has been used as a marker in order to study the membrane events that take place during transmitter release at the mouse neuromuscular junction (NMJ). p38 has been labelled by immunofluorescence using a monoclonal anti-p38 antibody and fluorescein-conjugated IgG on dissociated muscle fibres (biceps brachialis m.). Its localization has been compared to that of the acetylcholine (ACh) receptors labelled with rhodaminated alpha-bungarotoxin. A weak labelling was obtained in nerve-muscle preparations at rest only when the muscle fibres were permeabilized with Triton X-100. By contrast, an intense immunofluorescence of the NMJ was observed after an exhaustive ACh release induced by Cd2+ in Ca(2+)-free medium, which leads to a synaptic vesicle depletion and an increase in the membranous structures in nerve terminals. Treatment with Cd2+ in Ca(2+)-free solution leads to both synaptic vesicle depletion and p38 immunolabelling, which is in favour of synaptic vesicle fusion and incorporation into the axolemma.
8103319: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma of the urinary bladder: an immunohistochemical study and report of an unusual association with intestinal carcinoid. Two cases of paraganglioma of the urinary bladder are reported. Their immunohistochemical profiles and the clinical features are compared with other cases in the literature. The three pan-endocrine markers (neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and chromogrannin) were positive in both cases. Positivity to other neuropeptides (including the present two cases and those in literature) includes adrenocorticotropic hormone (three out of five cases), calcitonin (two out of nine cases), gastrin (two out of six cases), glial fibrillary acidic protein (one out of five cases), glucagon (two out of six cases), serotonin (five out of nine cases), and somatostatin (four out of eight cases). A previously unmentioned association between paraganglioma of the urinary bladder and carcinoid in the gastrointestinal tract is noted in one of the present cases. This peculiar association highlights the importance of multiplicity of tumours of the neuroendocrine system other than the classical multiple endocrine neoplasia syndromes.
7902679: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine marker substances in human Leydig cells--changes by disturbances of testicular function. A number of neuroendocrine and neuronal markers were demonstrated in Leydig cells of the testes of 18 men aged between 20 and 81 years. Tissue sections were divided into five groups, i.e. carcinoma of the prostate (control cases; n = 4), seminoma (n = 8), anti-androgen therapy (n = 3), oestradiol therapy (n = 2) and cryptorchidism (n = 1). The following substances were immunocytochemically tested: the monoamine synthesizing enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase, aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, the indolamine serotonin, the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin, calbindin and S-100 protein, the microtubule associated protein-2, as well as neurofilament protein 200, synaptophysin, neuron specific enolase, substance P and chromogranin A + B. All these substances were found in Leydig cells of all sections independently of the pathological changes of the testes. Compared with the control cases, all the other groups showed a significantly weaker immunoreactivity for all markers. The uniformity of staining among the different antibodies allows the deduction that these neuroactive peptides may belong to a basic equipment of Leydig cells probably stabilizing their function in an autocrine manner. On the other hand, Leydig cells themselves seem to be a stable structural component of the testis, which are not essentially involved in the pathogenesis of the disturbances mentioned above.
7506474: !synaptophysin Tissue fixation methods alter the immunohistochemical demonstrability of neurofilament proteins, synaptophysin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein in human cerebellum. This study has examined the effect of postmortem autolysis, type, and duration of fixation on neurofilament, synaptophysin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) antigen decay as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry, using a streptavidin-biotin peroxidase method. The system used consisted of 5 normal cerebellar cortices. Time intervals, temperature, mode of fixation and storage, and staining technique were well controlled. Anti-neurofilament antibodies comprised SMI-31, MNF, and BF-10 against phosphorylated epitopes, and SMI-32 against a non-phosphorylated epitope. Bouin's and B5 fixative, and Sensofix gave best results, whereas formaldehyde and paraformaldehyde fixation gave much lower immunoreactivity. Phosphorylated neurofilament epitopes were less affected by aldehydes than unphosphorylated epitopes. GFAP staining was most consistent after Bouin fixation while the monoclonal antibody was much more sensitive to the fixative used than the polyclonal one. Aspecific background staining increased considerably after a postmortem interval of 24 hours. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity, as demonstrated by SY-38, proved very sensitive to prolonged fixation and was of poor quality following formaldehyde and paraformaldehyde fixation. Knowledge of antigen decay due to postmortem artifacts is essential for the correct evaluation of immunoperoxidase studies of autolyzed tissues that have been fixed and stored in different modes and for variable time interval.
8403385: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin and synaptoporin expression in the developing rat olfactory system. The expressions of two closely related synaptic vesicle antigens synaptophysin and synaptoporin were examined in the olfactory system of the adult rat and during pre- and postnatal development. In the adult, immunocytochemistry showed that the continuously regenerating olfactory receptor neurons (primary neurons) produce both synaptophysin and synaptoporin which were localized in the cell bodies of the receptor neurons in the olfactory epithelium, their dendrites, axonal processes in the olfactory nerve and their terminals in the olfactory bulb glomeruli. Furthermore, ultrastructural analysis revealed synaptophysin- and synaptoporin-immunoreactivities associated with synaptic vesicles in most olfactory receptor axonal terminals impinging on dendrites of the mitral and tufted neurons (secondary neurons in the olfactory bulb circuitry) in the olfactory glomeruli. In like manner, tufted neurons, granule and periglomerular neurons (interneurons in the olfactory bulb circuitry) express both synaptophysin and synaptoporin. In contrast, mitral neurons expressed only the synaptophysin antigen which was likewise associated with mitral axonal terminals in their target the olfactory cortex. The patterns of synaptophysin and synaptoporin expressions in mitral neurons (synaptophysin only) and tufted neurons (synaptophysin and synaptoporin) were similar in prenatal, postnatal and adult rats as revealed by immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. However, the biosynthesis of synaptophysin and synaptoporin by granule and periglomerular neurons, olfactory bulb interneurons, occurred mainly postnatally.
7691435: !synaptophysin Distribution of GAP-43 in relation to CGRP and synaptic vesicle markers in rat skeletal muscles during development. GAP 43 in nerve terminal structures of rat skeletal muscles, was investigated during postnatal development using immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy. Comparison with synaptophysin, synapsin, SV2, CGRP, SP and NF was done in double immunoincubation studies. GAP 43-like immunoreactivity (LI) was demonstrated in preterminal axons and motor endplates in all age groups (from E18 to adult), although the intensity of immunofluorescence was considerably higher in the younger rats. The outgrowing nerve sprouts in E18 muscles were strongly GAP 43-positive. The intensity decreased with increasing age, but even in adult animals GAP 43-LI was present in some p38- or SV2-positive endplates. GAP 43-LI was also present in muscle spindles and preterminal nerve branches, and likewise decreased with age. Perivascular nerve terminals (around arteries mainly) were, however, strong in GAP 43-LI during both development and adulthood. GAP 43-LI was strong, and present in both small and large granules. SP-LI was observed in a few thin, presumably sensory, axons around vessels, which also contained a few GAP 43-positive large granules. Most of the strongly GAP 43-positive terminals around vessels were probably autonomic postganglionic terminals. The results suggest that GAP 43, in addition to development and regeneration, may play a significant role also in normal adult rats, especially in perivascular nerve terminals, possibly connected with a high potential for plasticity in this kind of nerve terminals.
8365405: !synaptophysin VAT-1 from Torpedo electric organ forms a high-molecular-mass protein complex within the synaptic vesicle membrane. VAT-1 is an abundant 41-kDa protein from Torpedo cholinergic synaptic vesicles. Most of VAT-1 immunoreactivity (70%) is localized to the synaptic vesicle membrane while the rest (30%) copurifies with larger membranous fragments. VAT-1 forms a high-molecular-mass complex within the synaptic vesicle membrane. The Stokes radius of the VAT-1 complex is 4.85 nm and the sedimentation coefficient is 8.0 x 10(-13) S. Using these values, the calculated apparent mass of the VAT-1 complex is 176 kDa and the friction coefficient is consistent with that for a globular protein. Electrophoresis of solubilized synaptic vesicle proteins following cross-linking resulted in a 40-kDa ladder which was detected by VAT-1 antibodies. This is in accord with VAT-1 protein complex being composed primarily of VAT-1 subunits. The hydrodynamic characteristics of the VAT-1 protein complex suggest that it is composed of three or four VAT-1 subunits. Synaptophysin, an abundant component of Torpedo synaptic vesicle membranes, which has a similar apparent size as VAT-1, is not part of the VAT-1 protein complex. Interactions between the subunits within the protein complex do not depend on disulfide bonds or on lowering the ionic strength. However, partial dissociation of VAT-1 subunits from the complex occurs by chelating calcium ions.
7690783: !synaptophysin Expression of neuronal and glial polypeptides during histogenesis of the human cerebellar cortex including observations on the dentate nucleus. In order to gain a more complete understanding of the sequential pattern of gene expression during neurogenesis and gliogenesis in humans, we followed the expression of well-characterized, developmentally regulated polypeptides in the cerebellar cortex and dentate nucleus by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal antibodies of highly defined specificity. At 8-10 weeks gestational age (GA), progenitor cells and their immediate progeny in the rhombencephalic ventricular zone expressed vimentin and nestin and, to a lesser extent, microtubule-associated protein 5 (MAP5) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), but not the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR). In contrast, postmitotic, migrating immature neurons in the intermediate zone gave strong reactions for MAP2, tau, and a nonphosphorylated form of middle molecular weight neurofilament (NF) protein (NF-M) and weak reactivity for NGFR. At 15 weeks GA, proliferating cells of the superficial part of the cerebellar external granular layer stained only for NGFR, while more deeply situated cells of the external granular layer stained positively for NGFR, MAP2, MAP5, tau, and chromogranin A, which correlates with the early outgrowth of parallel fibers. All phosphoisoforms of NF-M as well as the low (NF-L) and high (NF-H) molecular weight NF proteins and alpha-internexin were expressed in the somatodendritic domain of Purkinje cells and dentate nucleus neurons from about 20 weeks GA with a gradual compartmentalization of highly phosphorylated forms of NF-M and NF-H into axons by the end of gestation. Alpha-internexin was also expressed strongly in axons of the deep white matter from 20 weeks GA to adulthood. MAP2, synaptophysin, and NGFR showed early, transient expression in the somatodendritic domain of Purkinje cells followed by the appearance of a 220 kDa nestin-like peptide that continued to be expressed in adult Purkinje cells. Notably, developing dentate nucleus neurons expressed many of these proteins in a similar temporal sequence. Early in the developing cerebellar cortex, the expression of NF protein and synaptophysin occurred in discrete patches or columns similar to those described for other antigens (i.e., zebrins). Finally, radial glia were positive for vimentin, GFAP, and nestin from 8 weeks GA to 8 months postnatal. This study describes the distinct molecular programs of lineage commitment in cerebellar progenitor cells and in differentiating neurons and astrocytes of the human cerebellum. The acquisition of a mature molecular neuronal phenotype correlates with the establishment of structural polarity in cerebellar neurons.
8166886: !synaptophysin The synaptic vesicle protein synaptotagmin promotes formation of filopodia in fibroblasts. Neuronal filopodia are actin-rich cytoplasmic extensions that are involved in motility and recognition in growth cones and maturing axonal endings. A detailed understanding of neuronal growth will depend on clarification of the membrane fusion events occurring during filopodial extension. The synaptic vesicle protein synaptotagmin seems to be intimately involved in exocytotic membrane fusion. Here we show that fibroblast cell lines transfected with synaptotagmin form long, highly branched, actin-rich filopodial processes, with the expressed synaptotagmin being incorporated into the plasma membrane. In contrast, cell lines expressing either of two other synaptic vesicle proteins, SV2 or synaptophysin, generate only rudimentary processes, and, like neurons, sort SV2 and synaptophysin to small intracellular vesicles. As presynaptic calcium entry regulates synaptic vesicle fusion, our results indicate that synaptotagmin might link neuronal activity with synaptic growth.
8338194: !synaptophysin Bilateral pheochromocytoma-ganglioneuroma of the adrenal in type 1 neurofibromatosis. A 61-year-old woman with café-au-lait pigmentation and severe cutaneous neurofibromatosis type I was noted to have persistent hypertension after coronary artery bypass grafts. Clinical investigation revealed bilateral adrenal medullary tumors. The patient did not have a duodenal lesion or gastrointestinal symptoms. Histologic examination showed both tumors to be composed of typical pheochromocytoma with large areas of ganglioneuroma (compound or composite pheochromocytomas). The neuromatous foci contained areas of cystic degeneration and thick-walled vessels. The ganglion cells and neuromatous areas were negative for chromogranin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin and vasoactive intestinal peptide. The typical pheochromocytomatous areas were strongly immunopositive for chromogranin and synaptophysin. Bilateral classic pheochromocytomas are rare in type 1 neurofibromatosis, and we believe that bilateral composite pheochromocytomas are an extension of this association.
8335686: !synaptophysin Targeting of the "insulin-responsive" glucose transporter (GLUT4) to the regulated secretory pathway in PC12 cells. Insulin-activated glucose transport depends on the efficient sorting of facilitated hexose transporter isoforms to distinct subcellular locales. GLUT4, the "insulin-responsive" glucose transporter, is sequestered intracellularly, redistributing to the cell surface only in the presence of hormone. To test the hypothesis that the biosynthesis of the insulin-responsive compartment is analogous to the targeting of proteins to the regulated secretory pathway, GLUT4 was expressed in the neuroendocrine cell line, PC12. Localization of the transporter in differentiated PC12 cells by indirect immunofluorescence revealed GLUT4 to be in the perinuclear region and in the distal processes. Although, by immunofluorescence microscopy, GLUT4 co-localized with the endosomal protein transferrin receptor and the small synaptic vesicle (SSV) marker protein synaptophysin, fractionation by velocity gradient centrifugation revealed that GLUT4 was excluded from SSV. Immunoelectron microscopic localization indicated that GLUT4 was indeed targeted to early and late endosomes, but in addition was concentrated in large dense core vesicles (LDCV). This latter observation was confirmed by the following experiments: (a) an antibody directed against GLUT4 immunoadsorbed the LDCV marker protein secretogranin, as assayed by Western blot; (b) approximately 85% of secretogranin metabolically labeled with 35S-labeled sulfate and allowed to progress into secretory vesicles was coadsorbed by an antibody directed against GLUT4; and (c) GLUT4 was readily detected in LDCV purified by ultracentrifugation. These data suggest that GLUT4 is specifically sorted to a specialized secretory compartment in PC12 cells.
8227215: !synaptophysin The small GTP-binding protein, Rab6p, is associated with both Golgi and post-Golgi synaptophysin-containing membranes during synaptogenesis of hypothalamic neurons in culture. We have recently localized a small GTP-binding protein (Rab6p) thought to be involved in vesicular membrane transport, to the medial and trans-cisternae of the Golgi apparatus in NRK (normal rat kidney) cells. Here, we have localized and quantified Rab6p during the development in culture of embryonic neurons, up to synapse formation, and compared its subcellular distribution and level of expression to that of synaptophysin, a major integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles. Using immunocytochemistry (laser scanning confocal microscopy, immunoelectron microscopy), fractionation and immunoisolation methods, we show that during the early phase of synaptogenesis, Rab6p is associated with synaptophysin-containing membranes of a trans-Golgi subcompartment, post-Golgi vesicles and small synaptic vesicles or their precursors. Concomitantly, Rab6p undergoes translocation from cytosol to membranes and its level of expression increases. However, at late stages, the association of Rab6p to small synaptic vesicles sharply decreases and its level of expression plateaus. These findings suggest a role for Rab6p in the post-Golgi transport of synaptophysin, at an early step of the biogenesis of small synaptic vesicles.
8105407: !synaptophysin Long-term survival of autologous adrenal medulla grafts in the great omentum of the rat. The omentum, a rich source for trophic and angiogenic factors, was explored as a potential intermediate transplant site to facilitate long-term survival of chromaffin tissue. Autologous rat adrenal medullas were grafted into omental pockets. All grafts became densely vascularized. The grafted chromaffin tissue exhibited strong immunoreactivities for tyrosine hydroxylase, synaptophysin and chromogranin A throughout the observation period of 16 weeks. The expression of these markers implies that grafted chromaffin cells retained the key enzyme for catecholamine biosynthesis and the organelles required for catecholamine secretion. Moreover, intermediate transplant of chromaffin tissue to the omentum could provide a favourable conditioning microenvironment thus augmenting the potential for survival of functional chromaffin tissue.
7901360: !synaptophysin Regional reduction in intestinal neuroendocrine cell populations in enterocolitis complicating Hirschsprung's disease. Enterocolitis (EC) remains the most serious complication of Hirschsprung's disease (HD). The aetiology of EC is uncertain. Ischemic and bacterial causes, and recently rotavirus infection, have been suggested to explain the occurrence of EC. The gut has an abundance of neuroendocrine (NE) cells which modulate gut function by endocrine, paracrine, or neurocrine routes. We studied NE cell populations in the bowel from 16 patients with HD (six of whom had clinical evidence of EC) and rectal tissue from 6 controls. Immunohistochemical studies were carried out using monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies against chromogranin A, synaptophysin (general markers of NE cells), 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), somatostatin, peptide YY (PYY), and glucagon/glicentin (neuropeptides). The six patients who had clinical evidence of EC prior to defunctioning colostomy showed histological evidence of EC in the defunctioned bowel. Using immunocytochemistry and serial tissue sectioning it was found that the number of NE cells in the aganglionic segment of colon in patients with HD was significantly (P < .05) increased compared with the numbers in the ganglionic segment. However, in the ganglionic colon, there was a significant (P < .05) reduction in NE cells in EC patients compared with non-EC patients. These results were seen both with the generic endocrine cell marker chromogranin A, which stains virtually all endocrine cells, and with specific markers for 5-HT, PYY, and glucagon/glicentin, which identify distinct subpopulations of endocrine cells. These differences may be partially responsible for previous conflicting reports of NE cell distribution in HD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
7692331: !synaptophysin Dystrophic axonal formation (spheroid body) in central neurocytoma--case report. A 30-year-old female presented with a central neurocytoma manifesting as positional headache. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a large calcified mass in the right lateral ventricle. The tumor was completely removed surgically. Light microscopy showed a linear arrangement of well-defined cells (beaded-string pattern) containing small round nuclei with abundant perikarya. A perinuclear halo reminiscent of oligodendroglioma was prominent in some cell groups. The tumor was entirely amitotic and free of atypia. Large, plump spheroid bodies lacking nuclei but containing coarse brown pigments were present among the tumor cells. The tumor cells were immunoreactive to neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin but not glial fibrillary acidic protein or neurofilament. The ultrastructure of the tumor cells included abundant spheroid bodies containing secretory granules around neurons, indicating a dystrophic or aborted process of neuronal differentiation rather than a completely-differentiated central neurocytoma.
7689794: !synaptophysin Neurochemistry, connectivity and plasticity of small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells in the rat superior cervical ganglion. Applying double-labelling immunofluorescence, the peptide content of solitary and clustered small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells, identified by an antiserum to a selective membrane glycoprotein marker, synaptophysin, was correlated with the presence of catecholamines in the rat superior cervical ganglion. Most of synaptophysin-immunoreactive solitary and clustered SIF cells apparently contained dopamine (indicated by tyrosine hydroxylase-TH) but not noradrenaline (indicated by dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-DBH). Frequently, immunoreactivities for substance P or rarely, neuropeptide Y were colocalized in TH-immunolabeled cells of both types. Immunostaining for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide was found only in solitary SIF cells and was visible in TH-immunoreactive, as well as in TH-nonreactive cells. Very few solitary SIF cells were TH- and DBH-immunoreactive. Solitary and clustered SIF cells, as a rule, were encircled by leu-enkephalin-positive fibres which were also met-enkephalin-arg6-phe7-immunoreactive, indicating proenkephalin as precursor. SIF cells were additionally approached by varicose fibres which contained immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) but not for enkephalins. As observed by immuno-electronmicroscopy, fibres that were immunostained for leu-enkephalin or CGRP, deeply invaginated into SIF cell somata. In addition to close membrane appositions, CGRP-immunolabeled fibres exhibited efferent synaptic contacts wih elements of SIF cell clusters. SIF cells were non-reactive to enkephalin-antisera in control ganglia and after transection of the postganglionic nerves (axotomy); but both types exhibited leu-enkephalin in preganglionically transected ganglia (decentralization) in which enkephalin-immunoreactive fibre baskets were absent. Synthesis of enkephalin in SIF cells after decentralization was confirmed by in situ hybridization demonstrating intracytoplasmic proenkephalin messenger-RNA. The findings are indicative for a differential neurochemical equipment of SIF cells in the rat superior cervical ganglion, which mainly is independent to a topographical classification. Moreover, they demonstrate the involvement of two neuropeptides in preganglionic SIF cell innervation. Finally, the observations indicate the capacity of SIF cells for proenkephalin-expression in response to preganglionic denervation.
7688215: !synaptophysin Primary renal carcinoid. Case report and literature review. We report a case of primary renal carcinoid, which is a very rare neoplasm: to our knowledge, only 19 cases have been previously reported. The tumor displayed histologic features typical of carcinoid tumors from other sites, including growth in nests and ribbons, uniform cells with finely granular, eosinophilic cytoplasm, and stippled chromatin. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of membrane-bound dense-core granules. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed staining for chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, Leu-7, and synaptophysin, as well as pancreatic polypeptide. An interesting finding was the positive staining for prostatic acid phosphatase, while staining for prostate-specific antigen was negative. Although prostatic acid phosphatase is commonly seen in primary gastrointestinal hindgut carcinoids, in this case a primary hindgut carcinoid was ruled out by clinical examination and endoscopy. The patient developed metastases to the liver, but was well and without symptoms 15 months after diagnosis.
7688214: !synaptophysin Pigmented pulmonary carcinoid tumor. An immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. We evaluated three cases of pigmented pulmonary carcinoid tumors that were retrieved from the files of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington, DC. Clinical follow-up showed no indication of tumor recurrence or metastases, nor was there evidence of malignant melanoma. All three cases exhibited histologic features of typical carcinoid tumor; there were focal oncocytic changes in two cases. Finely dispersed, brown pigment, believed to be melanin, was distributed in two different patterns: in sustentacular cells (case 1) or within the tumor cells (cases 2 and 3). Fontana-Masson stain was positive in areas of this pigment in all cases. The tumor cells showed immunoreactivity for chromogranin, synaptophysin, keratin (AE1/AE3 and CAM-5.2), and S100 protein in all cases. Focal staining for vimentin and corticotropin was seen within neoplastic cells in two cases. The pigmented sustentacular cells in case 1 showed focal immunoreactivity for S100 protein and HMB-45. Ultrastructural studies of paraffin-embedded tissues were performed in two cases. They showed well-developed melanosomes in the pigmented sustentacular cells in case 1. In both cases, cytoplasmic neurosecretory-type granules were identified in neoplastic cells. These findings demonstrate that pigmented pulmonary carcinoid tumor has an immunohistochemical profile similar to that of typical pulmonary carcinoid tumor. In some instances, pigmented pulmonary carcinoid tumors may show ultrastructural evidence of melanocytic and neuroendocrine differentiation. These immunohistologic and ultrastructural findings distinguish pigmented pulmonary carcinoid tumor from malignant melanoma and support the concept of "multidirectional cellular differentiation."
7690371: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical analyses of the human olfactory bulb. These studies explore the distribution of putative neuroactive peptides in the human olfactory bulb. Localization of synaptophysin-, serotonin-, cholecystokinin-, substance P-, and somatostatin-like staining was examined by immunocytochemical protocols. The results provide new insights into the composition and laminar segregation of subpopulations of neurons and neuronal processes in the human olfactory bulb. The prominent synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity observed in the glomeruli of the human olfactory bulb is consistent with the notion that the density of synapses, and hence the density of synaptic vesicles, is highest in the glomeruli. Serotonin-like immunoreactivity suggested a variable innervation of glomeruli ranging from a dense tangled ball of fibers within the glomerulus to a sparse innervation by a single immunoreactive fiber. There was no evidence of serotonin-like immunoreactive cell bodies in either the olfactory bulb proper, anterior olfactory nucleus, or proximal regions of the lateral olfactory tract. Cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity was limited to fibers found largely in the juxtaglomerular region of the glomerular layer. In the deeper layers of the olfactory bulb, cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive fibers did not show any of branching or arborization that was evident in the juxtaglomerular region. Substance P-like immunoreactivity was seen in varicose fibers distributed in all of the human olfactory bulb laminae. In addition, stained multipolar neurons were found in the area of the anterior olfactory nucleus. Somatostatin-like immunoreactivity was similar to that of substance P in that a plexus of stained fibers was found in all laminae of the olfactory bulb. Also, somatostatin-like immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the area of the anterior olfactory nucleus. However, as compared to substance P, somatostatin had a less dense plexus of immunoreactive fibers in the olfactory bulb. These results increase our understanding of the fundamental organization of the human olfactory system. The current data, coupled with prior studies, provide a foundation from which to study the cellular pathology of diseases with known olfactory system sequelae such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and schizophrenia.
8335093: !synaptophysin Annexin 1 is present in different molecular forms in rat cerebral cortex. Previously we have purified annexin 1 [J. Neurochem. 56 (1991) 1985-1986] from pig cerebral cortex as a monomeric protein of 37 kDa. Here, the localization of annexin 1 was investigated in subcellular fractionations of rat cerebral cortex using immunodetection by a specific antibody. In contrast to synaptophysin, a specific synaptic vesicle integral membrane protein, annexin 1 is located in the synaptic plasma membrane fraction where it appears on SDS-PAGE as a polypeptide of 74 kDa. Annexin 1 is extracted also as a 74 kDa polypeptide from the purified synaptic plasma membranes. These results suggest for the 74 kDa molecular form an enzymatic dimerization of annexin 1 when associated to the membrane.
8102940: !synaptophysin Changes of immunoreactivity for synaptophysin ('protein p38') following a transient cerebral ischemia in the rat striatum. We assessed the chronological change of the expression of synaptophysin, an integral glycoprotein on the presynaptic vesicles, after a transient cerebral ischemic insult in the rat. The ischemic lesion was consistently localized in the dorsolateral part of the striatum, which was clearly visualized by a depletion of calcineurin immunostaining or increases of immunoreactivities for glial fibrillary acidic protein and tyrosine hydroxylase. Immunoreactivity for synaptophysin was transiently increased in the ischemic lesions from 3 to 7 days after cerebral ischemia. Thereafter, synaptophysin immunostaining in the damaged areas gradually decreased and finally almost disappeared one month after surgery. Because synaptophysin is located in the presynaptic vesicle, and thought to be involved in presynaptic functions such as vesicle-membrane fusion and release of neurotransmitters, present findings suggest that loss of the postsynaptic site after ischemic insult induces a transient increase of the presynaptic functions, followed by a decrease of functional presynaptic activity or trans-synaptic retrograde degeneration of axon terminals.
8410078: !synaptophysin Dense accumulations of synaptic-like microvesicles in 'dark' pinealocytes of the gerbil pineal gland. In an electron-microscopical study the occurrence and ultrastructural features of electron-dense 'dark' variants of pinealocytes were evaluated in the gerbil pineal gland. A few 'dark' pinealocytes, which tended to form small clusters of contiguous cells, could consistently be detected in pineals fixed and embedded by various procedures. Apart from the different degree of electron density, the only conspicuous difference between 'dark' and electron-lucent 'light' pinealocytes concerned their compartment of synaptic-like microvesicles. Thus, both variants of pinealocytes contained abundant clear microvesicles of variable size which accumulated in dilated process terminals. However, the vesicles within the process endings of 'dark' pinealocytes showed an unusually dense arrangement throughout the cytoplasm. As was demonstrated by immunogold staining, the accumulations of vesicles in the 'dark' terminals contained synaptophysin, a major synaptic vesicle-associated protein. This protein is present in small clear vesicles with putative secretory functions in a wide variety of neuroendocrine cells and has previously been shown to be a common constituent of microvesicles in mammalian pinealocytes. Since gerbil pinealocytes displayed distinct gradations of electron density, their ultrastructural heterogeneity may be the expression of different states of secretory activity of one pinealocyte cell type. On the other hand, differences in the content of synaptic-like microvesicles in the process terminals of 'light' and 'dark' cells could also indicate a principal functional heterogeneity of the microvesicular compartment among pinealocytes, pointing to the existence of different types of pinealocytes.
8397522: !synaptophysin Chronic prenatal ethanol exposure does not affect the expression of selected genes in rat brain development. To investigate possible mechanisms contributing to the teratogenic effects of ethanol on the nervous system, we examined the effects of in utero exposure to ethanol on gene expression in the postnatal brain. Pregnant rats were exposed to ethanol by constant inhalation of ethanol vapor during gestational days 8-21, generating a mean blood alcohol level of approximately 150 mg/100 ml during the last week of gestation. Particular care was given to ensure proper nutrition and weight gain in both control and EtOH-treated groups. At different times after birth, the brains of pups from ethanol-treated dams and from a parallel series of untreated dams were dissected into major regions. Cytoplasmic RNA was assayed for different mRNAs encoding proteins representative of both glial and neuronal cell types, by Northern blot and solution hybridization. In situ hybridization was performed with T alpha-1 tubulin and PLP. There were no significant differences between pups from ethanol-treated and control dams in the amount of mRNAs encoding the myelin protein proteolipid protein (PLP), the astrocyte glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), the neurally enriched T alpha-1 isotype of alpha-tubulin, the nerve terminal components synaptophysin p38 and SNAP 25. The mRNA encoding the alpha 1-subunit of the receptor for gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) was slightly decreased in expression in the hindbrain but not cortex of pups from EtOH-treated dams. These results suggest that, when weight gain is controlled, chronic exposure of rats to ethanol during the last 2 weeks of gestation has little influence on the postnatal expression of these cell type specific genes.
8361347: !synaptophysin Reserpine causes differential changes in the mRNA levels of chromogranin B, secretogranin II, carboxypeptidase H, alpha-amidating monooxygenase, the vesicular amine transporter and of synaptin/synaptophysin in rat brain. Brains of rats treated with a high dose of reserpine were analyzed by in situ hybridization. The mRNA levels of several components of large dense core and small synaptic vesicles were determined. After drug treatment the secretogranin II message was elevated in the parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus, in the zona incerta, dorsal raphe, locus coeruleus and in the nucleus tractus solitarius. The levels of chromogranin B mRNA were increased in the dorsal raphe and in the substantia nigra compacta. In control animals messages for synaptin/synaptophysin could be found in most of the nuclei investigated, that of the vesicular amine transporter was only detectable in substantia nigra compacta, the dorsal raphe and the locus coeruleus whereas those of carboxypeptidase H and the alpha-amidating monooxygenase could only be determined in the paraventricular nucleus. All these messages were not changed after reserpine. We conclude that the chromogranin B/secretogranin II messages are regulated concomitantly with various neuropeptides. They represent useful general markers to identify stimulated neurons. Our results are consistent with the concept that stimulation of neurons leads to an increased synthesis of secretory peptides and consequently to large dense core vesicles filled with higher quanta of peptides.
8360951: !synaptophysin Expression of heterologous proteins in cultured rat hippocampal neurons using the Semliki Forest virus vector. The Semliki Forest virus expression vector (Liljeström and Garoff: Bio/Technology 9:1356-1361, 1991) was tested in cultured rat hippocampal neurons using two Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cell membrane-associated proteins as reporters: rab8, a small GTPase involved in post-Golgi vesicle transport, and VIP21, an integral membrane protein of caveolae, trans-Golgi network, and post-Golgi vesicles. Expression of the c-myc epitope-tagged proteins was visualized by immunofluorescence microscopy. The proteins were first detected in neurons after 3-4 hr infection by the recombinant viruses. The infection efficiency on neurons was high: after 6 hr infection at a multiplicity of one, 50-60% of the cells expressed the reporter proteins. The neurons tolerated the infection well up to 8 hr. Their polarized organization was not disturbed, as judged from morphology and from distribution of the dendritic MAP2 and axonal synaptophysin marker proteins. The Semliki Forest virus vector thus seems suitable for short-term expression of proteins in cultured neurons.
8358154: !synaptophysin A comparative immunohistochemical study of phaeochromocytomas and paragangliomas. There is no definite morphological distinction between phaeochromocytomas and paragangliomas. We, therefore, attempted to determine the universality and differential utility of a panel of tumour markers for diagnosis in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens. Antibodies to neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin, synaptophysin, Leu-7, neurofilaments, cytokeratins, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), melanoma antigen HMB-45, S-100 protein and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP), were used on 11 phaeochromocytomas and 8 paragangliomas. NSE reactivity was detected in 10 phaeochromocytomas and in all paragangliomas. Chromogranin reactivity was found in all but two cases (one phaeochromocytoma and one paraganglioma). Synaptophysin reactivity was present in 10 phaeochromocytomas and in the 8 paragangliomas. Ten phaeochromocytomas stained for Leu-7, but none of the paragangliomas did. S-100-positive cells (sustentacular or type II cells) were found in 8 phaeochromocytomas and 7 paragangliomas. GFAP stained sustentacular cells of only one paraganglioma. Only in 5 phaeochromocytomas was there a focal reaction by neurofilaments. Cytokeratins, CEA and HMB-45 were never detected. We conclude that NSE, chromogranin, synaptophysin and S-100 protein are useful markers of both types of tumour, whereas GFAP staining is limited to a small number of these neoplasms. Leu-7 reactivity seems to favour diagnosis of phaeochromocytoma rather than paraganglioma, but further studies with larger series are needed to confirm this. Unlike previous reports, we did not find cytokeratin or HMB-45 immunostaining in any case.
8293189: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma: a synopsis of clinical and histological features. The central neurocytoma is a supratentorial, often calcified brain tumour affecting young adults and is typically located in the lateral ventricles in the region of the foramen of Monro. Clinically, the tumour causes signs of increased intracranial pressure, visual and mental disturbances and, occasionally, pyramidal or endocrine symptoms. By light microscopy, the tumour is composed of small round cells in a delicate fibrillary matrix. Tumour cells consistently show features of neuronal differentiation by electron microscopy (synapses, dense-core vesicles, presynaptic clear vesicles, specialized synaptic junctions) and immunoreactivity for synaptophysin and other neuronal marker proteins. The tumour can be totally removed in nearly half of the cases. After incomplete surgical resection neurocytomas may recur but because of their low proliferation potential, radio- or chemotherapy are not generally recommended. Postoperative recurrence-free survival times of up to 19 years have been reported. Neurocytomas constitute nearly one half of supratentorial intraventricular tumours in adults but amount to less than 1% of all tumours of the central nervous system and its coverings.
8212457: !synaptophysin The expression of keratins, vimentin, neurofilament proteins, smooth muscle actin, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin in tumors of the specific glands in the canine anal region. Eight canine tumors originating from specific glandular structures in the anal region, as well as metastatic tumor tissue of two of these cases (case Nos. 7, 8), were immunohistochemically analyzed using various monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) directed against human keratin types, vimentin, neurofilament proteins, and alpha-smooth muscle actin. These tumors also were stained for the broad-spectrum neuroendocrine markers neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and synaptophysin. In histologically normal canine anal structures, alpha-smooth muscle actin and NSE antibodies stained basally localized (probably myoepithelial) cells in the anal glands and the anal sac glands. NSE staining also was present in a limited number of luminal cells in both anal glands and anal sac glands. Synaptophysin labeling was not observed in any of these glandular structures. Histologically, the tumors were differentiated into well- and moderately differentiated perianal gland tumors (n = 5) and carcinomas without perianal gland differentiation (n = 3), corresponding to the so-called apocrine carcinomas of the anal region. Immunohistochemically, the perianal gland tumors could be differentiated from the carcinomas by marked differences in staining pattern with the various keratin MoAbs, particularly MoAbs directed against human keratin types 7 and 18. The keratin-staining characteristics of the carcinomas suggest a glandular luminal cell origin. Metastases of the carcinomas showed loss of some keratin-staining characteristics as compared with the primary tumor. Staining for NSE was only observed in solitary cells and small cell clusters in the carcinomas and their metastases, whereas the alpha-smooth muscle actin antibody did not react with the carcinoma cells. None of the tumors stained for neurofilament proteins or synaptophysin. An unequivocal neuroendocrine nature of the carcinomas could not be substantiated by our immunohistochemical study, although the presence of a population of neuroendocrine cells within these neoplasms seems likely. Because the immunohistochemical features of the carcinomas with respect to various keratin MoAbs and NSE are similar to those of the anal glands and the anal sac glands, both these glands might be considered as site of origin of these carcinomas.
7689369: !synaptophysin Practical applications of some antibodies labelling the human retina. Eight enucleated eyes were promptly fixed in 10% formalin and processed for light microscopy. Employing the ABC technique, we used antibodies against neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin (SY), neurofilament (NF), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), keratins, LEU-7 and S-100 protein. Using NSE we found immunoreactivity in all sensory layers except the outer segments of photoreceptors which were nonreactive. SY showed a striking immunoreactivity of the synaptic regions (outer plexiform and inner plexiform layers). NF labelled the axons of the ganglion cells. GFAP stained perivascular glial cells and Müller cells only in areas of peripheral microcystoid degeneration. Keratin was non-reactive in all layers. LEU-7 showed that all layers were moderately reactive while the Müller cell processes and the outer limiting membrane were strongly immunoreactive. S-100 protein stained the perivascular glial cells in the nerve fiber layer. We conclude that NSE and LEU-7 are helpful markers for most layers of the sensory retina; GFAP and LEU-7 clearly outline Müller cells and GFAP immunoreacts with astrocytes; NF is specific for axons and SY labels vividly the synaptic regions.
8501532: !synaptophysin Evidence for "preterminal" nicotinic receptors on GABAergic axons in the rat interpeduncular nucleus. Presynaptic nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs) are abundant in the nervous system, where they are thought to regulate the release of various neurotransmitters. Whole-cell recordings performed on rat interpeduncular nucleus neurons using the thin-slice technique showed that nicotine dramatically increased the frequency of postsynaptic GABAergic currents. This effect was observed at low micromolar concentration of agonist; it was mimicked by cytisine, dimethylphenylpiperazinium, and ACh in the presence of eserine. It was blocked by hexamethonium, dihydro-beta-erythroidine, and mecamylamine. The presynaptic action was suppressed in the presence of TTX. A comparable effect of nicotine was found using a preparation of acutely isolated neurons that had retained synaptic terminals attached to their cell body as evidenced by immunoreactivity to synaptophysin and presence of spontaneous GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic activity. Nicotinic agonists increased the frequency of GABAergic postsynaptic currents, an effect blocked by curare and mecamylamine. This action was also suppressed in the presence of TTX. These data suggest the presence of nAChRs at a preterminal level on axons of intrinsic GABAergic neurons. We propose that, in contrast to presynaptic nAChRs, activation of these "preterminal" nAChRs can trigger a spike discharge and thus have a generalized action on the GABAergic afferent.
8392815: !synaptophysin Melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy. Clinicopathological, immunohistochemical, and flow cytometric study. Twenty cases of melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy (MNTI) are reported. The patients (13 females, seven males), whose ages ranged from 1 to 9 months (mean, 5 months), typically presented with a rapidly growing mass. Tumor sites included the maxilla (13 cases), mandible (three cases), dura (two cases), brain (one case), and skull/orbit (one case). The mean tumor size was 3.5 cm (range, 1.0-10.0 cm). Follow-up was obtained on 12 cases. Five tumors (45%) recurred within 4 months of diagnosis, but none metastasized. One surgical death occurred. Histologic appearance was distinctive, with tubular or alveolar formations of large melanin-containing cells around nests of smaller neuroblastic cells possessing scant or fibrillar cytoplasm. Twelve tumors were studied immunohistochemically; tumor was positive for cytokeratin in 12 of 12, for HMB 45 in 12 of 12, for vimentin in seven of eight, and for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) in four of nine tumors, mainly in the large cells. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) (seven of 12) and Leu 7 (nine of 12) were positive in small and large cells; some tumors also expressed synaptophysin (four of 12), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP, three of 12 tumors), or S-100 protein (two of 12 tumors). No staining was found for chromogranin, desmin, or carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). Eight of 10 tumors studied had interpretable results on flow cytometry (FCM) (four DNA diploid, three DNA aneuploid, and one DNA diploid with a prominent shoulder). Tumor recurred locally in two of five cases with follow-up, and we were unable to demonstrate the usefulness of FCM in predicting recurrences. Further studies are necessary to define better the potential usefulness of FCM in predicting aggressive behavior. Distinctive morphology and multiphenotypic (epithelial, neural, melanocytic) expression distinguish MNTI from melanoma and metastatic neuroblastoma.
8361069: !synaptophysin [Age difference in appearance of synaptophysin positive substance of rat hippocampus--immunohistochemical study]. 
8219354: !synaptophysin Accumulation of mRNAs encoding synaptic vesicle-specific proteins precedes neurite extension during early neuronal development. Synaptic vesicles are essential for neuronal synaptic function. We have analyzed the temporal and spatial pattern of mRNA accumulation of two integral membrane proteins specific for synaptic vesicles (synaptophysin and SV2) and a small GTP-binding protein associated with the vesicles (rab3a), using in situ hybridization to mouse embryonic tissue sections. Our results indicate that transcription of these mRNAs is not synchronous in the embryo. Detectable levels of synaptophysin and rab3a mRNAs appear during early neurulation (embryonic day [ED] 9.5) both in the CNS and PNS, whereas SV2 mRNA is not observed before ED 10.5. We have also compared the accumulation of these synaptic vesicle protein transcripts during neuroblast proliferation and neuronal differentiation in vitro, using as a model system the embryonic carcinoma cell line P19 which can be induced to differentiate into neurons and glial cells. We observe that transcripts for all three proteins appear in neurons virtually simultaneously soon after withdrawal from the cell cycle. These data suggest that the program of differentiation in vitro is similar to that observed in vivo, but markedly accelerated. In both embryos and P19 cells, transcripts for these three proteins are detectable at a time when most of the neurons have withdrawn from the cell cycle, but prior to neurite extension and synapse formation.
8517133: !synaptophysin The localization of synaptophysin in the organ of Corti of the human as shown by immunoelectron microscopy. Synaptophysin, or p38, a polypeptide of molecular weight 38 kD, is a calcium-binding membrane protein found in synaptic vesicles of neurons and smooth surfaced vesicles of neuroendocrine cells. Six human neonatal and infant temporal bones were fixed in paraformaldehyde and glutaraldehyde, decalcified in EDTA and were than immunoreacted for synaptophysin (ICN Biomedicals) using the avidin-biotin reaction (ABC kit, Vector Labs). The tissue was then prepared for light microscopic surface preparation, radial sections of 5 microns, and serial section electron microscopy. At a light microscopic level, the inner spiral bundle, tunnel spiral bundle, upper tunnel crossing fibers and the base of outer hair cells were stained. At the base of outer hair cells, the immunoreactivity was seen to decrease from the base to the apex and from the first to third outer hair cells. At an electron microscopic level, immunoreactivity at the base of outer hair cells was limited to vesiculated efferent fibers. The degree of immunoreactivity between adjacent efferent fibers varied significantly. Immunoreactive vesiculated endings were also found in the supranuclear region of outer hair cells.
8473893: !synaptophysin Catecholamines are present in a synaptic-like microvesicle-enriched fraction from bovine adrenal medulla. "Synaptic-like microvesicles" are present in all neuroendocrine cells and cell lines. Despite their resemblance to small synaptic vesicles of the CNS, a thorough biochemical characterization is lacking. Moreover, the subcellular distribution of synaptophysin, the most abundant integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, in adrenal medulla is still controversial. Using gradient centrifugation, we were able to compare the distribution of several markers for small synaptic vesicles and chromaffin granules. Synaptophysin was found at a high density (1.16 g/ml), purifying away from dopamine beta-hydroxylase and cytochrome b561. Both noradrenaline and adrenaline showed a parallel distribution with synaptophysin, suggesting their presence in synaptic-like microvesicles. Experiments in the presence of tetrabenazine did not influence the catecholamine content. Additionally, tetrabenazine binding showed a consistent shoulder in the region of synaptophysin. [3H]Noradrenaline uptake was blocked by tetrabenazine, but not by desipramine. Also chromogranin A parallels the distribution of synaptophysin; however, a localization in the Golgi cannot be ruled out. Synaptophysin was shown to undergo very fast phosphorylation, together with another triplet protein of approximately 18 kDa. In contrast, the latter showed a rather bimodal distribution coinciding with synaptophysin and dopamine beta-hydroxylase. Immunoelectron microscopy of synaptic-like microvesicle fractions showed an intense labeling for synaptophysin on 60-90-nm organelles. Whereas abundant gold labeling for cytochrome b561 was found over the entire surface of chromaffin granules, synaptophysin labeling was encountered mostly on vesicles adsorbed to granules. We conclude that catecholamines might be stored in synaptic-like microvesicles of the chromaffin cell.
8322614: !synaptophysin Intra-abdominal desmoplastic small cell tumor in an adolescent suggesting a neurogenic origin. A case of a desmoplastic small cell tumor of the large omentum associated with gross ascites that occurred in a male adolescent is reported. Light microscopic studies revealed that the tumor cells were small and epithelioid in nature with eosinophilic hyaline material located in the perinuclear area. They were surrounded by rich desmoplastic and myxoidal stromal bands. Immunohistochemical staining revealed globoid perinuclear positivity for desmin. Vimentin, cytokeratin (AE3, CaM 5.2), epithelial membrane antigen, tissue polypeptide antigen, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, endocrine granule constituent and synaptophysin were also positive in the cytoplasm. Electron microscopy revealed whorled intermediate filaments and some dense core granules in the cytoplasm. Bundles of microtubules in the cytoplasmic process and occasional cell junctions of zonulae adherentes in the tumor cells were also observed. DNA analysis of the tumor cells showed the three-fold amplification of the N-myc gene. Although desmoplastic small cell tumors showed a heterogeneous pattern with immunohistochemical studies, it is suggested that the tumor may originate from neurogenic cells.
7684475: !synaptophysin Wide distribution of granulophysin epitopes in granules of human tissues. The identification and characterization of granule membrane proteins are becoming increasingly important in understanding the packaging and secretory function of granules and characterizing diseases involving granules. A granule membrane protein, granulophysin, has recently been identified in the membranes of platelet dense granules, organelles that contain stored ADP, ATP, serotonin, and calcium. Antibodies that recognize granulophysin also stain granules of monocytes, neutrophils, and lymphokine activated killer cells.
7683050: !synaptophysin Effects of frontal cortical lesions on mouse striatum: reorganization of cell recognition molecule, glial fiber, and synaptic protein expression in the dorsomedial striatum. Brain injury induces trophic effects within adjacent tissue through an unknown molecular mechanism. One model of this lesion effect involves the enhanced outgrowth of neuronal processes from transplanted substantia nigra in animals with cerebral cortex lesions. Since cell recognition molecules are involved in the molecular mechanisms of contact between cells and surrounding extracellular matrix components, and are important in plasticity of the nervous system, we investigated changes in L1, N-CAM, and tenascin, as well as synapse-associated proteins and gliosis, in the striatum of mice with cortical lesions. The removal of somato-sensory and motor cortex would be expected to produce changes predominantly in the dorsal striatum. Lesioned mice, however, showed a significant enhancement of both L1 and N-CAM immunostaining intensity only within the most medial-periventricular and dorsomedial parts of the striatum, as compared to the nonlesioned side. Tenascin expression was significantly decreased, but only in the most medial part of the striatum. The changes in intensity of immunostaining with L1, N-CAM, and tenascin did not diminish with time after lesioning. These changes in cell recognition molecule expression indicate a possible molecular basis of lesion-induced plasticity in neuronal circuits within the dorsomedial striatum. These changes were accompanied by decreased synapsin and synaptophysin expression, but without any significant change in neurofilament expression. In contrast, glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin immunoreactivities were increased in almost the entire striatum on the lesioned side. Therefore, the areas of changes in cell recognition molecule expression did not simply correlate to the increased astrogliosis or neuronal fiber damage. We postulate that the periventricular dorsomedial striatum is relatively sensitive to disturbances of corticostriatonigral circuits and, simultaneously, this striatal area has a unique ability to support and promote neurite growth.
7685234: !synaptophysin Human synaptic proteins with a heterogeneous distribution in cerebellum and visual cortex. Synaptic pathology is likely to be an important feature of a number of neuropsychiatric illnesses. An antibody called EP10 was used previously to demonstrate a regional reduction in a 38 kDa synaptophysin-like protein in Alzheimer's disease. The SP antibodies were developed for further study of this and other synaptic proteins in human brain. Human brain proteins immunoprecipitated with EP10 were used as the immunogen. Hybridoma screening was carried out with a sequential ELISA-immunocytochemical approach. Sixteen antibodies were obtained, the antigens clustered into five groups. Five antibodies were reactive with a 38 kDa synaptophysin-like protein. Another two antibodies were reactive with a 16 kDa antigen which may be synaptobrevin. Immunocytochemical studies indicated these two antigens appeared to be co-localized in human brain. Four antibodies were reactive with a distinct, 34-36 kDa antigen. In the cerebellum, this antigen was restricted to terminals in the molecular layer, putatively in the parallel fibre synapses. Two antibodies were reactive with a 26-27 kDa antigen. In the cerebellum, this antigen localized to a subset of terminals which included the axo-axonal contacts of the Basket and Purkinje cells. The final group of three antibodies detected a complex group of 38 kDa. 40 kDa and higher molecular weight antigens. The results suggest that heterogeneity among synapses can be defined through antibodies directed against distinct proteins. The SP antibodies may be useful probes for studies of human synaptic proteins, and for studies of pathological conditions which disrupt these molecules.
8485849: !synaptophysin Quantitative analysis of transient GABA expression in embryonic and early postnatal rat spinal cord neurons. GABA expression was investigated using biochemical analysis of spinal cord homogenates and immunocytochemical analysis of cells acutely dissociated from the embryonic and postnatal rat spinal cord. gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) was detected by both methods as early as embryonic day 13 (E13). At E13, the percentage of neurons that were GABA+ was 0.5%. This value increased during embryogenesis, peaked during the first two postnatal weeks to just over 50%, and declined to approximately 20% by the third postnatal week emphasizing the transient nature of GABA expression. At E17 there was a pronounced, positive ventro-dorsal and rostro-caudal gradient of GABA+ cells that persisted until just before birth. At this time the gradients reversed in cervical and lumbosacral regions indicating that GABA immunoreactivity in discrete anatomical regions is also a transient phenomenon. During the embryonic period GABA immunoreactivity was diffusely distributed throughout cell bodies and proximal processes. At E21, both GABA and synaptophysin were present in the same cells. However the two antigens did not co-localize point for point. By postnatal day 21 GABA immunoreactivity appeared in puncta that co-localized entirely with puncta of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. The sizable percentage of neurons that transiently express GABA during development, and the fact that it can be detected prior to the synaptic form of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65), suggest that the amino acid may play a significant role during differentiation before it functions as an inhibitory neurotransmitter.
8485845: !synaptophysin Ontogeny of synaptophysin and synaptoporin in the central nervous system: differential expression in striatal neurons and their afferents during development. The expression of the synaptic vesicle antigens synaptophysin (SY) and synaptoporin (SO) was studied in the rat striatum, which contains a nearly homogeneous population of GABAergic neurons. In situ hybridization revealed high levels of SY transcripts in the striatal anlage from embryonic day (E) 14 until birth. In contrast, SO hydridization signals were low, and no immunoreactive cell bodies were detected at these stages of development. At E 14, SY-immunoreactivity was restricted to perikarya. In later prenatal stages of development SY-immunoreactivity appeared in puncta (identified as terminals containing immunostained synaptic vesicles), fibers, thick fiber bundles and 'patches'. In postnatal and adult animals, perikarya of striatal neurons exhibited immunoreaction for SO; ultrastructurally SO antigen was found in the Golgi apparatus and in multivesicular bodies. SO-positive boutons were rare in the striatum. In the neuropil, numerous presynaptic terminals positive for SY were observed. Our data indicate that the expression of synaptic vesicle proteins in GABAergic neurons of the striatum is developmentally regulated. Whereas SY is prevalent during embryonic development, SO is the major synaptic vesicle antigen expressed postnatally by striatal neurons which project to the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra. In contrast synapses of striatal afferents (predominantly from cortex, thalamus and substantia nigra) contain SY.
8485844: !synaptophysin Many spinal cord cells transiently express low molecular weight forms of glutamic acid decarboxylase during embryonic development. At early developmental stages in the rat spinal cord (embryonic day 13), when neuronal progenitors are still proliferating, most differentiating neurons express truncated forms of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) (approximately 25 kDa) which are the products of alternative splicing of the GAD67 gene. These truncated proteins do not appear to synthesize gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The amino acid is detected in cells only after alternative splicing of the GAD67 gene generates a full-length, 67 kDa enzymatically active form of GAD. Both the 67 kDa GAD and GABA colocalize and appear diffusely distributed in the cytoplasm of embryonic neurons. GABA does not appear associated with synaptic vesicles until after birth, when its intracellular distribution becomes punctate and it colocalizes with synaptophysin. At this time, it also colocalizes with an immunologically distinct 65 kDa GAD protein encoded by a second GAD gene (GAD65). Expression of different GAD-related proteins with distinct intracellular distributions during development suggests that GABA, the product of these enzymes, may have trophic or metabolic roles during spinal cord differentiation.
8475123: !synaptophysin Activated estrogen receptor mediates growth arrest and differentiation of a neuroblastoma cell line. Several reports demonstrate estrogen receptor involvement in specific brain functions. In addition, estrogen receptors are expressed at early stages of brain development, suggesting that estrogens or related molecules may play an instructive role in the differentiation of specific brain areas. The lack of model systems in which these phenomena could be studied prompted us to develop a neuroblastoma cell line expressing the estrogen receptor. The cell line expresses the hormone receptor at levels compatible with a physiological activity. The activated estrogen receptor is capable of blocking proliferation of the cells without exerting toxic effects. Following growth arrest, the cells display a neuron-like morphology and express tau and synaptophysin, two proteins synthesized in differentiating neurons. The cell line generated will provide a valuable model system for molecular and biochemical studies of the activity of estrogens in neural-derived cells.
8453589: !synaptophysin Primary hepatic neuroendocrine carcinoma in a child. Morphologic, immunocytochemical, and molecular biologic studies. Primary neuroendocrine tumor of the liver is uncommon, and virtually all reported patients with the tumor have been adults. Most of the tumors were carcinoids. The authors report an 8-year-old girl with primary hepatic neuroendocrine carcinoma.
8385728: !synaptophysin [Extrabronchial small-cell carcinoma: apropos 6 cases]. Extrabronchial small cell carcinoma (ESCC) is an infrequent tumor with controversial histogenesis, clinical evolution and therapeutic strategy. The aim of this study was to know the immunohistochemical features and the clinical evolution of patients diagnosed of ESCC during a 10 year period. All the diagnoses of small cell carcinoma (bronchial and extrabronchial) carried out by the Unit of Pathology between 1980-1989 were reviewed. In all the ESCC an immunohistochemical study was performed with three neuroendocrine markers, chromogranin, neurospecific enolase and synaptophysin. The clinical evolution of the patients is described. The 6 patients with ESCC represented 4.7% of all the small cell carcinomas. The primary localization was: parotid, urinary bladder, the skin, maxillary sinus and esophagus (2 patients). In five cases positivity was observed for one or more of the neuroendocrine markers. In two cases the ESCC was associated with differentiated cell populations (squamous carcinoma). The diagnosis of ESCC logically obliges the bronchial origin and the presence of ectopic hormonal secretion syndromes to be discarded. The administration of chemotherapy regimes used in small cell lung carcinoma is advised.
8468403: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunohistochemistry reveals inside-out pattern of early synaptogenesis in ferret cerebral cortex. Synaptogenesis in the ferret cerebral cortex was examined from the day of birth to adulthood with an antibody against synaptophysin at the light and electron microscopic levels. Due to the premature birth of ferrets, the generation of cells destined to the upper cortical layers and their subsequent migration to their final positions in the cortical plate are largely postnatal events. Throughout the newborn ferret cerebral cortex, a high amount of synaptophysin immunoreactivity was present within the marginal zone and subplate region. Staining was also conspicuous within the forming cortical plate. The typical layering pattern of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the developing cortical plate correlated with the migration pattern of cortical neurons. The synaptic density was lowest directly below the marginal zone, where the youngest neurons just stopped their migration. Below this zone, the density of the synaptic staining increased gradually toward lower (and older) cortical plate layers. As the cortex expanded, the synaptophysin immunoreactivity pattern closely followed the expansion, suggesting that synapses were formed in a given layer shortly after the cells migrating to this layer reached their final position. As soon as cell migration had finished, the entire cortical plate contained dense synaptophysin immunoreactivity, in a pattern similar to that observed in the adult animal. During cortical development, a rostrocaudal and a laterodorsal gradient of synaptogenesis was observed. At any given time, rostral and lateral regions of the cerebral cortex were more advanced in their development than caudal and dorsal regions. Electron microscopic examination of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the developing cerebral cortex of ferrets confirmed that labeling was solely associated with synaptic vesicles. These vesicles were typically, but not exclusively, confined to synaptic boutons. Especially around the end of the first postnatal week, long fiber profiles loaded with synaptic vesicles were occasionally detected. As some of these fibers also showed en passant synapses along their course, we concluded that synaptic vesicle labeling may be reliably used to study synaptogenesis at the light microscopic level. A systematic analysis of samples from postnatal days 0 and 7 corroborated this conclusion, showing that synaptic profile distribution completely matched the distribution of synaptophysin immunoreactivity seen in the light microscope. In conclusion, synaptogenesis begins as soon as migratory cells reach their final position in the cortical plate. As long as cell migration continues, synaptogenesis is under the constraints of neurogenesis, following its gradients.
8410138: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical detection of calcineurin and microtubule-associated protein 2 in central neurocytoma. An immunohistochemical study was carried out on four cases of central neurocytoma, which had characteristic clinicopathological features including ultrastructural findings. Specific antibodies to calcineurin (CaN), microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and synaptophysin (SYP) were used. All tumor tissues examined showed specific immunoreactivity for CaN and MAP2. Immunolabelling of both molecules revealed that they were mainly localized in the perikarya and proximal processes of the tumor cells. SYP immunoreactivity was found in three of the four cases. SYP immunoreaction products were predominantly seen in the tumor cell processes, while the perikarya were weakly or moderately positive for SYP. The data suggest that CaN and MAP2, together with SYP, can be useful tools for identifying and characterizing of the central neurocytoma.
8503833: !synaptophysin Significance of cardiac innervation on spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias elicited by left stellate ganglion stimulation in dogs 4 days after myocardial infarction: comparison of two experimental models. The effects of cardiac sympathetic overactivity on spontaneous arrhythmias and transmural left ventricular effective refractory period (LVERP) were assessed by left stellate stimulation (LSS) in 16 anesthetized dogs. The experiments were performed 4 days after proximal occlusion of the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery produced by either ligation (9 dogs) or embolization with histoacryl (7 dogs). The innervation of left ventricular myocardium was studied by light and electron microscopies. Synaptophysin (SYN)- and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-immunoreactive nerve fibers and terminals were thereby detected. In dogs subjected to ligation, LSS elicited negligible arrhythmias in spite of a decrease in LVERP by 6.9 +/- 2.2% (mean +/- SD, p < 0.001). However, dogs with intravascular occlusion were more susceptible to LSS, as indicated by development of sustained ventricular rhythms. In these animals, the LVERP decreased with LSS by 14.6 +/- 3.4% (p < 0.001). The innervation of the anterior left ventricular wall distal to the place of occlusion revealed a higher reduction of SYN- and NPY-immunoreactive nerves in infarcted myocardium and a more heterogeneous distribution of nerves in undamaged regions after ligation, compared to intravascular occlusion. Ultrastructurally, nerve terminals containing small agranular and large dense-core vesicles were found innervating ischemically damaged myocardiocytes. Our findings indicate a higher preservation of nerves in infarcted and noninfarcted myocardium of animals subjected to embolic occlusion of the LAD. Because LSS apparently elicited more arrhythmias in these animals, we suggested a proarrhythmic effect of intact myocardial innervation after infarction.
8477825: !synaptophysin Synaptic density of axotomized hypoglossal motorneurons following pharmacological blockade of the microglial cell proliferation. The purpose of the present study was to examine the possible role of reactive microglia in the removal of presynaptic terminals following motor axon injury. Quantitative electron microscopy was used to examine synaptic numbers and total relative synaptic coverage on hypoglossal neuronal perikarya following hypoglossal nerve transection in the rat with or without pharmacological blockade of the axotomy-induced microglial cell proliferation. In a previous study we have shown that the axotomy-induced microglial cell proliferation is selectively inhibited by continuous infusion of cytosine-arabinoside (ARA-C) into the ventricular system of the adult rat brain. Adopting this procedure in the present study resulted in an almost complete elimination of reactive microglia. There was a statistically significant decrease in the number of synapses and the relative synaptic coverage in untreated as well as ARA-C-treated animals 4 and 7 days after nerve transection. Immunocytochemical labeling of terminals in the hypoglossal nucleus using antibodies to synaptophysin showed a reduction in immunoreactivity around hypoglossal nerve cell bodies ipsilateral to nerve transection in both groups of animals. These results indicate that reactive microglia are not responsible for detachment of presynaptic terminals following motor axon injury.
8472301: !synaptophysin The Leydig cell of the human testis--a new member of the diffuse neuroendocrine system. A number of marker substances for neuronal and neuroendocrine cells have been demonstrated in the cytoplasm of the interstitial Leydig cells of human testes using basic immunocytochemical methods and some of their modifications. We were able to reveal immunoreactivity for enzymes involved in the synthesis of the catecholamines dopamine and noradrenaline (tyrosine hydroxylase, aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase), for the indolamine 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), as well as for a number of well-known neuronal markers such as the neurofilament protein 200, synaptophysin, chromogranin A + B, the neural cell-adhesion molecule (N-CAM), the microtubule-associated protein (MAP-2), and the calcium-binding proteins: S-100, calbindin and parvalbumin. Immunoreactivity for these substances was found in the majority of the interstitial cells although differences in the staining intensity among the individual Leydig cells and among Leydig cells from different patients were observed. At the electron-microscopic level the Leydig cell cytoplasm was seen to contain microtubules, intermediate- and microfilaments as well as clear (40-60 nm) and dense-core (100-300 nm) vesicles, providing a morphological correlate for some of the immunocytochemical results. Although individual marker substances are not absolutely specific for nerve and neuroendocrine cells, the results obtained, together with the already established neuron-specific enolase-, substance P-, methionine-enkephalin- and proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptide-like immunoreactivity, provide strong evidence for the neuroendocrine (paraneuronal, APUD-like) nature of the Leydig cells of the human testis.
8382912: !synaptophysin Combined small-cell and transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis. A light microscopic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study of a case with literature review. Primary small-cell carcinomas of the kidney are rare, locally aggressive, and rapidly fatal neoplasms in elderly people. We report an example of combined small-cell and transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis in a 71-year-old woman who had a history of heavy smoking. The cells that pertained to the small-cell component were morphologically mostly of an intermediate type. Immunohistochemically, they reacted with synaptophysin, carcinoembryonic antigen, and epithelial markers (Lu-5, EAB902, EAB903, and cytokeratin 19), and they contained scanty neurosecretory granules at the ultrastructural level. We review the literature on small-cell carcinoma of the kidney and renal pelvis, and we discuss the histogenesis of such a tumor.
8358515: !synaptophysin Quantitative assessment of the synaptophysin immuno-reactivity of the cortical neuropil in various neurodegenerative disorders with dementia. It has remained a matter of debate until now whether amyloid and tangle pathology may be regarded as the main causes of the dementia in Alzheimer's disease (AD) or only as markers of the disease. In the present study we examined the synaptophysin immunoreactivity of the cortical neuropil as a measure of its synapse density, in 17 cases of AD, 1 case with a 10-month episode of dementia and cortical amyloid deposition, 5 cases of Huntington's disease (HD) with dementia, 11 cases of parkinsonism (PD), 5 with dementia (PD-D) and 16 controls. The immunoreactivity was assessed in two layers (molecular, pyramidal) of three regions (frontal, occipital, hippocampus) by means of automated black-and-white image analysis. In AD we found a rather diffuse reduction of the cortical synaptophysin expression of up to 26.5% (mean 11%) of the controls. No correlation was found between synaptophysin expressivity and age either in AD or in the controls. Univariate analyses revealed only a very weak negative correlation between the density of beta A4-immunoreactive cortical plaques and the intensity of the synaptophysin staining, while in a multivariate analysis the plaque density did not show any impact on the latter. In HD a reduction of the synaptophysin immunoreactivity of the cortical neuropil was also found (mean 10.4%), with a predominance in the pyramidal layer of the neocortex. The same was true for PD (5.3%) and PD-D (8.2%). Our results support the view that loss of synapses in the cortical neuropil may be a significant factor for the development of organic dementia, while the amyloid pathology in AD is more likely a marker of the disease.
7686684: !synaptophysin Olfactory neuroblastoma: clinical and pathological aspects. Twenty cases of olfactory neuroblastoma were available for clinical and histopathological evaluation. The usefulness of immunohistochemistry in the diagnosis of this tumour was investigated and was best achieved using a panel of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies, notably neuron-specific enolase, PGP 9.5, S-100 protein, synaptophysin and chromogranin A. This study confirmed that immunohistochemistry is a useful adjunct in cases where conventional histology is equivocal.
7680068: !synaptophysin Catecholaminergic cell lines from the brain and adrenal glands of tyrosine hydroxylase-SV40 T antigen transgenic mice. Brain (CATH.a) and adrenal (PATH.1 and PATH.2) cell lines have been established that synthesize abundant dopamine and norepinephrine and express the appropriate catecholaminergic biosynthetic enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine beta-hydroxylase. The lines were derived from TH-positive tumors in transgenic mice carrying the SV40 T antigen oncogene under the transcriptional control of 773 base pairs of 5' flanking sequences from the rat TH gene. Although the lines continue to express T antigen, they exhibit neuronal properties such as neurofilaments and synaptophysin and lack glial intermediate filaments. Although in vivo TH is only expressed in postmitotic neurons in the CNS, the CATH.a line demonstrates that TH expression and continued cell division are not incompatible after oncogenic transformation.
8516214: !synaptophysin The immunophenotype of Ewing's sarcoma. An immunohistochemical analysis. Since 1963, 53 cases of Ewing's sarcoma have been diagnosed at the N. Goormaghtigh Institute of Pathological Anatomy. All tumours were classified according to their growth pattern as described by Kissane: diffuse, lobular or organoid, the latter with pseudorosettes, or belonging to the fillagree type. In 45 cases, an immunohistochemical examination was carried out on routinely processed material in order to determine the immunophenotype of the tumours and to get more information on the histogenesis of the tumours. Antibodies against cytokeratin, desmin, vimentin, neurofilaments, neuron-specific enolase, Leu7, synaptophysin, chromogranin, the muscle-specific actin, the Von Willebrand factor and the common leucocyte antigen were used in a biotin-streptavidin procedure. The presence of neural markers such as neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and Leu7 was proved in the majority of the cases. The expression of the three markers was absent in only two cases. Neurofilaments were demonstrated to be present in 5 of the 6 cases for which fresh material was available. The results of this study point towards a possible neuroectodermal origin of Ewing's sarcoma. This is in agreement with the results of cell culture experiments and of cytogenetic studies.
8474606: !synaptophysin Neurocytoma/lipoma (neurolipocytoma) of the cerebellum. We describe a unique tumour that was removed from the posterior fossa of a woman aged 50 years. It was characterized histologically by bland, oval cells with fibrillary cytoplasm and by small groups of lipocytes. Immunocytochemical studies demonstrated expression of synaptophysin, neuron specific enolase and PGP 9.5, but a few cells also expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein and desmin. The combination of neuroectodermal and mesodermal features in this tumour is discussed in relation to primitive neuroectodermal tumours and neurocytoma.
8445410: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin has a selective distribution in early endosomes of PC12 cells. We have studied the endocytic pathway in PC12 cells and localized synaptophysin to a subpopulation of early endosomes. Endocytosis was examined by electron microscopy using horseradish peroxidase as an endocytic tracer. Immediately following brief incubations with horseradish peroxidase, label was seen in small vesicles and tubules which appeared to be part of the tubular early endosomal network. A large vacuolar structure, containing a rim of horseradish peroxidase reaction product and an electron-lucent central region, was also labelled at the earliest time point examined. Within 5 min after the horseradish peroxidase pulse, reaction product was seen in multivesicular bodies. After prolonged chase periods, horseradish peroxidase label was lost from the early endosomal structures and accumulated in large dense vesicles containing lamellar stacks of membranes. The observed pattern of horseradish peroxidase distribution is consistent with delivery of the tracer into tubular and vacuolar early endosomes with subsequent movement of horseradish peroxidase out of these compartments and into lysosomes. Examination of synaptophysin distribution by EM immunocytochemistry following incubations with horseradish peroxidase revealed selective immunogold labelling of early endosomal structures. Notably, small vesicular and tubular profiles were frequently double-labelled while vacuolar early endosomes were only rarely labelled for synaptophysin. Immunocytochemical labelling was not observed in multivesicular bodies or large dense vesicles with lamellar stacks. Results of experiments in which endosomal structures were immunoprecipitated with antibody to synaptophysin were consistent with the immunocytochemical findings. Maximal recovery of endocytosed horseradish peroxidase activity was seen immediately following the horseradish peroxidase pulse, and a significant decrease was seen after brief chase periods. These results indicate the presence of synaptophysin in vesicles and tubules of the early endosomal compartment.
8383357: !synaptophysin Calcium-dependent serine phosphorylation of synaptophysin. The phosphorylation of synaptophysin, a major integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, was found to be regulated in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner in rat cerebrocortical slices, synaptosome preparations, and highly purified synaptic vesicles isolated from rat forebrain. K(+)-induced depolarization of slices and synaptosomes prelabeled with 32P-orthophosphate produced a rapid, transient increase in serine phosphorylation of synaptophysin. In synaptosomes, the depolarization-dependent increase in synaptophysin phosphorylation required the presence of external Ca2+ in the incubation medium. The addition of Ca2+ plus calmodulin to purified synaptic vesicles resulted in a 4-fold increase in serine phosphorylation of synaptophysin, and this phosphorylation was antagonized by a peptide inhibitor of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II(. Purified rat forebrain CaM kinase II phosphorylated both purified synaptophysin and endogenous, vesicle-associated synaptophysin, and the resulting 2-dimensional chymotryptic phosphopeptide maps were similar to those derived from synaptophysin phosphorylated in cerebrocortical slices. These data demonstrate that Ca(2+)-dependent phosphorylation of synaptophysin, mediated by CaM kinase II, occurs under physiological conditions.
8380434: !synaptophysin Neuronotypic differentiation results in reduced levels and altered distribution of synaptophysin in PC12 cells. Several synaptic vesicle proteins including synaptophysin and p65/synaptotagmin are expressed by the pheochromocytoma cell line PC12. Stimulation of these cells with nerve growth factor for 7 days induces morphologic neuronotypic differentiation, but the levels of synaptophysin are markedly reduced. Stimulation with cyclic AMP analogs also produces neuronotypic differentiation of PC12 cells, and the degree of morphologic differentiation induced by these agents parallels their ability to effect reduction in synaptophysin levels. By contrast, levels of p65/synaptotagmin are increased following neuronotypic differentiation. The contrasting effects of neuronotypic differentiation on levels of synaptophysin and p65/synaptotagmin indicate potential differences in the regulation of these proteins in PC12 cells. Immunocytochemical labeling of undifferentiated PC12 cells reveals concentrations of synaptophysin in the perinuclear region. After neuronotypic differentiation, there is reduction in perinuclear labeling and concentration of label in swellings along PC12 cell processes. At the ultrastructural level, synaptophysin labeling is found on similar organelles in both undifferentiated and nerve growth factor-stimulated PC12 cells. Although the highest labeling densities were seen on small clear vesicles, specific labeling was also seen on dense core vesicles. The presence of synaptophysin on both small clear vesicles and dense core vesicles indicates potential functional similarities in these vesicle types. The changes in the levels and immunocytochemical distribution of synaptophysin after neuronotypic differentiation suggest possible functional heterogeneity among morphologically similar populations of small clear vesicles.
8440778: !synaptophysin Synapsin I gene expression in the adult rat brain with comparative analysis of mRNA and protein in the hippocampus. Synapsin I is the best characterized member of a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins thought to be involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter release. In this report, we present the first extensive in situ hybridization study detailing the regional and cellular distribution of synapsin I mRNA in the adult rat brain. Both the regional distribution and relative levels of synapsin I mRNA established by in situ hybridization were confirmed by RNA blot analysis. Our data demonstrate the widespread yet regionally variable expression of synapsin I mRNA throughout the adult rat brain. The greatest abundance of synapsin I mRNA was found in the pyramidal neurons of the CA3 and CA4 fields of the hippocampus, and in the mitral and internal granular cell layers of the olfactory bulb. Other areas abundant in synapsin I mRNA were the layer II neurons of the piriform cortex and layer II and V neurons of the entorhinal cortex, the granule cell neurons of the dentate gyrus, the pyramidal neurons of hippocampal fields CA1 and CA2, and the cells of the parasubiculum. In general, the pattern of expression of synapsin I mRNA paralleled those encoding other synaptic terminal-specific proteins, such as synaptophysin, VAMP-2, and SNAP-25, with noteworthy exceptions. To determine specifically how synapsin I mRNA levels are related to levels of synapsin I protein, we examined in detail the local distribution patterns of both synapsin I mRNA and protein in the rat hippocampus. These data revealed differential levels of expression of synapsin I mRNA and protein within defined synaptic circuits of the rat hippocampus.
8422678: !synaptophysin A role for synaptotagmin (p65) in regulated exocytosis. Proteins that are specifically localized to synaptic vesicles in the nervous system have been proposed to mediate aspects of synaptic transmission. Antibodies raised against the cytoplasmic domains of five of these proteins, vamp, rab3A, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and SV2, were used to investigate their function. Microinjection of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies raised against synaptotagmin (p65), but not the other vesicle proteins, decreases K+/Ca(2+)-mediated dopamine beta-hydroxylase surface staining, a measure of regulated secretion in PC12 cells. Microinjection of a soluble fragment of synaptotagmin encompassing one of the domains homologous to the C2 regulatory region of protein kinase C, but lacking the membrane anchor, also inhibits evoked dopamine beta-hydroxylase surface staining. These results provide support for the hypothesis that synaptotagmin, a Ca(2+)- and phospholipid-binding protein, is important for regulated exocytosis in neurons.
8493860: !synaptophysin Temperature effect on immunostaining of microtubule-associated protein 2 and synaptophysin after 30 minutes of forebrain ischemia in rat. The regional distribution of the postsynaptic microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and the presynaptic marker protein synaptophysin was investigated by immunohistochemistry in brains of rats submitted to 30-min forebrain ischemia by four-vessel occlusion. The following brain temperature profiles during ischemia were compared: (1) constant brain temperature of 36 degrees C (normothermia; n = 5); (2) spontaneous temperature decline from 36 degrees to 31 degrees C (spontaneous hypothermia; n = 5) and (3) constant temperature of 30 degrees C (induced hypothermia; n = 5). Normothermia was produced by exposing the ischemic head to an external heat source, and induced hypothermia by cooling the head with liquid nitrogen vapours. Sham-operated animals were either kept at ambient temperature or exposed to the same heat source, as required for maintaining normothermia during ischemia. Seven days after sham operation or ischemia, brains were fixed by perfusion and processed for immunohistochemistry using monoclonal antibodies against MAP2 and synaptic vesicle-specific protein (synaptophysin). Normothermic ischemia resulted in complete loss of MAP2 immunostaining in the whole hippocampus, spontaneous hypothermic ischemia in complete loss of MAP2 in CA1 sector, and induced hypothermic ischemia only in variable loss of MAP2 in CA1 sector. Post-ischemic immunostaining of synaptophysin revealed a temperature-dependent increase in stratum lacunosum-moleculare of CA1 sector, the density of which correlated inversely with MAP2 staining. Comparison with morphological alterations showed a close relationship between loss of MAP2 staining and histological injury. The post-ischemic activation of synaptophysin may reflect regenerative processes associated with synaptic remodelling and, therefore, is an indirect marker of the severity of ischemic injury.
8476657: !synaptophysin [Central neurocytoma--report of a case]. The authors present a case of central neurocytoma in a 23-year-old male with increased intracranial pressure syndrome. Computed tomographic (CT) scans and magnetic resonance images showed a large tumor mass with no evidence of calcification in the right lateral ventricle extending towards the third ventricle. A right transcortical-transventricular approach was performed and the tumor was totally removed. The postoperative course was uneventful and no further treatment was administered. CT shows no evidence of tumor recurrence after the six months from his surgery. Light microscopic findings suggested a diagnosis of oligodendroglioma. However, ultrastructural examinations demonstrated many dense-core or clear vesicles, microtubules and synaptic like structures within the abundant cytoplasmic processes of the tumor cells which suggested neuronal differentiation. Immunohistochemical examinations showed the tumor cells to be positive for neuron-specific enolase, sporadically positive for synaptophysin, and negative for glial fibrillary acidic protein. The final histological diagnosis was central neurocytoma. Central neurocytoma was first described by Hassoun et al, in 1982. Since then, 96 cases have been reported in the literatures. Their clinicopathological features, neuroradiological findings and prognosis are discussed.
8453038: !synaptophysin Synaptic degeneration is the primary neuropathological feature in prion disease: a preliminary study. The range of neuropathology found in cases of prion disease is considerable. The pathology present in dendrites and axons is associated with a marked loss of spines and synaptic contacts. It is probable that this loss underlies the functional and neurological deficits in the disease. Immunocytochemical re-examination of 2 cases of inherited disease with a 144 bp prion gene insertion with no characteristic pathology (i.e. spongiform change, astrocytosis and gliosis), together with 3 typical cases of prion disease (CJD), with antibodies to synaptophysin and synaptic protein demonstrated the presence of synaptic "plaque-like" lesions throughout the temporal cortex and cerebellum. In addition, examining the tissue by image analysis demonstrated a greater than 30% reduction in the relative synaptic index in all the prior disease cases when compared with controls. Synaptic disorganization and/or loss is a fundamental and constant feature of prion disease, irrespective of the presence or absence of spongiform change, neuronal loss and severe gliosis. Assessment of the extent and location of synaptic deficits might produce a more accurate documentation of the degree of neuronal disorganisation occurring during the course of prion disease.
8423884: !synaptophysin Quantitative synaptic alterations in the human neocortex during normal aging. We quantified the synaptic population density in the frontal cortex of 25 individuals without dementia 16 to 98 years old, using sections double-immunolabeled for beta/A4 amyloid and for synaptophysin, and found a significant inverse correlation between the presynaptic terminal (PT) counts and age (r = -0.7, p < 0.001). Individuals older than 60 years had an average 20% decrease in PT density compared with individuals younger than 60 years. There were no significant correlations between the age and the number of beta/A4 amyloid-positive plaques or between synaptic density and the number of amyloid plaques. Further analysis of the digitized serial optical images showed focal areas of synapse loss and distended synaptophysin-containing boutons in the mature plaques of the normal aged cases. However, we found no microscopic changes in the synaptic content inside and outside the diffuse plaques. We suggest that a loss of synaptic input in the neocortex is an age-dependent factor that contributes to the overall synaptic loss in Alzheimer's disease, but that this might be largely independent of the beta/A4-amyloid deposition.
8423638: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin--a common constituent of presumptive secretory microvesicles in the mammalian pinealocyte: a study of rat and gerbil pineal glands. Recent studies have established that pinealocytes of the mammalian pineal gland contain marker molecules of neuroendocrine cells or paraneurons like the synaptic vesicle-associated protein synaptophysin (p38). The objective of this study was to identify the subcellular synaptophysin-positive compartment and to characterize in detail the intracellular distribution of this protein in rat and gerbil pinealocytes. An analysis of serial semithin sections of plastic-embedded pineals immunostained for synaptophysin, including computer-assisted optical density measurements of synaptophysin immunoreactivities, demonstrated unequivocally that synaptophysin was highly concentrated in dilated process terminals of the pinealocytes. More than 75% of these process terminals were found to border or lie within the pericapillary space. At the ultrastructural level, they contained accumulations of small clear vesicles of variable size that turned out to be the site of synaptophysin immunoreactivity when immunogold staining was performed. In addition, microvesicles surrounding synaptic ribbons were also immunolabeled. Hence, the pinealocyte is the first neuroendocrine cell type that has now been shown to concentrate synaptophysin-positive microvesicles in perivascular process endings. This observation lends strong support to the hypothesis that small clear vesicles in neuroendocrine cells in general, and in pinealocytes in particular, serve secretory functions. The quantitative analysis of completely sectioned process endings revealed that the microvesicles outnumber by far the amount of dense core vesicles and therefore cannot arise by endocytosis of dense core vesicle membranes. Thus, small synaptic-like vesicles probably constitute an independent secretory pathway of the paraneuronal pinealocytes. In the present study, we could also establish the absence of immunoreactivity for synapsin I (belonging to a family of neuron-specific nerve terminal phosphoproteins) from pinealocytes. Synapsin I immunoreactivity was only detectable in intrapineal nerve terminals and varicosities. Taken together, the immunostaining patterns of the pineal gland obtained with antibodies directed against synaptic vesicle-associated proteins render the mammalian pinealocyte a very special type of neuroendocrine cell or paraneuron rather than a "classic" neuron.
8385865: !synaptophysin Protein patterns in human vestibular ganglion cells and hair cells, with functional interpretations. Cytoskeletal organization was analysed in the vestibular ganglion cells and in the sensory epithelia of all five vestibular organs of the adult human temporal bone. A pancellular rigidity of the upper surfaces of the vestibular organs, evidenced by large quantities of intermediate filaments and actin, seems of importance for the mechanoelectrical transduction by opposing the motion of the cupulae and statoconial layers. Immunostaining for the calcium-binding protein synaptophysin in the sensory hair bundles and in the area close to the cuticular plates--the first of its kind to be demonstrated in human vestibular organs--indicates the presence of calcium-dependent ionic channels. The hypothesis is presented that the calyx might be involved in a short-loop feed back control of type I hair cells, i.e. of the mechanoelectrical transduction itself. Subpopulations of vestibular ganglion cells were identified by the staining pattern of cytoskeletal proteins, but not by ordinary ultrastructural analysis.
8384929: !synaptophysin ACTH-producing pituitary tumors in transgenic mice. An ultrastructural and immunoelectron microscopic study. Ultrastructural and electron microscopic immunohistochemical features of corticotropic pituitary tumors arising in polyoma large T transgenic mice and the corresponding tumor transplants in non-transgenic mice are reported. Spherical, irregular and drop-shaped secretory granules measuring 150-450 nm in diameter, were seen in all tumors. Both in tumors from transgenic mice and in tumor transplants immunoreactivity for adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and beta-endorphin was expressed in the majority of the secretory granules, whereas growth hormone (GH) immunoreactivity was demonstrated only in a small number of cells in tumors from transgenic mice. In addition, positive immunostaining for neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and synaptophysin was found in the two pituitary tumor transplants tested. The study shows that the pituitary tumors from transgenic mice and their tumor transplants have features similar to human corticotropic pituitary tumors, and may therefore be a valuable model for experimental studies of the tumorigenesis.
8299706: !synaptophysin Endocrine markers in malignant tumor cells producing parathyroid hormone-related protein. Humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy may reflect the synthesis and secretion of biologically active parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) by a given tumor. In the present study we investigated 25 human non-endocrine carcinomas which were clinically associated with hypercalcemia (Ca > 11 mg%). By applying PTHrP-specific immunocytochemistry, PTHrP could be detected in all tumors. The intra-tumorous distribution was heterogeneous with strong positivity in relatively few cells or weak positivity in the majority of cells. Surprisingly, in the PTHrP producing cells none of the marker proteins typical of endocrine cells (neuron-specific enolase, Leu-7 antigen, chromogranin, synaptophysin and endocrine granule constituent) was found. On the other hand, PTHrP producing cells of endocrine origin, such as medullary cancer, or normal and adenomatous parathyroid glands, all produce these endocrine markers. Thus for the first time, the existence of peptide hormone producing tumor cells is reported without expression of endocrine markers. This indicates a special mechanism of PTHrP secretion.
8269086: !synaptophysin The role of synaptic proteins in the pathogenesis of disorders of the central nervous system. Complex sets of nervous system functions are dependent on proper working of the synaptic apparatus, and these functions are regulated by diverse synaptic proteins that are distributed in various subcellular compartments of the synapse. The most extensively studied synaptic proteins are synaptophysin, the synapsins, growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43), SV-2, and p65. Moreover, synaptic terminals contain a great number of other proteins involved in calcium transport, neurotransmission, signaling, growth and plasticity. Probes against various synaptic proteins have recently been used to study synaptic alterations in human disease, as well as in experimental models of neurological disorders. Such probes are useful markers of synaptic function and synaptic population density in the nervous system. For the present, we will review the role of synaptic proteins in the following conditions: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other disorders including ischemia, disorders where synapse-associated proteins are abnormally accumulated in the nerve terminals, synaptic proteins altered after denervation, and synaptic proteins as markers in neoplastic disorders. The study of the molecular alterations of the synapses and of plasticity might yield important clues as to the mechanisms of neurodegeneration in AD, and of the patterns of presynaptic and dendritic damage under diverse pathological conditions.
8213090: !synaptophysin Distinct neuronal subset reveals perikaryal immunostaining for synaptophysin (protein p38) in the striatum of rats. An immunoperoxidase technique was used to locate synaptophysin (protein p38), a major integral membrane glycoprotein of synaptic vesicles, in the rat brain. In addition to a diffuse distribution of nerve terminal stainings for synaptophysin appearing as numerous small puncta, the large-sized cells with spindled or polygonal shapes revealed perikaryal staining for synaptophysin in the striatum. The double labeling with immunofluorescence technique disclosed that the cell bodies, immunoreactive for synaptophysin, appeared to be those of the striatal giant cholinergic neurons. In addition, in rats that underwent the transient middle cerebral artery occlusion, the striatal ischemic lesions with cell type-specific injury revealed a survival of synaptophysin-positive large cells, presumably identical with the cholinergic neurons. The present study suggests that the metabolism and/or axonal transportation of synaptophysin of the giant cholinergic cells may be different from those of other neuronal populations in the striatum. Also, synaptophysin can act as a neurochemical marker for identification of the giant cholinergic neurons in the striatum of rats.
8213084: !synaptophysin Vascular dementia in Spatz-Lindenberg's disease (SLD): cortical synaptophysin immunoreactivity as compared with dementia of Alzheimer type and non-demented controls. The generalized form of von Winiwarter-Buerger's disease (WBD) occasionally involves the brain. However, pure cerebral forms of the disease were also described by Spatz and Lindenberg ("Spatz-Lindenberg's disease", SLD). Both, the type I, which involves the large basal arteries, and the type II, which results in a sickle-shaped granular atrophy of the cerebral cortex, are often accompanied by ("vascular") dementia, which Lindenberg and Spatz mainly attributed to the bilateral involvement of the second frontal gyrus by granular atrophy. Recently, synaptic deprivation of the cortical gray matter has been shown to occur in the dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT) and other neurodegenerative disorders. In DAT, the synaptic loss highly correlated with the degree of the mental impairment. We wanted to examine whether similar changes also occurred in dementia of vascular origin, for which SLD, although infrequent, is a typical example. In fact, we found that in three cases of typical SLD type II the synaptophysin immunoreactivity of the cortical neuropil in areas without overt infarcts or scar formation was as much reduced as in Alzheimer's disease. Although it must be taken into account that in the present cases the synapse loss might, at least in part, be due to secondary (Wallerian) degeneration as a result of the neuronal loss in the "watershed" regions of the arterial blood supply, it cannot be excluded that a decline of cortical synaptic contacts in areas without necroses or scars may occur as a primary event, contributing to the pathogenesis of the dementia. Final conclusions can only be expected from investigations into further cases of cerebro-vascular disorders with and without dementia.
8213072: !synaptophysin Synaptic stripping in the human facial nucleus. An autopsy case of severe peripheral facial nerve paresis with disconnection of synapses from facial motor neurons is reported. A 77-year-old man presented with left-sided otitis media and subsequent development of facial nerve paresis. Three months later, the patient died of an acute gastrointestinal bleeding from a chronic duodenal ulcer. Gross inspection of the brain revealed non-stenosing arteriosclerotic vascular changes and a single small cystic lesion in the right putamen. Microscopically, marked chromatolytic changes were observed in the left facial nucleus. Immunocytochemistry for synaptophysin revealed a marked loss of afferent synaptic contacts from somatic and stem dendritic surface membranes of all chromatolytic motor neurons. Wrapping of a number of neurons by newly formed glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytic cell processes could be detected in the regenerating facial motor nucleus. In addition, expression of HLA-DR was increased on a small number of microglia and perivascular cells. These changes were absent from the contralateral, normal-appearing facial nucleus. To our knowledge, this case provides the first evidence for disconnection of synapses following peripheral nerve lesioning in humans. Occurrence of synaptic stripping is likely to explain nuclear hyperexcitability and failure of recovery of complex fine motor movements that are commonly observed following peripheral injury to the facial nerve.
8144709: !synaptophysin Traffic of synaptic vesicle proteins in polarized and nonpolarized cells. Neurons have at least two pathways of regulated secretion, which involve two classes of secretory organelles: typical synaptic vesicles (SVs) and large dense-core vesicles. Large dense-core vesicles store and secrete peptide neurotransmitters and amines, and may be seen as the neuronal counterpart of secretory granules of endocrine cells. SVs are highly specialized secretory organelles, which store and secrete non-peptide hormones and play a dominant role in the fast, point-to-point signalling typical of the nervous system. Microvesicles that share a variety of biochemical and functional similarities with SVs (synaptic-like microvesicles) have recently been described in endocrine cells. SVs and synaptic-like microvesicles are closely related to vesicular carriers of the receptor-mediated recycling pathway. They undergo repeated cycles of exo-endocytosis, which are thought to involve endosomal intermediates. In mature neurons, SVs are concentrated in axon endings. To gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for SV targeting, we have studied the traffic of SV proteins in both endocrine cells and developing hippocampal neurons in primary culture at different stages of differentiation. Additionally, the distribution of the SV protein synaptophysin, when expressed by transfection in fibroblastic cells or in polarized epithelial cells (MDCK cells), was investigated. SV proteins are already present in developing neurons at stages preceding the establishment of neuronal polarity. As axons and dendrites form, SV proteins are found in both types of processes, although they become progressively more concentrated in the axon. Throughout these developmental stages SVs undergo active exo-endocytotic recycling.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8144706: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicle proteins and regulated exocytosis. The recent identification of novel proteins associated with the membranes of synaptic vesicles has ignited the field of molecular neurobiology to probe the function of these molecules. Evidence is mounting that the vesicle proteins vamp (synaptobrevin), rab3A, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin (p65) and SV2 play an important role in regulated exocytosis, by regulating neurotransmitter uptake, vesicle targeting and fusion with the presynaptic plasma membrane.
8098258: !synaptophysin Biochemical and morphological changes in the rat hippocampus following transection of the fimbria-fornix. According to electrophysiological studies, the subcortically denervated hippocampus has been suggested as a model for limbic epilepsy. We investigated a) whether fimbrial lesioning leads to any biochemical or morphological changes in the rat hippocampus, b) if these changes give any explanation to the previously indicated hyperexcitability, and c) if the changes are in line with the findings in other experimental models and human epilepsy. The fimbria-fornix transection was done by aspiration. Four months later, spontaneous EEG activities were recorded, and the hippocampal formation was processed for histology. In addition, a separate group of lesioned rats was used for hippocampal amino acid analysis. Hyperexcitable functioning of the hippocampus was seen as frequent and rhythmic spiking activity in 25% of the fimbria-fornix-lesioned rats, although the rest of them had spikes occasionally. The amino acids analysis revealed a notable decrease in the concentration of GABA but no significant changes in the amount of excitatory amino acids. This suggests impaired GABAergic functioning but does not exclude possible abnormalities in the release of both excitatory and inhibitory amino acids. The number of somatostatin-immunoreactive (SOM-IR) neurons, a subpopulation of GABAergic neurons, was decreased in all the areas of the hippocampus (CA3 > CA1 > hilus), but this was statistically significant only in the CA3 area. Interestingly, it is the region from which interictal spiking activity in the subcortically denervated rat presumable originates. Immunostaining for synaptophysin showed a dense band of granules in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, indicating probable synaptic reorganization of associational afferents.
8095184: !synaptophysin Tyrosine-hydroxylase-containing vagal afferent neurons in the rat nodose ganglion are independent from neuropeptide-Y-containing populations and project to esophagus and stomach. Immunoreactivity to the rate limiting enzyme of catecholamine synthesis, tyrosine hydroxylase, has been described in the inferior sensory (= nodose) ganglion of the vagal nerve in the rat. The aim of the present study was to characterize further this neuronal population. The neurons do not represent displaced autonomic efferent neurons, since they do not receive synaptic input, as indicated by the absence of synaptophysin-immunoreactive terminals. In addition to the immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase, a tyrosine hydroxylase cRNA probe hybridizes with nodose ganglion neurons as demonstrated by in situ hybridization and Northern blotting. Many but not all of the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons are also immunoreactive to the dopamine synthesizing enzyme, aromatic-L-amino-acid-decarboxylase, but lack the noradrenaline-synthesizing enzyme, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, thus favoring synthesis of dopamine. Neuropeptide Y, which is often colocalized with catecholamines, is also present in a subset of nodose ganglion neurons, as indicated by immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization and Northern blotting. However, double-labeling immunofluorescence has revealed that these two antigens are localized in different cell populations. Retrograde neuronal tracing utilizing fluorescent dyes (Fast blue, Fluoro-gold) combined with tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry has demonstrated that the esophagus and stomach are peripheral targets of tyrosine-hydroxylase-containing vagal viscero-afferent neurons.
8094068: !synaptophysin X chromosome linkage studies in familial Rett syndrome. Four families, each with two individuals affected by Rett Syndrome (RS), were analysed using restriction fragment length polymorphisms and microsatellite markers from the X chromosome. In two of the families, X-linked dominant inheritance of the RS defect from a germinally mosaic mother could be assumed. Therefore, maternal X chromosome markers showing discordant inheritance were used to exclude regions of the X chromosome as locations of the RS gene. Much of the short arm could be excluded, including regions containing three candidate genes, OTC, synapsin 1 and synaptophysin. Although most of the long arm was inherited in common it was possible to exclude a centromeric region. Inheritance of X chromosome markers is also presented for two families with affected aunt-niece pairs, one of which has not been previously studied at the DNA level.
8093899: !synaptophysin Beta PP participates in PrP-amyloid plaques of Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker disease, Indiana kindred. Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker disease in the Indiana kindred is pathologically characterized by deposits of PrP-amyloid, neurofibrillary tangles and degenerating neurites. The aim of this study was to investigate seven patients of different ages for beta PP and A beta immunoreactivities associated with PrP-amyloid deposits and degenerating neurites. In one asymptomatic individual with PrP-amyloid deposits, Alz50 and A beta immunoreactivities were absent. In six symptomatic patients, the degenerating neurites surrounding PrP-amyloid deposits were labeled by Alz50 and by antibodies to synaptophysin, ubiquitin and the N- and C-terminal domains of beta PP. In one symptomatic, senile patient, A beta immunoreactivity was present in the extracellular space, often in association with PrP-amyloid deposits. The analysis of the immunohistochemical findings suggested that in the Indiana kindred the intracellular accumulation of beta PP, synaptophysin and ubiquitinated material most probably revealed a reaction of neurites to PrP-amyloid, whereas the extracellular deposition of A beta was likely an age-related phenomenon.
7903586: !synaptophysin Synapsin I, synapsin II, and synaptophysin: marker proteins of synaptic vesicles. The nerve terminal of neurons is filled with small synaptic vesicles, specialized secretory organelles involved in the storage and release of neurotransmitters. The synapsins are a family of four proteins that are the major peripheral proteins on the cytoplasmic face of synaptic vesicles. Synaptophysin is the major integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles. The characterization of the synapsins and of synaptophysin during the last years has revealed exciting information about their structure, regulation and possible function. To understand the role of the synapsins and synaptophysin in the biology of a nerve cell means to elucidate the fundamental mechanism of brain function, the release of neurotransmitter.
7763633: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin-containing microvesicles transport heat-shock protein hsp60 in insulin-secreting beta cells. 58-62 kDa heat-shock proteins (hsp60) are molecular chaperonins involved in the process of protein folding, transmembrane translocation and assembly of oligomeric protein complexes. In eukaryotic cells hsp60 proteins have been found in mitochondria and chloroplasts. However, we have recently documented that, in addition to mitochondria, a hsp60-like protein is present in secretory granules of insulin-secreting beta cells. The pathway by which hsp60 is targeted to secretory granules was unknown. Here we report the existence of microvesicles involved in the transport of hsp60 protein. Immunoelectron microscopy of serial thin-sections of beta cells directly visualized stages associated with hsp60 delivery: attachment of microvesicles to a secretory granule, fusion with the secretory granule membrane and release of hsp60 molecules. Further biochemical and immunological analysis of microvesicles revealed the presence in their membrane of synaptophysin, a major component of synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMV) of neuroendocrine cells. Double immunogold labelling with antibodies to synaptophysin and hsp60 demonstrated co-localization of both proteins in the same microvesicles. Moreover, fusion of synaptophysin-positive microvesicles leaves synaptophysin incorporated, at least transiently, to secretory granule membranes. These findings suggest that, in beta cells, synaptic-like vesicles are involved in the transport and delivery of hsp60 and represent a novel pathway for protein transport and secretion.
7509663: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry of glomus jugulare and tympanicum tumors. Glomus jugulare and tympanicum tumors differ from other paragangliomas, especially from aorto-sympathetic, visceral-autonomic and adrenal medulla tumors. They differ not only in their localization, but also in their histologic and clinical pictures. As differentiated from other paragangliomas, these tumors show no argyrophilia. Besides the difference in histochemistry, the glomus jugulare and tympanicum tumors also differ from other paragangliomas in the intensity of their immunohistochemical reaction to particular markers. As differentiated from other paragangliomas that react well to chromogranin with antisera, the chief cells of these tumors are poorly represented with chromogranin as a marker. As distinguished from chromogranin, however, synaptophysin produced a positive reaction, i. e., moderate to maximal reactivity, in all cases under study. Helper cells of these tumors, and likewise other paragangliomas, are well represented by antisera to S-100 protein and glial fibrillary acid protein.
1451072: !synaptophysin A reassessment of histologic classification and an immunohistochemical study of 88 retinoblastomas. A special reference to the advent of bipolar-like cells. Despite perpetual efforts of investigators, the histogenesis of retinoblastoma is still in dispute and histologic classification satisfactorily predictive of prognosis does not seem to be in use.
1463610: !synaptophysin Synapsin I partially dissociates from synaptic vesicles during exocytosis induced by electrical stimulation. The distribution of the synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoprotein synapsin I after electrical stimulation of the frog neuromuscular junction was investigated by immunogold labeling and compared with the distribution of the integral synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. In resting terminals both proteins were localized exclusively on synaptic vesicles. In stimulated terminals they appeared also in the axolemma and its infoldings, which however exhibited a lower synapsin I/synaptophysin ratio with respect to synaptic vesicles at rest. The value of this ratio was intermediate in synaptic vesicles of stimulated terminals, and an increased synapsin I labeling of the cytomatrix was observed. These results indicate that synapsin I undergoes partial dissociation from and reassociation with synaptic vesicles, following physiological stimulation, and are consistent with the proposed modulatory role of the protein in neurotransmitter release.
1336820: !synaptophysin Redistribution of secretory granule components precedes that of synaptic vesicle proteins during differentiation of a neuronal cell line in serum-free medium. Incubation of the rat sensory neuron-derived cell line ND7 in serum-free medium results in the arrest of mitosis and the appearance of numerous neuronal processes. During this differentiation event, secretory granule components such as chromogranins, neuropeptide Y and the C-flanking peptide of pro-neuropeptide Y move to the tips of the majority of the neuronal processes regardless of process length. In contrast, the synaptic vesicle component, synaptophysin, is found only at the tips of the very long processes which appear following prolonged periods of culture in serum-free medium. A similar restriction of synaptophysin to long processes is also observed following differentiation and process formation induced by other treatments such as incubation in reduced serum or treatment with cyclic AMP or phorbol myristate acetate. Hence the regulated secretory pathway associated with the chromogranins and neuropeptides appears to be segregated into the processes at an earlier stage of ND7 differentiation than the synaptophysin-associated synaptic vesicle pathway. ND7 cells therefore provide a model system for studying the processes regulating these pathways and the redistribution of their components during neuronal differentiation.
1334963: !synaptophysin Bilateral retinal and brain tumors in transgenic mice expressing simian virus 40 large T antigen under control of the human interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein promoter. We have previously shown that postnatal expression of the viral oncoprotein SV40 T antigen in rod photoreceptors (transgene MOT1), at a time when retinal cells have withdrawn from the mitotic cycle, leads to photoreceptor cell death (Al-Ubaidi et al., 1992. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 89:1194-1198). To study the effect of the specificity of the promoter, we replaced the mouse opsin promoter in MOT1 by a 1.3-kb promoter fragment of the human IRBP gene which is expressed in both rod and cone photoreceptors during embryonic development. The resulting construct, termed HIT1, was injected into mouse embryos and five transgenic mice lines were established. Mice heterozygous for HIT1 exhibited early bilateral retinal and brain tumors with varying degrees of incidence. Histopathological examination of the brain and eyes of three of the families showed typical primitive neuroectodermal tumors. In some of the bilateral retinal tumors, peculiar rosettes were observed, which were different from the Flexner-Wintersteiner rosettes typically associated with human retinoblastomas. The ocular and cerebral tumors, however, contained Homer-Wright rosettes, and showed varying degrees of immunoreactivity to antibodies against the neuronal specific antigens, synaptophysin and Leu7, but not to antibodies against photoreceptor specific proteins. Taken together, the results indicate that the specificity of the promoter used for T antigen and/or the time of onset of transgene expression determines the fate of photoreceptor cells expressing T antigen.
1480319: !synaptophysin Increase in synaptophysin immunoreactivity following cortical infarction. Plasticity in the central nervous system has been demonstrated using lesions of the hippocampus and rhinal cortex but has not been well studied after cerebral ischemia. Focal cerebral ischemia creates an area of infarction that is surrounded by neuronal tissue that may respond to nearby damage by creating new synapses. To determine if synaptogenesis occurs, antibodies to synaptophysin, a calcium-binding protein found on synaptic vesicles, were used with immunohistochemical techniques to assess the level of synaptophysin immunoreactivity as a measure of changes in the number of synapses. Cerebral ischemia was induced in hypertensive rats by permanently occluding the distal middle cerebral artery and ipsilateral common carotid artery. After 2 months recovery, the animals were perfused and the brains removed for immunohistochemical processing and evaluation. When comparing the cortex surrounding the infarcted area to similar areas on the contralateral side of the brain, the infarcted side had increased levels of anti-synaptophysin like activity that are statistically significant. We hypothesize that this increase in synaptophysin immunoreactivity is due to an increase in synapses in the cortex surrounding an area of infarction and supports the hypothesis of plasticity in the cortex following cerebral infarction.
1477081: !synaptophysin [Immunohistochemical studies using synaptophysin in intestinal biopsies in Hirschsprung disease]. Rectal biopsies of 5 children with Hirschsprung's disease and biopsies of 41 patients with chronic constipation of other causes, such as neuronal intestinal dysplasia, hypoganglionosis and chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (CIPSO), were investigated, using a monoclonal antibody against synaptophysin. Electron microscopy was performed in some cases. Synaptophysin, which stained adrenergic, cholinergic and neuroendocrine structures, as well, consequently, was not a suitable marker for one particular transmitter system. Normo-, hypo- and hyperganglionotic submucous plexuses were reliably stained. Hypertrophic submucosal nerve fibers, characteristic of Hirschsprung's disease, were of poor synaptophysin positivity, whereas acetylcholinesterase-positive mucosal nerve fibers exhibited stronger immunoreactivity. A comparable but regionally varying staining reaction in mucosal nerve fibers was found in CIPSO cases. Mucosal portions of histologically normal biopsies were synaptophysin-negative. Synaptophysin antibodies may support acetylcholinesterase investigation and thus are useful under diagnostic aspects. However, they are practicable neither for better distinction in differential diagnosis of Hirschsprung's disease nor for pathogenetic research.
1473313: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterization of pineocytomas. The immunoreactivity of a panel of poly- and monoclonal antibodies raised against different neuronal and glial antigens, was studied in paraffin-embedded specimens of five pineocytomas. Antibodies against neuron-specific enolase (NSE), S-100 protein, neurofilaments protein (NFP), glial fibrillar acidic protein (GFAP), myelin basic protein (MBP), Synaptophysin (SYN) and vimentin were used. NSE immunoreactivity was detectable in nearly all tumoral cells. S-100 expression was present in all tumors, but a significant variation in the number of S-100 positive cells was noted in the different specimens; they ranged from 3% of S-100 positive cells in some areas of case 1, to 30% in other areas of case 4. The number of GFAP-positive cells detected in four of the five tumors was minimal. In the remaining tumor, 10% to 14% the positively GFAP antisera-stained cells could be seen in some areas; this tumor was considered a pineocytoma with astrocytic differentiation. MBP immunoreactivity was found in isolated cells only in one tumor. Neurofilaments or vimentin expression could not be found in tumoral cells. Synaptophysin was studied in two tumors (cases 4 and 5). Both tumors showed a fine granular neuropil pattern of immunoreactivity, but only in isolated cells of case 5, occasional cytoplasmic positivity could be determined. Based upon our results we can conclude that NSE and synaptophysin are markers that may be applied in the diagnosis of pineocytomas. Further, our results support the hypothesis that the tumoral cells in these neoplasms are of neuroendocrine origin.
1471723: !synaptophysin Cytoskeletal immunohistochemistry of central neurocytomas. Central neurocytomas are rare intraventricular tumors. Patients with such tumors have a favorable prognosis after surgical removal. These tumors may be misdiagnosed as neuroblastomas or gliomas, risking the complications of adjuvant therapy. Diagnosis of central neurocytoma requires that the tumor shows the ultrastructural features of mature neuronal differentiation, including the presence of synapses and dense-core and clear vesicles in addition to profiles of neuritic processes with microtubules. The cytoskeletal phenotype of central neurocytomas has not been previously characterized, but it may facilitate their definitive recognition when ultrastructural examination is not possible. Ten central neurocytomas were examined by immunohistochemistry for phosphorylation-dependent/independent neurofilament epitopes, neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin, microtubule-associated proteins (MAP2, tau), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). The neuronal nature of all neoplasms was documented by immunoreactivity for synaptophysin in nine tumors and for phosphorylation-independent neurofilament-H/M in the remaining case. Electron microscopy in four cases showed synapses and dense core vesicles. All tumors were immunoreactive for class III beta-tubulin and MAP2, which were seen in cytoskeletal structures by immunoelectron microscopy. Two thirds of the cases were immunohistochemically positive for neurofilament epitopes. None of the tumor cells displayed GFAP immunoreactivity, although reactive astrocytes were present. These data suggest that central neurocytomas may be recognized by synaptophysin immunoreactivity and that the expression of cytoskeletal epitopes indicates that these tumors are well-differentiated neuronal neoplasms.
1443043: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin expression in "ependymal tumors" induced by ethyl-nitrosourea in rats. Synaptophysin expression was studied in seven "ependymomas" induced by transplacental administration of ethyl-nitrosourea in rats. In all the cases, strong positivity for synaptophysin was found on tumor cells. This finding supports previous studies suggesting that ENU-induced brain tumors considered to be ependymal neoplasms, are, in fact, primitive neuroectodermal tumors.
1436423: !synaptophysin Metastatic carcinoid tumor to the orbit and brain. Carcinoid tumors constitute an uncommon source of metastatic lesions to the brain. We report the case of a 63-year-old man who initially sought treatment for proptosis 15 years before coming to our attention with a metastatic intracerebral left parietal carcinoid. The pathological features of the exenterated orbital mass were interpreted as undifferentiated carcinoma, and a lesion of the left lower lobe of the lung that had been removed 6 years earlier had been reported as metastatic malignant melanoma. The long duration between the initial diagnosis and the onset of neurological symptoms brought into question the original diagnosis, which, in retrospect, was most consistent with metastatic carcinoid. Staining for cytokeratin, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin in the absence of staining for S-100 and HMB-45 supported the revised pathological diagnosis. Metastatic intracerebral carcinoid from an unrecognized bronchogenic source is a rare event, particularly after an orbital metastasis, but should be suspected when the clinical course is inconsistent with the more common causes of metastatic disease.
1334187: !synaptophysin Temporal lobe epilepsy of the rat: differential expression of mRNAs of chromogranin B, secretogranin II, synaptin/synaptophysin and p65 in subfield of the hippocampus. We have investigated by in situ hybridization changes in the content of mRNAs encoding for chromogranin B, secretogranin II, synaptin/synaptophysin and p65 after kainic acid-induced seizures and pentylenetetrazol kindling. Kainic acid seizures resulted in marked but transient increases in secretogranin II mRNA concentrations in the granule cell layer and throughout the pyramidal cell layers of the hippocampus (by 100-500%) as well as in various areas of the cerebral cortex (by up to 900%) and the thalamus (up to 300%) 12 h after injection of the toxin. Chromogranin B mRNA concentrations were persistently increased in granule cells (but not in pyramidal cells) of the hippocampus (suprapyramidal blade, 450%) and in cortical areas (250%) at all time intervals after kainic acid injection (12 h to 60 days). Accordingly chromogranin B immunoreactivity was enhanced in the terminal field of mossy fibers and in the inner part of the molecular layer 30 days after kainic acid. Secretogranin II immunoreactivity was also markedly increased in CA1, the paraventricular thalamic nucleus and in the central amygdala. In rats kindled with pentylenetetrazol only chromogranin B (by 200%) but not secretogranin II mRNA was increased in dentate granule cells. In contrast to the mRNAs of these secretory proteins concentrations of mRNAs encoding synaptin/synaptophysin and p65, two membrane proteins of synaptic vesicles, were not altered in any of these brain structures. These data demonstrate that in brain the biosynthesis of chromogranin B and secretogranin II is regulated like that of neuropeptides which is consistent with a role of these secretory polypeptides as precursors of functional peptides. Activation of neurons induces an increased synthesis of neuropeptides but not a concomitant synthesis of membrane proteins of synaptic vesicle. This might lead to an increased quantal content available for transmission.
1330660: !synaptophysin Adriamycin promotes neurite outgrowth in the "neurite-minus" N1A-103 mouse neuroblastoma cell line. Adriamycin, an anticancer agent acting on topoisomerase II, promotes the arrest of cell division and neurite extension in a "neurite-minus" murine neuroblastoma cell line, N1A-103. This morphological differentiation is accompanied by a blockade in the S phase of the cell cycle, modification of the amount of peripherin, and appearance of the beta 7-tubulin isoform. Yet, adriamycin-induced N1A-103 cells fail to express other neuronal markers, such as long-lasting Ca2+ channels, synaptophysin, and the shift in the proportion of the beta'1 tubulin isoform to the beta'2 isoform, whose appearance parallels the terminal differentiation of the wild type neuroblastoma cell line N1E-115. Hence, a comparison of the behavior of these two cell lines leads to the proposal that there are two programs of neuroblastoma differentiation: one where expression is triggered by the arrest of cell division and which is observed in adriamycin-induced N1A-103 variant cells, and the other, presumably occurring further downstream, which would involve further changes in morphogenesis and acquisition of new electrophysiological properties.
1283445: !synaptophysin Reduced GAP-43 message levels are associated with increased neurofibrillary tangle density in the frontal association cortex (area 9) in Alzheimer's disease. We previously suggested the hypothesis that defective neuronal plasticity is a major neurobiological deficit causing the dementia of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We used message levels of the growth-associated protein, GAP-43, as a marker of axonal plasticity to examine the hypothesis of defective neuronal plasticity in AD. When all AD cases are combined, the average level of GAP-43 message in area 9 of the AD frontal association cortex was not significantly different from the level in the comparably aged control cortex. Differentiation of AD cases on the basis of neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) density revealed that in AD cases with high tangle density average GAP-43 message level was reduced fivefold relative to levels in AD cases with low NFT density. AD cases with low neurofibrillary tangle density had levels of GAP-43 message that were not significantly different from the levels of normal controls. Differentiation of AD cases on the basis of neuritic plaque density did not indicate as strong a relationship to GAP-43 message level. The association between neurofibrillary tangle density and GAP-43 message level suggests the hypothesis that neurofibrillary tangles may reduce GAP-43 expression. Data of others show a relationship between high NFT density and reduced levels of synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity and reduced cerebral glucose metabolism. These data combine to suggest a set of AD cases with high NFT density, reduced axonal plasticity, reduced synaptic density, and reduced cerebral glucose metabolism--all variables that may be directly related to the functioning of the brain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1280528: !synaptophysin A new co-culture method utilizing a dual compartment cell-allocation apparatus for observation and identification of synapse formation in vitro. A new co-culture method for observation and identification of synapse formation utilizing dissociated retinal and tectal neurons from 7-day-old chick embryos was developed using a glass apparatus which we named 'Dual Compartment Cell-Allocation Apparatus.' This apparatus enabled us to culture these two types of cells by forming two parallel lanes, each with a dimension of 200 microns by 15 mm and with an interval of 200 microns separating the two lanes, on a collagen-coated cover slip. Infiltration and/or migration of retinal cells into the tectal cell lane was minimal with only 0.15% identified and confirmed with the fluorescence-dye labeling method. Growth of neurites connecting the two lanes was observed within 48 h of culture in a serum-free medium. Double-immunostaining of the culture preparations with anti-neurofilament and anti-synaptophysin antibodies revealed the presence of synaptophysin-hot spots on neurofilament-positive processes connecting the retinal neurons with the tectal neurons, thus confirming the formation of synapses between the neurons of the retinal lane and the neurons of the tectal lane. The dual compartment cell-allocation apparatus has proven itself to be advantageous and useful for studying the formation of synapses between two types of neurons from different origin.
1415903: !synaptophysin Muscle differentiation and clinicopathologic features of gastrointestinal stromal tumors. We analyzed 46 gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) using a panel of antibodies to determine the frequency of smooth muscle differentiation and the relationship of immunophenotype to histopathologic features and clinical behavior. Thirty-six GISTs were classified as benign or malignant based exclusively on clinical behavior; a 2-year minimum follow-up was required for benign lesions. GISTs were immunopositive in the following categories: vimentin 45 of 46, desmin nine of 45, muscle-specific actin (MSA) 36 of 46, alpha-smooth muscle actin (SMA) 34 of 46, chicken gizzard actin-7 zero of 38, cytokeratin two of 46, S100 protein six of 46, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) zero of 46, synaptophysin zero of 46, and chromogranin one of 46. At least one muscle marker was positive in 39 of 46 tumors. Five GISTs were MSA positive/SMA negative, and three were MSA negative/SMA positive. All desmin-positive cases reacted with MSA or SMA. Eight GISTs were positive for vimentin, MSA, SMA, and desmin, whereas seven were vimentin positive only. Compared with the latter, the former tended to be smaller, less often necrotic, and clinically benign (p less than 0.05 for each). All vimentin-positive only GISTs were malignant. Immunohistochemical features did not correlate with tumor site, cellularity, nuclear pleomorphism, or mitotic rate. Benign GISTs were less cellular than were malignant GISTs (p less than 0.05), but they did not differ statistically in degree of nuclear pleomorphism, necrosis, mitotic rate, or size. We conclude that (a) 85% of GISTs react with at least one muscle antibody; (b) immunohistochemical features are unrelated to anatomic site; (c) SMA is, in effect, as sensitive as MSA, whereas desmin is less sensitive; and (d) simultaneous vimentin, MSA, SMA, and desmin positivity correlates with a benign outcome.
1384369: !synaptophysin Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 40 cases. In this study of 40 cases of basaloid squamous cell carcinoma, 83% arose in the pyriform sinus, base of tongue, tonsil, and larynx. The 35 men and five women ranged in age from 27 to 88 years (median 62). In patients for whom social habits were recorded, 24 of 26 patients were smokers and 22 of 25 drank ethanol. Most presented with stage III or IV disease. Twenty-seven patients had regional metastases at the time of presentation and 15 developed distant metastases. Seventeen patients died with disease (median survival 18 months). The tumors were composed of moderately pleomorphic basaloid cells forming nests, cords, and frequent cribriform patterns. Squamous dysplasia of surface mucosa, focal squamous differentiation within invasive basaloid squamous cell carcinoma, or foci of conventional squamous cell carcinoma were present, alone or in combination. All studied neoplasms were immunohistochemically positive for keratins with the 34 beta E12 antibody. Approximately 80% were immunoreactive using AE1/AE3 or CAM 5.2. Epithelial membrane antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen, and S100 protein were found in 83%, 53%, and 39%, respectively, of the cases. Diffuse, weak immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase was seen in 75% of tumors. Synaptophysin, chromogranin, muscle-specific actin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein were absent. Basaloid squamous cell carcinoma has been confused with adenoid cystic carcinoma and small cell undifferentiated carcinoma, but is usually distinguishable in routine hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections, or, in rare problematic cases, with the aid of immunohistochemical studies. Distinction is warranted because the biologic behavior of basaloid squamous cell carcinoma differs from that of both of these lesions.
12106422: !synaptophysin Widespread Distribution of Synaptophysin, a Synaptic Vesicle Glycoprotein, in Growing Neurites and Growth Cones. Synaptophysin, a 38-kD glycoprotein, is one of the most abundant of the integral membrane proteins of small synaptic vesicles. The protein is widely distributed at synapses throughout the nervous system, where it is believed to be involved in the exocytosis of stored neurotransmitter. We show here that synaptophysin is also widely expressed in growing neurites and growth cones both in vitro and in vivo. In dissociated rat cerebral cortical cultures anti-synaptophysin antiserum (G-95) stains growth cones punctately as soon as they emerge from the cell body. In early cultures all neurites are immunoreactive. Later, synaptophysin is redistributed to become concentrated in axonal varicosities. In developing rat embryos, synaptophysin is expressed in the growing axons of, for instance, the spinal commissural interneurons and the parallel fibres of the cerebellar granule cells long before these neurons have established synaptic connections. These observations suggest that synaptic vesicle proteins like synaptophysin are functionally important in neuronal development.
1457988: !synaptophysin Expression of neuronal and glial markers in so-called oligodendroglial tumors induced by transplacental administration of ethyl-nitrosourea in the rat. A series of 18 tumors with histological features of oligodendrogliomas, induced in the rat by means of transplacental ethyl-nitrosourea administration were studied for immunohistochemical demonstration of neuronal (synaptophysin and neurofilament protein) and glial (gliofibrillar acidic protein and vimentin) markers. Most of the tumors showed cells with strong positivity to synaptophysin and to a lesser degree, to neurofilament protein, suggesting the neuronal character of these neoplasms. In 10 tumors, cells with strong positivity to vimentin were found, and in three cases, tumoral cells expressed gliofibrillar acidic protein. The observation that ENU-induced oligodendroglial tumors express neuronal and, to a minor degree, glial markers, suggests their interpretation as primitive neuroectodermal tumors with clear neuronal differentiation.
1449219: !synaptophysin The hypoglossal-facial anastomosis as model of neuronal plasticity in the rat. Hypoglossal-facial cross anastomosis (HFA) causes regeneration with change of function, as the axotomized hypoglossal motoneurons sprout into the facial plexus and reinnervate the mimic musculature. Following HFA, hypoglossal-hypoglossal single anastomosis (HHA) and resection of 8-10 mm peripheral hypoglossal nerve in 190 female adult Wistar rats, we compared the axon reactions in the hypoglossal nucleus during 1) regeneration with change of function, 2) regeneration with restoration of original function and 3) degeneration of the nucleus. Following postoperative survival times of 1-16 weeks we estimated the volume of the hypoglossal nucleus and counted the number of hypoglossal neurons with the physical disector on both sides of the brainstem. Additional sections of the same animals were reacted with anti-synaptophysin, anti-GFAP and the isolectin Griffonia simplicifolia I-B4 (GSA I-B4) as cytochemical markers for presynaptic boutons, activated astroglia and microglia. After HHA and HFA all hypoglossal neurons survive and the volume of the hypoglossal nucleus remains constant. Resection of the hypoglossal nerve leads to the loss of one third of the hypoglossal neurons and of one third of the volume of the hypoglossal nucleus within 16 weeks post operation. Hypoglossal-facial anastomosis and hypoglossal-hypoglossal anastomosis differ in postoperative swelling of the hypoglossal nucleus, microglia and astroglia activation and the duration of synaptic stripping. All differences are limited to the acute growth phase during regeneration. It is concluded that hypoglossal-facial anastomosis provides more stimulation and facilitates faster recovery of the hypoglossal nucleus than does hypoglossal-hypoglossal anastomosis.
1429031: !synaptophysin [Carcinoid of the middle ear: a rare tumor with biphasic differentiation. Case report with special reference to immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy]. Progressive unilateral sensorineural deafness and tinnitus developed in a 59-year-old woman over a 1-year period. Clinical examination showed a tumor mass which almost completely filled the tympanic cavity, and grew around the auditory ossicular chain. Histological findings revealed the tumor to be a primary carcinoid of the middle ear. Neuro-endocrine differentiation was confirmed immunohistochemically by positivity for neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, pancreatic polypeptide and synaptophysin. Using electron microscopy, neuroendocrine granules could be visualized. In addition, both light and electron microscopy revealed that cells had an epithelial differentiation with mucin granules while immunohistochemistry showed a positivity for cytokeratins. The detection of intermediary filaments (immunohistochemically with vimentin and under electron microscopy) was unique to this neoplasm and has to be considered in distinguishing the carcinoid tumor from the papillary adenoma of the middle ear. Tumor prognosis is excellent with radical extirpation from the middle ear. In the case presented, there has been no evidence for either recurrence or metastases 10 months after surgical resection.
1384373: !synaptophysin Desmoplastic primitive neuroectodermal tumor with divergent differentiation. Broadening the spectrum of desmoplastic infantile neuroepithelial tumors. We report an unusual large, multicystic, posterior fossa neuroepithelial neoplasm involving the cerebellum, brain-stem, and quadrigeminal cistern of a 9-month-old girl. The neoplasm consisted of variably sized, sharply demarcated nests of small cells with a high nuclear-cytoplasmic ratio and moderately basophilic nuclei, embedded in a desmoplastic, immature-appearing, mesenchymal stroma. The nests contained mitoses but none were seen in the stroma. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), neurofilament protein, synaptophysin, and cytokeratin (AE-1) were expressed in the nests. Mesenchymal cells were negative for neural markers but positive for vimentin and desmin. The neoplasm was interpreted as a mixed mesenchymal and primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) with histologic features reminiscent of a recently described intraabdominal desmoplastic small cell tumor. The tumor responded poorly to chemotherapy and a second operation was performed 1 year later. The second specimen bore no resemblance to the original and consisted of epithelial-like nests and clusters of neoplastic cells frequently interrupted by sinusoidal vessels. Tumor cells had medium-sized vesicular nuclei with small nucleoli, and a granular cytoplasm. Occasional less cellular islands of neuropil-like tissue contained larger cells having eccentric, vesicular nuclei with prominent nucleoli and abundant pink cytoplasm. Mitoses were not conspicuous. Many cells expressed synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, and GFAP. Neurofilament protein was strongly positive in the larger, neuron-like cells and synaptophysin stained the neuropil-like areas strongly but was less prominent in the neuronal perikarya. Unexpectedly, the neuropil-like areas expressed epithelial membrane antigen, whereas the neuronal cells were negative for chromogranin A. The peculiar histologic picture, combination of phenotypic markers, and remarkable biologic behavior of this unusual tumor defies classification according to existing nomenclature and exemplifies the broad range of phenotypes expressed by primitive neuro-epithelial neoplasms.
1361433: !synaptophysin An amphicrine pancreatic cell line: AR42J cells combine exocrine and neuroendocrine properties. The permanent cell culture line AR42J, derived from a rat pancreatic acinar carcinoma, is widely used for functional studies of exocrine pancreatic acinar cells. We now present evidence that these cells are amphicrine in that they contain zymogen granules as well as small (40-80 nm) neuroendocrine (NE) vesicles and typical neurotransmitters. Using the small NE vesicle-specific markers synaptophysin and "protein S.V.2", including synaptophysin cDNA probes, we have found that AR42J cells synthesize these proteins and contain vesicles harboring these proteins with biophysical properties similar to those of small NE vesicles. NE properties of these cells are further indicated by the presence of considerable amounts of stored amino acids (gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glycine, glutamate) and by the presence of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme, glutamic acid decarboxylase. Finally, intermediate filament (IF) protein typing showed only cytokeratins 8 and 18, indicating that AR42J cells possess an IF protein complement indistinguishable from that of acinar and islet cells. Our results document the unusual case of a permanent cell line with combined exocrine and neuroendocrine properties that may be indicative of a derivation from a cell with multipotential character.
1356373: !synaptophysin Antibodies to synaptophysin interfere with transmitter secretion at neuromuscular synapses. The involvement of synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle-specific protein, in transmitter release at neuromuscular synapses was studied by intracellular application of synaptophysin antibodies into presynaptic neurons. Polyclonal antibodies or their Fab fragments were loaded into spinal neurons by injection into one of the early blastomeres of Xenopus embryos 1 day prior to culturing or, alternatively, directly through a whole-cell recording pipette at the soma of cultured neurons. At synapses made by antibody-loaded neurons in culture, the spontaneous synaptic currents showed marked reduction in frequency without significant change in their mean amplitude. The impulse-evoked synaptic currents showed reduced amplitude and increased failure rate. These results suggest that interference with synaptophysin function by antibody binding inhibits transmitter secretion.
1328019: !synaptophysin Small cell (neuroendocrine) carcinoma of the vagina. We report a case of vaginal small cell (neuroendocrine) carcinoma. Immunostaining for neuron-specific enolase, PGP 9.5, chromogranin, synaptophysin, Leu 7 and cytokeratin was positive. Neurosecretory granules were found by electronmicroscopy. There was local recurrence and regional lymph node metastases. The patient survived for 10 months following local surgical therapy only.
1327888: !synaptophysin Postnatal expression of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in canine cerebellum. 1. Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3), an intracellular second messenger, has been shown to be the link between activation of several plasma membrane receptors and Ca2+ release from intracellular, membrane-bound compartments. In this study, the postnatal expression of the canine cerebellum IP3 receptor was investigated by biochemical, ligand binding and immunocytochemical methods. 2. Specific receptor sites for IP3 and the extent of IP3-induced Ca2+ release were quantitated in microsomal fractions isolated from cerebella of developing (0-28 day-old) and adult dogs. The IP3 receptor was detected in newborn animals and adult levels were attained within 3-4 weeks. 3. The time-course of IP3 receptor ontogeny paralleled both growth of Purkinje neurons, as indicated by immunofluorescence of cerebellum cortex cryosections with anti-IP3 receptor antibodies, and synaptogenesis, as judged by Western blotting of the microsomal fractions with anti-synaptophysin antibodies.
1283485: !synaptophysin Effects of nerve growth factor and acetyl-L-carnitine arginyl amide on the human neuronal line HCN-1A. The HCN-1A clonal cell line, derived from the cortical tissue of a patient with unilateral megencephaly, was shown to differentiate into a mature neuronal-like state in the presence of the nerve growth factor, dibutyryl cyclic adenosine, 3',5'-monophosphate and either 1-isobutyl-3-methylxanthine or forskolin. Differentiation was assessed by measuring the percentage of cells that displayed branched, varicose processes that stained for synaptophysin. Treatment of cultures with a cocktail containing forskolin increased immunocytochemical staining for gamma aminobutyric (GABA), neurofilament protein and the nerve growth factor receptor species p75NGFR. Treatment with acetyl-L-carnitine alone had some effects on the cell morphology while acetyl-L-carnitine arginyl amide and nerve growth factor together increased the GABA content. Positive staining levels for the neurotransmitters gamma aminobutyric acid, glutamate, somatostatin, cholecystokinin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were measured quantitatively for HCN-1A under basal conditions.
1281222: !synaptophysin Influence of spinal cord transection on the presence and axonal transport of CGRP-, chromogranin A-, VIP-, synapsin I-, and synaptophysin-like immunoreactivities in rat motor nerve. Using immunofluorescence and cytofluorimetric scanning (CFS), we investigated the short-term (1-7 days) influence of lower thoracic spinal cord transection on lumbar motor neurons. The content of calcitonin gene-related peptide- (CGRP) like immunoreactivity (LI), chromogranin A (Chr A)-LI, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-LI, Syn I-LI, and synaptophysin (p38)-LI in motor perikarya, and the anterograde and retrograde axonal transport of these substances in the sciatic nerve, were studied in nerve crush (6 h) experiments. During the week after transection, CGRP-LI in perikarya decreased, whereas Chr A-LI increased. VIP-LI, co-localized with Chr A-LI in motor perikarya, did not change after transection. The antero- and retrograde transport of CGRP-LI in the sciatic nerve, occurring in both motor and sensory axons, appeared unchanged in cytofluorimetric scanning (CFS) graphs, but the microscopical picture clearly showed that large motor axons had a decreased content of CGRP-LI at 3 and 7 days posttransection, whereas thinner axons were unchanged in fluorescence intensity. The anterograde transport of Chr A-LI, present in both motor and postganglionic adrenergic axons, was decreased 1 and 3 days after lesion, but returned to control by day 7. There was a marked decrease in anterograde transport of VIP-LI, present mainly in postganglionic sympathetic axons, at day 3, but at 7 days transport was normal. The amounts of transported p38, the synaptic vesicle marker, were in the normal range during the whole period. Syn I-LI accumulation anterogradely was somewhat decreased at 3 and 7 days posttransection, and at 1 day the retrograde accumulation was significantly increased. The results suggest that removal of supraspinal input to intact lower motor neurons causes alterations in metabolism and axonal transport of organelle-associated substances, partly probably related to the complex pattern of transmitter leakage from degenerating, descending nerve terminals. These alterations appear to take place also in postganglionic sympathetic neurons in the sciatic nerve, that originate in the lumbar sympathetic chain.
1280146: !synaptophysin Independent effects of age and nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesion: maze learning, cortical neurochemistry, and morphometry. The effects of age and lesion of the cholinergic nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBm) were assessed behaviorally, morphologically, and biochemically. Groups consisted of rats lesioned 1 month before testing, rats lesioned 13 months before testing, and their respective age-matched controls. Both age and lesion independently induced behavioral deficits in performance on two water maze tasks. The combined effect of these two factors produced behavioral deficits equal to the sum of the individual impairments. NBm lesion produced a 28% decrease in anterior cortical choline acetyltransferase activity and a 20% decrease in synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the neocortex that was stable over a 12-month period. Neither neuritic plaque nor neurofibrillary-tanglelike structures were found in the brains of 18-month-old control rats, nor were they found in NBm-lesioned rats examined 15 months postlesion. There was an age-related decrease in homovanillic acid levels in both control and NBm groups, which suggests a decrease in dopamine turnover. These results show a lack of biochemical and behavioral recovery after NBm lesion and suggest that the effects of age on behavior are independent of NBm-cortical dysfunction.
1411400: !synaptophysin [Decrease in general health status, febrile state and sinusitis in renal insufficiency]. A 59-year old man, dialysed for 9 years because of chronic renal failure of unknown etiology, was also suffering from a hypertensive cardiopathy and anemia. He has received more than 70 units of blood over the past few years. An elevated blood aluminium level prompted treatment with desferrioxamine for 3 years. Following episodes of melena, an intestinal-wall lesion, located 8 cm above the ileo-caecal valve was discovered. Blood serotonin levels were elevated; biopsy of the liver revealed tumor cells with round-shaped nuclei which stained positive for synaptophysin, findings compatible with a carcinoid tumor or a pancreatic islet-cells tumor. Considering the whole clinical situation, aggressive diagnostic of therapeutic measures were not pursued any further. The patient lost 8 kg over the next few months and was finally hospitalised with fever. Physical examination revealed ascites, edema and a gingival abscess which was drained. Blood cultures grew Klebsiella pneumoniae. Antibiotics were prescribed. A month later the patient complained again of fever accompanied by myalgias, edema and pain of the eyelids, mainly on the right side, pain in the maxillary area and on right eye motion. ENT examination revealed a necrotic lesion of the right middle turbinate which on histology was diagnosed as acute purulent rhinitis without granuloma or vasculitis. A CT-scan demonstrated mucosal thickening of the left sphenoidal, ethmoidal, frontal and maxillary sinuses without any osteolytic lesions. The patient suffered a sudden right eye blindness with signs of retinal ischemia accompanied by an elevated sedimentation rate of 130 mm. Steroid treatment for suspicion of a temporal arteritis was introduced. 2 days later the patient was rehospitalized in a semi-comatose condition. No new information was gained from the usual laboratory investigations and the physical examination was comparable to the previous hospital stay. Blood cultures remained sterile. He died a few hours later.
1359006: !synaptophysin Establishment of mouse-immortalized hybrid clones expressing characteristics of differentiated neurons derived from the cerebellar and brain stem regions. Two clonal immortalized neurons designated CL8c4.7 and CL8a5.2 were established by somatic cell fusion between a hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase-(HPRT-) deficient neuroblastoma N18TG2 and newborn mouse cerebellar/brain stem neurons. In the serum-containing medium without extra differentiating agents, both clones exhibited a morphology of differentiated neurons. They contained high levels of glutamate but no gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The CL8a5.2 clone synthesized choline acetyltransferase and serotonin. In immunocytochemical studies, both clones expressed 200 kD neurofilament protein, neuron-specific enolase, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), tau protein, neuronal cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM), HNK-1, Thy-1.2, saxitoxin-binding sodium channel protein, and glutamate. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was identified in the neuritic terminals of CL8c4.7 cells. Most of these antigens were barely detectable on N18TG2 cells. Electrophysiologically, both clones generated action potentials in response to electrical stimuli. The hybrid clones that express characteristics of differentiated neurons derived from the cerebellar and brain stem regions might be invaluable for the study of the molecular basis of neuronal differentiation and degeneration in these regions.
1356594: !synaptophysin Axonal regeneration after spinal cord transection and reconstruction. Following complete transection of the spinal cord, cats were separated into 2 groups to undergo: (i) surgical reconstruction of the disconnected cord using a neuroactive agent mixed into a collagen matrix bridge and omental transposition and (ii) cord transection-only. After 90 days, animals were killed and the brain and spinal cord were removed for immunohistochemistry. Two weeks prior to sacrifice, spinal cord blood flows were measured and the retrograde axonal tracer Fluoro-Gold was injected below the transection site. Gross inspection of the spinal cords at autopsy showed excellent integration and continuity of the collagen matrix bridge with the proximal-distal stumps in the surgical reconstruction group. In the transection-only group, the proximal-distal stumps were connected by a fibrotic, often tapered in the middle, tissue bridge. Results show that omental transposition in the surgical reconstruction group increased spinal cord blood flow by 58% when compared to transection-only animals. Fluoro-Gold was found in mesencephalic and brainstem catecholaminergic and cholinergic neurons known to send axons to the spinal cord. Immunohistochemical staining with antibodies against catecholamine synthesizing enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) showed that surgical reconstruction treated cat cords but not transection-only, developed dense bundles of dopaminergic and noradrenergic fibers which were present in the collagen matrix bridge and in the distal spinal cord. Extension of these catecholaminergic fibers in surgical reconstruction treated cats showed maximal outgrowth of 90 mm below the transection site when the neuroactive agent 4-aminopyridine was mixed into the collagen matrix. In addition, the synaptogenic marker synaptophysin (SYN) was observed on preganglionic sympathetic neurons in association with dopaminergic- and noradrenergic-containing varicosities distal to the collagen matrix bridge, an indication that neo-synaptic contacts may have been made on these previously denervated neurons. No TH, DBH or SYN was observed below the transection site in transection-only cats. These findings indicate that surgical reconstruction treated cords can develop dense supraspinal fiber outgrowth across a treated collagen matrix bridge fed by an omental blood supply and that these fibers may have made neo-synaptic contacts with appropriate distal spinal cord target tissue.
1327416: !synaptophysin Mouse telencephalon exhibits an age-related decrease in glutamate (AMPA) receptors but no change in nerve terminal markers. The central excitatory amino acid receptor selective for alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) was examined in brain tissue from mice at 3 and 25 months after birth. Antibodies against the rat GluR-A glutamate receptor subunit (selective for kainate and AMPA) labeled a mouse brain component of about M(r) 100,000. Telencephalic tissue from the older group of mice exhibited 31% less immunoreactivity towards this component as compared with that from the young group. Binding of [3H]AMPA also decreased with age in the telencephalon to an extent which was similar to the loss of receptor immunoreactivity. Scatchard analysis revealed that this reduction is due to a decrease in receptor density and not to a change in binding affinity. In contrast, there were only small age-related changes in AMPA receptor immunoreactivity and binding levels in the brain stem and cerebellum. Binding to dopamine, serotonin, or GABA receptors was not significantly reduced in the older mice. Since the nerve terminal markers synaptophysin and the SV2 glycoprotein were not detectably different in the two groups of mice, the age-related reduction in AMPA receptors is not likely to be due to a general decrease in synaptic density. These data suggest that glutamatergic neurotransmission mediated by AMPA-type receptors is selectively impaired with aging in the telencephalon.
1518519: !synaptophysin Development of calcitonin-gene-related peptide, chromogranin A, and synaptic vesicle markers in rat motor endplates, studied using immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning. The presence of calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) and chromogranin A was investigated in the developing rat (E18-adult) motor system, using immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning, and compared with synaptic vesicle markers, synaptophysin and synapsin I. In lumbar motor perikarya CGRP-LI and Chr A-LI were present in high intensities in E18 and P1 perikarya in the anterior horn. With increasing age immunoreactivity decreased. Chr A-LI was sparse in the adult. In peroneal endplates, p38-LI and SYN I-LI were present in all stages, including E18. Peptide-LI was very weak or absent in early stages (E18 and P1), but abundant in P8 and P18, especially CGRP-LI, and decreased again in P32 and adult animals. These observations indicate that the peptides have precise functions during certain developmental stages, possibly related to synapse maturation, receptor concentration, and reduction of supernumerary endplates. Both peptides are rapidly transported anterogradely in adult motor axons, and may serve physiological functions also in the adult.
1511732: !synaptophysin Retinoic acid- and staurosporine-induced bidirectional differentiation of human neuroblastoma cell lines. The differentiation pattern of two related human neuroblastoma cell lines, SK-N-SHF and SK-N-SHN, induced by retinoic acid and staurosporine was studied. Immunohistochemical and electron microscopic examination of the cells indicated that the SHF variant could undergo differentiation along a melanocytic route when treated with retinoic acid and to neuronal cells when treated with retionic acid and staurosporine together. Treatment of SHN cells with either or both these agents caused neuronal differentiation. The melanocytic pathway was characterized in part by the flattening of the cells, the appearance of melanocytic antigens and various forms of melanosomes, an increase in tyrosinase activity, and the absence of neuronal marker proteins. The neuronal route was typified by the development of long neuritic processes containing microtubules and numerous neurosecretory granules as well as by immunohistochemical reactions for neural cell adhesion molecule, synaptophysin, and neurofilament proteins. The significance of these results is discussed in terms of the differentiation responses of neuroblastoma cells to chemical agents as well as some of the factors involved in the regulation of phenotype expressions of these cells.
1453474: !synaptophysin Differential expression of the presynaptic protein SNAP-25 in mammalian retina. We have studied the expression of the nerve terminal protein synaptosomal associated protein 25 (SNAP-25) in the retina of adult rat, mouse, and monkey, as well as in the developing mouse retina. To evaluate SNAP-25 expression, its distribution was compared to those of the synaptic vesicle-associated proteins synapsin I and synaptophysin. In situ hybridization in adult rat retinas suggested that SNAP-25 mRNA is mainly expressed by ganglion, amacrine, and horizontal cells, but not by photoreceptors and bipolar cells. In all species, the SNAP-25 polypeptide was most abundant in the inner part of the inner and outer plexiform layers and was also found in the ganglion cell axons. In adult retina, synapsin I and synaptophysin were also mainly localized in synaptic fields and processes but all three proteins showed a distinct pattern of distribution. Finally, in mouse retina, the three proteins were first detectable at embryonic day 16 and subsequently showed developmentally regulated changes in their cellular localization. These results suggest that SNAP-25 is predominantly expressed in specific subtypes of conventional synapses, but not ribbon synapses, and that it may also be involved in the physiology of nonvesicular terminals of horizontal cells. Our study also suggests that combinatorial expression of different components of the presynaptic specialization may contribute to synaptic functional diversity.
1436499: !synaptophysin Developmental pattern and distribution of nerve growth factor low-affinity receptor immunoreactivity in human spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia: comparison with synaptophysin, neurofilament and neuropeptide immunoreactivities. Immunocytochemical expression of the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor was studied in human fetal and adult tissues using the monoclonal antibody ME20.4. In dorsal root ganglia, a few immunoreactive neurons were first detected in nine-week-old fetuses and many more were found in the following weeks of gestation. However, none was present in adult ganglia. The ME20.4-positive cells were larger than neurons immunostained by substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide or galanin antibodies. In the spinal cord, fibres immunostained by ME20.4 appeared in a characteristic pattern that differed from the spatial and temporal distributions of synaptophysin- and neurofilament-immunoreactive fibres. Those expressing the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor were only detected in regions containing collaterals of primary sensory axons: (i) in the dorsal funiculus between seven and 18 weeks of gestation; (ii) in a ventrodorsal bundle reaching the ventral horn from weeks 12-14; (iii) in the medial region of the dorsal horn between weeks 12 and 20; (iv) in the superficial layers and lateral portion of the dorsal horn after the 14th week of gestation and also in adult spinal cord. During the fetal period, ME20.4 immunoreactivity was also found in motoneurons and peripheral nerve fibres in the skin, myotomes and gut. Sheaths of peripheral nerves and the adventitia of blood vessels were stained both in fetal and adult tissues. Thus, the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor is: (i) strongly expressed in the developing human nervous system; (ii) transiently associated with a subset of large primary sensory neurons and with motoneurons; (iii) transiently and sequentially expressed by various groups of sensory afferents to the spinal cord; (iv) permanently expressed by fibres in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn, Clarke's column, nerve sheaths and the adventitia of blood vessels.
1419912: !synaptophysin Neuronal differentiation triggered by blocking cell proliferation. Treatment of the neuroblastoma cell line SHSY5Y with nerve growth factor (NGF) resulted in limited neurite extension, but proliferation continued. However, SHSY5Y cells treated with NGF and a pulse of the DNA polymerase alpha and delta inhibitor aphidicolin showed dramatic neuronal differentiation. Few differentiated cells were observed immediately following the NGF-aphidicolin treatment; however, continued treatment of the cells with NGF in the ensuing week resulted in extension of long neurites (> 400 microns). Neurite extension was not observed for cells treated with aphidicolin alone. Hence, aphidicolin and NGF act synergistically to induce differentiation of SHSY5Y cells. If maintained in NGF, the differentiated cells were stable for at least 1 month and displayed many neuronal characteristics. They were mitotically inactive, and, in contrast to control or NGF-treated cells, the differentiated cells required NGF for survival. The cells expressed multiple microtubule-associated proteins (MAP), including MAP 1A, MAP 1B, and tau. There was expression of synaptic vesicle antigens synaptophysin and SV2, but not synapsin Ia/b or synapsin IIa/b. Both hydroxyurea and thymidine, which inhibit synthesis of nucleotides, act synergistically with NGF to induce differentiation of SHSY5Y cells. Since aphidicolin, hydroxyurea, and thymidine are chemically unrelated, we conclude that these drugs enhance NGF-induced differentiation by blocking cell proliferation and not through an unrelated side effect. The model suggested by these studies is that differentiation is triggered by two simultaneous signals: NGF and cessation of cell proliferation.
1392099: !synaptophysin The neural and neuro-endocrine component of the human thymus. I. Nerve-like structures. The presence of nerve-like fibers in the human thymus was studied by immunohistochemistry on frozen tissue sections and sections of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue, for neurofilaments (Nf) of 68-, 160-, and 200-kDa (neuron-specific structural proteins), neuron-specific protein PGP9.5, tyrosin hydroxylase (noradrenergic innervation), chromogranin A (CHROM), synaptophysin (SYN), and the pituitary hormones follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and its beta-subunit, growth hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, luteinizing hormone, prolactin, beta-subunit of thyroid-stimulating hormone, and somatostatin. Noradrenergic profile-like immunoreactivity was observed in the medulla: immunolabeling was observed also for epithelial cells surrounding Hassall's corpuscles. For neurofilaments, only Nf 160-kDa immunoreactivity was observed in the thymic parenchyma, mainly in long-sized labeling patterns in the medulla. PGP9.5 immunolabeling occurred especially in the cortex, in dendritic labeling patterns compatible with the epithelial network at this location. The medulla showed PGP9.5 immunoreactivity in fiber-like patterns and in large-sized epithelial cells surrounding Hassall's corpuscles. Immunoreactive CHROM was seen in profile-like structures in the subcapsule, cortex, and medulla. SYN immunolabeling occurred focally around Hassall's corpuscles. Profile-like structures immunoreactive for pituitary hormones were observed in the medulla and in less density in the cortex. For FSH the highest density occurred in the cortex, where long-sized profile-like structures were present running over and in between cells, especially in the keratin-positive epithelial dendritic network (two-color immunohistochemistry).
1331003: !synaptophysin Pulmonary large cell carcinoma expressing neuroendocrine markers: the morphological, biological, and neuroendocrine features of their cell lines and surgical cases. A cell line expressing neuroendocrine (NE) markers, designated as KTS9, was established from a human large cell carcinoma of the lung using serum-free medium, ACL-3. KTS9 cells showed morphological characteristics of large cell undifferentiated carcinoma (LCUC) and expressed some general NE markers including neuron-specific enolase (NSE), protein gene product (PGP) 9.5, neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM), synaptophysin and neurofilaments (NF) of 200 kd. Some cells of this cell line were positive to chromogranin-A (CG-A), but did not express Leu7 or aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC). Such a cell line derived from LCUC with NE properties has not previously been reported. The biological and NE properties of the KTS9 cell line were compared with those of 2 surgical cases of LCUC with NE markers and of the KTA7 cell line previously reported to derive from large cell carcinoma and to possess NE markers such as alpha-hCG, PGP9.5 N-CAM and AADC. Tumor cells of 2 large cell carcinomas expressed NSE, PGP9.5, N-CAM and NF. The KTS9 and KTA7 cell lines and 2 large cell carcinomas were thus considered to be LCUCs with NE differentiation. Both lines had the morphological characteristics of LCUC, relatively short doubling time and discordant expression of NE markers, indicating them to be closely related to the variant type of small cell carcinoma cell lines and thus possibly to represent high-grade malignancy. They may be useful for examining the biological behavior and NE features of large cell-type NE tumors of the lung.
1325974: !synaptophysin Clathrin-coated vesicles in nervous tissue are involved primarily in synaptic vesicle recycling. The recycling of synaptic vesicles in nerve terminals is thought to involve clathrin-coated vesicles. However, the properties of nerve terminal coated vesicles have not been characterized. Starting from a preparation of purified nerve terminals obtained from rat brain, we isolated clathrin-coated vesicles by a series of differential and density gradient centrifugation steps. The enrichment of coated vesicles during fractionation was monitored by EM. The final fraction consisted of greater than 90% of coated vesicles, with only negligible contamination by synaptic vesicles. Control experiments revealed that the contribution by coated vesicles derived from the axo-dendritic region or from nonneuronal cells is minimal. The membrane composition of nerve terminal-derived coated vesicles was very similar to that of synaptic vesicles, containing the membrane proteins synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, p29, synaptobrevin and the 116-kD subunit of the vacuolar proton pump, in similar stoichiometric ratios. The small GTP-binding protein rab3A was absent, probably reflecting its dissociation from synaptic vesicles during endocytosis. Immunogold EM revealed that virtually all coated vesicles carried synaptic vesicle proteins, demonstrating that the contribution by coated vesicles derived from other membrane traffic pathways is negligible. Coated vesicles isolated from the whole brain exhibited a similar composition, most of them carrying synaptic vesicle proteins. This indicates that in nervous tissue, coated vesicles function predominantly in the synaptic vesicle pathway. Nerve terminal-derived coated vesicles contained AP-2 adaptor complexes, which is in agreement with their plasmalemmal origin. Furthermore, the neuron-specific coat proteins AP 180 and auxilin, as well as the alpha a1 and alpha c1-adaptins, were enriched in this fraction, suggesting a function for these coat proteins in synaptic vesicle recycling.
1454223: !synaptophysin Cholinergic fiber loss occurs in the absence of synaptophysin depletion in Alzheimer's disease primary visual cortex. The significance of cholinergic degeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD) depends, in part, on whether it is an early event, possibly integral to the progression of the disease, or a late event, occurring only as a secondary effect of cortical degeneration. We have been studying the primary visual cortex in AD cases, on the assumption that the disease process may be retarded in this relatively-spared area, thus providing a 'window' on early AD. In this work, we have quantified acetylcholinesterase fiber density and the density of an immunohistochemical reaction for synaptophysin as measures of cholinergic and total synaptic loss, respectively, in the primary visual cortex of AD and control cases. Cholinergic fibers were depleted to 15% of control values, while synaptophysin density was not significantly altered. Cholinergic degeneration thus appears to occur in the absence of generalized synaptic loss in this area.
19912872: !synaptophysin Effect of chemical depolarization on membrane recycling in hypothalamic neurons in culture. The mechanisms of membrane recycling and endocytic activity have been investigated by morphological methods, following chemical depolarization, in cultured mouse hypothalamic neurons that have developed in vitro fully differentiated synapses. Previous studies with this cell system have shown that short-term (3 min) exposure to a depolarizing concentration of KCl induces a depletion of synaptic vesicles in synaptic boutons. Subsequent return to control medium is followed by a restoration of synaptic vesicle numbers. We have now used horseradish peroxidase (HRP) as a tracer for endocytosis and wheat-germ agglutinin coupled to HRP-gold as a marker for adsorptive endocytosis. In parallel, synaptophysin, a marker for small synaptic vesicles, was simultaneously localized by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry in some experiments. The morphometric analyses and the time course of HRP uptake combined with the distribution of synaptophysin immunostaining indicate that short-term (3 min) depolarization leads to a depletion of synaptic vesicles together with an enhanced endocytic activity via vesicles that possess both the diameter and the major membrane protein, synaptophysin, characteristic of synaptic vesicles. These findings suggest a local, direct recycling mechanism of synaptic vesicles. In contrast, long-term depolarizations (15-30 min) appear to involve additional membrane compartments.
1510033: !synaptophysin Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia in infants with t(1;22)(p13;q13) abnormality. Six infants with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia and a translocation (1;22)(p13;q13) were studied. There were five female infants and one male infant, and the age at initial examination varied from 0.8 to 6.5 months (median, 2.3 months). All the patients had hepatosplenomegaly and anemia (6 to 8.3 g/dL), and four patients had thrombocytopenia (9,000 to 63,000/mm3). The bone marrow showed prominent fibrosis in five cases and reticulin fibrosis in one patient at presentation. Crush artifact often made the histologic sections difficult to interpret, but typical megakaryoblasts could be identified in the smears. Biopsy specimens of the liver and lymph node were suggestive of a nonhematopoietic malignant condition because of the cohesiveness of the tumor cells, stromal fibrosis, and the prominent sinusoidal and vascular pattern of infiltration. Immunophenotyping of peripheral blood mononuclear cells was helpful in identifying the blasts as belonging to the megakaryoblastic lineage. Using a panel of mononclonal antibodies, it was also possible to confirm the nature of the infiltration in paraffin sections and to differentiate it from other childhood small round cell tumors, especially neuroblastoma in paraffin sections (typical staining pattern: CD45-, CD43+, vW Factor, Ulex europeus I+, CD20-, CD45RO-, synaptophysin-, chromogranin-, cytokeratin-, desmin-). This special type of infantile acute leukemia can be recognized with confidence if one is aware of its clinical features, peculiar pathologic characteristics, the morphologic features and immunophenotype of the megakaryoblasts, and the unique cytogenetic abnormality.
1500425: !synaptophysin In AtT20 and HeLa cells brefeldin A induces the fusion of tubular endosomes and changes their distribution and some of their endocytic properties. We have studied the effects of brefeldin A (BFA) on the tubular endosomes in AtT20 and HeLa cells (Tooze, J., and M. Hollinshead. 1991. J. Cell Biol. 115:635-653) by electron microscopy of cells labeled with three endocytic tracers, HRP, BSA-gold, and transferrin conjugated to HRP, and by immunofluorescence microscopy. For the latter we used antibodies specific for transferrin receptor, and, in the case of AtT20 cells, also antibodies specific for synaptophysin. In HeLa cells BFA at concentrations ranging from 1 micrograms to 10 micrograms/ml causes the dispersed patches of network of preexisting tubular early endosomes to be incorporated within 5 min into tubules approximately 50 nm in diameter but up to 40-50 microns long. These long, straight tubular endosomes are aligned along microtubules; they branch relatively infrequently to form an open network or reticulum extending from the cell periphery to the microtubule organizing center (MTOC). As the incubation with BFA is prolonged beyond 5 min, a steady state is reached in which many tubules are located in a dense network enclosing the centrioles, with branches extending in a more open network to the periphery. This effect of BFA, which is fully reversed within 15-30 min of washing out, is inhibited by pre-incubating the cells with sodium azide and 2-deoxy-D-glucose. In AtT20 cells BFA at 5 micrograms/ml or above causes the same sorts of changes, preexisting tubular endosomes are recruited into a more continuous endosomal network, and there is a massive accumulation of this network around the MTOC. Maintenance of the BFA-induced endosomal reticulum in both cell types is dependent upon the integrity of microtubules. In AtT20 cells BFA at 1 microgram/ml has no detectable effect on the early endosomal system but the Golgi stacks are converted to clusters of tubules and vesicles that remain in the region of the MTOC during prolonged incubations. Therefore, the Golgi apparatus in these cells is more sensitive to BFA than the early endosomes. The morphological evidence suggests that all the tubular early endosomes in BFA-treated HeLa and AtT20 cells are linked together in a single reticulum. Consistent with this, incubations as short as 1-3 min with 10 or 20 mg/ml HRP in the medium result in the entire endosomal reticulum in most of the BFA-treated cells being filled with HRP reaction product.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1387811: !synaptophysin Tri-iodothyronine regulates survival and differentiation of rat cerebellar granule neurons. The effects of tri-iodothyronine (T3), which are known to affect cerebellar development, were tested on neuronal survival and differentiation of cultured cerebellar granule neurons. T3 in physiological concentrations increased both granule neuron survival after three days in culture and synaptic vesicle protein formation, as shown by immunostaining with antibodies against synaptophysin. Likewise, T3 increased the mRNA level for synapsin(I), but not that for GAP43 in granule neurons. Antibodies against microtubule associated protein Tau, which is expressed in developing neurites, showed that T3 also enhanced neurite formation.
1322860: !synaptophysin Sinonasal small cell neoplasm developing after radiation therapy for retinoblastoma: an immunohistologic, ultrastructural, and cytogenetic study. Patients with retinoblastoma have an increased risk of developing second primary tumors. Only a few examples of sinonasal small cell neoplasms developing after radiation therapy for retinoblastoma have been reported. We report one such case that developed 18 years after treatment for retinoblastoma. Histologic examination revealed a small, blue, round cell tumor without rosettes or cytoplasmic glycogen. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and S-100 protein, but negative for epithelial and mesenchymal markers, suggesting that this was a primitive neuroectodermal tumor. Cytogenetic studies of this tumor failed to reveal the chromosome 13 abnormality typical of retinoblastoma and the t(11:22) translocation typical of the group of peripheral neuroepitheliomas.
1353905: !synaptophysin Calcium-dependent transmitter secretion reconstituted in Xenopus oocytes: requirement for synaptophysin. Calcium-dependent glutamate secretion was reconstituted in Xenopus oocytes by injecting the oocyte with total rat cerebellar messenger RNA (mRNA). Co-injection of total mRNA with antisense oligonucleotides to synaptophysin message decreased the expression of synaptophysin in the oocyte and reduced the calcium-dependent secretion. A similar effect on secretion was observed for oocytes injected with total mRNA together with an antibody to rat synaptophysin. These results indicate that synaptophysin is necessary for transmitter secretion and that the oocyte expression system may be useful for dissecting the molecular events associated with the secretory process.
1319815: !synaptophysin Sinonasal primitive neuroectodermal tumor arising in a long-term survivor of heritable unilateral retinoblastoma. Patients who survive retinoblastoma (RB) are at risk for having second nonocular tumors, usually osteosarcomas, which often are fatal. Such patients almost always have bilateral RB.
1640325: !synaptophysin Mucosal neuroendocrine cell abnormalities in the colon of patients with Hirschsprung's disease. We studied the distribution of mucosal neuroendocrine (NE) cells in the colon from 13 patients with Hirschsprung's disease (HD) and from 8 controls. Immunohistochemical studies were carried out using monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies against chromogranin A and synaptophysin (general markers of NE cells), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) (a marker of amine), peptide YY (PYY), and somatostatin (markers of neuropeptides). Chromogranin A immunoreactive cells were significantly increased in the aganglionic bowel compared with ganglionic bowel and controls (P less than .05). There was an increase in the number of synaptophysin immunoreactive cells in the aganglionic bowel compared with ganglionic bowel and controls but the results were not statistically significant. 5-HT immunoreactive cells were also significantly increased in the aganglionic bowel compared with ganglionic bowel and controls (P less than .05). The immunostaining for PYY demonstrated abundance of this NE cell type in the aganglionic bowel and this was highly significant compared with ganglionic bowel and controls (P less than .001). There was a significant increase in somatostatin immunoreactive cells in the aganglionic bowel compared with ganglionic bowel (P less than .01). The increase in neuroendocrine cells was found over the entire length of the aganglionic segment in rectosigmoid HD as well as in long-segment HD. These results demonstrating the increased levels of NE cells in the mucosa of aganglionic colon suggest that the NE cells may have a role in regulating the sustained contraction of the aganglionic intestine in HD.
1628617: !synaptophysin Amphiphysin, a novel protein associated with synaptic vesicles. To obtain access to novel proteins of the neuronal synapse, we have raised antisera against proteins of synaptic plasma membranes and used them for immunoscreening brain cDNA expression libraries. One of the newly isolated cDNAs encodes an acidic protein of 75 kDa with a distinct architecture of structural domains and multiple potential phosphorylation sites. Light and electron microscopy employing monospecific antisera raised against the expression product indicate a synapse-specific, presynaptic localization of this protein in many synapses of the chicken and rat nervous system. Its overall distribution in brain is very similar to that of synaptophysin, a ubiquitous protein of synaptic vesicles. In addition to brain, the protein or its mRNA is expressed in adrenal gland and anterior and posterior pituitary, but was not detected in a variety of other tissues. In controlled pore glass chromatography the native protein copurifies with synaptic vesicles and largely remains associated with them under various washing conditions. However, its amino acid sequence is very hydrophilic and it segregates into the aqueous phase in detergent phase partition. An earlier step of synaptic vesicle purification, sucrose cushion centrifugation, separates a vesicle-bound fraction of this protein from an unbound fraction. This seems to be a new, perhaps peripheral, protein of synaptic vesicles for which we propose the name, amphiphysin.
1615372: !synaptophysin Periventricular neurocytoma: a pathological entity. Three cases of periventricular neurocytomas are presented. All patients had a large but well-circumscribed, hyperdense tumor with insignificant contrast enhancement in the lateral and third ventricle, causing hydrocephalus. Calcification was present in one patient. Angiography revealed a blush tumor enhancement in two cases. Surgical removal was complete in two patients and incomplete in one. Light microscopy showed a cell pattern that resembled either ependymoma or oligodendroglioma. However, in all cases the tumor was confirmed to be a neurocytoma by immunocytochemical analysis that showed reactivity for synaptophysin and/or neuron-specific enolase in a high percentage of neoplastic cells. With respect to the literature it is concluded that neurocytomas represent an individual pathological entity of supratentorial midline tumors. Complete surgical removal without irradiation is the recommended treatment.
1612583: !synaptophysin Cauda equina tumor with ependymal and paraganglionic differentiation. We describe the case of a 31-year-old woman who was first treated for a pigmented choroid plexus papilloma of the fourth ventricle. Ten year later, she developed a new tumor in the region of the cauda equina. This second neoplasm contained areas of papillary ependymoma that displayed phosphotungstic acid hematoxylin-positive glial fibers and immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic and S-100 proteins. Areas of ependymoma merged with others that displayed the appearance of a paraganglioma, including lobules and nests of chief cells immunoreactive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin, and serotonin. Satellite cells, but not chief cells, stained for glial fibrillary acidic and S-100 proteins. Electron microscopy showed features of both ependymal and paraganglionic differentiation, including intercellular lumina with microvilli, junctional complexes, cell processes with closely packed filaments, and dense core granules. Our case represents a rare example of a cauda equina neoplasm with simultaneous ependymal and paraganglionic differentiation. To our knowledge, this is the first described example of a tumor of this region showing features of both ependymoma and paraganglioma.
1530108: !synaptophysin Large-cell medulloblastomas. A distinct variant with highly aggressive behavior. We present four cases of infantile cerebellar neoplasms composed of cells with large vesicular nuclei with prominent nucleoli. All four cases were strongly immunoreactive for synaptophysin, and one case showed immunoreactivity for neurofilaments. Filter hybridization for N-myc and c-myc oncogenes showed a 27-fold c-myc amplification in one case. The cytogenetic analysis in this case showed Double-Minutes and isochromosome 17q. An intracerebral xenograft in nude mice obtained from one such tumor showed a similar morphology to that of the original tumor as well as strong immunoreactivity for synaptophysin and neurofilaments. All the neoplasms were characterized by highly aggressive behavior leading to early cerebrospinal fluid dissemination despite radiotherapy and chemotherapy. We conclude that large-cell medulloblastoma represents a distinct and more aggressive variant of medulloblastoma that requires more aggressive therapy.
1436476: !synaptophysin Effects of nerve growth factor on the biosynthesis of chromogranin A and B, secretogranin II and carboxypeptidase H in rat PC12 cells. We investigated the biosynthesis of various constituents (chromogranins A and B, secretogranin II, carboxypeptidase H and synaptin/synaptophysin) of large dense core and small vesicles in PC12 cells. These cells were treated for up to 18 days with nerve growth factor. Peptide levels were determined by quantitative immunoblotting, their mRNAs by Northern blotting. Nerve growth factor treatment changed the levels of the various peptides investigated and their mRNAs in three patterns. Peptide and mRNA levels for chromogranin A and chromogranin B were increased on day 1 and then declined. Synaptin/synaptophysin levels slightly decreased from day 1 onwards. On the other hand secretogranin II increased steadily up to 217% for peptide levels and 257% for mRNA levels. For carboxypeptidase H for which only the mRNA could be determined an analogous behaviour was seen. Its mRNA after 14 days of nerve growth factor treatment was 459% of controls. These results establish that the biosynthesis of the secretory proteins chromogranin A, chromogranin B and secretogranin II is regulated differentially during nerve growth factor treatment. We suggest that neuronal differentiation is accompanied by an increased biosynthesis of secretogranin II. For carboxypeptidase H, the marked increase in mRNA levels after nerve growth factor treatment is the first example that the biosynthesis of this peptide is significantly up-regulated. Synaptin/synaptophysin biosynthesis is not increased although this peptide is a major constituent of small vesicles which increase in number during nerve growth factor treatment.
1377804: !synaptophysin Epitope analysis of senile plaque components in the hippocampus of patients with Parkinson's disease. We conducted an epitope analysis of senile plaque (SP) proteins on hippocampal SPs in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), using a library of antibodies to proteins implicated in the genesis of hippocampal SPs in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The library included antibodies to the beta-amyloid protein (beta-AP), domains outside the beta-AP in beta-amyloid precursor proteins (beta-APPs), ubiquitin, diverse neuronal cytoskeletal proteins, and polypeptides located mainly in axon terminals. We obtained samples of hippocampus at autopsy from 14 PD patients, 10 of whom were demented. As in the AD hippocampus, the SPs detected by conventional stains in five of the 10 demented subjects contained the beta-AP and flanking domains in beta-APPs as well as epitopes in tau, neurofilament proteins, and synaptophysin. Further, with the exception of the beta-AP, epitopes in the other proteins were confined to the coronas of SPs, while clathrin light chain, microtubule-associated protein 5, and neural cell adhesion molecules were almost undetectable or absent in the neuropil occupied by SPs. The same group of antibodies rarely labeled SPs in the other five demented PD subjects or in the four nondemented PD subjects, and conventional stains for amyloid and neurofibrillary pathology revealed rare SPs in these cases. Hence, when conventional stains reveal lesions diagnostic of AD in PD patients, the molecular features of the hippocampal SPs in these patients are the same as those in SPs of the AD hippocampus.
1601842: !synaptophysin Members of the VAMP family of synaptic vesicle proteins are components of glucose transporter-containing vesicles from rat adipocytes. Existing data support the hypothesis that insulin triggers the exocytosis of small vesicles containing the GluT4 isoform of the glucose transporter. The data also suggest that these vesicles reform through endocytosis of GluT4. These processes resemble those described for synaptic vesicles after depolarization of nerve cells. To determine whether GluT4 vesicles are related to synaptic vesicles, rat adipocyte low density microsomes (LDM), which are rich in GluT4 vesicles, were screened for the synaptic vesicle proteins synaptotagmin, synaptophysin, SV2, p29, rab3, and VAMP (synaptobrevin) by immunoblotting. Two polypeptides that reacted with antibodies against the VAMPs were identified, one with the same apparent size as the two isoforms of VAMP in the brain (18 kDa) and one that was slightly smaller (17 kDa). These members of the VAMP family were highly enriched in GluT4 vesicles isolated by immunoadsorption and translocated from the LDM to the plasma membrane in response to insulin. With the exception of rab3, which was observed in the LDM but was not localized in the GluT4 vesicles, the other synaptic vesicle proteins were not detected. The presence of the VAMPs in both GluT4 and synaptic vesicles suggests that the genesis and/or exocytosis of these two types of vesicles involve shared processes.
32138406: !synaptophysin Hypothalamic neurocytoma with vasopressin immunoreactivity: Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations. Hypothalamic tumors of neuronal derivation are rare. We describe the case of a 55-year-old woman with visual disturbances who was found by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to have a sellar and suprasellar tumor. She underwent subtotal surgical resection by a transsphe-noidal approach. By light microscopy the tumor displayed a uniform population of short spindle cells with round to oval nuclei, separated by an abundant fibrillary stroma containing axonal processes as shown by the Bodian stain. The neoplastic cells were immunoreactive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin, and vasopressin, and nonimmunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), bombesin, chromogranin, neurofilament, cytokeratins (high and low molecular weight), vimentin, S100 protein, somatostatin, β-endorphin, galactosamine, growth hormone-releasing hormone (GRH), neurophysin, serotonin, adrenaline and noradrenaline, and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). Ultrastructural features included an abundance of neurosecretory granules within neurites and perinuclear cytoplasm. Synapses and glial stroma were not demonstrable. The term hypothalamic neurocytoma delineates this neuronal tumor with distinctive histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features. The identification of vasopressin within the tumor provides evidence of neuroendocrine function.
1378890: !synaptophysin A neuroendocrine cause of oncogenic osteomalacia. All definite cases of oncogenic osteomalacia have, until now, been classified as mesenchymal tumours. We report here a case of oncogenic osteomalacia caused by a spinal tumour. Microscopically, it resembled the mixed connective tissue variant of previously described phosphaturic tumours. Immunohistochemical studies, however, showed the tumour cells to be positive for low molecular weight cytokeratin (CAM 5.2), S100 protein, PGP 9.5, and synaptophysin. Electron microscopy demonstrated neurosecretory granules. The histopathological findings strongly suggest that this is a neuroendocrine tumour.
1374414: !synaptophysin Specific association of the proto-oncogene product pp60c-src with an intracellular organelle, the PC12 synaptic vesicle. The protein product of the proto-oncogene c-src is a membrane-associated tyrosine kinase of unknown function. Identification of pp60c-src target membranes may elucidate the function of the c-src protein. The available evidence indicates that pp60c-src associates with distinct membranes within single cell types and has different distributions in different cell types. Our experiments demonstrate targeting of pp60c-src to an isolatable and biochemically identified membrane fraction in the neuroendocrine cell line PC12. The c-src protein was found to be specifically associated with synaptic vesicles since: (a) the pp60c-src immunofluorescent pattern overlapped with a synaptic vesicle marker, synaptophysin; (b) a significant proportion (44%) of the pp60c-src from PC12 but not fibroblast postnuclear supernatants was recovered in a small vesicle fraction; (c) an anti-synaptophysin cytoplasmic domain antibody immunodepleted all of the pp60c-src vesicles in this fraction, and (d) pp60c-src copurified during a 100-fold purification of PC12 synaptic vesicles. These results suggest a role for the c-src protein in the regulation of synaptic vesicle function.
1351366: !synaptophysin Abnormal isoform of prion proteins accumulates in the synaptic structures of the central nervous system in patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. A new method, which enabled the first immunohistochemical documentation of abnormal prion protein (PrP) in all patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), was established. This method designated as "hydrolytic autoclaving" revealed punctate PrPCJD stainings around the neuronal cell bodies and dendrites in CJD brains. These punctate stainings were almost identical with that of synaptophysin, suggesting PrPCJD accumulations in the synaptic structures. Subcellular fractionation revealed that prion protein in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (PrPCJD) was most concentrated in the synaptosomal fraction. In CJD patients with a long clinical course, synaptophysin immunoreactivity decreased, and synaptic PrPCJD accumulated with a wider distribution. These results suggest that synaptic PrPCJD accumulations might be responsible for the neuronal dysfunction and degeneration in CJD.
1325529: !synaptophysin Cystic islet cell tumors of the pancreas. A clinico-pathological report of two nonfunctioning cases and review of the literature. Cystic islet cell tumors of the pancreas are extremely rare. The authors report their personal experience with two cases of nonfunctioning cystic endocrine neoplasms. The tumor was diagnosed preoperatively in one case by ultrasonography (US)-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology, while in the other it was identified only in the surgical specimen after a clinical-radiologic diagnosis of pancreatic mucinous cystic tumor. Immunohistochemical assay showed positivity for the generic neuroendocrine markers (neuron specific enolase, or NSE, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A) in both cases and also for glucagon in one case. The neoplasms were resected by distal pancreatectomy with splenectomy and intermediate pancreatectomy respectively. Both patients are alive and recurrence-free 6 mo and 2.5 yr, respectively, after surgery. The authors also review the existing literature, discussing the pathogenesis of such tumors and the imaging techniques and surgical strategies adopted in their management.
1317668: !synaptophysin Large cell carcinoma of the lung with neuroendocrine differentiation. A comparison with large cell "undifferentiated" pulmonary tumors. Twelve large cell carcinomas of the lung showing evidence of neuroendocrine differentiation (LCCND) were compared with 15 other large cell pulmonary tumors that lacked such features (NELCUC). All lesions were composed of partially necrotic, nested, or sheet-like arrays of mitotically active, nucleolated large cells that were at least twice the size of those seen in small cell carcinomas. Examples of LCCND were defined by immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase, Leu-7, synaptophysin, and chromogranin-A, and by their content of neurosecretory granules on electron microscopy. NELCUCs were devoid of these immunohistologic and ultrastructural features. There were six women and six men with LCCND, who ranged in age from 38 to 82 years. Of nine individuals in this group with Stage T1NOMO or T2NOMO disease at diagnosis, five (55%) died of their neoplasms within 3 years of diagnosis; three more (33%) have recurrent or persistent tumors and are likely to die as a result. On the other hand, 47% of patients with NELCUC of similar stages are free of disease after a similar follow-up period. LCCND is a distinctive clinicopathologic disease and should not be classified with unspecified large cell anaplastic carcinomas of the lung. Its behavior is potentially aggressive and may justify consideration of a specialized treatment protocol. Because electron microscopic evaluation of immunohistologic features must be done to recognize LCCND, it is probably underdiagnosed.
1625766: !synaptophysin Regional synaptic pathology in Alzheimer's disease. Synaptic pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) may occur diffusely or may have regional predilections. A new antibody called EP10 which detects synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity was used to study synapses in postmortem brain tissue. Four brain regions from cases of AD and controls were studied. Controls with a wide range of ages were used to investigate the possibility of age-related changes in synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity. A significant reduction in the EP10 antigen was observed to occur with age in the control caudate but not in the hippocampus or temporal or occipital cortices. Antigen levels were significantly reduced in the hippocampus (77%) and the temporal cortex (54%) in AD. The expected abnormal pallor of the outer two-thirds of the dentate gyrus molecular layer was observed with immunocytochemistry. In the temporal cortex, the reduction in synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity was inversely correlated with the neurofibrillary tangle count. No such relationship existed in the hippocampus. These results suggest that at least certain components of the synaptic loss in AD occur regionally and are disproportionately large in the hippocampus.
1564538: !synaptophysin Intraventricular neurocytoma: clinicopathological analysis of seven cases. A retrospective analysis of seven patients with intraventricular neurocytoma is presented. Patient age at diagnosis ranged from 15 to 38 years (mean 24.6 years) and the male:female ratio was 6:1. Raised intracranial pressure due to hydrocephalus was the main cause of the clinical manifestations. An isodense mass with multiple intratumoral cysts and homogeneous contrast enhancement was the characteristic computerized tomography finding. The lesions commonly involved the lateral ventricle with or without extension to the third ventricle. Cerebral angiography showed homogeneous vascular staining in five patients. Magnetic resonance images revealed a mass isointense with the cerebral cortex on both T1- and T2-weighted images. Gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid-enhanced images showed homogeneous enhancement. Total removal of the tumor was possible in four patients. Pathologically, six cases were initially diagnosed as oligodendroglioma and the remaining case as ependymoma. However, immunohistochemical studies demonstrated strong positivity for neuron-specific enolase in all seven cases and for synaptophysin in five cases. On electron microscopy, three cases showed well-defined neurosecretory granules and 10-nm microtubules in their cytoplasm and cytoplasmic processes. One patient developed a recurrent tumor 18 months after surgery. The remaining six patients are free of recurrent tumors at 2 to 62 months after surgery. It is suggested that neurocytoma must be included in the differential diagnosis of intraventricular lesions, and that electron microscopic and immunohistochemical studies should be undertaken.
1521725: !synaptophysin Enrichment of beta cells from the human fetal pancreas by fluorescence activated cell sorting with a new monoclonal antibody. The aim of this study was to produce an antibody reactive to the surface of endocrine pancreatic cells and use this antibody for the purification of endocrine cells from the human fetal pancreas by fluorescence activated cell sorting. We describe such an antibody, called N1, reacting with the surface and cytoplasm of endocrine cells in the adult and fetal human pancreas (12 to 18 weeks gestational age). While unreactive to exocrine and mesenchymal cells, it was not specific for endocrine cells, as evidenced by its staining pattern in tissues other than pancreas. Almost 40% of the N1-positive pancreatic cells contained either insulin, glucagon or somatostatin. Conversely, more than 90% of each of the hormone-containing cells was N1 positive. An additional 40% of N1-positive cells, not containing other pancreatic hormones, was shown to contain islet amyloid polypeptide, synaptophysin, chromogranin, tyrosine hydroxylase or CA812. A two-step collagenase digestion protocol yielded 1.29 +/- 0.17 x 10(5) cells per mg pancreatic tissue. After Percoll gradient centrifugation, the suspension contained 15.6 +/- 5.7% (n = 25, mean +/- SD) cells reactive with N1. By fluorescence activated cell sorting using the antibody N1, the single-cell suspension was enriched from 3.0 +/- 1.4% to 16.2 +/- 4.8% (n = 10, p less than 0.01) Beta cells. Alpha and Delta cells were also enriched significantly by this procedure. The percentage of N1-positive cells increased from 17 +/- 4% to 83 +/- 6%. This preparation enriched for endocrine cells allows future studies on possible endocrine precursor cells.
1498093: !synaptophysin Epidermal Merkel cells in psoriatic lesions: immunohistochemical investigations on neuroendocrine antigen expression. Biopsy specimens from lesional psoriatic skin and from normal controls were investigated by immunohistochemistry for the presence of epidermal Merkel cells (MC). MC were defined as epidermal cells expressing simple-type keratins, i.e. nos. 8, 18, and 19. A significant number of MC could be found at the bottom of the rete ridges of psoriatic lesions (about 19.6 MC per square mm skin surface area) and of normal skin (about 14.0 MC per square mm surface area). In contrast to normal skin, MC of psoriatic lesions were positive for synaptophysin (21.7% of simple-type keratin positive epidermal cells, i.e. MC), pancreatic polypeptide (14.8%), somatostatin (7.0%), and chromogranin A (less than 3%). The immunostaining was rather faint though significantly different from normal skin. The findings suggest that in psoriasis, epidermal MC show variations of the expression of neuropeptides compared to normal skin. Since some of the neuropeptides are thought to be involved in hyperproliferation and/or skin immunology, our findings might suggest a functional activity of epidermal MC in psoriatic lesions different from normal controls.
1495935: !synaptophysin Detection of metastatic neuroblastoma in bone marrow biopsy specimens with an antibody to neuron-specific enolase. To verify the practical utility of immunohistochemical analysis of bone marrow biopsy specimens in patients with neuroblastoma, we compared the results of routine histologic examination of 68 specimens with the results of immunohistochemical detection of tumor cells using an antibody to neuron-specific enolase (NSE). A commercially available polyclonal antibody to this enolase isoform consistently reacted with the neoplastic cells in biopsy specimens with histologic features diagnostic of (24 specimens) or suspicious for (one specimen) metastatic neuroblastoma. Immunohistochemical double-staining techniques documented that the NSE-positive neoplastic cells also reacted with antibodies to chromogranin and synaptophysin. Notably, anti-NSE detected small foci of metastatic neuroblastoma in two of 43 biopsy specimens that showed no evidence of metastatic tumor in the initial histologic sections. Rare NSE-reactive hematopoietic cells were present in approximately a third of the specimens with and those without neuroblastoma and were easily distinguished from metastatic tumor by morphologic examination. We conclude that this antibody to NSE consistently detects neuroblastoma cells in routinely processed bone marrow specimens, including small foci of tumor cells not evident in initial histologic sections.
1379604: !synaptophysin Sharing of antigenic epitopes between synaptophysin and granulophysin. The immunological crossreactivity between the two granule-specific membrane glycoproteins, synaptophysin and granulophysin, was studied using a series of site-specific monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies. The epitope relatedness of six monoclonal antibodies against granulophysin was examined by competitive ELISA. The antibodies are shown to recognize distinct, but overlapping epitopes within a compact region that is constructed by the three-dimensional configuration of the molecule. All these antibody clones also recognize rat neuronal synaptophysin. Two monoclonal antibodies against synaptophysin, of which one is the well-characterized SY38 antibody, directed against the carboxy terminal of the molecule, are also shown to react with granulophysin. Characterized polyclonal antibodies against different peptide antigens of synaptophysin failed to recognize granulophysin. Synaptophysin and granulophysin are distinctly recognized in brain cell (white matter) and the pituitary both qualitatively and quantitatively. Based on these and other observations, it is suggested that the repeat motif in the cytoplasmic tail of synaptophysin represents an immunodominant construct that is the target for the observed crossreactive antibodies and that a similar tertiary construct has been preserved in granulophysin and in other transmembrane proteins.
1374091: !synaptophysin Antigenic profile of the human lacrimal gland. The antigenic profile of 13 normal formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded human main and accessory lacrimal glands, biopsied from patients aged 11 to 78 years, was studied using a panel of 27 polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. Secretory cells of lacrimal acini reacted with antibodies to S-100 protein and simple epithelium-type cytokeratins CK 7, CK 8, CK 18, and CK 19. Their luminal membranes were labeled with antibodies to carcinoembryonic antigen, epithelial membrane antigen, and epithelial glycoproteins recognized by Ber-EP4. Myoepithelial cells were often immunopositive for S-100 protein, vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and alpha-smooth muscle actin. More rarely, they reacted with antibodies recognizing CK 5, CK 13, and CK 14, which consistently labeled the basal cells of lacrimal ducts. Unlike myoepithelial cells, basal ductal cells were immunopositive for CK 7, CK 8, CK 18, and CK 19. In main excretory ducts, dendritic melanocyte-like cells co-expressing vimentin and S-100 protein intermingled with ductal epithelial cells. The luminal cells of lacrimal ducts basically paralleled secretory cells in their antigenic profile, although they lacked Ber-EP4 and were immunopositive for CK 4. Antibodies to neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin reacted with nerve fibers among negatively reacting secretory acini. This antigenic profile closely parallels that of salivary glands and provides a basis for studies of lacrimal gland pathology.
1320722: !synaptophysin Identification of an alternatively spliced avian member of the synaptophysin gene family. Synaptic vesicle membrane proteins are important in the release of neurotransmitters and as markers of presynaptic differentiation in neurons, and the synaptophysins are a major class of synaptic vesicle proteins. By low stringency screening of a chick brain cDNA library with a rat synaptophysin probe, we have isolated cDNAs that encode a novel member of the synaptophysin/synaptoporin family. Two different protein-coding forms of the cDNA were found, apparently generated through alternative splicing of a single gene. The deduced proteins, called synaptophysin IIa and synaptophysin IIb, share 258 amino acids (starting from position 10 in IIa and position 30 in IIb), that are most closely related to the rat synaptoporin sequence. The N-terminal sequence of IIa is similar to that of rat synaptoporin, and the N-terminal sequence of IIb is similar to that of rat synaptophysin. Northern blot analysis and nuclease protection experiments demonstrate that IIa and IIb are expressed in a variety of brain regions, the spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglia, but not in non-neuronal tissues. Further, the two splice variants are differentially distributed. In most brain regions the IIb form predominates, and the cerebellum appears to express only the IIb form, but the IIa form is relatively elevated in peripheral neurons. Western blot analysis with an antibody to a synthetic peptide common to both forms demonstrates the expression of synaptophysin II as a 39 kDa protein, apparently distinct from synaptophysin (40 kDa). The results suggest that the regulation and function of the synaptophysin gene family is more complex than had been appreciated.
1328956: !synaptophysin Development of glycine receptor alpha subunit in cultivated rat spinal neurons: an immunocytochemical study. Ontogenesis of the inhibitory glycine receptor was studied up to 12 days in vitro in spinal neurons placed previously in culture at embryonic day 14. The alpha subunit of the receptor was detected using standard and confocal immunofluorescence and a specific monoclonal antibody. The immunostaining was compared to that of synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle antigen, which was taken as an index of synaptic maturity. Glycine receptors could be detected intracellularly, and not at the cellular surface in some cells as early as 2-3 days in vitro (DIV) prior to any synaptic contact. At 4-5 DIV, the number of cells which expressed the immunoreactivity and the fluorescence intensity increased. At this stage, spherical fluorescent blobs started to migrate in the neurites. From 6 DIV, the glycine receptor alpha subunit was detected at the neuronal surface and was organized in clusters whose number increased progressively with time. From 7 DIV, the intrasomatic immunoreactivity decreased, and at day 12, the pattern of labelling was similar to that observed in the adult spinal cord. A diffuse presence of the receptor at the surface of neurons could never be visualised, and when detected, the glycine receptors were always clustered. Thus, the increasing expression of clusters of glycine receptors at the neuronal surface was paralleled by that of synaptophysin in neuritic varicosities. These data suggest that transport of glycine receptors to the plasmamembrane and the formation of aggregates occurs simultaneously to synaptogenesis.
1522178: !synaptophysin Simultaneous purification of the neuroproteins synapsin I and synaptophysin. A procedure for the simultaneous purification of synapsin I and synaptophysin from calf brain was developed. Demyelinated membranes were extracted with 2% Triton X-100 and 2 M KCl. The extracted proteins were separated by weak cation-exchange chromatography on carboxymethyl-Sepharose Fast Flow. Synaptophysin was finally purified by preparative sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamine gel electrophoresis and synapsin I by affinity chromatography using a calmodulin-Sepharose column. The recovery obtained was 40 micrograms/g in brain for synaptophysin and 25 micrograms/g in brain for synapsin I.
1625992: !synaptophysin Cushing syndrome-associated pheochromocytoma and adrenal carcinoma. An immunohistological investigation. Seven adrenal carcinomas and seventeen pheochromocytomas (PHs), two of which were clinically associated with a Cushing's syndrome and one associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia Type II (MEN-II), were investigated immunohistologically with a panel of antibodies against intermediate filament proteins, a proliferation-associated nuclear antigen (Ki-67), neuroendocrine tumor markers, and different hormones on paraffin-embedded tissue sections and, from 19 cases, also on frozen tissue sections. Synaptophysin proved to be the most reliable tumor cell marker on both snap-frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue but, like antibodies against NSE, yielded unspecific stainings in the carcinomas. The two Cushing-associated pheochromocytomas (CaPH) showed the same immunohistological profile as the other PHs, except one chromogranin-negative tumor. Five PHs showed weak reactivity for calcitonin, one for serotonin, and two for a-HCG in small amounts. All PHs lacked other hormone expression, including ACTH. The average growth fraction was small (2.2%) in 13 cases, but 80% of the tumor cells were proliferating in one case of CaPH. Adrenal carcinomas showed only weak or no expression of keratin in one case, a homogenous or droplet, non-filamentous cytoplasmic staining with antibodies against neurofilament in frozen tissue section, and they were completely chromogranin-negative. The average growth fraction was 7.6% in 5 cases.
1548954: !synaptophysin Primary malignant ependymoma of the lung. In a 64-year-old woman, a solitary pulmonary nodule developed 30 months after combination chemotherapy and thoracic irradiation had been administered for small-cell carcinoma of the ipsilateral lung. No evidence of extrapulmonary tumor was identified, and the nodule was excised. The well-circumscribed tumor had histologic features of a malignant ependymoma. Immunohistochemical staining showed strong reactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein; staining for S-100 protein, Leu-7, and vimentin was less intense. Focal reactivity for epithelial membrane antigen was also present. Stains for keratin, synaptophysin, and chromogranin were negative. Electron microscopy showed cohesive cells, the cytoplasm of which contained intermediate filaments. Rare well-formed junctions were also noted. Flow cytometry of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue demonstrated DNA aneuploidy. Six months after the ependymoma was diagnosed, the patient, who had a history of hypertension, died of an intracerebral hemorrhage.
1382559: !synaptophysin Two malignant peripheral primitive neuroepithelial tumor cell lines established from consecutive samples of one patient: characterization and cytogenetic analysis. A 6-year-old girl presented with a tumor of the right shoulder involving bone, adjacent soft tissue, and regional lymph nodes. The conventional histologic diagnosis was ambiguous, initially suggesting lymphoma. After relapse on lymphoma therapy, reevaluation with additional multiple diagnostic techniques performed on the biopsy tissue and on two cell lines derived from the biopsies established the diagnosis of a primitive neuroepithelial tumor of bone and soft tissue. This was strongly supported by 1) focal rosette formation by the tumor cells and positive immunostaining for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, with absent staining for leukocyte common antigen; 2) at the ultrastructural level, formation of cellular processes containing microtubules, a paucity of neurosecretory granules, absence of synaptic junctions, formation of long "intermediate" junctions between cells, and, in culture, widespread development of rosettes; 3) marked surface positivity to W 6/32 and negativity to HSAN 1.2 antibodies; and 4) elevated expression of MYC and lack of overexpression of MYCN oncogenes. Numerical and structural abnormalities were present in the karyotype, but the expected t(11;22)(q24;q12) was not present in the tumor-involved marrow or in either of the established tumor cell lines, although there was an interstitial deletion of 11q involving breakpoints in q21 and q23.
1315714: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumours: a case report with ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies. A case of gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumour with light microscopic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examination is reported. The tumour was composed of spindle cells or large cells with clear cytoplasm and showed intense staining for vimentin and focal staining for neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin, gastrin, P substance and S-100 protein. Ultrastructural examination showed long processes with dense core granules and the absence of features characteristic of other gastrointestinal stromal tumours. In addition we noted small traces of basal lamina and the absence of synaptic vesicles. It seems that the biological behaviour of gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumours is aggressive but there are too few reports on which to conclude anything about their prognosis. Our findings suggest that tumour has a neuroectodermal differentiation.
1313438: !synaptophysin Low density lipoprotein receptor and cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor are transported from the cell surface to the Golgi apparatus at equal rates in PC12 cells. Efficient transport of cell surface glycoproteins to the Golgi apparatus has been previously demonstrated for a limited number of proteins, and has been proposed to require selective sorting in the endocytic pathway after internalization. We have studied the endocytic fate of several glycoproteins that accumulate in different organelles in a variant clone of PC12, a regulated secretory cell line. The cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor and the low density lipoprotein receptor, both rapidly internalized from the cell surface, and the synaptic vesicle membrane protein synaptophysin, were transported to the Golgi apparatus with equivalent, nonlinear kinetics. Transport to the Golgi apparatus (t1/2 = 2.5-3.0 h) was several times faster than turnover of these proteins (t1/2 greater than or equal to 20 h), indicating that transport of these proteins to the Golgi apparatus occurred on average several times for each protein. In contrast, Thy-1, a protein anchored in the membrane by a glycosylphosphoinositide group, was internalized and transported to the Golgi apparatus more slowly than the three transmembrane proteins. Since each of the transmembrane proteins studied showed the same t1/2 for transport to the Golgi apparatus, we conclude that transport of these proteins from the cell surface to the Golgi apparatus does not require sorting information specific to any one of these proteins. These results suggest that one of the functions of late endosomes is constitutive recycling of cell surface receptors through the Golgi apparatus if they fail to recycle to the cell surface directly from early endosomes, and that the late endosome recycling pathway is followed frequently by many rapidly internalized proteins.
32357631: !synaptophysin Histological, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features of a rat medullary thyroid carcinoma transfected with a corticotropin-releasing hormone cDNA expression vector. Clonal cell lines producing corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) have been generated by transfection of the W2 rat medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) cell with a CRH-encoding CMV/ SV40 expression vector. Here, we report the morphological, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features of rat tumors derived by implantation of CRH-producing W2CRH-7 cells and compare them with non-CRH-producing W2 MTCs. Both types of tumors grew rapidly and consisted of sheets and nests of pleomorphic cells infiltrating adjacent adipose tissue. Immunohistochemistry revealed CRH in only W2CRH-7 tumors; scattered cells in these tumors also were immunoreactive for chromogranin and for vasoactive intestinal peptide. Otherwise, the two tumor types exhibited similar profiles of various neuroendocrine markers, including neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, calcitonin, and somatostatin. Ultrastructurally, the tumors contained abundant dilated rough endoplasmic reticulum, a prominent Golgi apparatus, and numerous lysosomes. Very few secretory granules were noted in the W2 tumors; by contrast, secretory granules, although still not numerous in the majority of W2CRH-7 cells, were more abundant in scattered cells of those tumors. The positive immunostaining for CRH is consistent with the observations of increased plasma CRH and pituitary-adrenal activation induced by these transplanted tumors. This system provides a valuable model for CRH excess mimicking tumoral CRH-dependent Cushing's syndrome in human patients.
1737992: !synaptophysin Vesamicol binding to subcellular membranes that are distinct from catecholaminergic vesicles in PC12 cells. We have examined PC12 cells for the localization of binding sites for vesamicol [l-2-(4-phenylpiperidino) cyclohexanol], a compound that has previously been shown to bind to cholinergic vesicles and to inhibit the uptake of acetylcholine. Initial studies presented in this article demonstrate the existence of a specific, saturable vesamicol binding site in PC12 cells. Subsequent experiments show that these binding sites reside in a membrane population that is distinct from catecholamine-containing compartments with respect to density and antigenic composition. In particular, vesamicol binding compartments have a lower density than catecholaminergic vesicles and, unlike these latter vesicles, do not appear to contain the vesicle-specific proteins synaptophysin and SV2 as part of the same membrane. These results suggest that vesicular transport proteins for acetylcholine and catecholamines are differentially sorted to distinct membrane compartments in PC12 cells.
1583817: !synaptophysin Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and parkinsonism-dementia complex on Guam: immunohistochemical studies. The incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) among the Chamorros in Guam is remarkably high. The patients with ALS have clinical and pathological characteristics similar to those in other parts of the world. The PDC patients display parkinsonism and progressive dementia and show a characteristic neuronal loss in certain parts of the central nervous system such as the hippocampus and substantia nigra. The Guamanian patients with ALS and PDC commonly have widespread Alzheimer's neurofibrillary changes, but without the associated senile plaques. We have applied immunohistochemical procedures to examine the expression of marker substances in Guamanian ALS and PDC. The markers studied include tau protein, ubiquitin, beta proteins, synaptophysin, calcineurin, Met-enkephalin, substance P and tyrosine hydroxylase. The results were compared with the findings in patients with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, sporadic ALS and familial ALS.
1538584: !synaptophysin Cortical dendritic pathology in human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis. Previous neuropathological and morphometric studies of the cerebral cortex of patients with human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis (HIVE) have shown a decrease in the population of large neurons, moderate loss in synaptophysin immunoreactivity, and pathological changes in dendrites. To further characterize and quantify alterations in the dendritic tree of neocortical pyramidal neurons, we performed a modified Golgi impregnation technique on Formalin fixed blocks from the frontal cortex of 5 HIVE cases, 5 human immunodeficiency virus seropositive control cases without encephalitis, and 5 human immunodeficiency virus seronegative controls. Apical dendrites of HIVE cases were dilated, vacuolated, and tortuous with decreased length and branching. Basal and oblique dendrites also showed these alterations, but to a lesser extent. Some dendrites presented lacunae and filopodia consistent with remodeling. Computer aided quantification of HIVE cases showed a 40-60% decrease in spine density throughout the entire length of dendrites. Laser confocal imaging of Golgi impregnated sections displayed aberrant spines in regions of abnormal second order dendritic branches. These observations support the role of primary dendritic damage in HIVE in contrast to other neurodegenerative disorders where the primary pathology is presynaptic.
1533347: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical demonstration of rod-opsin, S-antigen, and neuron-specific proteins in the human pineal gland. The aim of this study was to examine whether rod-opsin and S-antigen immunoreactions were present in the pineal organ of adult man and how these immunoreactions were correlated with neuronal markers, e.g., synaptophysin, and neurofilaments L, H and M. Three perfusion-fixed epithalamic regions including the pineal organ and five pineal glands obtained at routine autopsy were used. The specimens were taken from female or male patients, 25 to 85 years of age. All immunoreactions were performed using highly specific, well-characterized antibodies. Rod-opsin and S-antigen-immunoreactive pinealocytes occurred in all pineal organs investigated; however, the immunoreaction was restricted to small subpopulations of pinealocytes (rod-opsin immunoreaction: approximately 3%-5%; S-antigen immunoreaction: approximately 5%-10% of the total population). In contrast, immunoreactions for synaptophysin and neurofilaments M and H were present in numerous pinealocytes. Immunoreactivity for neurofilament L was not found. These data suggest that the cellular composition of the human pineal organ is heterogeneous. Moreover, the presence of rod-opsin and S-antigen immunoreactions in the human pineal organ indicates that it may be affected by autoimmune retinal diseases that are provoked by antibodies against these proteins, as is the case in rodents and non-human primates.
1522944: !synaptophysin Alteration in the pattern of nerve terminal protein immunoreactivity in the perforant pathway in Alzheimer's disease and in rats after entorhinal lesions. Neurons in layer II of the entorhinal cortex consistently develop neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Experimental neuroanatomical studies have shown that these neurons give rise to the perforant pathway, a major excitatory projection to the hippocampal formation, which terminates in a discrete pattern in the outer portion of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. The distribution of two nerve terminal associated proteins, synaptophysin and NT75, was studied in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in AD and control cases to determine whether Alzheimer neuronal pathology is associated with loss of synaptic markers. In parallel studies, the effect of ablation of the entorhinal cortex in rats was evaluated. In AD as compared to controls, a decrease in synaptophysin immunostaining was evident in the terminal zone of the perforant pathway. NT75 nerve terminal immunostaining was too weak to interpret in the human hippocampal formation. Both synaptophysin and NT75 immunoreactivity were found in association with some neuritic plaques. In rats, entorhinal lesions resulted in diminished immunoreactivity for both synaptophysin and NT75 in the perforant pathway terminal zone. These results suggest that nerve terminal protein loss is a concomitant feature of neuronal pathology in AD.
1371487: !synaptophysin The ontogeny and distribution of neuropeptides in the human fetal and infant esophagus. The innervation and neuropeptide expression of fetal and infant human esophagus were studied. Esophageal samples (n = 30) from 8 weeks' gestation to 28 months of age were immunostained using antisera to general and specific neuronal antigens, and the results were quantified using computer-assisted image analysis. Nerve protein (protein gene peptide 9.5 and synaptophysin) and glial cell protein (S100) immunoreactivities were present by 8 weeks' gestation in primitive cell bodies and fibers in the outer layers of the esophagus. Immunoreactivity for peptides was first detected in fibers at 11 weeks' gestation in myenteric plexus and at 13 weeks' gestation in muscle. Peptide-immunoreactive cell bodies were not seen until 13-15 weeks. A pattern of immunoreactivity for neuropeptides comparable with that seen in mature neonates and infants was present by 22 weeks of gestational age. The percentage area of protein gene peptide 9.5-immunoreactive and vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibers increased from low levels to 3.68% and 0.27%, respectively, at 13 weeks and peaked at 18 weeks (10.50% and 4.74%). These findings provide a foundation for future research into the contribution of neuropeptides to pediatric esophageal dysmotility.
1355676: !synaptophysin The amphicrine pancreatic cell line AR42J: a model system for combined studies on exocrine and endocrine secretion. Secretory vesicles of both the exocrine and the endocrine pancreas have been isolated and characterized in molecular terms from pancreatic tissue and primary cell cultures. Studies on pancreatic secretory processes could be further facilitated by the use of permanent cell lines that respond to secretory stimuli with a regulated secretory response. We now present biochemical, morphological and secretory studies on the rat pancreatic acinar cell line AR42J. This cell line is characterized by the presence of digestive enzyme-containing dense core vesicles, which are released in response to cholecystokinin. In addition, we present evidence that these cells also contain small neuroendocrine-specific vesicles, as evidenced by the expression of the neuroendocrine-specific vesicle proteins synaptophysin and S.V.2. Corresponding to these mixed exocrine-neuroendocrine features, we also found considerable amounts of the neurotransmitters glycine, glutamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), as well as the rate-limiting enzyme in GABA synthesis, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) (EC 4.1.1.15) expressed in these cells. We demonstrated a specific uptake mechanism for radioactively-labelled GABA by these cells. In addition, GABA was released from intracellular storage pools by nicotinic receptor stimulation or membrane depolarization. In summary, AR42J cells represent the first amphicrine pancreatic cell line with the combined expression of exocrine and neuroendocrine secretory organelles, both of which follow a regulated secretory pathway in response to various secretory stimuli.
1609458: !synaptophysin Intracystic papillary carcinoma of the male breast. A case report (histochemical, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study). We report a case of intracystic papillary carcinoma of the male breast in a 70-year-old male Caucasian. Grossly, the tumor was a cystic lesion measuring 6 cm in diameter. It contained hemorrhagic fluid and a mural nodule with filiform projections. PAS stain with and without digestion revealed small clumps of diastase-resistant material in the cytoplasm of the neoplastic cells. Grimelius stain was positive. Immunoperoxidase stains were negative for neuron-specific enolase, S100 protein, cromogranin and synaptophysin and were positive for carcinoembryonic antigen and epithelial membrane antigen. On ultrastructural examination the neoplastic cells showed membrane-bound, dense-core secretory granules. We believe that this neoplasm, despite negative neuroendocrine markers, is a variant of mammary adenocarcinoma with endocrine differentiation, partly because of the positive Grimelius stain and partly because of the presence of electron-dense granules, which according to some authors represent lactational differentiation.
1373993: !synaptophysin Biochemical characterization of nerve growth cones isolated from both fetal and neonatal rat forebrains: the growth cone particle fraction mainly consists of axonal growth cones in both stages. Nerve growth cones are responsible for the exact pathway finding, and for the establishment of neurocytoarchitecture. To elucidate the developmental changes of biochemical characteristics of nerve growth cones, growth cone particle (GCP) fractions were isolated biochemically from embryonal day 17 (E17) rat forebrain and from postnatal day 5 (P5). There were no significant differences in protein phosphorylation pattern in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner between E17-GCP fraction and that of P5. As for the membrane lipid composition, molar ratios of cholesterol to total phospholipids were well conserved during these ages. The immunoreactivity to anti-synaptophysin monoclonal antibody as a marker of mature synaptic elements could not be detected either in E17-GCP or P5-GCP fractions. To exclude the possibility of the contamination of dendritic elements, RNA contents and immunoreactivity to anti-high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) monoclonal antibody were examined. RNA contents of the GCP fractions were extremely low compared to those of other subcellular fractions both in E17 and P5. No immunoreactivities to anti-MAP2 antibody were observed in either GCP fraction. Our results suggest that the GCP fractions, isolated from forebrains of E17 to P5 rat, are free from the contamination of the synaptic elements, and that the GCP fractions are mainly composed of axonal growth cones.
1735954: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in adrenocortical carcinoma. New immunohistochemical findings supported by electron microscopy. Ten adrenocortical carcinomas including two tumors with clinically detectable corticosteroid production, were immunohistochemically analyzed for their intermediate filament proteins, and for neuroendocrine markers. Keratins were present in 6 of 10, vimentin in all 10, and the 68 kilodalton kD neurofilament subunit protein in 6/10 tumors. Keratins numbers 8 and 18 were most prevalent, whereas only traces of keratins 19 and 7 were found. Eight tumors were positive for synaptophysin at least focally, and 3 showed extensive positivity in more than 30% of tumor cells. The tumors showed approximately similar levels of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) expression as judged by immunohistochemistry. Chromogranin was not detected, and there was no immunoreactivity for 3 neuropeptides (calcitonin, gastrin, somatostatin). In normal adrenal cortex, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and neurofilaments were restricted to the nerves seen between the cortical cells. Electron microscopy revealed clusters of dense-core granules in 4 of 5 tumors, consistent with neuroendocrine granules. These results indicate that adrenocortical carcinomas may show signs of neuroendocrine differentiation and share some features with the adrenal medullary tumors.
1623168: !synaptophysin Isolated p65 protein reproduces membrane binding activity of synaptic vesicles. Purified synaptic vesicles are highly enriched with a protein which binds cell plasma membranes. The binding is selective for acidic phospholipids and sialoglycosphingolipids. In partition chromatography of vesicle proteins, the binding activity was co-eluted with a limited set of proteins. Among them the most abundant species were two vesicle-specific proteins: p65 and synaptophysin. In affinity chromatography of vesicle proteins, only p65 bound to a column of immobilized lysoganglioside. The same protein, purified by preparative electrophoresis, retained the binding activity and fully reproduced the hemagglutinating property and the selectivity for acidic lipids of whole vesicles. The results suggest that the (hemagglutinating) lipid binding properties of the vesicles are mainly if not exclusively due to p65.
1607597: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical study of synaptophysin distribution in the superior cervical ganglion of newborn and adult rats. Intense synaptophysin immunoreactivity was observed around neuronal cell bodies and in the neuropil of the superior cervical ganglion of adult rats. In newborn rats synaptophysin was comparatively less concentrated and restricted to small interstitial spaces. In contrast, in newborns, consistent traces of positivity were found in the Golgi-like area of larger neurons, in agreement with the higher neonatal rate of synaptophysin synthesis. A few clusters of small neurons, numerically more expanded in adult rats, exhibited a dense reaction product filling the whole cytoplasm. No positivity was found in intraganglionic fibres.
1452473: !synaptophysin Quantitative study of the development and maturation of human oesophageal innervation. By 8 wk gestation, the human fetal oesophagus is identifiable as a hollow epithelium-lined tube with primitive nerve and muscle precursors present. From 8-16 wk gestation, the muscle layers and innervation mature until fetal swallowing commences at 16 wk. This study examines quantitatively the development and maturation of nerve fibres and cell bodies within the oesophagus using histochemistry. Oesophageal samples (n = 35) from 8 wk gestation to 28 months of age and adults (n = 3) were immunostained using antisera for the general nerve marker, protein gene product (PGP 9.5), the glial tissue marker S100, and the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin (p38). Histochemical staining for NADH diaphorase enzyme activity was also used to identify neurons. Computer-assisted image analysis of the muscularis externa permitted detailed quantification of cell size, nerve density and myenteric (plexus) fraction. At 8 wk gestation, PGP and synaptophysin were present in immature neurons throughout the cytoplasm, but from 10 wk synaptophysin was localised solely at nerve synapses. S100 immunoreactivity was also detected from 8 wk gestation onwards and was confined to glial tissue. Nerve cell size increased with maturation from 6 microns at 8 wk gestation to 20 microns at term and 21 microns at 28 months. The numbers of cells, nerve density (% area occupied by nerves throughout section) and myenteric fraction (% area occupied by ganglion cells and nerve fibres within the myenteric plexus) all peaked at 16-20 wk gestation and, whereas the number and density then fell towards adult levels, the myenteric fraction fell during the late second trimester and became constant from 30 wk gestation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1370756: !synaptophysin Central neurocytomas. Critical evaluation of a small-cell neuronal tumor. We report herein the clinical and pathological features of 20 patients with central neurocytomas. Investigations for various differentiation antigens and cell type-specific markers were performed by immunohistochemistry using paraffin-embedded tissue. In addition, the expression of L1 adhesion molecule and of the various N.CAM (neural cell adhesion molecule) isoforms were investigated by immunoblotting studies in two frozen specimens. Central neurocytomas are clinically characterized by their intraventricular localization, occurrence in young adults, and good prognosis. It rarely occurs in patients over 50, but such cases have a poor prognosis. Total surgical excision is the best treatment. Radiotherapy is appropriate if surgery is incomplete or contraindicated. Histologically, central neurocytomas display the following features: an oligo-like pattern, usually associated with large fibrillary rosettes or perivascular arrangement, and a rich endocrine-type vasculature. Central neurocytomas have a remarkably homogeneous antigenic profile. GFAP expression is only found in scattered reactive astrocytes, S100 protein in reactive astrocytes and rare tumor cells. Among the pan-neuroendocrine markers, central neurocytomas always express neuron-specific enolase; they frequently express synaptophysin but never chromogranin A. Synaptophysin is the most reliable immunohistological marker for central neurocytomas; however, immunoreactivity could be lost with long formalin fixation. In these cases, electron microscopy is used to support the neuronal nature of the tumor cells. The expression of L1 adhesion molecule and the isoform 180 of N.CAM, indicates that central neurocytomas are formed by cells committed to neuronal phenotype. Nevertheless, advanced neuronal differentiation may be absent, as suggested by the persistence of embryonic N.CAM, the nonexpression of neurofilament proteins, and the absence of mature synapses in numerous cases. Central neurocytomas and neuroblastomas share some biochemical properties, but their respective clinicopathological features and biological behavior are dramatically different.
1346363: !synaptophysin Ovarian strumal carcinoid in association with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type IIA. Strumal carcinoid is an unusual form of monodermal ovarian teratoma with thyroid-like follicles admixed with typical carcinoid tumor patterns. We encountered a case of this neoplasm in a patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia, type IIA (Sipple's syndrome), including a medullary thyroid carcinoma diagnosed 24 years previously. During evaluation of bilateral adrenal pheochromocytomas, a unilateral left ovarian strumal carcinoid was discovered. Subsequently, the patient had a parathyroid adenoma excised. The ovarian tumor was immunohistochemically reactive for neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and serotonin, but did not stain for calcitonin. The follicular structures stained for thyroglobulin. This unusual case shows that ovarian strumal carcinoid, like carcinoid tumors at other sites, may arise in association with multiple endocrine neoplasia.
1315619: !synaptophysin Morphological substrates of infantile spasms: studies based on surgically resected cerebral tissue. Extensive surgical resections of neocortical cerebral tissue (including hemispherectomies) from 13 infants and children with infantile spasms showed that 12 of 13 specimens contained either malformative and dysplastic lesions of the cortex and white matter (sometimes with associated hamartomatous proliferation of globular cells), or destructive lesions possibly acquired as a result of anoxic-ischemic injury, or a combination of the two. In brain tissue from 4 patients, coarse neuronal cytoplasmic fibrils resembling neurofibrillary tangles were seen in areas of dysplastic brain on silver-stained (Bielschowsky technique) sections. Immunohistochemical (immunoperoxidase) study of cortical lesions containing globular cells employing primary antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein and synaptophysin as markers of astrocytic and neuronal differentiation, respectively, revealed that many cells showed astrocytic and/or neuronal features, suggesting the local proliferation of primitive or multipotential neuroectodermal cells as one substrate for this seizure disorder. Morphological abnormalities of a severe degree and wide extent in the resected tissue (e.g., in one patient with hemimegalencephaly) often showed features to suggest that they may represent variants of tuberous sclerosis. These most likely result from abnormal movement and/or local proliferation of neuroectodermal precursors that have migrated from the germinal matrix to the cortical mantle. Cellular, molecular and neurophysiological study of these abnormalities is likely to yield information about basic molecular mechanisms of brain malformation and injury important in the pathogenesis of infantile spasms and other forms of focal or generalized epilepsy.
1737076: !synaptophysin Characterization of a synaptic antigen of interest in neuropsychiatric illness. Monoclonal antibodies exhibiting relative differences in binding to brain homogenates from diseased versus control brains may be useful probes into the molecular pathology of neuropsychiatric illness. To be of value, the antibodies must be useful in characterization of the antigens putatively involved in the illness. An antibody called EP10 showed some differences in binding to homogenates from a small sample of schizophrenia brains compared with controls. In the present study, the antigen for this antibody was characterized in control brains using quantitative, immunocytochemical, and biochemical techniques. The antigen is a 38,000 dalton synaptic vesicle protein, which is identical to synaptophysin by immunological criteria. However, the EP10 epitope is of interest, as this binding site does not appear to be present in rat or bovine synaptophysin. Brain regional studies using EP10 indicate that the antigen may be present in only a subset of synaptic terminals. Further studies are required to fully characterize the epitope, and to determine the significance of the earlier findings related to schizophrenia.
1730063: !synaptophysin Molecular cloning of a cDNA encoding a novel protein related to the neuronal vesicle protein synaptophysin. The structure of synaptophysin, an integral membrane protein present in synaptic vesicles, is highly conserved. We report the sequence analysis of a clone, HL-5, isolated from a human erythroleukemia cell cDNA library, that is similar to synaptophysin in DNA and amino acid sequence. The predicted protein product derived from this clone is truncated, and the tissue distribution of HL-5 is different from that of synaptophysin. Thus, HL-5 appears to be a member of a previously undescribed family of synaptophysin-like genes.
21551889: !synaptophysin Transplant and ganglioside GM1 mediated neuronal recovery in rats with brain lesions. Transplants of fetal brain tissue or injections of ganglioside GM1, given to rats with unilateral, left medial frontal cortex lesions, altered the concentrations of neuronal and glial marker proteins in cortex both adjacent and contralateral to the lesion. The markers were: the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and D3-protein, both present in neuronal and synaptic membranes; synaptophysin, present in synaptic vesicles; glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) enriched in reactive astrocytes, and the astrocytic glutamine synthetase. After 21 days the concentrations of NCAM, D3 and synaptophysin in brain tissue adjacent to the lesions were decreased by 39, 32 and 42%, respectively, indicating neuronal damage. In the injured rats the GFAP concentration was increased 77%, indicating activation of astrocytes. However, astroglial proliferation was not altered as indicated by the nearly unchanged glutamine synthetase concentrations. The levels of the neuronal markers NCAM, D3 and synaptophysin showed significantly less decline in injured rats treated 7 days after the lesions with transplants or with daily injections of 30 mg/kg GM1. The decrease respectively constituted 23 (NCAM), 31 (D3) and 41% (synaptophysin) in rats with transplants and 23 (NCAM), 16 (D3) and 28% (synaptophysin) in rats treated with GM1. In another group of rats the efficacy of transplants was studied 34 days after lesions. NCAM and D3 in tissue adjacent to the lesions were decreased by 50 and 29%, respectively. In rats which received transplants the decrease was only 27 and 16%, respectively. Moreover, as measured by GFAP concentration, activation of astrocytes was less in rats with transplants (93% increased) compared with rats with lesions only (163%). In contralateral frontal cortex, the effects of lesions were similar but less pronounced. In this brain area also the treatments significantly counteracted the loss of neuronal and glial markers. Previous studies have demonstrated that synaptic remodelling is reflected by the ratios of NCAM to marker proteins for mature synapses. Twenty-one days after the initial injury to the brain the ratios of NCAM to D3 and synaptophysin were significantly increased in frontal cortex ipsilateral to the injury in rats with transplants (26 and 33%, respectively). In contrast, compared with values for injured rats, the calculated ratios were not changed, whereas all neuronal marker proteins were significantly increased in rats treated with GM1. The results suggest that transplants mediate neuronal recovery by inducing dendritic sprouting followed by synaptic remodelling whereas gangliosides mediate recovery by counteracting neuronal degeneration.
12106430: !synaptophysin Differential Expression of Markers and Activities in a Group of PC12 Nerve Cell Clones. Sixteen clones, recently isolated from the PC12 nerve cell line, were analysed for a variety of markers and activities. Two endoplasmic reticulum (ER) luminal markers, the chaperone protein BiP and the major Ca2+ storage protein calreticulin, as well as the 40-kD rough ER membrane marker and the plus-end-directed mirotubule motor protein, kinesin, were found to be expressed at similar levels. These results suggest that the size of the ER, the function of microtubules and the capacity of the rapidly exchanging Ca2+ store do not change substantially among the clones. Other proteins expressed at comparable levels were synapsin I and IIa, members of a nerve cell-specific protein family known to bind synaptic vesicles to the cytoskeleton. In contrast, another ER membrane protein, calnexin, and the markers of secretory organelles were found to vary markedly. One clone (clone 27) completely lacked both chromogranin B and secretogranin II, the proteins contained within dense granules, and synaptophysin, a marker of clear vesicles. Other clones expressed these markers to variable and apparently mutually unrelated levels. Marked variability was observed also in the uptake of exogenous catecholamines, in their release both at rest and after stimulation, and in nerve growth factor-induced differentiation. These results provide indirect information about the mechanisms that regulate the expression of structures and activities in PC12 cells. Of particular interest is clone 27, which appears globally incompetent for regulated secretion and might therefore be a valuable tool for the study of this activity in a nerve cell.
1608593: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterization of experimental Greene melanoma. 20 experimental amelanotic Greene melanomas implanted into the anterior chamber of rabbit eyes were examined immunohistochemically in paraffin sections. All the Greene melanomas were found to be positive for vimentin, S-100 and HMB 45 and negative for alpha-human chorionic gonadotropin, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin, cytokeratin, carcino-embryonic antigen, serotonin, desmin and pan leukocyte marker T-200. Greene melanoma is comparable with human cutaneous and uveal melanoma in its immunohistochemical reaction pattern.
1608341: !synaptophysin Peptide-containing innervation of rat femoral lymphatic vessels. The lymphatic vessels conduct lymph fluid, proteins, and potentially antigenic material from the interstitium back to the bloodstream via lymph nodes, where solids are removed by phagocytic cells and recirculating lymphocytes and immunoglobulins are added. Immunostaining for two general neuronal markers, protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5), a cytoplasmic ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase, and synaptophysin, a calcium-binding four-span integral synaptic vesicle membrane glycoprotein, disclosed an abundant innervation of the large femoral lymphatic vessels in rats. This confirms and extends earlier findings based on nonspecific intravital methylene blue and silver impregnation staining methods. Nerves containing neuropeptide Y, C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y, and tyrosine hydroxylase, markers of noradrenergic postganglionic sympathetic fibers, were frequent whereas immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide, a neuropeptide present in many cholinergic parasympathetic nerve fibers, was sparse suggesting possible sympathetic and parasympathetic influences. Furthermore, calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-containing fibers were also present in the walls of lymphatic vessels suggesting a possible sensory influence in the coordinated myogenic responses. By comparison to normal light microscopy, confocal microscopy was found useful to trace the perihilar penetration of blood and afferent lymphatic vessels in lymph nodes. PGP 9.5-immunoreactive fibers were found in and around lymph nodes suggesting that there is a neural regulation of lymphoid node function. Because of their distribution, peptide-containing nerves may participate in regulating the capacity of the lymphatic pumping activity, and may possibly exert paracrine effects on lymphocytes.
1595196: !synaptophysin Malignant paraganglioma of the uterus. We report a malignant uterine paraganglioma in a 40-year-old female, who died 7 months after the initial diagnosis. On light microscopy the tumour showed a typical zellballen pattern as well as a pronounced cellular pleomorphism. In many tumour cells hyaline globules were demonstrated within the cytoplasm. Immunohistochemically the lesion was characterized by the presence of neuron-specific enolase, protein gene product 9.5 and synaptophysin, and electron microscopically by the occurrence of neurosecretory granules.
1594095: !synaptophysin Synaptic pathology in Alzheimer's disease: immunological data for markers of synaptic and large dense-core vesicles. We have analysed several markers for small synaptic vesicles (synaptin-synaptophysin, p65 and SV2) and large dense-core vesicles (chromogranin A, secretogranin II/chromogranin C) in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease, and normal controls by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. In comparison to age-matched controls the levels of all three synaptic vesicle markers were decreased in temporal cortex of Alzheimer patients. On the other hand, the levels of chromogranin A were increased, and those of secretogranin II lowered. This resulted in a significant increase of the ratios of chromogranin A to synaptophysin, p65 or SV2 and of that for chromogranin A to secretogranin II. These increases were significantly correlated to clinical severity of dementia and extent of neuropathological changes. By immunohistochemistry a high percentage of senile plaques was found to contain chromogranin A-reactive dystrophic neurites, whereas synaptophysin reactivity within plaques was rare. These results indicate that the number of synaptic vesicles is lowered in Alzheimer's disease, and that one component of large dense-core vesicles, i.e. chromogranin A, is elevated. We, thus, suggest that in Alzheimer's brain distinct changes occur for both types of synaptic organelles.
1584984: !synaptophysin [Synaptophysin in the nervous system and endocrine cells]. Synaptophysin is a major integral membrane glycoprotein of neuronal synaptic vesicles that is present in virtually all synapses and shows a high degree of evolutionary conservation in mammalian species. It has also been detected in numerous endocrine cell types where it is localized in the membrane of small synaptic-like vesicles which are thought to constitute a previously unknown secretory pathway. Antibodies directed against synaptophysin are a valuable tool for the immunohistochemical quantitation of synapses. Moreover, synaptophysin is a most reliable and specific marker molecule for normal and neoplastic neuroendocrine cells. In the nervous system, synaptophysin-positive tumors comprise ganglioneuromas, ganglioneuroblastomas, neuroblastomas, paragangliomas and primitive neuroectodermal tumors.
1584981: !synaptophysin [An intermediate, generalized form of neuroaxonal dystrophy--light- and electron microscopic findings]. This report concerns a 11-year-old girl--at the time of death--who developed normally until the age of 2 years when further psychomotoric maturation stopped and then regressed. The disease was diagnosed as neuroaxonal dystrophy (NAD) by sural nerve biopsy at the age of 7. Further course was characterized by complete loss of all motoric and sensory functions and dementia as well. Finally there was decerebration. The autopsy revealed generalized NAD associated with pallidal deposition of iron pigment to classify as generalized intermediate NAD type II according to Gilman and Barrett (1973). The main histological findings were axonal swellings and spheroids consisting ultrastructurally of membrano-tubular profiles, lamellar structures, vacuoles, glycogen granules and mitochondrial aggregates. Immunohistologically there was partial positive expression of synaptophysin and neurofilament protein in the spheroids. Firstly described electron microscopical findings in the retina include the typical axonal lesions largely in interior layers. Photoreceptors and their synaptic contacts were preserved. The present blindness is of the neuronal type. The current etiopathogenetic opinions, aspects of bioptic diagnosis and problems of classification of primary NADs are discussed.
1579220: !synaptophysin Differential expression and subcellular localization of secretogranin II and synaptophysin during early development of mouse hypothalamic neurons in culture. Mature neurons contain two distinct regulated secretory pathways, characterized electron microscopically by so-called large dense core vesicles and small synaptic vesicles, respectively. Each vesicle type is characterized by vesicle-specific proteins, such as the granins (chromogranins/secretogranins) for the matrix of large dense core vesicles and synaptophysin for the membrane of small synaptic vesicles. So far, no data exist on the biogenesis of these two distinct vesicle types during neuronal development. We have used secretogranin II and synaptophysin as markers for the biogenesis of these two vesicle types during the development of mouse hypothalamic neurons in culture, using immunocytochemistry and biochemical analyses. By immunofluorescence, we found that secretogranin II appears as early as synaptophysin, but in a subset of neurons only, and with different subcellular localizations. It was observed in cytoplasmic areas where little or no synaptophysin immunofluorescence was detected, such as lamellipodia, emerging neurites and growth cones. At later stages, the proportion of secretogranin II-containing varicosities remained steady whereas that of synaptophysin-containing varicosities increased dramatically. By quantitative analysis we found that the level of expression of synaptophysin increased several-fold during synaptogenesis whereas that of secretogranin II decreased. These data suggest that large dense core vesicles and small synaptic vesicles can be formed separately and expressed at different levels. They provide evidence for a differential biogenesis of these two distinct vesicle types.
1553816: !synaptophysin Peculiar axonal debris with subsequent astrocytic response (foamy spheroid body). A topographic, light microscopic, immunohistochemical and electron microscopic study. Foamy spheroid bodies (FSBs) are described, as newly identified pathological structures occurring in human brain. FSBs favoured the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNPR) and/or globus pallidus (GP) in degenerative conditions especially postencephalitic parkinsonism, progressive supranuclear palsy, pallido-nigro-luysial atrophy and multiple system atrophy. No FSBs were observed anywhere in the presence of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNPC) degeneration, such as occurs in idiopathic Parkinson's disease, or luysio-pallidal system degeneration, such as found in dentato-rubro-pallido-luysial atrophy or Joseph's disease. FSBs were also occasionally identified in the substantia nigra (SN) and/or GP of aged persons. In addition to SN and GP lesions, FSBs were seen in diffuse axonal lesions of long fibre tracts (the corpus callosum, the superior cerebellar peduncle) after non-missile head injuries, and in peri-infarct lesions. Under the light microscope, FSBs appear as slightly eosinophilic, foamy and nearly round objects with vague outlines, measuring approximately 10-50 microns in diameter. Some FSBs contain coarse, eosinophilic clusters at their periphery. FSB stained black when stained by the Gallyas silver method. Some FSBs were immunohistochemically positive for synaptophysin and 68 kDa neurofilament. Glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive fibres were observed alongside and/or inside some FSBs. Electron microscopically, FSBs were found to consist of collections of neuritic debris containing a variety of dense bodies and a small number of both mitochondria and neurofilaments. Some such collections were surrounded by astrocytic processes. These findings strongly suggest that FSBs are collections of small axonal debris destined for removal by astrocytes in due course. A variety of factors (degeneration of the SNPR and/or the GP, injury, infarction, ageing) seemed to be responsible for the histogenesis of FSBs.
1539453: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemistry in adrenocortical tumours: a clinicomorphological study of 72 neoplasms. Surgical specimens of 72 adrenocortical tumours (ACTs) were investigated. Histologically, 57 tumours were classified as adenomas and 15 as carcinomas. In 9 of the latter cases, distant metastases and/or lethal outcome of disease was recorded. Immunocyto-chemistry showed only 2 ACTs to be positive for cytokeratin and 6 for vimentin. None of the 72 tumours showed argyrophilia or immunoreactivity for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), S-100 protein, chromogranin A, Leu 7 or Leu-M1, while 31 cases exhibited positivity on immunostaining with a polyclonal antiserum against synaptophysin. All 72 ACTs were immunoreactive with the recently described antibody D11. Thus the panel of antibodies described here could not discriminate between adenomas and carcinomas or between carcinomas with aggressive and indolent behaviour. Immunostaining with D11 and for EMA and Leu-M1 may help to distinguish ACTs from phenotypically similar lesions of different histogenesis.
1531423: !synaptophysin Atrial myxoma: a tumour in search of its origins. To determine whether atrial myxomas express antigens suggesting a neural origin.
1500956: !synaptophysin Clinicopathological experience with intraventricular neurocytomas. Intraventricular neurocytoma is a rare clinicopathological entity that has been recently described. We are reporting our experience with four diagnosed cases and the previously reported cases from the available literature are reviewed. These neoplasms occur mainly in young adults, and their histological diagnosis is difficult on light microscope, because they are almost indistinguishable from oligodendrogliomas. Nevertheless, the presence of tumoral cells arranged around nucleus-free fibrillary zones, resembling the large rosettes of pineocytomas and the immunohistochemical demonstration of synaptophysin are useful data for the pathological diagnosis. This diagnosis is easy on electron microscope, because it demonstrates the neuronal nature of tumoral cells. Regarding prognosis, we have found increasing evidence that these tumors are associated with a favourable course after surgery, and at present there is no clear evidence of the usefulness of radiotherapy.
1476676: !synaptophysin Neuronal protein NP185 is developmentally regulated, initially expressed during synaptogenesis, and localized in synaptic terminals. Evidence is presented here that demonstrates the presence of NP185 (AP3) in neuronal cells, specifically within syn-aptic terminals of the central nervous system and in the peripheral nervous system, particularly in the neuro-muscular junction of adult chicken muscle. Biochemical results obtained in our laboratories indicate that NP185 is associated with brain synaptic vesicles, with clathrin-coated vesicles, and with the synaptosomal plasma membrane. Also, NP185 binds to tubulin and clathrin light chains and the binding is regulated by phosphorylation (Su et al., 1991). Based on these properties and the data reported here, we advance the postulate that NP185 fulfills multiple functions in synaptic terminals. One function is that of a plasma membrane docking or channel protein, another of a signaling molecule for brain vesicles to reach the synaptic terminal region, and a third is that of a recycling molecule by binding to protein components on the lipid bilayer of the synaptic plasma membrane during the process of endocytosis. In support of these premises, a thorough study of NP185 using the developing chick brain, adult mouse brain, and chicken straited muscle was begun by temporally and spatially mapping the expression and localization of NP185 in evolving and mature nerve endings. To achieve these objectives, monoclonal antibodies to NP185 were used for immunocytochemistry in tissue sections of chicken and mouse cerebella. The distribution of NP185 was compared with those of other cytoskeletal and cytoplasmic proteins of axons and synapses, namely synaptophysin, vimentin, neurofilament NF68, and the intermediate filaments of glial cells (GFAP). The data indicate that expression of NP185 temporally coincides with synaptogenesis, and that the distribution of this protein is specific for synaptic terminal buttons of the CNS and the PNS.
1471472: !synaptophysin A morphometric and immunohistochemical study of the vestibular nuclear complex in bovine spongiform encephalopathy. A morphometric and immunohistochemical study of the vestibular nuclear complex was performed on five bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) and five control cow brains. Neurons of the lateral and superior vestibular nuclei were counted at 500-microns intervals in 10-microns-thick sections, using an image analysis system comprising a projection microscope and digitising pad linked to a computer. A bimodal distribution of neuron diameters was recognised in the brains of normal cattle. One population of neurons had a mean diameter of 30 microns and the other had a mean diameter of 60 microns. The vestibular nuclei from BSE cattle had an approximately 50% reduction in total numbers of neurons when compared with controls (P < 0.01). Cattle which were clinically diseased longer had the fewest number of neurons preserved. Diminished numbers of neurons were detected throughout the area studied and affected neurons of all diameters. Immunohistochemical staining for synaptophysin, a protein present in synapses throughout the CNS, showed no significant reduction in axon terminals synapsing with vestibular neurons, including vacuolated neurons of BSE brains, when controls and BSE brains were compared. This suggests that de-afferentation of neurons is not the cause of neuronal loss. Prion protein was detected in the neuropil of the vestibular nuclear complex of BSE brains but not control brains. These studies show that previously unsuspected neuronal loss is a significant feature of BSE.
1449943: !synaptophysin Immunoreactive neuropeptide nerves in ligamentous tissue in chronic shoulder pain. Coracoacromial ligament and periligamentous fatty and loose connective tissue obtained during Neer's acromioplasty in patients with chronic painful rotator cuff tendinitis/impingement syndrome was studied for possible signs of inflammatory involvement and for the presence of neuropeptide-containing nerves, using routine histology and immunoperoxidase staining. No accumulations of inflammatory cells were found in the tissues studied. The dense ligamentous tissue proper was practically aneural, as was seen in staining for the generalized neuronal markers protein gene product 9.5 and synaptophysin. In contrast, the periligamentous fatty and loose connective tissue was innervated. Almost all nerves in such tissue contained C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y, whereas substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and vasoactive intestinal peptide-containing nerves were not found at all or were extremely rare. This suggests that the coracoacromial ligament is not a target of irritative inflammation. In the periligamentary sheath, nerves containing markers for the C-type nociceptive pain fibers were practically absent and all local nerves were postganglionic sympathetic vaso-regulatory nerves.
1441916: !synaptophysin Neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin isotype, retinal S-antigen, synaptophysin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein in human medulloblastomas: a clinicopathological analysis of 36 cases. Surgical specimens from 36 medulloblastomas (25 classic and 11 desmoplastic) were studied by peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) immunohistochemistry with antibodies against the class III beta-tubulin isotype (beta-tubulin), synaptophysin, retinal S-antigen (S-Ag), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). We found that neoplastic cells expressed beta-tubulin in 91% of the tumors (23 classic and 10 desmoplastic), synaptophysin in 75% (19 classic and 8 desmoplastic), S-Ag in 44% (11 classic and 5 desmoplastic), and GFAP in 11% of medulloblastomas (2 classic and 2 desmoplastic). Synaptophysin and beta-tubulin positivities were observed in undifferentiated neoplastic cells, in cells forming neuroblastic rosettes, and in pale islands, while S-Ag immunopositivity was noted in undifferentiated cells, occasionally in beta-tubulin-negative neuroblastic rosettes, and exceptionally in pale islands. Large pale islands, in two desmoplastic medulloblastomas, exhibited distinct patterns of immunoreactivity to the above markers, suggesting neuronal and glial differentiation in the central area, and intense neuritic development in the peripheral zone. Our findings confirm the predominant capacity of medulloblastoma cells to differentiate along neuronal cell lines and indicate that large pale islands, in desmoplastic medulloblastomas, represent well-organized areas for neuronal and, to a lesser degree, astroglial differentiation. Furthermore, it appears, in our cases, that immunohistochemical features do not represent clear-cut prognostic indicators in patients with medulloblastomas.
1438524: !synaptophysin Activated astrocytes, but not pyramidal cells, increase glucose utilization in rat hippocampal CA1 subfield after ischemia. The local cerebral glucose utilization (CMRglc) in the damaged rat hippocampal CA1 subfield increases 7 days after 10 min of cerebral ischemia. We have used the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist (NMDA antagonist) ketamine in rats 7 days after sham operation or cerebral ischemia to determine whether the elevated postischemic CMRglc of the CA1 subfield is due to long-lasting hyperexcitation of surviving or injured neurons, or, alternatively, to the metabolism of other cell types. The autoradiographic data were interpreted with the aid of histochemical analysis of the postischemic hippocampal cell changes. Anesthetic doses of ketamine significantly reduced the CMRglc in the CA1 strata oriens, pyramidale and radiatum of sham-operated rats, while the postischemic increases in CMRglc in these hippocampal CA1 strata were not affected by ketamine. In addition, there were ketamine-induced increases in the CMRglc of the CA1 stratum lacunosum moleculare of both sham-operated and postischemic rats. The immunoreactivity of the microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), a postsynaptic protein marker, was decreased markedly in the CA1 subfield in postischemic rats, while the presynaptic protein marker, synaptophysin, remained the same in sham-operated and postischemic rats. The glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity of astrocytes raised markedly in the ischemically damaged CA1 subfield. Although it could be demonstrated that presynaptic terminals remain intact in the postischemic damaged CA1 subfield, the lacking ketamine effect on CA1 pyramidal neurons indicated that the increase in CMRglc in this brain area is not due to postsynaptic neural hyperexcitation, but probably has to be attributed to astrocytes activated by neuronal damage.
1383167: !synaptophysin Distribution of nerve endings and sensory neuropeptides in rat synovium, meniscus and bone. The nervous system collects information from the outer world by specific senses and from the interior milieu by somatic senses. This information is processed and stored in memory and affects various bodily functions through the efferent arm of the nervous system. The efferent chemical neuropeptide message is transported intra-axonally to the site of action, which imparts site-specificity to the peripheral, paracrine neuropeptide effects. In the present study, immunohistochemistry using the immunoperoxidase method with nickel amplification was applied to visualize the topographical distribution of articular nerve fibres and nerve endings using the markers PGP 9.5 and synaptophysin, respectively. Furthermore, to get a comprehensive idea of the sensory innervation of the articular and para-articular tissue, antisera to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P were employed. Samples were collected after fixation by perfusion followed by immersion in fixative and decalcification by a special method, which also allows studies of the bone innervation. PGP 9.5- and synaptophysin-immunoreactive type IVa and IVb nerve fibres and endings were found in the synovial lining and sublining tissue and in the vascularized peripheral parts of the menisci. Furthermore, periosteum, bone marrow and the epiphyseal growth plates were also innervated, whereas innervation of the diaphyseal and metaphyseal bone was more sparse. PGP 9.5- and synaptophysin-immunoreactive nerves were also characterized by their CRGP, and to some extent, substance P content. Because of their distribution, the peripheral peptide-containing type IVa and IVb nerve fibres and nerve endings are in a position to participate in the pathogenesis of arthritis, including aspects of nociception, tissue remodelling and neurogenic inflammation.
1372936: !synaptophysin Topology of innervation of labial salivary glands by protein gene product 9.5 and synaptophysin immunoreactive nerves in patients with Sjögren's syndrome. Glandular secretion and integrity, local blood flow, salivary secretion, pain perception and neurogenic inflammation can all be controlled by the nervous system. Therefore, the pattern of innervation of labial salivary glands (LSG) was studied in 10 patients with Sjögren's syndrome using neuronal markers: protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5), a cytoplasmic, noncytoskeletal epitope and synaptophysin, a glycoprotein present in presynaptic vesicles. PGP 9.5 immunoreactive nerve fibers were found surrounding the acini, salivary ducts and blood vessels. The rich innervation of LSG was even more evident in immunofluorescence stained sections analyzed using confocal laser scanning imaging. Synaptophysin immunoreactive nerve endings and preterminal varicosities also demarcated the LSG acini. Furthermore, in the small foci, PGP 9.5 and synaptophysin immunoreactive nerve fibers were found amid inflammatory mononuclear cells and in extensive inflammatory areas nerve fibers were found in the peripheral parts of such infiltrates. This suggests a possible neurogenic influence on the local cellular inflammation. When LSG patient samples were compared to unaffected glands from 7 controls, acinar atrophy was found in the areas devoid of a local delivery system of neurogenic trophic stimuli, suggesting this as a possible cause of glandular degeneration. It may become necessary to incorporate this neglected, but existing system into our current view on the local but possibly centrally controlled or influenced pathogenetic mechanisms of Sjögren's syndrome.
1372458: !synaptophysin Primary thymic carcinoid with Cushing's syndrome. In a 52-year-old Caucasian man osteopoikilosis had been misdiagnosed roentgenologically 2 years before his death. Gradually he developed Cushing's syndrome and ultimately superior vena caval obstruction. At autopsy a primary thymic carcinoid with extensive osteoblastic bone metastasis was found. Immunohistochemically the tumor was shown to be positive for adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cytokeratin (KL1), neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin and glucagon. Remarkably the tumour was negative for serotonin despite high urinary hydroxyindolacetic acid levels. Bilateral hyperplasia of the adrenal cortex was found. The adenohypophysis showed a considerable reduction of ACTH-producing cells and numerous Crooke's cells with a characteristic immunohistochemical pattern.
1371873: !synaptophysin Peripheral neuroepithelioma: a light microscopic, immunocytochemical, and ultrastructural study. Forty-two cases of peripheral neuroepithelioma (PN) retrieved from the files of the National Cancer Institute (Bethesda, MD) and the Pathology Department of Padua University, Italy, were reviewed. No sex predilection was observed (25M/17F) and ages ranged from 7 to 54 yr (median 22 yr). Roughly a third of the tumors were thoracopulmonary ("Askin tumor"), a third were axial, and a third were in extremities. A lobular pattern with rosettes or pseudo-rosettes characterized PN. Seventeen cases showed a strong diastase-sensitive PAS positivity. Transitional areas with an Ewing's-like appearance and, in one case, transition to malignant nerve sheath tumor have been documented. The presence of neuron specific enolase (NSE), S-100 protein, HNK-1, neurofilaments, vimentin, keratin (AE1-AE3), beta 2-microglobulin, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin was investigated using the avidin-biotin technique. Immunocytochemically, NSE (95% of cases), beta 2-microglobulin (77.5%), synaptophysin (73.3%), and S-100 protein (67.5%) were the most consistently positive markers. Ultrastructurally, PN is characterized by a primitive appearance, although it was routinely possible to recognize neural features such as primitive neuritic extensions and dense core granules, either in the cytoplasm or in the cellular processes. In our experience, a light microscopic picture of a primitive round cell tumor with a lobular pattern, and particularly with rosettes when present, with NSE and beta 2-microglobulin positivity by immunocytochemistry, ideally with positive synaptophysin, along with supportive electron microscopy, is required for the diagnosis of PN. Conversely, no one feature alone is generally sufficient for diagnosis, but does allow distinction from extraosseous Ewing's, which (like osseous Ewing's) lacks features of neural differentiation.
1370191: !synaptophysin Bile duct adenomas with endocrine component. Immunohistochemical study and comparison with conventional bile duct adenomas. Bile duct adenomas are small nodules that are usually found incidentally on the liver surface at abdominal surgery or autopsy. We recently analyzed two such lesions that, in addition to the typical small caliber ducts, contained periductular nests and clusters of uniform round cells, suggestive of endocrine cell proliferation. Follow-up of these patients did not show endocrine tumors elsewhere. The lesions were studied by immunohistochemistry (avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique) and compared with conventional bile duct adenomas (seven cases). The results showed these cells to decorate with several endocrine markers, namely, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and Leu-7. Endocrine markers were not seen in the cells of conventional bile duct adenomas. Epithelial markers, that is, cytokeratin (CAM 5.2 antibody) and epithelial membrane antigen, were expressed by the cells composing both conventional bile duct adenomas and those with endocrine-like cells, although with less intensity in the endocrine cell clusters. We suggest that some bile duct adenomas contain endocrine cell proliferations that morphologically may resemble a small carcinoid tumor or the so-called pulmonary tumorlet. Neurosecretory granules have previously been identified in some cholangiocarcinomas and in bile duct proliferation associated with cholestasis. The endocrine clusters in biliary adenomas may constitute a diagnostic pitfall and must be separated from metastases of carcinoids or islet cell tumors.
1347412: !synaptophysin Intracellular redistribution of neuropeptides and secretory proteins during differentiation of neuronal cell lines. We have demonstrated that the mouse neuroblastoma N18Tg2 cell line and several clones of hybrid ND cells (ND7, ND9 and ND21), derived from the fusion of neonatal rat sensory neurons with that neuroblastoma, show immunostaining to protein gene product 9.5, neuropeptide Y, C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y, tyrosine hydroxylase and chromogranins. Synaptophysin could only be detected in ND cells. Immunoreactivities to substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin and somatostatin could not be detected in any of these cell lines. After three days of incubation in a differentiation medium, cell processes of various lengths were observed both in neuroblastoma and ND cell cultures. In ND7 cells there was also a redistribution of neuropeptide Y and its C-flanking peptide to the tips of cell processes. The differentiation of cell processes was also accompanied by the appearance of immunostaining to rat chromogranins in their tips. In contrast, synaptophysin expression was found mainly in cell bodies. Neuropeptide Y, its C-flanking peptide and chromogranins have been associated with secretory granules, whereas synaptophysin is a marker for small synaptic-like vesicles. Therefore, our morphological findings further support and expand the view that these markers are primarily associated with different subcellular structures. Moreover, they indicate that the regulated secretory pathway associated with chromogranins is segregated into nerve processes at an early stage of differentiation, when the synaptophysin-associated pathway is not yet mature. ND7 cells thus provide a useful model system for studying changes in the distribution of neuropeptides, cytoskeletal elements and proteins associated with cell secretion during neuronal differentiation.
1340662: !synaptophysin Neuronal aspects and plasticity of inferior olivary complex and nucleus dentatus. In primary or physiological ageing, the brain undergoes a 10% weight reduction. This datum was confirmed in vivo by radiological investigation and post mortem by morphological research (Grandi and Coll. 1990, 1990, 1991, 1991), that underscores the same reduction in the medulla oblongata and in the cerebellum. Morphological and cytohistological aspects of primary ageing have been considered for the inferior olivary nucleus and for the dentate nucleus in 41 male subjects, 32 belonging to the decades 7th, 8th, 9th, and 9 to the decades from the 3rd to the 6th. From the two latter structures, separated along standard cut surfaces, serial histological slices were carried out, and histochemical reactions were accomplished, together with immunohistochemistry, for synaptophysin, NF-2F11, NSE, S-100, GFAP, chromogranin. As the weight progressively decreased from the 7th to the 9th decade, it was noted neuronal loss, both in the inferior olivary nucleus, and in the dentate nucleus. Furthermore, the loss appeared to be followed by substitutive astroglial proliferation. Immunocytochemical reaction for synaptophysin revealed peculiar aspects. A consistently regular result of such method concerned the two nuclei studied, in primary ageing, thus allowing the interpretation of the perfect structure of synaptic vesicles as an indirect argument for neuronal plasticity.
1337994: !synaptophysin Expression of neuroendocrine and epithelial markers in an adherent subline derived from a classic small cell lung cancer cell line. Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) cell lines usually grow as floating aggregates, in contrast to the adherent monolayers formed by non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Induction of an adherent phenotype by a variety of methods has been the subject of a number of recent publications. In this study, cultivation of the classic SCLC cell line, NCI-H69, on a substratum provided by the pretreatment of tissue culture dishes with medium conditioned by the growth of a well differentiated squamous carcinoma cell line, HN5, induced an adherent phenotype with a variety of epithelioid morphologies, commencing within 24 hr of plating. From such cultures an adherent subline, H69A, has been established, which differs in its growth, morphological characteristics, and immunocytochemical marker expression from the parent NCI-H69 cells, and in its marker expression from other adherent SCLC cell lines. H69A retained expression of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and the neuroendocrine markers neuron specific enoclase, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin, but showed diminished expression of the epithelial cell surface markers AUA1, Ber-EP4, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), and desmosomal protein. Compared to NCI-H69 cells, the amounts of cytokeratin 18 detected were elevated, while those of cytokeratin 19 were diminished in H69A cells. Focal expression of cytokeratin 4 was found in some H69A cells, indicative of a capacity for partial squamous differentiation. The expression of the cell surface glycoproteins detected by AUA1 and Ber-EP4 was reduced throughout cultivation of the H69A subline, while that of EMA and desmosomal protein was further diminished with continued passage. Changes in the expression of these markers and NCAM were evident in NCI-H69 cells grown on an HN5-derived substratum.
1332366: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical studies on the new type of astrocytic inclusions identified in a patient with brain malformation. Immunohistochemical studies were carried out on the new type of cerebral cortical astrocytic inclusions recently discovered in a 20-year-old patient with maldeveloped brain and micropolygyria. The inclusions appeared as eosinophilic structures (hematoxylin and eosin stain) and did not exhibit argyrophilia (modified Bielschowsky method). The inclusions were strongly stained by the antibody against S-100 protein (S 100) and to a lesser extent by the antibody to microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP 1B). In contrast to Rosenthal fibers, the astrocytic inclusions did not react with antibodies to alpha B-crystallin, glial fibrillary acidic protein and ubiquitin. No positive reactions were obtained with antibodies against heat-shock protein 27 (HSP 27), HSP 72, actin, vimentin, desmin, cytokeratin, myelin basic protein, beta-tubulin, MAP 2, tau protein, paired helical filament, phosphorylated neurofilament protein (NFP), nonphosphorylated NFP, synaptophysin, cathepsin D, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, alpha 1-antitrypsin and basic fibroblast growth factor. By immunoelectron microscopy, the products of the reaction with the anti-S 100 antibody appeared as heterogeneous granular deposits and with the antibody to MAP 1B they were randomly scattered throughout the astrocytic inclusions. Our results demonstrate that the immunohistochemical profile of the recently described inclusions differs from that of Rosenthal fibers. Whether the novel inclusions are involved in congenital astrocyte dysfunction and cerebral malformation remains to be established.
1332365: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies on ballooned cortical neurons in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: expression of alpha B-crystallin, ubiquitin and stress-response protein 27. This report concerns ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies on ballooned neurons of ten patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). While abundant ballooned neurons and severe white matter degeneration was seen in six Japanese cases, only occasional ballooned neurons and no white matter degeneration was observed in four cases from the files of Montefiore Medical Center. Ultrastructurally, the ballooned neurons contained granule-coated fibrils of 25 to 40 nm in width and 10-nm neurofilaments. The immunohistochemical studies revealed that most ballooned neurons expressed alpha B-crystallin, with deposits of reaction products observed in the cytoplasm. A similar intracellular staining pattern was also seen with the antibody to phosphorylated neurofilament proteins (pNFP). Although the proportion of stained ballooned neurons was less, a positive reaction was also observed with antibodies against ubiquitin, stress-response protein 27 (srp 27) and synaptophysin, but not with an antibody to srp 72. Our findings suggest that expression of pNFP and synaptophysin by ballooned neurons may reflect axonal impairment and that the presence of alpha B-crystallin, srp 27 and ubiquitin may be related to the degenerative processes that neurons undergo in CJD.
1323907: !synaptophysin A continuous cell line (KK-2) from a supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumor. Tumor tissue located in the occipital lobe with hemorrhage was obtained from a 19-year-old patient. Histological examination indicated it to consist of undifferentiated small, round cells without neuronal or glial differentiation, and possibly to be a type of primitive neuroectodermal tumor. The tumor cells were cultured for 3 years and a continuous cell line (KK-2) was established. KK-2 was transplantable to nude mice. With immunocytochemistry, neuron-specific enolase, protein gene product 9.5, vimentin, TUJ1 (a monoclonal antibody specific for neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin isotype) and 6H7 (a monoclonal antibody to NCAM produced by us) were detected. None of the following could be found: glial fibrillary acidic protein, S-100 protein, neurofilament and synaptophysin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, gastrin releasing peptide corticotropin-releasing factor, substance P, somatostatin, chromogranin, aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase and tyrosine hydroxylase. The original tumor and KK-2 cells obtained after 3 years of culture and transplants in nude mice displayed essentially the same ultrastructural and immunohistochemical characteristics. KK-2 cells showed no differentiation to mature neuronal, glial or ependymal cells. This cell line may possibly serve as a useful model for studying cellular differentiation of human neuroectodermal tumors and normal neuronal development.
1316623: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical characterization of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infected giant cells in perinatal acquired human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. In a pediatric case of necrotizing CMV myelitis after perinatal HIV infection characteristic cytomegalic cells, which could not be attached to a particular cell line by cell morphology, were studied after immunostaining with monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies raised against GFAP, S100 protein, NSE, synaptophysin, factor VIII, vimentin, macrophages, leukocytes, CMV, HSV I + II, toxoplasma, and HIV 1 gp41. Astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, neurons, ependymal and endothelial cells, macrophages, and Schwann cells stained positively with CMV antiserum. With regard to their immunological features the majority of cytomegalic cells ("owl eye cells") was identified as astrocytes, and in decreasing frequency, the remainder was characterized as macrophages, mesenchymal, and endothelial cells. It is concluded that CMV giant cells represent one phase of virus induced cell transformation, not only one single, but numerous cell types are exposed to after CMV infection.
1316056: !synaptophysin Supraspinal fiber outgrowth and apparent synaptic remodelling across transected-reconstructed feline spinal cord. Following complete transection of the spinal cord at T9, 12 cats were separated into two groups: Group 1 received a collagen matrix (CM) treated with a neuroactive agent or with saline to bridge the spinal cord stumps and an omental transposition which was placed on the dorsal surface of the matrix; Group 2 received spinal cord transection only. Two cats received no spinal cord transection. After 90 days, all animals were killed and their brains and spinal cords were removed for immunohistochemical examination. Two weeks prior to sacrifice, spinal cord blood flows (SCBF) were measured and the retrograde axonal tracer Fluoro-Gold was injected below the transection site. Results show that omental transposition to the CM bridge in Group 1 animals increased SCBF an average 59% (assessed by clamping the omental blood supply to the cord). Examination of the brain 90 days after cord transection revealed Fluoro-Gold accumulation in the cytoplasm and processes of neurons located in the brainstem, midbrain, and diencephalic region which are known to contribute pathways to the spinal cord. Immunohistochemical staining with antibodies against the catecholamine synthesizing enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine-B-hydroxylase, indicated that only Group I treated cats developed dense bundles of dopaminergic and noradrenergic fibers within the CM bridge and distal spinal cord tissue. These fibers were seen to extend 90 mm below the transection site. In addition, the synaptogenic marker synaptophysin (SYN) was observed in association with dopaminergic and noradrenergic fibers distal to the collagen matrix bridge, an indication that synaptic remodelling (regeneration) by previously denervated supraspinal axons may have occurred. Immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) showed little to none reactive astrocytosis near the transection site of cats treated with the CM and omentum transposition (Group 1). No catecholaminergic fibers or SYN expression below the transection site were observed in Group 2 treated cats. Group 2 treated cats also showed dense immunostaining of GFAP near the transection site indicating significant astrocytic proliferation. These findings indicate that following complete spinal cord transection in cats and reconstruction with a treated collagen matrix and omental transposition, disconnected supraspinal fibers have the ability to regenerate for long anatomic distances and seemingly engage in synaptic remodelling with distal target tissue.
1312883: !synaptophysin Effect of dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate on morphological features and biological markers of human salivary myoepithelial cell line in culture. We have found the emergence of myoepithelial cells (HSG-AZA1) in neoplastic human salivary intercalated duct cell line HSG in culture after treatment with 5-azacytidine. When HSG-ZAZ1 cells were cultured in the presence of N6,O2-dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (dB-cAMP), they formed long cytoplasmic processes which were densely packed with ample microfibrils in addition to microtubule bundles. The expression of neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and catecholamine as well as neurofilaments in the treated HSG-AZA1 cells was found by the immunofluorescence staining technique, immunoblotting, immunoelectron microscopy, or catecholamine fluorescence. Both the anchorage-independent and anchorage-dependent growths of HSG-AZA1 cells were suppressed in the presence of dB-cAMP. After the removal of dB-cAMP from the culture, the treated cells returned rapidly to the phenotype and growth rate of the untreated cells. These findings indicate that reversible differentiation into the neuron-like cells of HSG-AZA1 cells occurs in growth medium containing dB-cAMP.
1282329: !synaptophysin Organelles in fast axonal transport. What molecules do they carry in anterograde vs retrograde directions, as observed in mammalian systems? The present minireview describes experiments carried out, in short-term crush-operated rat nerves, using immunofluorescence and cytofluorimetric scanning techniques to study endogenous substances in anterograde and retrograde fast axonal transport. Vesicle membrane components p38 (synaptophysin) and SV2 are accumulating on both sides of a crush, but a larger proportion of p38 (about 3/4) than of SV2 (about 1/2) is recycling toward the cell body, compared to the amount carried with anterograde transport. Matrix peptides, such as CGRP, ChRA, VIP, and DBH are recycling to a minor degree, although only 10-20% of surface-associated molecules, such as synapsins and kinesin, appear to recycle. The described methodological approach to study the composition of organelles in fast axonal transport, anterograde as compared to retrograde, is shown to be useful for investigating neurobiological processes. We make use of the "in vivo chromatography" process that the fast axonal transport system constitutes. Only substances that are in some way either stored in, or associated with, transported organelles can be clearly observed to accumulate relative to the crush region. Emphasis in this paper was given to the synapsins, because of diverging results published concerning the degree of affiliation with various neuronal organelles. Our previously published results have indicated that in the living axons the SYN I is affiliated with mainly anterogradely fast transported organelles. Therefore, some preliminary, previously unpublished results on the accumulations of the four different synapsins (SYN Ia, SYN Ib, SYN IIa, and SYN IIb), using antisera specific for each of the four members of the synapsin family, are described. It was found that SYN Ib clearly has a stronger affiliation to anterogradely transported organelles than SYN Ia, and that both SYN IIa and SYN IIb are bound to some degree to transported organelles.
1667676: !synaptophysin Expression and localization of smg p25A (= rab3A) in cultured rat hippocampal cells. We have studied the expression of smg p25A and synaptophysin in cultured hippocampal neurons isolated from 5-day-old rat brain by an immunocytochemical technique. In a dispersed cell culture seeded on astrocyte monolayers, well-branching neurite proliferation was observed along with age in culture. The synaptophysin immunoreactivity was present in the neuronal cell bodies and neurites at 1 and 5 days in vitro (DIV) and was eventually localized to discrete areas along neurites at 15 DIV while the immunoreactivity in cell bodies became less prominent. On the other hand, the smg p25A immunoreactivity was observed in the neuronal cell bodies and neurites at 1 through 15 DIV. The immunoreactivity for smg p25A or synaptophysin was not observed in astrocytes and this finding was confirmed by an immunoblot analysis. These results indicate that smg p25A as well as synaptophysin is present exclusively in neurons and suggest that these two synapse-associated proteins have different sites of function and different kinetics of synthesis, transport, and/or turnover in cultured hippocampal neurons.
1935891: !synaptophysin Newly synthesized synaptophysin is transported to synaptic-like microvesicles via constitutive secretory vesicles and the plasma membrane. The biogenesis of synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs) in neuroendocrine cells was investigated by studying the traffic of newly synthesized synaptophysin to SLMVs in PC12 cells. Synaptophysin was found to be sulfated, which facilitated the determination of its exit route from the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Virtually all [35S]sulfate-labeled synaptophysin was found to leave the TGN in vesicles which were indistinguishable from constitutive secretory vesicles but distinct from immature secretory granules and SLMVs. [35S]sulfate-labeled synaptophysin was rapidly transported from the TGN to the cell surface, with a t1/2 of approximately 10 min in resting cells. After arrival at the cell surface, [35S]sulfate-labeled synaptophysin cycled for at least 1 h between the plasma membrane and an intracellular compartment likely to be the early endosome. Up to approximately 40% of the [35S]sulfate-labeled synaptophysin eventually (after 3 h and later) reached SLMVs, which could be distinguished from the other post-TGN compartments by their lower buoyant density in a sucrose gradient and their selective inclusion upon permeation chromatography using a controlled-pore glass column. Our results suggest that newly synthesized membrane proteins of SLMVs in neuroendocrine cells, and possibly of small synaptic vesicles in neurons, reach these organelles via the TGN----plasma membrane----early endosome.
1793665: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical localization of synaptophysin on the smooth-surfaced tubular membranes present in nerve terminal and preterminal areas in the rat cerebellar cortex. The distribution of synaptophysin, a major protein of the synaptic vesicle membrane, was immunocytochemically examined in the rat cerebellar cortex. A monoclonal antibody against synaptophysin recognized the epitope to be present in the presynaptic membranous structures including synaptic vesicles, presynaptic membrane, coated vesicles, and vacuoles of endocytotic origin. In the nerve terminal as well as preterminal areas, the antibody labeled the smooth-surfaced tubular membranes which were located in the relatively interior parts of these areas and consistent in size and appearance with the short tubules comprising the thinner parts of the axonal reticulum. However, the antibody did not stain the short tubular membranes, though similar in appearance to the above, which existed right below the axolemma in the preterminal and nerve terminal areas. The results are discussed with special reference to the precursor membrane compartments of synaptic vesicles.
1720920: !synaptophysin Sinonasal malignant melanoma. A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 14 cases. The clinical, light microscopic, and immunohistochemical features of 14 sinonasal malignant melanomas were studied to show their diverse morphologic appearance and distinction from therapeutically more amenable neoplasms that occur in this region. The tumors arose in 6 men and 8 women (median age, 70 years). Eleven patients died of disease 7 to 44 months (median, 18 months) after diagnosis. The absolute median survival time was 18.5 months (range, 7 to 44 months). The predominant microscopic appearance was categorized as small blue cell in eight cases, spindle cell in three cases, epithelioid in two cases, and pleomorphic in one case. Eight tumors had multiple patterns. Five sinonasal malignant melanomas had theque-like growth, five had junctional change, and 10 contained at least rare melanin pigment. Fourteen, 13, and 12 sinonasal malignant melanomas were immunoreactive with anti-vimentin, HMB45, and anti-S100 protein antibodies, respectively. One epithelioid tumor positive for vimentin, S100, and HMB45 also contained scattered epithelial membrane antigen-positive and cytokeratin-positive cells, which emphasizes the need for a battery of stains to distinguish sinonasal malignant melanoma from carcinoma. All tumors were negative for leukocyte common antigen, muscle-specific actin, and synaptophysin. Diffuse immunopositivity for vimentin, S100 protein, and HMB45 allows distinction of sinonasal malignant melanomas from histologically similar neoplasms.
1686423: !synaptophysin Differences in transmitter release, morphology, and ischemia-induced cell injury between cerebellar granule cell cultures developing in the presence and in the absence of a depolarizing potassium concentration. Release of glutamate and aspartate was measured in mouse cerebellar granule cells in primary cultures grown for 4-16 days in serum-containing tissue culture medium with either a partially depolarizing (25 mM) or a physiological concentration of potassium (5.4 mM). The cells migrated to form aggregates connected by a network of processes during the first week in culture and both groups of cultures survived for at least 2 weeks. In cultures grown in the presence of 25 mM potassium for at least 8 days there was a large (approximately 10 nmol/min/mg protein), calcium-dependent glutamate release and a smaller aspartate release during superfusion with 50 mM potassium. This response was not present in cultures grown in the physiological medium. Nevertheless, exposure to an elevated potassium concentration caused a normal, or even enhanced calcium entry into the cells. Phase contrast microscopy showed a similar appearance of the cellular aggregates under each of the two conditions. Electron microscopy revealed that the aggregates consisted of a centrally located neuropil and peripherally located granule cell bodies. The morphology of the cell bodies and the neuropil in the cells grown at the high potassium concentration closely resembled that of cerebellar granule cells in vivo. In the cells grown at the low potassium concentration, cell bodies, axons and synaptic vesicles looked normal, but the remainder of the neuropil, especially dendrites, showed massive degeneration. Immunochemical measurements demonstrated similar amounts of synaptophysin under each of the two culturing conditions, thus confirming our impression that there were similar numbers of synaptic vesicles and hence presynaptic elements in the two types of cultures. Fluorescence microscopy, using fluorescein diacetate to stain living cells and propidium iodide to stain dead cells, indicated a much greater resistance to ischemic cell injury in the cells cultured at the low potassium concentration. Possible reasons for this difference are discussed.
1913457: !synaptophysin A clinicopathologic and immunomorphologic study of 13 cases of ganglioglioma. The authors present the clinical, histopathologic, and immunomorphologic data of 13 intracranial gangliogliomas. Preoperative computed tomography scans showed a commonly cystic tumor of variable density. Six tumors were completely excised and seven were subtotally resected. After a mean follow-up of 4.5 +/- 2.6 years, 11 patients are asymptomatic or only slightly incapacitated. All tumors were examined with a panel of neuronal and neuroendocrine markers. Immunoreactivity (IR) to anti-neurofilament polypeptide (clone 2F11) was observed in neuronal processes in ten cases and in neuronal perikarya in five. With anti-synaptophysin (clone SY38), IR was present along the lining of ganglion cell perikarya and processes in 11 tumors whereas staining of the perinuclear cytoplasm was prominent in two. IR to anti-chromogranin A (clone LK2H10) was observed within the neuronal perikarya in eight cases. Only one ganglioglioma of the brain stem showed IR for tyrosine-hydroxylase (clone 2/40/15) and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase in some neoplastic ganglion cells. In this study, synaptophysin was the most reliable neuronal marker. For immunocytochemical identification of neoplastic neurons in ganglioglioma as well as other tumors with neuronal differentiation the authors propose a panel of well-characterized monoclonal antibodies against neurofilament polypeptides, synaptophysin, and chromogranin A to support the histomorphologic diagnoses.
1751512: !synaptophysin Synaptin/synaptophysin, p65 and SV2: their presence in adrenal chromaffin granules and sympathetic large dense core vesicles. The subcellular distribution of three proteins of synaptic vesicles (synaptin/synaptophysin, p65 and SV2) was determined in bovine adrenal medulla and sympathetic nerve axons. In adrenals most p65 and SV2 is confined to chromaffin granules. Part of synaptin/synaptophysin is apparently also present in these organelles, but a considerable portion is found in a light vesicle which does not contain significant concentrations of typical markers of chromaffin granules (cytochrome b-561, dopamine beta-hydroxylase or the amine carrier). An analogous finding was obtained for sympathetic axons. The large dense core vesicles contain most p65 and also SV2 but only a smaller portion of synaptin/synaptophysin. A lighter vesicle containing this latter antigen and some SV2 has also been found. These results establish that in adrenal medulla and sympathetic axons three typical antigens of synaptic vesicles are not restricted to light vesicles. Apparently, a varying part of these antigens is found in chromaffin granules and large dense core vesicles. On the other hand, the light vesicles do not contain significant concentrations of functional antigens of chromaffin granules. Thus, the biogenesis of small presynaptic vesicles which contain all three antigens as well as functional components like the amine carrier is likely to involve considerable membrane sorting.
1941089: !synaptophysin Differential expression of synaptophysin and synaptoporin mRNAs in the postnatal rat central nervous system. Synaptophysin and synaptoporin are two homologous integral membrane proteins of small synaptic vesicles. Here, the distribution of the corresponding transcripts in the CNS of the rat was investigated by in situ hybridization using sequence-specific oligonucleotide probes. Synaptophysin mRNA was abundantly distributed through all major brain regions, whereas synaptoporin transcripts displayed a more restricted localization in telencephalic structures. Resolution at the cellular level disclosed a differential labeling of distinct cell types in different areas, suggesting that synaptophysin and synaptoporin are expressed by specific subpopulations of central neurons. Consistent with this conclusion, relative synaptoporin mRNA contents were found to vary between different brain regions during postnatal development, whereas synaptophysin transcripts showed a more uniform increase during the same period.
1918927: !synaptophysin Subcellular localization of secretogranin II and synaptophysin by immunoelectron microscopy in differentiated hypothalamic neurons in culture. Secretogranin II (SgII), a tyrosine-sulfated secretory protein, is a widespread component of endocrine and neuronal cells. In the present study we used mouse hypothalamic neurons differentiated in culture and studied the subcellular localization of SgII by two methods, i.e., by the use of immunoperoxidase or immunogold electron microscopy. By immunoperoxidase labeling, SgII was mainly detected in the matrix of large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs). In addition, usually in nerve terminals containing LDCVs, peroxidase reaction product was also found in association with the membrane of small synaptic vesicles (SSVs). By immunogold labeling, SgII was detected only in the matrix of LDCVs. We also compared the localization of SgII and synaptophysin (SY), an integral membrane protein of SSVs, by double labeling, using a combination of pre-embedding immunogold and -peroxidase techniques for SgII and SY, respectively. In perikarya, SgII-positive LDCVs were observed in the vicinity of the Golgi complex and scattered in the cytoplasm. In contrast, SY labeling was restricted to electron-translucent vesicles and tubular membranes in the Golgi area. Moreover, membrane structures positive for both SgII and SY were not found either in the Golgi zone or in other regions of the cytoplasm. In synaptic boutons, immunolabeling of LDCVs and SSVs with anti-SgII and anti-SY, respectively, was mutually exclusive. In summary, within the limitation of the methods used, our data are consistent with the notion that SgII and SY are segregated from each other on exit from the trans-Golgi network, than follow two distinct membrane traffic pathways, and that the presence of SgII on the membrane of some SSVs is due to endocytosis.
1918924: !synaptophysin Neuronal protein NP185 in avian and murine cerebellum: expression during development and evidence for its presence in nerve endings. The neuronal protein NP185 is a neural tissue-specific protein isolated from clathrin-coated vesicles in brain. Using 8G8, a monoclonal antibody (MAb) characterized in our laboratory, we studied the expression and distribution of neuronal protein NP185 in developing avian cerebellum and in mature murine cerebellum. Furthermore, we compared these parameters to that of synapse-specific neuronal protein, synaptophysin, and an axon-specific (i.e., non-synaptic) neuronal protein, neurofilament NF68. We found that NP185 expression temporally and spatially corresponds to avian cerebellar synaptogenesis. In addition, NP185 distribution parallels synaptophysin distribution throughout development, while differing from that of either unassembled or filamentous forms of NF68. The evidence also suggests that embryonic NP185 expression coincides with synaptogenesis, and that NP185 remains concentrated in the terminal boutons of mature neurons. The synapse specificity of NP185 and the recent biochemical properties reported for this protein support the postulate that this molecule may trigger synaptic events and distinguish structurally and functionally active synapses.
1833462: !synaptophysin Leukophysin: a 28-kDa granule membrane protein of leukocytes. A membrane glycoprotein of human platelet dense granules, called granulophysin, with serologic homology to synaptophysin has recently been identified. To determine if this protein was present in granulated leukocytes, we examined several cell types for the presence of the protein by indirect immunofluorescence. Antigranulophysin mAb staining was detected in a granular pattern in the cytoplasm of permeabilized IL-2-stimulated CD3+ peripheral lymphocytes, neutrophils, U937 monocytes, and mast cells. Immunohistochemistry of human lymph nodes showed cytoplasmic staining of macrophages, neutrophils, and some dendritic cells. Induction of granule exocytosis in granulated CD3+ lymphocytes after stimulation with PMA and calcium ionophore A23187 resulted in a redistribution of the reactive epitope from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane. Subcellular fractions contained two peaks of reactivity; the first peak coincided with N-benzyloxycarbonyl-L-lysine thiobenzyl ester-esterase activity in dense granules whereas the second peak was present in lighter fractions. The affinity purified protein from both peaks was identical in Western blot analysis and had a molecular mass of 28 kDa under reducing conditions. The protein could only be solubilized in detergent suggesting that it was an integral membrane protein. We have named this protein leukophysin to differentiate it from the 40-kDa granulophysin of platelets. Monocytes contained a protein with identical m.w. to leukophysin, whereas a protein of a slightly higher m.w. was detected in neutrophils. We propose that leukophysin is a common granule membrane protein of leukocytes.
1786532: !synaptophysin Localization of Alzheimer beta A4 amyloid precursor protein at central and peripheral synaptic sites. We have recently shown that the amyloid beta A4 precursor protein (APP) is synthesized in neurons and undergoes fast axonal transport to synaptic sites [Koo et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 87 (1990) 1561-1565]. Using immunofluorescence, laser confocal microscopy and immunoelectron microscopy with simultaneous detection of APP and synaptophysin, we now report a preferential localization of APP at synaptic sites of human and rat brain and at neuromuscular junctions. APP is further found on vesicular elements of neuronal perikarya, dendrites and axons. The synaptic localization of APP implies (1) a role of APP in physiological synaptic activity and (2) a potential and early impairment of central synapses when synaptic APP is converted to beta A4 amyloid during the pathological evolution of Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome.
1724412: !synaptophysin Cytokeratin expression in a congenital multipotential primitive neuroectodermal tumor. A case of an uncommon congenital primitive neuroectodermal cerebellar tumor (PNET) in a 5-month-old child is reported. After subtotal surgical resection, the residual tumor did not respond to radiation and chemotherapy. Histologically, the tumor was composed of small, round, undifferentiated cells and several other patterns like astrocytomatous, oligodendrogliomatous, and ependymomatous structures. Immunostaining was positive for most of the cells for vimentin and S 100, fewer were positive for glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) and neuron-specific enolase, and only a few for synaptophysin. Surprisingly, the tumor showed strong expression of several monoclonal cytokeratins (CK) with different molecular weights, together with epithelial membrane antigen. Furthermore, we found a coexpression of the tumor cells for CK and vimentin, while CK-GFAP and CK-S 100 were negative. Ultrastructurally, intracytoplasmic intermediate filaments could be observed corresponding to immunohistochemical CK expression. The very strong CK and vimentin expression in this case was interpreted as a sign of the embryonic nature of the tumor.
1664927: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptophysin during synapse formation between dissociated cortical neurons. Cerebral cortical cells from fetal rats (14 days) were cultured in vitro (7-104 days). Localization of synaptophysin was examined immunocytochemically using a monoclonal antibody (SY-38) against synaptophysin. Synaptophysin-immunoreactive (SP-IR) spots were distributed on the surface of the cells. Electron-microscopic observation showed that the SP-IR staining was localized at presynaptic terminals, indicating that the SP-IR spots observed will, fluorescence microscopy represent presynaptic terminals. The time-course of the distribution of SP-IR spots was examined. SP-IR spots could not be observed in cells at 7 days in vitro (DIV). At 14 DIV, SP-IR spots could be first observed on the surface of cell bodies and neurites. Thereafter, the density of SP-IR spots on the cell bodies and neurites increased with DIV. At 42 and 104 DIV, SP-IR spots were almost continued, surrounding the neurites and cell bodies of the cultured cells. These immunocytochemical studies suggest that the dissociated 14-day fetal cerebral cortical neurons make synapses by at least 14 DIV and that the density of synapses increases with time.
1918133: !synaptophysin Colocalization of synaptophysin with transferrin receptors: implications for synaptic vesicle biogenesis. We have reported previously that the synaptic vesicle (SV) protein synaptophysin, when expressed in fibroblastic CHO cells, accumulates in a population of recycling microvesicles. Based on preliminary immunofluorescence observations, we had suggested that synaptophysin is targeted to the preexisting population of microvesicles that recycle transferrin (Johnston, P. A., P. L. Cameron, H. Stukenbrok, R. Jahn, P. De Camilli, and T. C. Südhof. 1989. EMBO (Eur. Mol. Biol. Organ.) J. 8:2863-2872). In contrast to our results, another group reported that expression of synaptophysin in cells which normally do not express SV proteins results in the generation of a novel population of microvesicles (Leube, R. E., B. Wiedenmann, and W. W. Franke. 1989. Cell. 59:433-446). We report here a series of morphological and biochemical studies conclusively demonstrating that synaptophysin and transferrin receptors are indeed colocalized on the same vesicles in transfected CHO cells. These observations prompted us to investigate whether an overlap between the distribution of the two proteins also occurs in endocrine cell lines that endogenously express synaptophysin and other SV proteins. We have found that endocrine cell lines contain two pools of membranes positive for synaptophysin and other SV proteins. One of the two pools also contains transferrin receptors and migrates faster during velocity centrifugation. The other pool is devoid of transferrin receptors and corresponds to vesicles with the same sedimentation characteristics as SVs. These findings suggest that in transfected CHO cells and in endocrine cell lines, synaptophysin follows the same endocytic pathway as transferrin receptors but that in endocrine cells, at some point along this pathway, synaptophysin is sorted away from the recycling receptors into a specialized vesicle population. Finally, using immunofluorescent analyses, we found an overlap between the distribution of synaptophysin and transferrin receptors in the dendrites of hippocampal neurons in primary cultures before synapse formation. Axons were enriched in synaptophysin immunoreactivity but did not contain detectable levels of transferrin receptor immunoreactivity. These results suggest that SVs may have evolved from, as well as coexist with, a constitutively recycling vesicular organelle found in all cells.
1898230: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical study of benign clear cell ('sugar') tumor of the lung. Benign clear cell ("sugar") tumor is a rare and most unusual pulmonary neoplasm. Although several reports in the literature have focused on the ultrastructural features of benign clear cell tumor, only a few cases have been formally studied by immunochemistry. Using a broad panel of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies, five cases were evaluated. In all five cases, there was diffuse immunoreactivity for cathepsin B. Four cases showed immunoreactivity for HMB-45 and for alpha 1-antitrypsin. By two different sources for antivimentin, there was immunoreactivity in four cases (Biogenex, Dublin, Calif) and in two cases (DAKO, Santa Barbara, Calif), respectively. Additional immunoreactivity was present for S100 protein (three cases), HAM-56 (two cases), factor XIIIA (two cases), and neuron-specific enolase (one case). No case expressed immunoreactivity for keratin (AE 1, AE 3, or CAM 5.2), carcinoembryonic antigen, chromogranin, synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, or alpha 1-antichymotrypsin. This immunochemical profile suggests that HMB-45, in combination with a variety of immunostains, may serve to distinguish benign clear cell tumor from other clear cell neoplasms.
1839510: !synaptophysin Immunohistological signposts in central nervous system tumours with neuronal differentiation. 25 neuronal tumours with a panel of antibodies were studied and it was found that vimentin was present in 15 tumours. It was also found in a few cells within rosettes. PGP 9.5 showed a somatic pattern of staining with nuclear and perinuclear positivity in 23. Neurofilament reactivity was found in 14. Retinal S-antigen was detected only in one medulloblastoma, 3/4 pineal tumours and 2/2 retinoblastomas. Reactivity, for synaptophysin was present in 2/5 medulloblastomas, 3/10 neuroblastomas and 2/2 retinoblastomas. GFAP was demonstrated in scattered tumour cells in 4/5 medulloblastomas. Two of these were the only tumours featuring bipolar differentiation whilst it was unipolar in the remainder. The significance of these findings in relation to the ontogeny of these tumours is discussed.
1805241: !synaptophysin Plasticity mechanisms in vestibular compensation in the cat are improved by an extract of Ginkgo biloba (EGb 761). The effects of administration of an extract of Ginkgo biloba (EGb 761) on vestibular compensation was studied in unilateral vestibular neurectomized cats. This experimental model of CNS plasticity was investigated by using behavioral tests (postural disorders compensation, locomotor balance recovery), electrophysiological (spontaneous and evoked neck muscle activity) and neurophysiological (spontaneous firing rate recovery of deafferented vestibular cells) recordings, and immunocytochemical methods (synaptic loss and synaptic reoccupation within the deafferented vestibular nuclei). In all experiments, EGb 761 was administered over 30 days at daily doses of 50 mg/kg IP. The results showed a faster recovery in the EGb-treated group of cats as compared to an untreated control group. EGb administration strongly accelerated postural and locomotor balance recovery. Concomitantly, spontaneous neck muscle activity, vestibulo-collic reflexes and spontaneous firing rate of vestibular units located on the lesioned side were restored earlier. Morphological correlates characterized by a more rapid synaptic reoccupation were found in the deafferented medial vestibular nucleus by means of immunoreactive labelling using an antibody against a synaptic vesicle-associated protein (synaptophysin), but they displayed a longer time-constant in comparison with the behavioral and neurophysiological data. These results clearly demonstrate that EGb 761 acts on recovery mechanisms considered as key processes in vestibular compensation. They suggest that this substance would possess neurotrophic and/or neuritogenic properties improving functional recovery after CNS injury.
1718046: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation and prognosis of extrahepatic biliary tract carcinomas. From 1980 to 1987, 35 patients underwent exploratory surgery for carcinomas of the extrahepatic biliary tract (EBT). Samples from 28 of these tumors (15 gallbladder, 13 bile duct) were assessed by immunohistochemical analysis for exocrine and/or neuroendocrine differentiation. Seven patients were excluded from the study because of insufficient available specimen or loss to follow-up. Paraffin sections were immunostained for neuroendocrine differentiation markers: neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin-A, synaptophysin, serotonin, somatostatin, substance-P, and glucagon. Additional sections were also stained with monoclonal antibody A-80 that recognizes a glycoprotein related to exocrine differentiation. The tumors were reclassified on the basis of immunophenotyping data: (I) pure exocrine carcinoma (n = 8); (II) predominantly exocrine carcinoma with occasional neuroendocrine cells (n = 9); (III) mixed exocrine-neuroendocrine carcinoma (n = 4); (IV) pure neuroendocrine (n = 2); and (V) predominantly neuroendocrine with occasional exocrine cells (n = 5). Survival time among the two pure neuroendocrine (group IV) and five predominantly neuroendocrine carcinomas (group V) was significantly less than the survival time of patients from the other groups (2.6 +/- 2.2 months vs 13.5 +/- 12.3 months; p = 0.015). No difference was noted between groups in extent of disease, treatment rendered, or location of tumor (bile duct vs gallbladder). This study indicates that (1) the incidence of neuroendocrine differentiation in cancers of the EBT is higher than generally recognized, (2) carcinomas of the EBT may be phenotypically reclassified on the basis of immunohistochemical analysis, and (3) the presence of pure or predominant neuroendocrine differentiation in carcinomas of the EBT is associated with shorter survival time than carcinomas with pure or predominant exocrine differentiation (or mixed exocrine and neuroendocrine factors).
1833448: !synaptophysin Freeze-substitution and Lowicryl HM20 embedding of fixed rat brain: suitability for immunogold ultrastructural localization of neural antigens. We examined the suitability of freeze-substitution and Lowicryl HM20 embedding of aldehyde-fixed rat brain to localize several neural antigens at the ultrastructural level. The following rabbit polyclonal and mouse monoclonal antibodies were used: affinity-purified polyclonal immunoglobulins G raised to B-50/GAP43 (a membrane-anchored, growth-associated protein); affinity-purified polyclonal immunoglobulins G to human glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP; a subunit of glial filaments); a polyclonal antiserum raised to adrenocorticotropic hormone[25-39] (a neuropeptide present in dense-core granules); a polyclonal antiserum raised to myelin basic protein (a protein present in compact myelin of the central nervous system); and mouse monoclonal antibodies to synaptophysin (an integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles). Rat mesencephalon was fixed by perfusion with buffered 2% glutaraldehyde and 4% paraformaldehyde, cryoprotected, and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Freeze-substitution of tissue was performed with anhydrous methanol and 0.5% uranyl acetate at -90 degrees C. Semi-thin Lowicryl sections were used for light microscopic visualization of B-50 in the ventromedial mesencephalic central gray substance. The procedure preserves well the ultrastructure of this region and the immunoreactivity of the selected antigens. This study shows that dehydration by freeze-substitution, combined with Lowicryl HM20 embedding at sub-zero temperature, provides a successful method of preparation of fixed brain tissue for ultrastructural studies, allowing immunogold localization of several neural antigens by double labeling in the same section and in serial sections.
1757731: !synaptophysin Cystic endocrine tumor of the pancreas. A large cystic tumor in the pancreatic body was found incidentally in an 85-yr-old male. A distal pancreatectomy was performed after a diagnosis of cystadenocarcinoma. Microscopic examination of the resected specimen revealed a pancreatic cystic endocrine tumor; however, this tumor produced no symptoms. Immunohistochemical studies of the tumor cells showed positivity for gastrin, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin, and two cell types of neurosecretory granules were recognized in electron-microscopic studies. Although endocrine tumors of the pancreas are usually solid and cystic change occurs only rarely, such tumors should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients who have a cystic lesion in the pancreas.
1746053: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma. A clinico-pathologic study of five cases. Five cases of central neurocytomas are described. The tumors occurred in relatively young patients (range 14 to 43 years; mean age, 27) with no predilection for sex. All the lesions were located in the anterior portion of the lateral ventricles or in the third ventricle, involving the septum pellicidum or the fornix. Histologically, they were composed of uniform cells with round nuclei and clear cytoplasm resembling oligodendrogliomas or, to a lesser extent, ependymomas. In 4 tumors, protein cell nuclear antigen immunostaining showed a low cell proliferation rate. All cases were positive for neuron-specific enolase. Four of the 5 cases were strongly immunoreactive for synaptophysin. The immunohistochemical data were consistent with neuronal differentiation. Resection was subtotal in 4 cases and total in one. Postoperative radiotherapy was given in only one case. The follow-up revealed a good prognosis: 4 patients were alive and had a long survival (from 2 to 8 years). Only one patient died after 14 months for causes unrelated to the neoplasm. The authors emphasize the importance of immunohistochemistry to recognize this benign intraventricular tumor.
1787174: !synaptophysin Molecular milestones that signal axonal maturation and the commitment of human spinal cord precursor cells to the neuronal or glial phenotype in development. Insights into the programmatic induction of neuronal and glial genes during human embryogenesis have depended largely on extrapolations of data derived from experimental mammals. However, the assumptions upon which these extrapolations are based have not been rigorously tested. Indeed, practically no information is available even on the human counterparts of the relatively small subset of well-characterized, developmentally regulated neuron and glial specific genes of the mammalian CNS. Thus, the developmental programs upon which human neural embryogenesis are based remain largely undeciphered. We have addressed this problem in immunohistochemical studies conducted on 22 human fetal spinal cords with gestational ages (GAs) that ranged from 6 to 40 weeks by using monoclonal antibodies to several classes of neuron or glial specific polypeptides. These polypeptides included: representatives of four different types (Types I-IV) of intermediate filament proteins, i.e., vimentin filament protein (VFP), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), different phospho-isoforms of the high (NF-H), middle (NF-M), and low (NF-L) molecular weight (Mr) neurofilament (NF) subunits, both acidic and basic cytokeratin (CK) proteins; three different microtubule associated proteins (MAPs), i.e., MAP2, MAP5, and tau; two different synaptic or coated vesicle proteins, i.e., synaptophysin (SYP) and clathrin light chain B (LCb); an oligodendroglial specific protein, i.e., myelin basic protein (MBP); and a receptor for a CNS trophic factor, i.e., the nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1723988: !synaptophysin Human olfactory epithelium in normal aging, Alzheimer's disease, and other neurodegenerative disorders. By use of immunohistochemistry, we characterized the molecular phenotype of human olfactory epithelial (OE) cells and assessed the nature of the dystrophic olfactory neurites described initially in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Keratin 8 was present in all classes of OE cells. Sustentacular cells lacked other cell type specific polypeptides and were distinguished from neurons and basal cells because the latter two classes of OE cells expressed neural cell adhesion molecules (N-CAMs) and microtubule associated proteins (MAPs), i.e., MAP5. Basal cells expressed nerve growth factor receptors (NGFRs), which distinguished them from olfactory neurons. Unlike their perikarya, olfactory axons expressed vimentin and GAP-43, but not peripherin or neurofilament (NF) proteins. Olfactory nerves were distinguished from other axons because the latter were positive for all three NF subunits and peripherin, in addition to vimentin and GAP-43. Dystrophic neurites in the OE were GAP-43 positive, but they also expressed proteins that were not detected in normal olfactory nerves (i.e., synaptophysin, MAP2, tau, peripherin, NF proteins). Further, rare NF positive olfactory neurons gave rise to NF positive dystrophic neurites. These neurites were present in all 11 AD cases, 11 of 14 subjects with other neurodegenerative diseases, and 6 of 8 neurologically normal adult controls, but no dystrophic neurites were seen in 9 fetal and neonatal cases. We conclude that the molecular phenotype of different human OE cells is distinct and that dystrophic olfactory neurites occur very frequently in neurologically normal adults. The relevance of these neurites to aging or specific disease processes remains speculative.
1922957: !synaptophysin Abnormal brain spectrin immunoreactivity in sprouting neurons in Alzheimer disease. Brain spectrin is a major membrane skeleton protein that participates in cellular transport, cell morphogenesis, neurotransmitter release and growth cone adhesion. The present study showed that in Alzheimer disease (AD) neuropil, brain spectrin immunoreactivity is co-localized with synaptophysin in the presynaptic boutons. At the ultrastructural level, brain spectrin immunoreactivity was observed in the presynaptic terminals and in the axoplasm of some myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. In addition to this normal localization of brain spectrin in the AD brain, we also found brain spectrin immunoreactivity associated with abnormal patchy lesions in the AD neuropil. Confocal laser imaging and immunoelectron microscopy revealed that these lesions corresponded to thick cellular processes derived from neurons. The findings that these structures were anti-neurofilament positive but anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and Ricinus communis agglutinin I (RCA-I) negative confirm their neuronal origin, and rule out the possibility of glial origin. These structures could represent either atypical axonal or dendritic processes derived from sprouting neurons or the accumulation of brain spectrin degradation products in degenerating neurons.
2072093: !synaptophysin A novel synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoprotein: SVAPP-120. Generation of antibodies and direct protein sequencing were used to identify and characterize proteins associated with highly purified synaptic vesicles from rat brain. A protein doublet of low abundance of 119 and 124 kDa apparent molecular mass [synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoprotein with a molecular mass of 120 kDa (SVAPP-120)] was identified using polyclonal antibodies. SVAPP-120 was found to copurify with synaptic vesicles and to be enriched in the purified synaptic vesicle fraction to the same extent as synapsin I. Like synapsin I, SVAPP-120 is not an integral membrane protein because it was released from synaptic vesicles by high salt concentrations. This protein was demonstrated to be brain specific, and its distribution in various brain regions paralleled the distribution of synapsin I and synaptophysin. During the postnatal development of the rat cortex and cerebellum, its expression correlated with synaptogenesis. SVAPP-120 was demonstrated to be a phosphoprotein both in vivo and in vitro. It was shown to be phosphorylated on serine and to a lesser extent on threonine residues. These results provide evidence that SVAPP-120 represents a novel synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoprotein. In addition, aldolase, a glycolytic enzyme, and alpha c-adaptin, a clathrin assembly-promoting protein, were identified on purified synaptic vesicles by direct protein sequencing.
1908253: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin is sorted from endocytotic markers in neuroendocrine PC12 cells but not transfected fibroblasts. The targeting of synaptophysin, a major synaptic vesicle protein, in transfected nonneuronal cells has important implications for synaptic vesicle biogenesis, but has proved controversial. We have analyzed four transfected cell types by differential centrifugation and velocity gradient sedimentation to determine whether synaptophysin is targeted to endosomes or to synaptic vesicle-like structures. Synaptophysin was recovered only in vesicles that sedimented more rapidly than synaptic vesicles. The synaptophysin-containing vesicles were labeled if a surface-labeled cell was warmed to 37 degrees C, comigrated with transferrin receptor-containing vesicles on velocity and density gradients, and could be completely immunoadsorbed by anti-LDL receptor tail antibodies. These data demonstrate that synaptophysin was targeted to the early endocytotic pathway in the transfected cells and are inconsistent with the suggestion that synaptophysin expression induces a novel population of vesicles. Targeting of synaptophysin to early endosomes implicates their role in synaptic vesicle biogenesis.
1831150: !synaptophysin Reactive synaptogenesis assessed by synaptophysin immunoreactivity is associated with GAP-43 in the dentate gyrus of the adult rat. Reactive synaptogenesis and terminal proliferation are known to occur in the dentate gyrus of the rat hippocampus following removal of specific afferents. In the present study we have examined the relation of synaptophysin immunoreactivity to the immunohistochemical staining pattern of GAP-43, a putative marker of neuritic growth. Within the molecular layer of the normal dentate gyrus, synaptophysin immunolabeling shows a trilaminar pattern, with the inner and outer layers having the greatest density of staining. Within the first week following denervation, there was a significant decrease in the staining density in the outer two-thirds of the molecular layer, followed by a moderate recovery at 14 days and 80% recovery by 30 days. This pattern is consistent with the time course of denervation and reinnervation in this system as determined previously by electron microscopy. By comparison, the staining pattern for GAP-43 in the intact dentate gyrus showed the middle and outer thirds of the molecular layer to be less densely stained than the inner third. Within a week following deafferentation, the outer two-thirds of the molecular layer displayed decreased levels of GAP-43 immunoreactivity, followed by recovery to normal levels by 30 days. By 84 days postlesion, patterns of both synaptophysin and GAP-43 immunostaining reflected an increased width of the inner molecular layer. Laser confocal imaging of double-immunolabeled sections at 14 days postlesion showed a 370% increase in the number of GAP-43-positive terminals in the molecular layer as compared to unoperated controls. Many of these GAP 43-positive terminals were synaptophysin negative. We conclude that GAP-43 may play a role in the synaptic remodeling that occurs in the denervated rat hippocampus and that quantitative morphometry of synaptophysin immunolabeling accurately reflects the fate of presynaptic terminals in this model of degeneration and reinnervation.
1779039: !synaptophysin Caprine peripheral neuroblastomas: structural and ultrastructural features, intermediate filaments profile and neuro-endocrine characterization. In this report the morphological and immunohistochemical features with respect to intermediate filament proteins and the neuroendocrine nature of bilateral neuroblastomas possibly originating from the adrenal medulla in a goat kid are presented. Histologically, the tumours were composed of small, round, blue cells organized in highly cellular nests and sheets separated by fibrovascular septa. Isolated cells mimicking the morphological features of neurones were observed in both tumours. Ultrastructurally, dense-core neurosecretory granules, about 100 nm in diameter, and irregularly organized neurotubular networks were seen. The small tumour cells were only labelled by vimentin, while the neurone-like cells were labelled by both neurone-specific enolase and synaptophysin. The lack of staining of the tumour cells by the neurofilament proteins antiserum, which was also observed in a human neuroblastoma (used as positive control) has been previously reported and is probably the result of the tissue processing and/or the poor differentiation stage of the tumours. The vimentin labelling of tumour cells could be explained by the poor differentiation stage of the tumours, since vimentin is the only intermediate filament protein in presumptive neuroblasts, being replaced by neurofilament proteins in later stages of neurogenesis.
1719791: !synaptophysin An immunocytochemical study of cutaneous innervation and the distribution of neuropeptides and protein gene product 9.5 in man and commonly employed laboratory animals. The cutaneous nerves of rat, cat, guinea pig, pig, and man were studied by immunocytochemistry to compare the staining potency of general neural markers and to investigate the density of nerves containing peptides. Antiserum to protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) stained more nerves than antisera to neurofilaments, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and synaptophysin or histochemistry for acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Peptidergic axons showed species variation in density of distribution and were most abundant in pig and fewest in man. However, the specific peptides in nerves innervating the various structures were consistent between species. Nerve fibers immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and/or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) predominated in all the species; those immunoreactive to tachykinins (substance P and neurokinin A [NKA]) and neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) were less abundant. Neonatal capsaicin, at the doses employed in this study, destroyed approximately 70% of CGRP- and tachykinin-immunoreactive sensory axons; whereas 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) at the doses employed resulted in a complete loss of NPY and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity without affecting VIP, CGRP, and tachykinins. Thus, this study confirms that antiserum to PGP 9.5 is the most suitable and practical marker for the demonstration of cutaneous nerves. Species differences exist in the density of peptidergic innervation, but apparently not for specific peptides. Not all sensory axons immunoreactive for CGRP and substance P/NKA are capsaicin-sensitive. However, all sympathetic TH- and NPY-immunoreactive axons are totally responsive to 6-OHDA; but no change was seen in VIP-immunoreactive axons, suggesting some demarcation of cutaneous adrenergic and cholinergic sympathetic fibers.
1717086: !synaptophysin Parathyroid hormone-related protein, chromogranin A, and calcitonin gene products in the neuroendocrine skin carcinoma cell lines MKL1 and MKL2. We studied the production of parathyroid-hormone-related protein, chromogranin A, calcitonin and calcitonin-gene-related peptide in the neuroendocrine skin cell line, MKL1, and a subsequently derived cell line designated MKL2. Both cell lines had cytological, histological and electron-microscopic features typical of neuroendocrine differentiation. Immunohistology and radioimmunoassay studies demonstrated the presence of parathyroid-hormone-related protein, chromogranin A, calcitonin-gene-related peptide, and calcitonin in the MKL2 cell line and the last three substances in both cell lines. The secretion of each of the first three substances was regulated by phorbol in the MKL2 cells. Additional immunohistochemical studies demonstrated the variable expression of bombesin, substance P, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in MKL2 cells, and the expression of synaptophysin in both MKL1 and MKL2 cells. These studies demonstrate the neuroendocrine characteristics of the MKL cell lines and provide a novel model for studies of the production and interactions of several neuroendocrine proteins and peptides by human skin cells.
1713277: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the genitourinary tract: an immunohistochemical, electron microscopic and clinicopathological study. We examined 13 cases of small cell carcinoma of the genitourinary tract to evaluate and compare the immunocytochemical and ultrastructural features as well as the clinicopathological behavior. Immunohistochemical stains revealed that neuron specific enolase and chromogranin showed differences in staining between the bladder and prostate, as well as between the small cell and adenocarcinomatous components of the prostate. Also, synaptophysin was negative over-all in 12 of 13 cases. Epithelial membrane antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen and keratin showed strong focal positivity within the small cell component. Electron microscopy was performed in 4 cases, with 3 demonstrating neurosecretory granules. Clinically, 6 of the 7 patients with adenocarcinoma/small cell carcinoma of the prostate did poorly, all with a survival of 15 months or less. Of 5 patients with transitional cell/small cell carcinoma of the bladder 2 fared better (both had no evidence of disease at 12 months and 11 years, respectively). Based upon the immunostaining and electron microscopic findings, small cell carcinoma of the genitourinary tract is heterogeneous in appearance and, therefore, may arise from a multipotential cell of origin. This cell of origin may be organ-specific, as demonstrated by the variability in staining characteristics among the prostate, bladder and kidney, as well as by the differences in the clinical behavior of these malignancies. Small cell carcinoma of the prostate has a poor prognosis, while small cell carcinoma of the bladder may portend a better prognosis if diagnosed at an early stage.
1654075: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation and clinical behaviour in non-small cell lung tumours. The present study examines the relationship between neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation and the clinical behaviour of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Retrospective (n = 315) and prospective (n = 44) cohorts of non-small cell tumours were obtained from surgically treated cases of lung cancer, comprising 218 squamous cell carcinomas, 65 adenocarcinomas, 51 adenosquamous carcinomas, and 25 large cell undifferentiated carcinomas. Paraffin wax embedded and fresh frozen tissue sections were stained for the NE markers neurone specific enolase, creatine kinase-BB, bombesin, neurotensin, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and UJ-13A. The expression of two or more markers was observed in 30% of cases, and was taken to identify NE-NSCLC. A statistically significant correlation between nodal status and NE differentiation (P = 0.05), and disease stage and NE differentiation (P = 0.04) was observed. However, there was no correlation between NE differentiation and survival. These findings suggest that NE-NSCLC, analogous to SCLC is more highly metastatic than non-NE-NSCLC.
1933310: !synaptophysin Hippocampal grafts into the intact brain induce epileptic patterns. Spontaneous hippocampal EEG activity and evoked field potentials were investigated in intact rats and in animals with fetal hippocampal grafts. Pieces of hippocampal grafts, derived from 15- to 16-day-old fetuses, were used to prepare cell suspensions and grafted directly into the intact hippocampus. Control animals received suspension grafts of the cerebellum derived from fetuses of identical age. Host hippocampal electrical patterns were monitored with chronic single electrodes or with a 16-microelectrode probe from 7 to 10 months after grafting. In contrast to previously reported high survival rates of fetal grafts in studies with damage to the host brain prior to grafting, survival of both hippocampal (60%) and cerebellar grafts (20%) was very poor in the intact hippocampus. In animals with cerebellar transplants or without surviving grafted neurons the electrical activity of the host hippocampus was indistinguishable from normal controls. In rats with hippocampal grafts short duration, large amplitude EEG spikes (up to 10 mV) were recorded, predominantly during immobility. When the EEG spikes (putative interictal spikes) were of large amplitude and contained population spikes, test evoked responses delivered to the perforant path were suppressed after the spontaneous events. In contrast, evoked responses were facilitated by interictal spikes without population spikes. The threshold of electrically induced afterdischarges did not differ significantly between groups of intact rats and animals with or without hippocampal grafts. However, in three rats with hippocampal grafts the evoked afterdischarges were associated with behavioral seizures. In two of these rats spontaneously occurring seizures were also observed. Synaptophysin-immunoreactivity demonstrated growth of the host mossy fibers into the graft.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2061716: !synaptophysin The Purkinje cell and its afferents in human hereditary ataxia. The cerebellar cortex in patients with autosomal dominant and recessive ataxia was studied by Golgi impregnation and immunocytochemistry in order to gain further insight into the pathogenesis of neuronal atrophy which accompanies these disorders. Monoclonal antisera were used to visualize phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated neurofilament proteins, and a synapse-specific protein (P38; synaptophysin). Golgi stain and immunocytochemistry for non-phosphorylated neurofilament protein revealed partial or complete loss of distal Purkinje cell dendrities in the dominant cases and in one recessive case. Many preserved parallel fibres were shown by the monoclonal antibody to phosphorylated neurofilament protein. This antibody also gave strong reaction product in torpedoes. Axosomatic and axodendritic terminals on Purkinje cells were reduced in number, and loss of mossy fiber terminals was revealed by monoclonal anti-P38. The described methods provided additional morphological evidence of the heterogeneity of the hereditary ataxias. Purkinje cell atrophy progressed from loss and simplification of the dendritic tree to disappearance of the cell body. While these cells appeared to be especially vulnerable, other neurons of the molecular and granular layers were not exempt. There was evidence that at least some extracerebellar afferents, such as mossy fibers, were also affected by the disease process.
2049761: !synaptophysin Undifferentiated carcinoma of the endometrium. A histopathologic and clinical study of 31 cases. A histopathologic review of 1985 cases of endometrial carcinoma yielded 31 undifferentiated carcinomas (1.6%). Forty-eight percent were large cell type and 52%, intermediate/small cell type. Twenty-one tumors were examined immunohistochemically. All stained for keratin. Eleven tumors reacted with vimentin antibodies, two with carcinoembryonic antigen antibodies, and ten with neuron-specific enolase (NSE) antibodies (four of which stained for bombesin, two for beta-endorphin, one for prealbumin, five for Leu7, and four for synaptophysin). The mean age at diagnosis was 63.9 years (range, 45 to 86). The crude 5-year and 10-year survival was 58% and 48%, respectively. Seventy-nine percent of the patients in surgicopathologic Stage I and 33% in Stage II survived 5 years. The intermediate/small cell types had a somewhat better prognosis than the large cell type, but the difference was not statistically significant. The presence or absence of NSE and vimentin immunoreactivity had no influence on survival. All patients with tumors infiltrating less than one half of the myometrium survived 5 years in contrast with 46% of the patients with deep infiltrating tumors. Fifty-four percent of the patients with demonstrable vessel invasion survived 5 years in contrast with 89% not so affected.
1953965: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical study of the hippocampus in parkinsonism-dementia complex on Guam. This investigation concerns the expression of paired helical filaments, tau protein, ubiquitin, beta-amyloid protein, and synaptophysin in the hippocampus of patients with parkinsonism-dementia complex on Guam (PDC) and Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) were identified in all cases of PDC and Alzheimer's disease by the modified Bielschowsky method, with which they were readily detected, and by immunohistochemical procedures using antibodies to paired helical filaments, tau protein, and ubiquitin. Observations regarding the different morphological stages indicated that NFTs were similar in PDC and Alzheimer's disease. The same markers were also useful for detecting neuropil threads, abundant in the CA1 field and the subiculum in both diseases. In the CA4 region of some PDC cases, prominent threads were noted. No senile plaques or amyloid angiopathies were seen in the hippocampus of the PDC cases examined. There was a significant decrease in synaptophysin immunoreactivity, most pronounced in the subfield CA1 and the subiculum, as well as in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, in both disorders.
1916631: !synaptophysin [Behavioral and neuropathological analyses of rats with intrahippocampal lesions]. Rats with intrahippocampal lesions produced by infusion of colchicine showed an impairment of learning ability and a decrease in local choline acetyl-transferase activity. In addition, these rats showed bizarre excitable behavior from 3 days after infusion for about an average of 10 days. This included daytime arousal, and easy jumping and squeak reactions against external stimuli as compared to the sham-operated control rats. Moreover, three-dimensional behavioral analysis disclosed: (i) the lesioned rats showed an increase ambulation compared to the control rats, (ii) a more centrally oriented sequence of wandering, while the control rats tended to display peripheral movement around the wall of the test cage, and (iii) they showed a decrease movement associated with rearing compared to the control rats. Neuropathologically, pyramidal neurons and fascia dentata of the lesioned hippocampus showed degeneration from 3 days with a marked astrocytic reaction. In addition, transient over expression of synaptophysin-immunoreactive material was seen in early stage of degeneration and this corresponded ultrastructurally to the presence of swollen synaptic boutons containing numerous non-core synaptic vesicles. These findings appeared to represent in part an abnormal excitement seen in patients with organic brain lesions, in which the excitement has been considered to correspond with neuronal death. Thus, the hippocampus-lesioned rats may provide an animal model to analyse the abnormal behaviors associated with neuronal death.
1913772: !synaptophysin Morphological evidence for a close interaction of chromaffin cells with cortical cells within the adrenal gland. The adrenal medulla appears to exert a regulatory influence on adrenocortical steroidogenesis. We have therefore studied the morphology of rat, porcine and bovine adrenals in order to characterize the contact zones of adrenomedullary and adrenocortical tissues. The distribution of chromaffin cells located within the adrenal cortex and of cortical cells located within the adrenal medulla was investigated. Chromaffin cells were characterized by immunostaining for synaptophysin and chromogranin A, both being considered specific for neuroendocrine cells. Cortical cells were characterized by immunostaining for 17 alpha-hydroxylase, an enzyme of the steroid pathway. Cellular contacts of chromaffin cells and cortical cells were examined at the electron microscopical level. In rat and porcine adrenals, rays of chromaffin cells, small cell clusters and single chromaffin cells or small invaginations from the medulla could be detected in all three zones of the cortex. Chromaffin cells often spread in the subcapsular space of the zona glomerulosa. In porcine and bovine adrenals, 17 alpha-hydroxylase immunoreactive cells were localized within the medulla. Single cortical cells and small accumulations of cells were spread throughout this region. At the ultrastructural level, the chromaffin cells located within the cortex in pig and rat adrenals formed close cellular contacts with cortical cells in all three zones. Our morphological data provide evidence for a possible paracrine role of chromaffin cells; this may be important for the neuroregulation of the adrenal cortex.
1774130: !synaptophysin Molecular anatomy of the neuro-immune connection. Light microscopic immunohistochemistry was employed to elucidate and compare the presence, distribution, and coexistence of various peptides, neuroendocrine markers and enzymes of the catecholamine pathway in nerves supplying lymphoid tissues in a variety of mammalian species. All lymphoid organs and tissues receive innervation by fibers containing dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and/or tyrosine hydroxylase, neural markers like protein gene product 9.5, synaptophysin and neurofilament and a varied spectrum of peptides. The prominent peptides were tachykinins (substance P, neurokinin A), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine (VIP/PHI). Opioid innervation was variable. Double immunofluorescence revealed coexistence of tachykinins and CGRP and of tyrosine hydroxylase and NPY. A minor proportion of fibers showed coexistence of NPY and tachykinins and of VIP/PHI and tachykinins. The possible importance of the complex peptidergic innervation of lymphoid tissues in inflammation, allergy, inflammatory pain and psycho-neuro-immuno-endocrine network function is discussed. A special immunomodulatory role of the sensory neurons is suggested.
1721751: !synaptophysin Oncocytic adrenal cortical adenoma. Follow-up examination of a 61-year-old woman who recently had a papillary transitional cell carcinoma removed from her urinary bladder revealed a 5-cm mass in the left adrenal gland. Clinicopathologic studies showed the tumor to be a heretofore undocumented virilizing oncocytic adrenal cortical adenoma. Ultrastructural examination disclosed that the cytoplasm was filled with mitochondria, many of which had tubulovesicular cristae. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum was well developed, as was the Golgi apparatus. Lysosomes of various types, including lipofuscin pigment, were also evident. Immunohistochemical studies revealed variable immunoreactivity for simple epithelial cell cytokeratins and for synaptophysin (weak staining) in a minority of tumor cells. Two additional cases of oncocytic adrenocortical tumors, presumably adenomas, from other institutions are also discussed. The small size and weight of the tumor, the low mitotic rate, and the absence of necrosis and vascular and capsular invasion portend a good prognosis. The patient is currently free of disease 1 year after extirpation of the tumor. Additional cases and longer follow-up times are needed to predict better the behavior of this rare oncocytic adrenal cortical neoplasm.
1718318: !synaptophysin Differential distribution of immunohistochemical markers in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in the human brain. A variety of histochemical findings have contributed to a more differentiated architectonical description of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) in the mammalian brain. However, in the human brain investigations of the chemoarchitecture of this nucleus have been rare. Therefore we chose this region in six human autopsy brains in order to map the distribution patterns of 13 immunohistochemical markers for neurotensin (NT), neuropeptide Y (NPY), somatostatin (SOM), enkephalins (ENK), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), substance P (SP), neurophysins (NPH), glial fibrillary acid protein, 3-fucosyl-N-acetyl-lactosamine epitope, myelin basic protein (MBP), calbindin (CAB), synaptophysin (SYN) and chromogranin-A (CHR-A). Three chemoarchitectonically distinct areas could be defined. The lateral subdivision of the BNST contained high amounts of NPY and SP-fibre immunoreactivity and was further characterized by the occurrence of neurons labelled for NPY. The central subdivision of the BNST appeared as a histochemically clearly circumscribed compartment with massive fibre immunoreactivity for SOM, ENK, VIP, SYN, CHR-A, CAB as well as SOM, ENK, NT and CAB positive cells but lacked cytosolic or fibre-like immunolabel for NPY and SP. This structure was also ensheathed by myelinated fibres identified by means of MBP immunohistochemistry. The medial subdivision of the BNST showed moderate to high SP and NPY fibre immunoreactivity but lacked immunolabelled neurons and was only scarcely supplied with varicose or punctiform ENK immunoproduct. In the most posterior levels of our sections a cell group labelled for NPH was located lateral to the fornix columns. The lateral subdivision of the BNST (with NPY, SYN) and mainly the central BNST (with SOM, ENK, VIP, SYN and CHR-A) contributed to ventrolateral extensions of dense patchy fibre immunoreactivity throughout the basal forebrain region.
1718291: !synaptophysin Aberrant neuronal development in hemimegalencephaly: immunohistochemical and Golgi studies. Immunohistochemical and Golgi studies were performed on 6 patients with hemimegalencephaly. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated glial, neuronal, and myelin heterotopia in the leptomeninges, cortex, and white matter with glial fibrillary acidic protein, myelin basic protein, and synaptophysin antisera. Golgi studies revealed small and deformed neurons in the superficial layers around abnormal sulci, and hypertrophic neurons with an increased number of dendrites and spines in the deeper cortex. The coexistence of a cell migration disorder, proliferation, and hypertrophy in each patient may imply a growth factor disturbance that controls cell proliferation. These unilateral cerebral malformations suggest that early surgical excision may be beneficial.
1718257: !synaptophysin Functional aspects of a tyrosine kinase encoding protooncogene, the c-src gene. To date the src gene family consists of at least 9 closely related protein tyrosine kinases belonging to the non-receptor type of kinases: c-src, c-yes, c-fgr, fyn, lyn, lck, hck, tkl and bkl. We have intensively studied the expression of the c-src gene during evolution and with respect to its possible functions in the processes of cellular differentiation and proliferation. From our results we conclude, that the c-src encoded tyrosine kinase could play a role in the development and/or maintenance of the multicellular organisation of primitive organisms like sponges or coelenterates. With respect to its tissue-specific expression pattern with neuronal cells always displaying elevated levels of pp60c-src and the observation that synaptophysin, the major constituent of the synaptic vesicle membrane protein, is phosphorylated by the c-src encoded tyrosinekinase in vitro and in intact synaptic vesicles, we suggest an essential role for pp60c-src in signal transduction pathways and/or axonal transport mechanisms in neurons.
1711793: !synaptophysin Clear cell tumor of the lung. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural evidence of melanogenesis. Clear cell tumors of the lung (CCTL) are rare neoplasms of uncertain differentiation. A previous study of eight CCTL demonstrated a lack of epithelial features, but their exact nature remained unknown. In the current study of nine CCTL, immunohistochemistry using preliminary enzymatic digestion showed strong reactivity with the antimelanocytic markers HMB-45 (seven cases) and HMB-50 (six cases) and focal positivity for S-100 (nine cases), neuron-specific enolase (three cases), synaptophysin (one case), and Leu-7 (one case). Staining for cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, chromogranin, and glial fibrillary acid protein was uniformly negative. Frozen-section immunoreactivity for vimentin and the antimelanocytic monoclonal preparation NKI/BETEB was noted in the one CCTL for which snap-frozen tissue was available. Ultrastructural examination of three glutaraldehyde-fixed CCTL showed rare neoplastic cells containing the full spectrum of melanosomes in two, one of which also contained neurosecretory-type granules. Aberrant melanosomal forms were identified in the third case. Melanosomes were not identified in the remaining five CCTL studied from formalin- or paraffin-retrieved material. The findings indicate that CCTL exhibits melanocytic differentiation. This feature may be of considerable value in distinguishing CCTL from other clear cell neoplasms.
1862545: !synaptophysin Establishment of a human medulloblastoma cell line (BO-101) demonstrating skeletal muscle differentiation. A permanent cell line, BO-101, was derived from a classic vermian medulloblastoma in a 9-year-old child. This line grew in vitro in adherent cultures and grew in athymic mice as serially transplantable intracranial and subcutaneous xenografts. Intracranial neoplasms grew as masses of small cells, which focally showed large cells with intense immunoreactivity for desmin, myoglobin and alpha-striated actin. The rhabdomyoblastic nature of these cells was confirmed ultrastructurally. The primary neoplasm showed immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase and vimentin. A large panel of monoclonal antibodies and antisera against neuronal and glial antigens failed to show glial and neuronal immunoreactivity in the cell culture and xenografts. Despite the marked genotypic and phenotypic differences, the original neoplasm and the cell line share a common chromosomal marker del (12) (p 13.1). The BO-101 line differs phenotypically and genotypically from previously established medulloblastoma cell lines and further supports the heterogeneous biologic properties of the cell populations that constitute these neoplasms.
32357608: !synaptophysin Functioning and nonfunctioning adrenal medullary tumors. Recent development of imaging tools such as computed tomography, ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging have incidentally discovered hormonally functioning or nonfunctioning adrenal tumors. Most adrenal medullary tumors are pheochromocytomas and neuroblastoma group tumors. They are representative of neuroendocrine tumors and can be diagnosed using neuroendocrine markers such as chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and neurofilament proteins. Catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes are also useful markers for these catecholamine-producing tumors. Both pheochromocytoma and neuroblastoma group tumors have cells that are immunohistochemicaJly positive for many peptide hormones including m-enkephalin, neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, corticotropinreleasing hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, calcitonin, and calcitonin gene-related peptide, among others. The evidence for production of these hormones is confirmed by mRNA analysis using in situ hybridization or Northern blot hybridization and by measuring protein levels with radioimmunoassay. Only a limited number of patients, however, complain of clinical symptoms associated with excessive peptide hormone production such as watery diarrhea, hypokalemia, and achlorhydria syndrome or Cushing's syndrome. The monoclonal human neuroblastoma cell line (NB-1) is a good model by which to understand the mechanism of excessive hormone production. NB-1 cells are usually nonfunctioning, but when they are stimulated by cyclic adenosine monophosphate and phorbol ester, they become capable of production and release of many peptide hormones and undergo morphological changes in their endocrine features. Thus, microenvironmental change seems to be one of the factors regulating gene expression and hormone production. Some molecular studies of oncogenes and growth factors are reviewed to gain an understanding of cell differentiation and proliferation. Finally, several chromosomal abnormalities reported in multiple endocrine neoplasia are introduced as potential tumorigenic factors.
1913929: !synaptophysin [Tumors of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system in childhood. Immunohistochemical study]. Twenty tumors of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system were investigated using a spectrum of antibodies against vimentin, neurofilament triplet, S-100 protein, neuronal specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin, synaptophysin, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. There were two ganglioneuromas, seven stroma rich neuroblastomas (composite ganglioneuroblastomas), five undifferentiated and six differentiating stroma poor neuroblastomas (NB) included in the series. Formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded material was used. The results showed that reactivity of the antibodies was relatively high, except the reactivity against synaptophysin. The tumor cell population showed a heterogeneous positivity in all cases. Only some undifferentiated NB were positive with the employed antibodies, which reduces the diagnostic benefit in a group of NB in which diagnostic demands of the immunohistochemistry are most important. The best results in undifferentiated NB were obtained with polyclonal antibody against NSE. This antibody is, however, not specific. Positive results of the immunohistochemistry in this group of tumors should be evaluated with caution.
1907886: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the mammalian endocrine pancreas. Synaptophysin, a major membrane glycoprotein of small presynaptic vesicles in neurons, has also been found in microvesicles of endocrine cells, e.g., of the endocrine pancreas. In the present study, the endocrine pancreas in 9 mammalian species (man, dog, mink, bovine, rabbit, guinea pig, rat, mouse, gerbil) has been investigated immunohistochemically for synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Synaptophysin-positive cells have been identified and localized on semithin plastic sections. Our study demonstrates that, in all species examined, all pancreatic endocrine cell types are consistently synaptophysin-positive independent of their location within the tissue, or the conditions of tissue processing. In addition, a few cells that cannot be hormonally identified show synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Hence, synaptophysin appears to be a regular constituent of all pancreatic endocrine cells in mammals. In several species, a subpopulation of endocrine cells, consisting of glucagon-containing and/or pancreatic-polypeptide-containing cells, exhibits a significantly higher degree of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. In the gerbil, this heterogeneity can readily be detected from the day of birth onwards. Our findings indicate that closely related endocrine cell types may differ with respect to the content of synaptophysin.
1904513: !synaptophysin Differentiation characteristics of newly established medulloblastoma cell lines (D384 Med, D425 Med, and D458 Med) and their transplantable xenografts. Three new human medulloblastoma (MB) cell lines (D384 Med, D425 Med, and D458 Med) and their transplantable xenografts were examined for antigenic expression with antibodies against neuroectodermal antigens, cytoskeletal proteins, neuroendocrine markers, glioma-associated antigens, tenascin, human lymphocyte antigen molecules, epidermal growth factor receptor, and T-cell antigen by indirect immunofluorescence, avidin-biotin complex peroxidase immunohistochemistry, and immunoblot methods. We found that each of the three cell lines expressed vimentin; low-, middle-, and high-molecular-weight neurofilament proteins; and the synaptic vesicle membrane glycoprotein synaptophysin. Each of the cell lines also reacted with antibodies against neural cell adhesion molecules, but none of them were positive for antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein, keratin, microtubule-associated protein tau and microtubule-associated protein 2, human lymphocyte antigen-DR, epidermal growth factor receptor, and T-cell antigen. Immunoreactivities with anti-tenascin and anti-glioma-associated antibodies were variable in these cell lines. Anti-human lymphocyte antigen-A,B and anti-beta 2-microglobulin antibodies reacted with xenografts of D384 Med and D425 Med and were weakly positive for a small population of D384 Med cultured cells. In summary, the detection of neurofilament proteins and synaptophysin and the absence of glial fibrillary acidic protein provide strong evidence for a neuronal phenotype of D384 Med, D425 Med, and D458 Med.
1904480: !synaptophysin The distribution of synapsin I and synaptophysin in hippocampal neurons developing in culture. As a first step toward elucidating mechanisms involved in the sorting of synaptic vesicle proteins in neurons, we have used immunofluorescence microscopy to determine the distribution of two synaptic vesicle proteins, synapsin I and synaptophysin, in hippocampal neurons developing in culture. In mature cultures, synapsin I and synaptophysin immunoreactivity was concentrated in puncta that were restricted to sites where axons contacted neuronal cell bodies or dendrites. Electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry demonstrated that these puncta corresponded to vesicle-filled axonal varicosities that were exclusively presynaptic. At early stages of development, before cell-cell contact, both synapsin I and synaptophysin were preferentially localized in axons, where they were particularly concentrated in the distal axon and growth cone. In axons that did not contact other cells, immunostaining for these two proteins had a granular appearance, which persisted for at least 7 d, but focal accumulations of vesicles comparable to those seen at sites of synaptic contact were not observed. When neurons contacted one another, numerous puncta of synapsin I and synaptophysin formed within the first week in culture. Double-label immunofluorescence demonstrated that the two vesicle antigens were closely codistributed throughout these stages of development. These observations demonstrate that synaptic vesicle proteins assume a polarized distribution within nerve cells beginning early in development, as soon as the axon can be identified. In contrast, differences in microtubule polarity orientation that distinguish mature axons and dendrites, and that have been proposed to account for the selective sorting of some materials in nerve cells, first appear at a subsequent stage of development. The selective distribution of synaptic vesicle proteins to the axon occurs in isolated cells, independent of interactions with other cells. In contrast, the formation of large clusters of vesicles typical of presynaptic specializations requires contact with an appropriate postsynaptic target. Thus, in cultured hippocampal neurons, the localization of synaptic vesicles in presynaptic specializations is the result of sorting mechanisms intrinsic to individual neurons as well as to mechanisms mediated by cell-cell contact.
1862758: !synaptophysin Distribution of five peptides, three general neuroendocrine markers, and two synaptic-vesicle-associated proteins in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia of the adult and newborn dog: an immunocytochemical study. This study describes the immunocytochemical distribution of five neuropeptides (calcitonin gene-related peptide [CGRP], enkephalin, galanin, somatostatin, and substance P), three neuronal markers (neurofilament triplet proteins, neuron-specific enolase [NSE], and protein gene product 9.5), and two synaptic-vesicle-associated proteins (synapsin I and synaptophysin) in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia of adult and newborn dogs. CGRP and substance P were the only peptides detectable at birth in the spinal cord; they were present within a small number of immunoreactive fibers concentrated in laminae I-II. CGRP immunoreactivity was also observed in motoneurons and in dorsal root ganglion cells. In adult animals, all peptides under study were localized to varicose fibers forming rich plexuses within laminae I-III and, to a lesser extent, lamina X and the intermediolateral cell columns. Some dorsal root ganglion neurons were CGRP- and/or substance P-immunoreactive. The other antigens were present in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia of both adult and newborn animals, with the exception of NSE, which, at birth, was not detectable in spinal cord neurons. Moreover, synapsin I/synaptophysin immunoreactivity, at birth, was restricted to laminae I-II, while in adult dogs, immunostaining was observed in terminal-like elements throughout the spinal neuropil. These results suggest that in the dog spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia, peptide-containing pathways complete their development during postnatal life, together with the full expression of NSE and synapsin I/synaptophysin immunoreactivities. In adulthood, peptide distribution is similar to that described in other mammals, although a relative absence of immunoreactive cell bodies was observed in the spinal cord.
1908264: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical localization of synaptophysin (protein p38) and synapsin I in nerve terminals of rat neurohypophysis. Synaptophysin and synapsin I, the synaptic vesicle-associated proteins, were demonstrated immunocytochemically in nerve terminals of the neurohypophysis of rats. Although both are associated with microvesicles 50-60 nm in diameter, they are not localized on or around the large neurosecretory granules nor the clear vacuoles, 100-200 nm in diameter. These findings strongly suggest that the microvesicles in the nerve terminal of the neurohypophysis are, for the most part, not the structures involved in the retrieval of the limiting membranes of the released neurosecretory granules, but rather typical synaptic vesicles. The clear vacuoles, which are negative for synaptophysin and synapsin I, are considered to be related to the retrieval of the limiting membranes of the released neurosecretory granules.
1908157: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural localization of synaptophysin to the secretory granules of normal glucagon and insulin cells in human islets of Langerhans. Immunogold labeling of the pancreatic islets in humans by means of monoclonal antibodies to synaptophysin resulted in a distinct localization of gold particles to the secretory granules of glucagon-immunoreactive cells. The same type of immunoreactivity was noted with antiserum to chromogranin A. Glucagon immunoreactivity was concentrated in the dense central core of the secretory granules. Some immunoreactivity for synaptophysin was also found in the secretory granules of the insulin-producing cells, although it was weaker in this location.
1907046: !synaptophysin Gross, histologic, cytochemical, and immunocytochemical study of medullary thyroid carcinoma in sixteen dogs. The gross, histomorphologic, cytochemical, and immunocytochemical findings in 16 dogs with medullary thyroid carcinoma were evaluated. Grossly, the neoplasms were encapsulated, firm, lobulated, and grey-white to tan. The typical histologic pattern was groups or sheets of round to polygonal cells with fibrovascular stroma, which was thickened and hyalinized in places. Variants of clear cell (two dogs), giant cell (one dog), and oxyphil cell (one dog) types were also seen. In all 16 dogs, Grimelius-stained sections of the neoplasms revealed intracytoplasmic silver granules; ten tumors contained amyloid and four contained mucin. Immunohistochemically, the neoplasms reacted to AE1/AE3 (n = 13), S-100 protein (n = 5), neuron specific enolase (n = 14), synaptophysin (n = 11), calcitonin (n = 16), somatostatin (n = 4), gastrin (n = 7), and serotonin (n = 6). Only one neoplasm was positive for vimentin. None of the neoplasms reacted to antibodies for neurofilaments, thyroglobulin, insulin, glucagon, or adrenocorticotrophic hormone. Eleven neoplasms contained multiple (two to four) peptides, in various combinations. It was concluded that in dogs, gross and histologic features can be used to distinguish medullary thyroid carcinoma from other thyroid malignancies. Cytochemical and immunocytochemical studies with neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin, and calcitonin can be used to establish the diagnosis of medullary thyroid carcinoma in dogs.
1902873: !synaptophysin Synapsin I and Synaptophysin expression during ontogenesis of the mouse peripheral vestibular system. Synapsin I and Synaptophysin are selectively localized in axonal endings of CNS neurons where they are associated with small synaptic vesicle membranes. The development of expression of these 2 proteins was studied by immunocytochemistry during ontogenesis of the peripheral vestibular system in the mouse. Both proteins are localized in vestibular ganglion neurons and in their peripheral sensory extensions as early as gestational day 14. While the entire periphery of these fibers is labeled during embryogenesis, both proteins are subject to relocation during the postnatal maturation of these fibers. In the mature vestibular receptors they disappear from the fibers themselves but are found concentrated in their intraepithelial endings and in the neuronal cell body. These observations show that the distribution pattern of Synapsin I and Synaptophysin in peripheral extensions of vestibular afferent neurons during development is identical to that described in axonal processes of CNS neurons. This suggests that the peripheral processes of the vestibular afferent neurons present structural and biochemical characteristics of axons. These characteristics are consistent with a bimodal sensory and secretory function of mature endings.
1827266: !synaptophysin Patterns of aberrant sprouting in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by extensive synaptic and neuronal loss and by plaque formation in the cortex, but the mechanisms responsible for synaptic plasticity in the neocortex are still not completely understood. To analyze the sprouting response in AD cortex, we compared the patterns of GAP-43 with synaptophysin immunoreactivity. In AD, GAP-43 immunohistochemistry revealed extensive sprouting in the hippocampal molecular layer, stratum polymorphous, CA1 region, and prosubiculum. These regions presented abundant anti-GAP-43-immunoreactive coiled fibers and dystrophic neurites in association with plaques. Some of these sprouting structures were colocalized with anti-synapto-physin- and anti-neurofilament-positive neurites. The AD neocortex was characterized by an overall decrease in GAP-43 immunoreactivity accompanied by sprouting neurites in the areas of synaptic pathology. We conclude that GAP-43 might be involved in the mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in the AD cortex, as well as in the process of aberrant sprouting in the neuritic plaques.
1708946: !synaptophysin Neuronal and glial properties of a murine transgenic retinoblastoma model. Antigenic properties of a murine transgenic model for hereditary retinoblastoma, induced by a chimeric gene coding for Simian virus 40 large T antigen, an oncogene that inactivates the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene product, were studied by immunohistochemistry. All transgenic mice develop bilateral intraocular retinal tumors in the inner nuclear layer with Homer Wright-like rosettes, and one quarter develop midbrain tumors resembling trilateral retinoblastoma. Cell lines TE-1 and TM-1 were established from intraocular and metastatic tumors, respectively. Intraocular tumors reacted with antibodies to neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, while vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic, and S-100 proteins were detected only in reactive glia derived from adjacent retina. The midbrain tumors showed weak reactivity to synaptophysin, and they blended with reactive astrocytes positive for glial markers. The tumors were negative for cytokeratins. Finally both derived cell lines expressed synaptophysin and individual neurofilament triplet proteins in immunofluorescence and Western blotting, supporting their essentially neuronal nature. The antigenic profile resembles human retinoblastoma, but differences in morphology and antigen distribution suggest a more close relationship to neurons of the inner nuclear layer than to photoreceptor cells.
1652129: !synaptophysin Small-cell carcinoma of gallbladder. An immunocytochemical and ultrastructural study. An unusual carcinoma of the gallbladder in a seventy-one-year-old woman displayed features of a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma, atypical carcinoid and small cell undifferentiated carcinoma. The patient died from progressive hepatic failure four months after surgery. Autopsy showed bulky liver masses and several peritoneal nodules exclusively composed of small, hyperchromatic cells. The neuroendocrine nature of the small cell component of the tumor was documented by the presence of neurosecretory granules at the ultrastructural level and by immunocytochemical positivity to NSE and Synaptophysin. The epithelial markers, cytokeratin and CEA, were also positive in the carcinoid and in the undifferentiated portions of the tumor. A common endodermal origin is suggested for carcinoid and small cell carcinoma of the gallbladder.
1901927: !synaptophysin Histogenesis and differentiation potential of central neurocytomas. The central neurocytoma, a recently identified rare supratentorial brain tumor in young adults, is characterized by intraventricular location and a usually benign clinical course. In order to elucidate the histogenesis and differentiation potential of this neoplasm, we have undertaken an immunocytochemical and molecular biological study of four central neurocytomas. It was found by immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting that all tumors express neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. Western blots also revealed expression of the synaptic vesicle protein, synapsin I, neurofilament protein and glial fibrillary acidic protein in several neurocytomas which failed to exhibit immunoreactivity to these marker antigens on paraffin sections. Immunocytochemical reactions with antibodies to synaptophysin and glial fibrillary acidic protein on adjacent sections demonstrated coexpression in individual tumor cells. The neuronal form of the pp60src protein-tyrosine kinase, an oncogene-product specifically expressed in central nervous system neurons, was not detectable in two central neurocytomas investigated. N-myc, a proto-oncogene frequently amplified in childhood neuroblastomas, was present as a single copy gene in all central neurocytomas, indicating that amplification of this gene is not involved in the pathogenesis of the central neurocytoma. In accordance with ultrastructural evidence of synaptogenesis, we conclude that the central neurocytoma is a neuroectodermal tumor with consistent commitment for neuronal differentiation. Since these tumors retain a potential for additional glial differentiation, we propose an origin from bipotential progenitor cells in the periventricular matrix, which in the mammalian brain persists throughout adult life.
1715108: !synaptophysin The axonal transport motor 'kinesin' is bound to anterogradely transported organelles: quantitative cytofluorimetric studies of fast axonal transport in the rat. Monoclonal antibodies to the axonal transport ATPase kinesin were used in an immunofluorescent study on mammalian nerves. Following crushing of the sciatic nerve and the ventral roots of adult rats, immunoreactive material was found to accumulate rapidly, mainly proximal to a crush but also, to some degree, distal to a crush. The strongest immunofluorescence was observed after incubation with the H2 antibody against the heavy subunit of kinesin. Using the cytofluorimetric scanning (CFS) procedure, the accumulated amounts were quantified and it was found that the retrogradely accumulating kinesin-like immunoreactivity (IR) was about 4-12% of the anterogradely transported kinesin-IR. The results were compared to the vesicle marker p38 (synaptophysin), which was found to accumulate to a significant extent on both sides of the crush. Cytofluorimetric scanning measurements indicated that nearly 50% of the anterogradely accumulated p38-IR was recycling to the cell body. The results demonstrate that kinesin in the living axon is affiliated with anterogradely transported organelles. Retrogradely transported organelles appeared to carry very little kinesin-IR, suggesting that kinesin may be subject to turnover, distinct from that of p38, in the distal regions of the axon.
1906770: !synaptophysin Synaptogenesis in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus: a light microscopic immunocytochemical survey. MabQ155, a monoclonal antibody against synaptophysin, has been used to conduct a light microscopic survey of synaptogenesis in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the perinatal rat. Synaptophysin is an integral component of synaptic vesicle membranes which is expressed in growth cones and growth cone filopodia as well as in mature synapses. With the light microscope, mabQ155 immunoreactivity in growth cones can be distinguished from that in presynaptic terminals on the basis of the size of immunoreactive puncta. The current study presents a qualitative and quantitative analysis of synaptogenesis from the day of birth (P0) to postnatal day 10 (P10). In our quantitative analysis we have used daily intervals during the first postnatal week, distinguished between growth cones and presynaptic terminals, and divided the suprachiasmatic nucleus into sampling regions that are related to the progress of synaptogenesis. Our data demonstrate regional differences in synaptogenesis within the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), document the temporal progression from the penetration of growth cones to the appearance of mature synapses, and provide information about gradients of synaptogenesis in the nucleus during development.
2037718: !synaptophysin Evidence for subdivisions in the human suprachiasmatic nucleus. The human suprachiasmatic nucleus was analysed by immunohistochemical demonstration of various substances in combination with 3-dimensional computerized reconstruction and video overlay facilities. In the human, the suprachiasmatic nucleus is not as compact as in the rodent. Its boundaries are not easily delineated using conventional stains, and it shows no obvious cytoarchitectonic structure. However, based on its chemoarchitecture, the human suprachiasmatic nucleus can be apportioned into five major subdivisions: Dorsal, comprising a crescent shaped mass of densely packed neurophysin/vasopressin-neurons as well as neurotensin-neurons, and also containing 3-fucosyl-N-acetyl-lactosamine (FAL)-positive neurons in its medial part. Central, occupying the core of the nucleus and consisting precisely of a region devoid of neurophysin/vasopressin neurons but demarcated by calbindin, synaptophysin, and a circumscribed cluster of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-neurons and containing neurotensin neurons as well. Anteroventrally this division also contains some intermingled neurons positive for neurotensin, neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, and FAL. Ventral, extending from the anterior extreme of the preoptic recess caudolaterally to a field between the optic chiasm and the anteroventral margin of the supraoptic nucleus. This subdivision is specified by synaptophysin, calbindin, and substance P immunoreactivity and is almost free of glial fibrillary acidic protein. From its rostral portion, fibers immunoreactive for calbindin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, synaptophysin, and substance P protrude deeply into the optic chiasm. Medial, comprising a thin band between the subependymal zone and the dorsal subdivision, containing scattered somatostatin neurons. External, extending as a band around the dorsal and lateral borders of the nucleus, containing astrocytes expressing the FAL-epitope and scattered neurophysin/vasopressin and neurotensin neurons. These findings indicate that the human suprachiasmatic nucleus contains well-defined subdivisions with different, chemically specific, connections and provides a basis for comparing these subdivisions with the structure and function of subdivisions previously described for the suprachiasmatic nucleus in experimental animals. In addition, the findings strengthen the concept that the human suprachiasmatic nucleus generates and expresses circadian rhythms in a manner similar to that documented for the suprachiasmatic nucleus in experimental animals, and suggest that different subdivisions may subserve specific functional roles.
1902431: !synaptophysin The synaptophysin-encoding gene in rat and man is specifically transcribed in neuroendocrine cells. Synaptophysin (SY) is an integral membrane protein of presynaptic small (30-80-nm) translucent vesicles also present in dispersed neuroendocrine cells. As the occurrence of this type of vesicle is specific for two major pathways of differentiation, the neuronal and neuroendocrine-epithelial information on the regulation of SY synthesis should contribute to an understanding of regulatory principles common to both pathways. Isolation and comparison of the complete rat and human single-copy genes showed that despite the difference in size (16 kb in rat vs. 13 kb in man) intron/exon boundaries are precisely conserved. Surprisingly, intron VI is located in the 3'-noncoding region in both species. The major transcriptional start point, as determined by primer extension and S1-nuclease protection analyses in rat pheochromocytoma-derived PC12 cells and rat brain, mapped to a site 27 nt 5' of the first methionine codon. Unexpectedly, the 5' upstream region is devoid of any TATA or CAAT boxes, but shows instead typical features of 'housekeeping' genes, i.e., G + C-rich islands and four Sp1-binding motifs. Using 'nuclear run-on' assays, we have identified examples in which SY synthesis is regulated at the transcriptional level. Reporter gene constructs showed that approx. 1.2 kb of the immediate upstream region contains promoter enhancer elements that were, however, insufficient to confer cell-type specific expression, whereas sequences farther upstream were able to suppress thymidine kinase promoter activity in a cell-type-dependent fashion.
1900454: !synaptophysin Solid and cystic pancreatic tumors. Clinical, histochemical, and electron microscopic features in ten cases. Ten cases of the rare solid and cystic pancreatic tumors are presented. All except one occurred in young women (mean age, 25 +/- 9.2 years). The large neoplasms were evenly distributed across the pancreas; in one case, metastasis occurred; all other cases were free from disease after complete resection. Histologic hallmarks of solid and cystic neoplasms were papillary growth, large intracytoplasmic granules, and immunoreactivity with alpha 1-antitrypsin, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, phospholipase A2, and neuroendocrine markers (neuron-specific enolase [NSE], synaptophysin). This suggests both endocrine as well as exocrine differentiation.
2067996: !synaptophysin Multidirectional carcinoma of the thymus with neuroendocrine and sarcomatoid components and carcinoid syndrome. We report a case of metastatic thymic neoplasm occurring in a 62-year-old Caucasian man. The tumor was polymorphic, with intimately admixed carcinoid, sarcomatous and undifferentiated components. Sarcomatous cells were spindle-shaped and immunoreactive for vimentin, actin and desmin. Carcinoid cells reacted for cytokeratin as well as with a panel of general neuroendocrine markers, including chromogranins A and B, synaptophysin, protein gene product (PGP) 9.5, neuron specific enolase (NSE), Leu 7 and Grimelius' silver. The endocrine nature of the latter cells was confirmed by ultrastructural evidence of abundant electron-dense granules 100 to 300 nm in size. Among the various hormones investigated immunohistochemically only the alpha chain of human chorionic gonadotropin (alpha-hCG) was detected in tumor cells. The neoplasm recurred after surgical resection and caused a typical carcinoid syndrome with skin flushing and increased urinary 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA). The diagnosis of multidirectional thymic carcinoma with two lines of differentiation, of carcinoid and sarcomatoid type, was made.
1904394: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin in human breast carcinomas. Synaptophysin expression was studied immunohistochemically in 109 female and in three male breast carcinomas. Positivity was demonstrated in 10 female and in two male tumours in a high percentage of neoplastic cells. Synaptophysin positive breast carcinomas also expressed other neuroendocrine markers such as chromogranin and neuron-specific enolase.
1847607: !synaptophysin Melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy. A reexamination of a histogenetic problem based on immunohistochemical, flow cytometric, and ultrastructural study of 10 cases. Ten cases of melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy (MNTI) were studied. There were nine males and one female ranging in age from 2 weeks to 10 months; one patient was 8 years old. Sites of origin were the maxilla (five), epididymis (two), mandible (one), skull (one), and soft tissues of the cheek (one). Six tumors recurred from 1 to 18 months after diagnosis. One patient had widespread dissemination. Electron microscopic study of four cases showed cells with melanosomes at various stages of maturation, and cells with neuroblastic features, including neurosecretory granules and cytoplasmic processes. Nine cases of MNTI were studied immunohistochemically. Small neuroblastic cells and large cells in all cases were reactive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin, HMB45, and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, large cells in all cases and few small cells were reactive for cytokeratin (CK) and vimentin (VIM). Epithelial membrane antigen was observed in large cells in three cases, four cases expressed Leu 7 antigen, three were focally positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein, one for desmin, and one for chromogranin. All cases were nonreactive for retinol-binding protein, neurofilaments, alpha-fetoprotein, S-100 protein, and carcinoembryonic antigen. Five normal adult retinas were studied similarly; the pigmented epithelium of the retina was reactive for CK, VIM, HMB45, NSE, and S-100. DNA study, performed in eight tumors, revealed aneuploidy in two (DNA index = 1.7 and 1.8); these cases recurred within 1 month. No differences were observed according to site or behavior. MNTI is a primitive neuroectodermal tumor with polyphenotypic expression of neural and epithelial markers, melanin production, occasional glial, and rhabdomyoblastic differentiation, and no photoreceptor differentiation. It probably represents a dysembryogenetic neoplasm that recapitulates the retina at 5 weeks of gestation.
1847579: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinomas of the large intestine. The authors studied the clinical and pathologic features of 38 small cell carcinomas of the large intestine. Most were located in the right colon. Overlying adenomas were present in 45% and squamous differentiation in 21% of tumors. Endocrine differentiation was present in all tumors by at least one method; neuron-specific enolase, dense-core granules, and synaptophysin were present in most cases. Seventy-one percent of tumors metastasized to the liver; 64% of patients were dead at five months follow-up. Twenty-one poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas and undifferentiated carcinomas of the large intestine accessioned during the same period showed less endocrine (7 of 21) and squamous differentiation (1 of 15) and fewer liver metastases (4 of 15) than did small cell carcinomas. Among all 59 tumors studied, small cell histologic characteristics correlated better with liver involvement than did endocrine markers or other histologic features. Small cell carcinomas of the large intestine are aggressive tumors with a propensity for early liver involvement. Although there is a spectrum of squamous, endocrine, and glandular features in large bowel tumors of low degrees of differentiation, the identification of a small cell component appears to be most clinically relevant.
1712256: !synaptophysin [Immunohistochemical demonstration of neurohormonal polypeptides in primary carcinoid tumor of testis]. A primary carcinoid tumor of testis was studied. The tumor cells showed a strong positive reaction to argyrophil or argentaffin stainings, and neuroendocrine granules were identified by electron microscopy. Immunohistochemically, tumor cells expressed various markers such as those for NSE, synaptophysin, CG, Leu-7, 5-HT, HCG, cytokeratin, EMA, CEA and PACP, which indicated the special multiple directions of differentiation of cells possessing neuroendocrinal, epithelial or carcinoembryonic behavior.
1706307: !synaptophysin Intestinal ganglioneuromatosis: mucosal and transmural types. A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of six cases. Six cases of intestinal ganglioneuromatosis (GN) included in this study reveal the occurrence of two morphologic patterns. Transmural GN was characterized by neural hyperplasia in all layers of the bowel wall with predominant involvement of the myenteric plexus. It was found in three patients affected by multiple endocrine neoplasia IIb. Mucosal GN, having predominant involvement of the mucosa without concomitant hyperplasia of the myenteric plexus, was associated with von Recklinghausen's disease, adenocarcinoma of the colon, and multiple adenomas with megacolon in one case each. Clinicopathologic correlations and review of the literature suggest that mucosal GN might represent a distinct entity with a lower morbidity rate than the transmural variant. Immunohistochemical stains reveal considerable heterogeneity. S-100 protein, neuron-specific enolase, and synapto-physin immunostaining followed the distribution of the nervous hyperplasia in the different intestinal layers as identified morphologically and allowed precise determination of the proliferating cells. Increased reactivity for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, opioid peptides leu-enkephalin and met-enkephalin, and substance P was present in all cases with transmural involvement; mucosal GN showed normal reactivity for opioid peptides and focal increased staining for substance P (one case) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (two cases) in the lamina propria. Mild increased immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase was present in the myenteric plexus of four out of four cases. Histochemical determination of acetylcholinesterase, performed in one case of transmural type, demonstrated hyperplasia of parasympathetic fibers and neurons. Electron microscopic study of another case suggested the presence of several neurotransmitters. These results indicate that the physiopathology of GN is related to a complex hyperplasia of several peptidergic, cholinergic, and probably adrenergic nerve fibers instead of a selective overgrowth of one type of nerve fiber.
1850181: !synaptophysin Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor arising in a "de novo" ganglioneuroma. A case report. A case of a "de novo" ganglioneuroma showing an internal area of malignant nerve sheath tumor is described. The tumor arose in an 18-year-old girl without a history of von Recklinghausen's disease. Immunohistochemically, the ganglioneuromatous component was positive with anti-synaptophysin, anti-S100 protein and anti-vimentin antisera, whereas the malignant part was immunoreactive only with anti-S100 protein and anti-vimentin antisera. The patient is free of disease 4 years after surgery. The clinicopathologic features of this rare case are discussed.
1907749: !synaptophysin Stimulation of rat adrenal medulla can induce differential changes in the peptide and mRNA levels of chromogranins, neuropeptides and other constituents of chromaffin granules. The levels of various components of chromaffin granules were determined in rat adrenals after treatment with several stimulants. After reserpine the levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and chromogranin B but not those of chromogranin A and secretogranin II were elevated. On the other hand, the mRNA of chromogranins A, B and secretogranin II were significantly increased. Treatment with oxotremorine or nicotine (multiple injections for 2 or 3 days) induced analogous changes for peptide and mRNA levels, however, the increases were smaller and for the mRNA less consistent. A single injection of oxotremorine or nicotine raised only the levels of CGRP and NPY and of the NPY mRNA whereas those of the chromogranins and their respective mRNAs remained unaltered. Amongst the membrane proteins only the levels of dopamine beta-hydroxylase are increased after prolonged stimulation, whereas those of cytochrome b-561, carboxypeptidase H and synaptin/synaptophysin (SYN) remain unaltered. Thus, the biosynthesis of chromaffin granules can be regulated in quite sophisticated patterns.
1901576: !synaptophysin Distribution and developmental expression of the nerve terminal protein NT75 in the rat cerebellum. Previous studies of the nerve terminal protein NT75 in the developing spinal cord have suggested an association between the appearance of NT75 immunoreactivity and the process of synaptogenesis. To examine the time course of NT75 expression further, the current study compared the localization of NT75 and the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin in the adult and developing rat cerebellum and in cerebellar tissue cultures. In the adult cerebellum, dense NT75 staining is confined to the molecular layer, where it is associated with parallel fiber endings of cerebellar granule cells. During development, NT75 immunoreactivity is first detectable in the cerebellar cortex as a dense band of staining in the deepest portion of the molecular layer at postnatal day 10. The stained zone expands to occupy a progressively greater portion of the molecular layer until about postnatal day 20. Synaptophysin staining occurs in granule cell processes earlier than NT75 and is found throughout the molecular layer by postnatal day 7. Quantitatively, rapid increases in both NT75 and synaptophysin occur in the first three postnatal weeks, with NT75 activity reaching levels exceeding the adult value by 50% over postnatal days 20 through 30, whereas synaptophysin plateaus at near adult levels by postnatal day 20. In cerebellar cultures, NT75 staining in neurites develops over several days, increasing coincidentally with development of synaptic contacts, whereas synaptophysin staining is already present in most neurites after only 1 day in vitro. The results indicate that NT75 expression in developing cerebellar granule cell nerve terminals is closely associated with the appearance of mature nerve terminals, suggesting that the protein may have a role in the formation/stabilization of the synaptic ending or in the mechanisms of synaptic transmission.
1824859: !synaptophysin Isolation and characterization of rapid transport vesicle subtypes from rabbit optic nerve. Subcellular fractionation of rabbit optic nerve resolves three populations of membranes that are rapidly labelled in the axon. The lightest membranes are greater than 200 nm and are relatively immobile. The intermediate density membranes consist of 84 nm vesicles which disappear from the nerve with kinetics identical to those of the rapid component. A third population of membranes, displaying a distinct protein profile, is present in the most dense region of the gradient. Immunological characterization of these membranes suggests the following. (1) The lightest peak contains rapidly transported glucose transporter and most of the total glucose transporters present in the nerve; this peak is therefore enriched in axolemma. (2) The intermediate peak contains rapidly transported glucose transporters and synaptophysin, an integral synaptic vesicle protein, and about half of the total synaptophysin; this peak therefore contains transport vesicles bound for both the axolemma and the nerve terminal, and these subpopulations can be separated by immunoadsorption with specific antibodies against the aforementioned proteins. (3) The heaviest peak contains rapidly transported synaptophysin and tachykinin neuromodulators and about half of the total synaptophysin, and 80% of the total tachykinins present in the nerve; this peak appears to represent a class of synaptic vesicle precursor bound for the nerve terminal exclusively. (4) Synaptophysin is present in the membranes of vesicles carrying tachykinins. (5) Both the intermediate and the heaviest peaks are enriched in kinesin heavy chain, suggesting that both vesicle classes may be transported by the same mechanism.
1702355: !synaptophysin Gastric carcinoids and their precursor lesions. A histologic and immunohistochemical study of 23 cases. A histologic and immunohistochemical study was carried out in 23 unselected nonantral gastric carcinoids and their precursor lesions classified according to Solcia et al. None of the patients showed Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Two variants of carcinoids showing distinctive pathologic and pathogenetic characteristics were identified on the basis of presence or absence of associated chronic atrophic gastritis type A (A-CAG). Chronic atrophic gastritis type A was found in 19 cases showing either single or multiple neoplasms, tumor extension limited to the mucosa or submucosa, consistent endocrine cell precursor changes in extratumoral mucosa, and consistent hypergastrinemia and/or G cell hyperplasia. Associated precursor lesions were only hyperplastic in all but two cases with single carcinoids whereas they were also dysplastic in all but one case with multiple carcinoids. The four tumors arising in nonatrophic mucosa were all single, more aggressive, and not associated with extratumoral endocrine cell proliferations or with signs of gastrin hypersecretion. Tumor cells were diffusely immunoreactive for chromogranin A and synaptophysin but usually negative for chromogranin B or HISL-19. Scattered serotonin cells were found in ten carcinoids. They were more frequent in infiltrating than in intramucosal tumors as were the less represented pancreatic polypeptide cells whereas the reverse was found for alpha-subunit-containing cells. These results are of relevance for tumor pathogenesis and may provide the rationale for a less aggressive therapeutic approach in the patients.
1901750: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin and chromogranin A immunoreactivities in senile plaques of Alzheimer's disease. Immunolabelling for synaptophysin and chromogranin A, two polypeptides associated with small clear and large dense core synaptic vesicles respectively, has been performed on tissue sections of the temporal cortex in Alzheimer's disease in combination with anti-A4 amyloid labelling. The dystrophic neurites in many senile plaques were observed to be labelled by the anti-synaptophysin or anti-chromogranin A antibodies. Some diffuse amyloid deposits, demonstrated by antibodies against synthetic amyloid A4 peptides, were associated with a punctuate increase in synaptophysin or chromogranin A immunoreactivity. The labelling of dystrophic plaque neurites may reflect the accumulation in these processes of synaptic vesicles or material derived from them. We suggest also that the punctuate increase in synaptophysin and chromogranin A immunoreactivities associated with some A4 amyloid deposits may be an early event reflecting neuronal dysfunction.
1985919: !synaptophysin Domain structure of synaptotagmin (p65). Synaptotagmin (p65) is an abundant and evolutionarily conserved protein of synaptic vesicles that contains two copies of an internal repeat homologous to the regulatory region of protein kinase C. In the current study, we have investigated the biochemical properties of synaptotagmin, demonstrating that it contains five protein domains: an intravesicular amino-terminal domain that is glycosylated but lacks a cleavable signal sequence; a single transmembrane region; a sequence separating the transmembrane region from the two repeats homologous to protein kinase C; the two protein kinase C-homologous repeats; and a conserved carboxyl-terminal sequence following the two repeats homologous to protein kinase C. Sucrose density gradient centrifugations and gel electrophoresis indicate that synaptotagmin monomers associate into dimers and are part of a larger molecular weight complex. A sequence predicted to form an amphipathic alpha-helix that may cause the stable dimerization of synaptotagmin is found in its third domain between the transmembrane region and the protein kinase C-homologous repeats. Synaptotagmin contains a single hypersensitive proteolytic site that is located immediately amino-terminal to the amphipathic alpha-helix, suggesting that synaptotagmin contains a particularly exposed region as the peptide backbone emerges from the dimer. Finally, subcellular fractionation and antibody bead purification demonstrate that synaptotagmin co-purifies with synaptophysin and other synaptic vesicle markers in brain. However, in the adrenal medulla, synaptotagmin was found in both synaptophysin-containing microvesicles and in chromaffin granules that are devoid of synaptophysin, suggesting a shared role for synaptotagmin in the exocytosis of small synaptic vesicles and large dense core catecholaminergic vesicles.
21551637: !synaptophysin Quantification of synaptic density changes in the medial vestibular nucleus of the cat following vestibular neurectomy. The synaptic density in the medial vestibular nuclei of the cat was analyzed after section of the ipsilateral vestibular nerve, using an anti-synaptophysin antibody as a nerve terminal marker. Synaptic areas of nuclei ipsilateral (test) and contralateral (control) to the lesion were measured to quantify synaptic loss (one week post-lesion) and synaptic site reoccupation during vestibular compensation (3 weeks and 5 months post-lesion). The results indicate that only 35% of the immunoreactive synaptic profiles in the media) vestibular nucleus were due to vestibular nerve input: the mean synaptic profile loss in the deafferented nucleus one week post-lesion was 35.25% (± 13.83). This loss was rapidly compensated overtime since it was reduced to 14% (± 13.25) 3 weeks post-lesion, corresponding to a synaptic restoration of approximately 60%. The synaptic density in the deafferented nucleus 5 months after neurectomy was not significantly different from that of the intact vestibular nuclei. These results suggest that vestibular neurectomy is followed by an axonal sprouting in the partially deafferented medial vestibular nuclei, which raises the question concerning the origins and the functional role of the new axon terminals in vestibular compensation.
2028751: !synaptophysin Lipomatous differentiation in a medulloblastoma. A surgically resected medulloblastoma of the left cerebellum in a 42-year-old man contained numerous mature fat cells; many of these adipocytes expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S-100 protein, and vimentin as seen by immunocytochemistry. The cellular parts of the tumor showed varying immunoreactivities for GFAP, S-100 protein, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin. It is concluded that this tumor exhibits a unique spectrum of differentiation along multiple lines, including transformation of neuroectodermal cells to fat cells. The significance of this new type of differentiation in primitive neural tumors remains to be elucidated.
2028748: !synaptophysin Menkes' kinky hair disease: morphological and immunohistochemical comparison of two autopsied patients. An autopsied patient with Menkes' kinky hair disease, who showed unusually long survival until the age of five years with typical neuropathological changes, was examined for distribution of neuronal depletion in the cerebral cortex, and the cerebellar changes were compared morphologically and immunohistochemically with those found in a younger patient (1 year 8 months old) reported previously. Neuronal loss in the cerebral cortex in the both cases, which was ill-defined and unassociated with gliosis, was preferentially distributed in the fifth and sixth layers, especially of the gyral bottom in almost all lobes in the older case. Therefore, this change was thought to be secondary to local ischemia caused by mechanical distortion at the stage of gyrus formation in addition to abnormal development. Ultrastructurally, a prominent increase of confronting cisternae (CC) complexes was found in the perikaryon and processes of Purkinje cells in both cases, and in the older patient CC complexes were arranged more densely and were transformed into concentric lamellar structures in the swollen dendrites. Immunohistochemically, the stainability of neurofilaments (NF, 200 kDa) in Purkinje cells, with or without somatic sprouts was faint or negative in the older patient compared with the marked or moderate positivity in the younger patient and age-matched controls. Empty baskets were absent and NF-positive axonal terminals and synaptophysin-positive granules on Purkinje cells were markedly decreased in both cases. These changes suggest that Purkinje cells degenerate progressively with time and that basket cells also are simultaneously involved.
2028745: !synaptophysin Central neurocytoma: immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study. Eight cases of central neurocytomas were studied by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. Seven tumors were located in the lateral ventricles and one in the subependymal region. All but one patient had a favorable postoperative course. The tumors were composed of small uniform cells possessing amitotic round nuclei with frequent perinuclear halos, a few Homer Wright rosettes and no ganglion cells; an appearance resembling that of oligodendroglioma. Immunohistochemical studies disclosed neuron-specific enolase and Leu-7 positivity in all tumors, S-100 protein-positive cells were found in six, while glial fibrillary acidic protein--and vimentin-positive cells were confined to the blood vessels. Myelin basic protein as well as neurofilament were not detected in the tumors. Synaptophysin-positive areas were seen in one tumor. Ultrastructural examination showed distinctive neuronal tumor cells which had a cytoplasm with sparse dense-core vesicles and thin cell processes containing parallel microtubules. They were classified into three different types of tumor cells according to the extent of differentiation. The most consistent finding for histological diagnosis was the presence of typical or abortive synapses with clear and dense-core vesicles. Additionally, synaptophysin may be a specific marker for some central neurocytomas.
1986778: !synaptophysin Distribution of endothelin-like immunoreactivity and mRNA in the developing and adult human lung. Localization and characterization of endothelin-producing cells in the developing (fetal and postnatal) and adult human lung was investigated using the technics of immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. Immunoreactivity for endothelin was seen mainly in pulmonary endocrine cells of developing human lung. Immunoreactivity was also seen in the airway epithelium in fewer cases (about 50%) of human adults. In situ hybridization with 35S- or 32P-labeled RNA probes complementary to endothelin-1, -2, and -3, showed that endothelin mRNAs were expressed in a number of cells that were in similar sites to endocrine cells. Immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization employed on pairs of reverse-face serial sections showed the presence of endothelin immunoreactivity and mRNAs in the same endocrine cell. Correlative studies revealed that endothelin is co-localized with general endocrine markers (synaptophysin, chromogranin, protein gene product 9.5) and regulatory peptides (e.g., gastrin-releasing peptide). The density (cells/mm2) of endocrine cells containing immunoreactivity or mRNAs was highest during fetal life and started to decline before birth, and was minimal in adults. Endothelin-like immunoreactivity and mRNAs were also expressed in endothelial cells. From these results, it is concluded that endothelin is synthesized in endocrine cells of human lung and the change of developmental expression of this peptide suggests it may play a part in growth regulation in addition to its putative vasoconstrictor role in human lung.
1984790: !synaptophysin Identification of a platelet dense granule membrane protein that is deficient in a patient with the Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. Monoclonal antibodies were raised after injecting mice with isolated human dense granules. Several of these monoclonals were found to recognize a 40-Kd dense granule membrane protein. Western blot and immunofluorescent analysis confirmed the dense-granule specificity. After thrombin activation, the protein was found in patches on the external platelet membrane. By Western blot and slot blot analysis, the protein was found to be markedly deficient in a patient with the Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. Studies of neutrophils and endothelial cells show the presence of immunologically related granule-membrane protein(s). Western blots using four anti-synaptophysin antibodies and three antibodies to the platelet 40-Kd protein suggest that the protein may share some homology with, but is not identical to, the synaptosomal membrane protein synaptophysin.
1910156: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptophysin during the prenatal development of the rat spinal cord: correlation with basic differentiation processes of neurons. The development of the spinal cord involves the proliferation of neurons, their migration to well-defined areas, fiber outgrowth and synapse formation. The present study was designed to correlate the spatiotemporal pattern of expression of synaptophysin, an integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, with these basic processes occurring during the embryonic development of the rat spinal cord. Thoracic segments of spinal cords from embryonic days 12, 14, 16, 18, 20 and of adult spinal cords were studied. S1 nuclease protection assays and immunoblots revealed minute amounts of specific mRNA and synaptophysin at embryonic day 12. There was a steep increase of mRNA between embryonic days 14 and 16, after which levels reached a plateau. A rise in the amount of synaptophysin in the spinal cord occurred between embryonic days 12 and 14, and the levels changed only slightly until the end of embryonic development. Even higher levels of synaptophysin, found in the adult spinal cord, may indicate that its biosynthesis continued after birth. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed the localization of specific synaptophysin mRNA in the neuroepithelium. However, immunocytochemistry failed to detect synaptophysin in the neuroepithelial cells. Following migration of the neuroblasts, synaptophysins was found in neurons concomitantly with the onset of fiber outgrowth. Thus, already at embryonic day 12, outgrowing fibers of the dorsal root sensory neurons and of motoneurons were synaptophysin positive. From embryonic day 14 throughout the prenatal period, strong synaptophysin immunoreactivity was seen in the ventrolateral and dorsal parts of the marginal layer. Most likely this staining pattern indicates transient functional synaptic contacts because, in the adult spinal cord, the corresponding region, the white matter, exhibited only faint synaptophysin immunoreactivity. In the intermediate layer of the embryonic spinal cord, which corresponds to the gray matter of the adult spinal cord, synaptophysin-positive fibers were observed prior to the formation of functional synapses. The latter are most likely permanent, since synaptophysin in the adult spinal cord is mainly confined to the gray matter. Our data (i) show transcription and translation of synaptophysin within the neurons of the spinal cord and correlate these processes with proliferation, migration, fiber outgrowth and the formation of transient or permanent synapses, and (ii) prove that synaptophysin is a marker for fiber outgrowth in addition to synapse formation.
1907956: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural demonstration of neurohaemal contacts in the internal zone of the median eminence of the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus): correlation with synaptophysin immunohistochemistry. Electron microscopy of the median eminence (ME) of the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus) revealed that, unlike most other mammalian species, abundant neurohaemal contacts were present not only in the external zone (EZ), but also in the internal zone (IZ) up to the subependymal layer. In the IZ, nerve terminals with dense core vesicles and/or small clear vesicles abutted on the outer basal lamina of the perivascular space of portal capillaries, alternating with tanycyte processes. In addition to these neurohaemal contacts, several layers of vesicle-filled varicosities surrounded the portal vasculature. An analysis of serial thin sections showed that the latter varicosities could also reach the perivascular basal lamina or contact it through small extensions in other planes of section. Apparently at least some of the nerve terminals making neurohaemal contacts were en passant in nature. A correlative investigation of synaptophysin (a major integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles) immunoreactivity at the light microscopical level demonstrated a conspicuously dense immunostaining around portal capillaries in both EZ and IZ of the proximal and distal ME (neural stalk). Since this perivascular accumulation of immunoreactivity coincides precisely with the ultrastructural accumulation of vesicle-filled axons which establish numerous neurohaemal contacts, it is concluded that this pattern of synaptophysin immunostaining indicates sites of neurohaemal contacts at the light microscopical level. During postnatal development, the perivascular concentration of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the IZ appeared concomitantly with the early postnatal expansion of long portal capillary loops into the IZ.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1903014: !synaptophysin Immunoelectron microscopic study of synaptic pathology in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by an extensive loss of neurons and synapses in the neocortex which correlates strongly with psychometric tests of dementia. To characterize the ultrastructural changes in presynaptic terminals in AD, we studied biopsy material from the frontal cortex. We also examined, at the ultrastructural level, abnormal neurites scattered in the AD neuropil and in the plaque region using sections from autopsy material immunolabeled with anti-synaptophysin. We found that, regardless of amyloid deposits, some presynaptic terminals were distended and contained swollen vesicles and dense bodies. These altered synaptic organelles were similar to those found in dystrophic neurites. The latter structures displayed synaptophysin immunoreactivity, mostly localized to outer membranes of synaptic vesicles and dense bodies. The present study supports the hypothesis of progressive synaptic pathology in AD neocortex and favors the notion that the dystrophic process originates from presynaptic terminals.
1899384: !synaptophysin Monoclonal antibodies against various forms of the adenylyl cyclase catalytic subunit and associated proteins. Monoclonal antibodies against partially purified adenylyl cyclase from bovine brain cortex were raised in mice. Three types of antibody were obtained. Type 1 was specific for the calmodulin-sensitive enzyme. Type II also recognized this enzyme, but recognized the calmodulin-insensitive enzymes from a variety of species and tissues as well. Type I antibodies precipitated their antigens in both the native and denatured forms, while type II strongly favored the denatured forms. Type III antibodies precipitated adenylyl cyclase activity, but as shown by Western blot analysis, were directed against 38-kDa and 45-kDa glycoproteins. The 38-kDa protein was identified as synaptophysin.
1899001: !synaptophysin Cortical and subcortical patterns of synaptophysinlike immunoreactivity in Alzheimer's disease. Quantification of synaptophysinlike immunoreactivity is a valuable method for studying the presynaptic terminals in the normal and damaged nervous system. The present report shows that in the control brain, the predominant pattern of synaptic immunostaining in the neocortex was that of an evenly distributed densely granular immunolabeling of the neuropil, while in the paleocortex and in subcortical areas of the brain most of the presynaptic terminals were distributed along the dendritic arborizations or around the neuronal somata. The immunochemical and the immunohistochemical analysis of the Alzheimer's disease tissue showed that the frontal and parietal cortex presented the most severe and widespread loss, with a 45% loss in synaptophysin immunoreactivity. These areas showed an average 35% loss of large neurons. The visual cortex, hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, nucleus basalis of Meynert, and locus ceruleus displayed some degree of loss, but to a lesser extent. In addition to this loss, the basic patterns of organization of the presynaptic terminals were altered, with the presence of abundant, enlarged synaptophysin-labeled terminals. This study further supports the role of synaptic pathology in Alzheimer's disease.
1782079: !synaptophysin Characterisation of a cell line (LCC-18) from a cultured human neuroendocrine-differentiated colonic carcinoma. A cell line (LCC-18) from a neuroendocrine colonic tumour was established. The tumour cells retained their endocrine characteristics through more than 100 passages and showed positive immunocytochemistry for synaptophysin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and glucagon. The culture medium also contained VIP and glucagon, which indicates that mechanisms for release of some of the active peptides were preserved. Transplantation of LCC-18 tumour cells into nude rats resulted in tumour formation with similar endocrine characteristics. The c-myc gene was amplified which might have been a prerequisite for establishment of the cell line. The chromosomes in LCC-18 were studied by G-banding and C-banding. The cell line had a distinctive mode in the hypotriploid region, at S = 61. The double minute (Dms) positive stemline karyotype showed numerical and structural aberrations more similar to findings in ordinary colonic adenocarcinomas than to observations in previously studied, pure intestinal neuroendocrine tumours. The Dms may be correlated with amplification of c-myc. LCC-18 may become valuable for studies of neuroendocrine differentiation, regulation of growth and production and release of hormones and for studies of drug effect.
1768940: !synaptophysin [Histological and immunohistochemical diagnosis of bone marrow metastases of neuroblastomas]. A retrospective, morphological and immunochemical study was performed on 60 bone marrow biopsies (BOM) and 12 tumor specimens surgically excised, from 9 patients with neuroblastoma (NB). Immunochemistry concerned "neuron-specific enolase" (NSE), chromogranin A (CGA) and synaptophysin (SP). The results of immunochemical stains and the study of reticulin network on the argentic stain were compared to the results of morphological evaluation on the routine stain. NSE, CGA and SP staining of tumor cells (part or all of them) was obtained from all surgical specimens. 17/75 BOM (20%) were discarded because of poor material. NB cells were observed in 24 BOM from 3 patients. Tumor cells formed large strands (1 patient) or nests (2 patients) associated with segregated cells. Diagnosis of metastatic BM involvement was negative or doubtful for 6 BOM (3 obtained at the same time, 2 patients), in which NB cells were clearly demonstrated by immunochemical staining of NSE and/or CGA. Reticulin and/or collagen myelofibrosis was present in 32/35 BOM from the 3 patients metastatic in bone marrow (BM+) even if NB cells could not be demonstrated in these samples.
1757893: !synaptophysin Endocytosis of the synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, requires the COOH-terminal tail. Synaptic vesicles participate in a cycle of fusion with the plasma membrane and reformation by endocytosis. Endocytosis of membrane proteins by the well studied clathrin-coated vesicle pathway has been shown to involve specific sequences within the cytoplasmic tail domain. Proteins taken up by clathrin-coated vesicles are directed to early endosomes from which they may return to plasma membrane. Recent evidence suggests that the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin is targeted to early endosomes in transfected fibroblasts and in neuroendocrine cells. To begin to test whether sequences within the COOH-cytoplasmic domain are required for internalization we have expressed a synaptophysin molecule lacking this domain in 3T3 cells and measured its rate of internalization. While a full length synaptophysin was internalized efficiently, we could not detect internalization of the mutant construct. These data are consistent with a model in which the COOH-terminal tail is required for coated-pit localization and hence targeting of synaptophysin to early endosomes.
1724335: !synaptophysin Deposition of beta/A4 protein along neuronal plasma membranes in diffuse senile plaques. The origin of the extracellular beta-amyloid protein (beta/A4) found in senile plaques and the cellular mechanisms responsible for its deposition in cerebral tissues are still an unresolved issue in Alzheimer's disease. In this study we analyzed in detail the distribution of various epitopes of beta/A4 in relation to local cellular elements in diffuse plaques of the hippocampal region. We also correlated our findings with the presence and distribution of non-beta/A4 epitopes of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and with synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the cortical neuropil. Discontinuous beta/A4-immunoreactive deposits were found along dendrites, and around the soma of neurons included in the plaques. Furthermore, increased synaptophysin reactivity with slightly dilated synaptophysin-immunolabeled presynaptic terminals were found in diffuse plaques. APP epitopes could not be found in diffuse plaques. However, some of the APP antibodies, mainly those to the C-terminal portion of APP, and antibodies to beta/A4 recognized clusters of flat vesicular profiles (0.6-1.4 micron in width and 2-3 microns in length) in the neuropil of cortical areas where plaques had developed. Our findings are compatible with a neuronal origin of beta/A4 in diffuse plaques and with a primary release of beta/A4 at synaptic sites along the immunostained neurites. They also suggest that diffuse plaques might be preceded by minute lesions of the neuropil where beta/A4 is not yet released from the precursor molecule.
1723830: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterization of primitive neuroectodermal tumors and their possible relationship to the stepwise ontogenetic development of the central nervous system. 1. Ontogenetic studies. Aim of the present study was to establish different immunohistochemical staining patterns for a subsequent comparison with those of primitive neuroectodermal (PNET) subsets, i.e. PNET-NOS (not otherwise specified) or PNET with focal neuronal, astrocytic or ependymal differentiation, to relate neoplastic to embryonal development. Tissue of the developing central nervous system, with special emphasis on the stepwise development of the rhombencephalon, the cerebellar and the retinal anlage, from 20 different human embryos and fetuses ranging from 3 to 30 weeks of gestational age (GA) was examined. Six neuronal markers, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), neurofilament protein (NFP; 160 kDa, 200 kDa, 70 and 200 kDa) and six other markers, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S-100 protein, vimentin, myoglobin, desmin, cytokeratin, were assessed immunohistochemically. GFAP and S-100 protein appeared at the 6th week of GA in primitive glial cells of the cerebellar anlage, brain stem, rhombencephalon, and developing spinal cord, together with--as first neuronal marker--chromogranin A, then NFP (70 and 200 kDa, and 160 kDa) from the 8th week onward. NSE started in the 11th week and synaptophysin not earlier than the 16th week of GA. Interestingly, the differentiation of the retinal anlage started rather late with NSE positivity beginning from the 16th week and positive reactions to synaptophysin and NFPs only from the 25th and chromogranin A from the 28th week of GA onward.
1718080: !synaptophysin Peanut lectin: a histochemical marker for phaeochromocytomas. Fifty-five neuroendocrine tumours and 6 adrenocortical tumours were examined immunohistochemically for the expression of neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin and synaptophysin. The results were compared with the staining patterns obtained with peanut lectin (PNA) using a streptavidin-biotin staining technique. In separate experiments, sections were preincubated with neuraminidase for the demonstration of masked PNA binding sites. Two of the 24 phaeochromocytomas, 1 of the 6 medullary carcinomas of the thyroid gland, 5 out of the 7 islet cell tumours of the pancreas and all 4 extra-adrenal paragangliomas were negative with PNA. When the sections were first incubated with neuraminidase all these tumours were positive with PNA. Six adrenocortical tumours and 7 neuroblastomas were examined and found to be negative with PNA with or without neuraminidase pre-treatment. Seven carcinoid tumours were examined and found to be positive with PNA only in tubular areas and negative in solid areas; pre-treatment with neuraminidase did not alter the staining pattern. Immunoreactivity for NSE was absent in only 1 of the neuroendocrine tumours. A higher proportion of neuroendocrine tumours was positive with anti-chromogranin than with anti-synaptophysin.
1711177: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural visualization of glutamate and aspartate immunoreactivities in the rat dorsal horn, with special reference to the co-localization of glutamate, substance P and calcitonin-gene related peptide. Antisera raised against the fixation products of L-glutamate and L-aspartate were used, singly or in combination, to study the ultrastructural localization of the amino acids in the rat dorsal horn, with post-embedding immunogold techniques. Immunostaining for each of the amino acids was also combined with immunolocalization of GABA, an important inhibitory neurotransmitter in the spinal cord, or synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle glycoprotein. In addition, we examined the localization of glutamate immunoreactivity in relation to that of calcitonin-gene related peptide and substance P, two neuropeptides present in high concentrations in the dorsal horn. Glutamate- and aspartate-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies, dendrites, axons and terminals were apparent in the first three laminae of the dorsal horn. In somatic and dendritic profiles, the immunolabel was present over the general cytoplasm and mitochondria; in the terminals, it was found over small, agranular vesicles, mitochondria and, at times, synaptic densities. Quantitative estimation indicated that the colloidal gold density in the glutamate-immunoreactive terminals was five-fold more than in any other neuronal profile. Both glutamate- and aspartate-immunopositive terminals made asymmetric synaptic contacts onto unlabelled dendrites; glutamate-positive terminals often formed the core of type I and II glomeruli. After double labelling of the same sections, glutamate and aspartate immunoreactivities consistently occurred in different axonal and terminal profiles. In these preparations, it was clearly seen that glutamate-immunoreactive terminals were far more numerous than (more than 10-fold) those immunoreactive for aspartate. Double labelling for glutamate or aspartate and GABA also revealed distinct staining of different terminals. Simultaneous immunolocalization of each of the amino acids and synaptophysin showed the amino acid and glycoprotein immunoreactivities co-localized in small, agranular vesicles in immunoreactive terminals. Finally, triple labelling of the same sections for glutamate, calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P revealed that glutamate was often co-localized with either of the two neuropeptides in the same axonal boutons; terminals that showed simultaneous labelling for glutamate, calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P were also noted. In all cases, the glutamate immunoreactivity was restricted to small, clear vesicles whereas the neuropeptide immunoreactivities were present in larger, dense-cored vesicles. Our observations demonstrate that there is an abundant glutamate immunoreactivity in the superficial layers of the rat dorsal horn, localized in neuronal profiles distinct from those containing aspartate or GABA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1703586: !synaptophysin Neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin isotype, microtubule-associated protein 2, and synaptophysin in human retinoblastomas in situ. Further immunohistochemical observations on the Flexner-Wintersteiner rosettes. We studied by immunohistochemistry 26 retinoblastomas in situ using monoclonal antibodies specific for the neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin isotype (h beta 4), microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), and synaptophysin. Anti-h beta 4 and anti-MAP2 immunostaining was consistently obtained in the Flexner-Wintersteiner rosettes, in fleurettes, in Homer Wright (neuroblastic) rosettes, and also variably among poorly differentiated tumor cells. A similar pattern of antisynaptophysin immunopositivity was seen, but was especially pronounced in the adluminal borders of cells forming the Flexner-Wintersteiner rosettes. The demonstration of h beta 4, MAP2, and synaptophysin epitopes in poorly differentiated and maturing neoplastic phenotypes in retinoblastomas attests to the neuronal character of this embryonal tumor. Immunoreactivity toward h beta 4 and MAP2 epitopes by poorly differentiated neoplastic cells may indicate early neuronal commitment in retinoblastoma. The consistent immunostaining of Flexner-Wintersteiner rosettes with monoclonal antibodies to h beta 4 and MAP2 is in keeping with the previous ultrastructural documentation of microtubules with a neuronal-like spatial organization present in the cells of these structures.
1685844: !synaptophysin Parallel expression of synaptophysin and evoked neurotransmitter release during development of cultured neurons. Primary cultures of GABAergic cerebral cortex neurons and glutamatergic cerebellar granule cells were used to study the expression of synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle marker protein, along with the ability of each cell type to release neurotransmitter upon stimulation. The synaptophysin expression and neurotransmitter release were measured in each of the culture types as a function of development for up to 8 days in vitro, using the same batch of cells for both sets of measurements to obtain optimal comparisons. The content and the distribution of synaptophysin in the developing cells were assessed by quantitative immunoblotting and light microscope immunocytochemistry, respectively. In both cell types, a close parallelism was found between the temporal pattern of development in synaptophysin expression and neurotransmitter release. This temporal pattern differed between the two types of neurons. The cerebral cortex neurons showed a biphasic time course of increase in synaptophysin content, paralleled by a biphasic pattern of development in their ability to release [3H]GABA in response to depolarization by glutamate or elevated K+ concentrations. In contrast, a monophasic, approximately linear increase in the synaptophysin content and stimulated [3H]D-aspartate release was found in the cerebellar granule cells. These results, particularly regarding the GABAergic neurons, offer correlative evidence in support of the notion that a vesicular pool of these amino acid neurotransmitters may be intimately involved in their release, subsequent to depolarization stimuli.
1678563: !synaptophysin Glucagonomas of transgenic mice express a wide range of general neuroendocrine markers and bioactive peptides. Pancreatic tumours of transgenic mice carrying a glucagon-promoted simian virus 40 (SV40) T antigen oncogene have been analysed by histological, histochemical, ultrastructural and radioimmunological means. Seven transgenic mice were examined revealing dysplastic and neoplastic lesions in the endocrine pancreas. Four tumours were identified, one of which metastasized to periadrenal spaces and paravertebral lymph nodes. Benign tumours were composed of argyrophilic, endocrine cells reactive to a range of antibodies against neuroendocrine markers (neuron-specific enolase, protein gene product 9.5, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and protein 7B2) and different fragments of the proglucagon molecule (glucagon, glicentin, glucagon-like polypeptides 1 and 2). A few tumour cells expressed pancreatic polypeptide, somatostatin or insulin. Conventional ultrastructural analysis and immunogold labelling revealed typical glucagon-immunoreactive alpha granules which co-stored glicentin and glucagon-like polypeptides 1 and 2. The malignant primary tumour and its metastases were composed mainly of cells which did not show immunoreactivity for neuroendocrine markers or peptides. Atypical, glucagon-immunogold labelled granules were detected at electron microscopy in differentiated tumour cells and C-type retroviral particles in the largest tumour population of degranulated cells. The transgene-encoded oncoprotein SV40 large T-antigen was detected in the nuclei of well-differentiated tumour cells and in alpha cells of some dysplastic islets. All tumour-bearing mice showed high levels of circulating glucagon-like immunoreactivity. Transgenic mice harbouring the glucagon-promoted SV40 T antigen oncogene may provide a model for human glucagonoma.
1664631: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical characterization of primitive neuroectodermal tumors and their possible relationship to the stepwise ontogenetic development of the central nervous system. 2. Tumor studies. Thirty-five selected intracranial tumors qualifying as primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) were investigated; these included medulloblastomas, cerebral neuroblastomas, pinealoblastomas, retinoblastomas, polar spongioblastomas, ependymoblastomas. For control purposes 11 tumors, including glioblastomas (small cell, spongioblastic variants), one anaplastic astrocytoma (astroblastic component), anaplastic oligo-astrocytomas, gangliogliomas, one primary melanoblastoma, and one pineal germinoma, were also studied. Six neuronal markers, i.e., synaptophysin, chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), neurofilament protein (NFP) (160 kDa, 200 kDa, 70 and 200 kDa), and six other markers (glial fibrillary acidic protein, S-100 protein, vimentin, myoglobin, desmin, cytokeratin) were investigated immunohistochemically. A certain recapitulation of the ontogenetic development of neuronal differentiation in PNETs is given by the fact that chromogranin A immunoreactivity can regularly be seen already in poorly differentiated neurons and synaptophysin in well-differentiated ones. Immunostaining for NFPs showed different results depending on the subunit investigated. NSE reaction gave different results even within the single tumor groups. This study is, to the best of our knowledge, the first attempt to evaluate and compare, by combined morphological and immunohistochemical methods, PNETs without and with different stages of cellular differentiation with the stepwise differentiation of the human embryonic neuroectoderm.
1664142: !synaptophysin Bronchial carcinoid: a clinical follow-up study of 33 cases. Thirty-three bronchial carcinoid tumours operated on in a 22-year period are reviewed. They were histologically verified as typical carcinoids with Grimelius' argryophilic staining (25 cases), electron microscopy (6) and immunostaining for synaptophysin (4). Nineteen were endobronchial and 14 peripheral, intraparenchymal tumours. Lymph-node metastases were present at operation in two patients. Two tumours, in patients with Cushing's syndrome, were hormonally active (one secreting ACTH and the other ACTH and calcitonin). There was one case of multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome, but none of carcinoid syndrome. During follow-up for 5-18 (mean 8.2) years five patients died of unrelated causes. Only one patient showed distant metastasis (after 15 years in salivary gland and a year later in mediastinal fat). Extensive clinical re-examination was performed on 20 patients, and six others were interviewed. All were well but one, who died of uterine cancer 8 weeks later. Typical bronchial carcinoid is concluded to be of low-grade malignancy and suitable for limited pulmonary resection.
1662856: !synaptophysin Cerebellar medullomyoblastoma with advanced neuronal differentiation and hamartomatous component. This report describes an unusual medullomyoblastoma which developed in the cerebellar vermis of a 6-year-old girl. Histological investigation showed a highly cellular and predominantly undifferentiated tumor. Myogenic differentiation was prominent in clusters of large tumor cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and immunoreactivity for desmin and myoglobin. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of immature Z-bands. Immunohistochemically, numerous cells showed incipient expression of myoblastic marker antigens, supporting the view that medulloblastomas and related primitive neuroectodermal tumors possess the potential for non-neural differentiation. In addition, there was evidence of advanced neuronal differentiation, with expression of neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, retinal S-antigen, and the formation of ganglioid tumor cells. Occassional neoplastic cells expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein without morphologically detectable astrocytic differentiation. Associated with the neoplasm was brain tissue containing clusters of neuronal cells and focal accumulations of immature oligodendroglia-like cells which expressed neuronal marker antigens. This unusual component resembled a hamartomatous lesion and would support the hypothesis that the cerebellar medullomyoblastoma originated from a teratomatous or malformative lesion. Alternatively, this component may constitute the end stage of advanced neuronal differentiation of a primitive neuroectodermal tumor.
1649612: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin. A widespread constituent of small neuroendocrine vesicles and a new tool in tumor diagnosis. Synaptophysin, a vesicular integral membrane protein, is specifically expressed in neuroendocrine tissues. According to cDNA cloning studies, it has a molecular weight of 33,300 Dalton, one potential N-glycosylation site at the vesicle inside, four major hydrophobic domains as well as a C-terminus containing approximately 90 amino acids. The C- and N-termini of synaptophysin are located on the cytoplasmic side of the vesicle membrane. No signal sequence is found. Transfection of non-neuroendocrine cells with synaptophysin cDNA leads to the synthesis of synaptophysin-containing vesicles, which contain this protein in highly enriched form and have biophysical properties similar to presynaptic vesicles of neurons. So far, the vesicular content has only been determined in rat neurons, where classical neurotransmitters such as biogenic amines and transmitter-active amino acids were found. Reconstitution of the purified protein in liposomes suggests a possible channel function of synaptophysin. Using mono- and polyvalent antibodies against synaptophysin, a considerable number of studies in several laboratories have shown that this protein is a reliable marker molecule for neuroendocrine tumors of various degrees of differentiation.
2125270: !synaptophysin Serotonin organelles of rabbit platelets contain synaptophysin. Synaptophysin, an integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles in nerve terminals and a class of small translucent vesicles in neuroendocrine cells, was detected in intact rabbit platelets by immunoblotting, immunofluorescence staining and immuno-electron microscopy. In a highly purified preparation of serotonin organelles isolated from rabbit platelets, synaptophysin was enriched approximately 10-15-fold over platelet homogenate. About 80% of total platelet synaptophysin was present in this purified fraction. The apparent molecular mass (approximately 38 kDa) and the extent of glycosylation of platelet-derived synaptophysin was more similar to the neuronal than to the neuroendocrine form of the protein. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that synaptophysin was compartmentalized in intact rabbit platelets and immuno-electron microscopy of subcellular fractions showed that it was localized exclusively to the membrane surface of serotonin organelles. No synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity was detected in platelets from other species such as human, guinea pig and rat. Another integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles, p65, and a family of synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins, the synapsins, were not detected in platelets of any species tested. These results provide evidence that serotonin organelles from rabbit platelets share a subset of protein components with synaptic vesicles from neurons. Synaptophysin in serotonin organelles from rabbit platelets, as suggested for small synaptic vesicles in neurons, might play a role in the formation of protein channels for the exocytotic release of serotonin.
2127384: !synaptophysin Expression of smg p25A, a ras p21-like small GTP-binding protein, during postnatal development of rat cerebellum. Changes in expression and localization of smg p25A, a ras p21-like small GTP-binding protein, in developing rat brain were analyzed in comparison with those of synaptophysin, a well-known synaptic vesicle-specific protein. The smg 25A mRNA was detected in whole brain of rat fetus at 14 days of gestation and its level was increased along with the age and reached the maximum level at postnatal day (P) 20. In postnatal cerebellum, the smg25A mRNA level was also increased age-dependently and the maximum level was observed at P30. Immunoblot analysis with an anti-smg p25A monoclonal antibody (MAb SG-11-7) and an anti-synaptophysin monoclonal antibody (SY 38) showed that expression of both smg p25A and synaptophysin was increased age-dependently in postnatal rat cerebellum. By immunofluorescent cytochemical study with the anti-smg p25A antibody, bright fluorescence was observed in the molecular layer of cerebellum and it was increased in accordance with the cerebellar development. In early postnatal cerebellum, the perikarya of Purkinje cells and the white matter were brightly stained with the antibody, but the fluorescence of these portions was faint in adult cerebellum. The anti-synaptophysin monoclonal antibody also stained the molecular layer of cerebellum but the perikarya of Purkinje cells and the white matter had only a weak immunoreactivity with the antibody irrespective of the age. These results indicate that smg p25A is predominantly present in the nerve terminals and that its amount is increased along with the development of postnatal rat cerebellum. Our results also suggest that smg p25A and synaptophysin have the different kinetics of synthesis, transport, and/or turnover in developing rat cerebellum.
1981959: !synaptophysin Immunochemical and ultrastructural studies of an ovarian strumal carcinoid. An ovarian strumal carcinoid which synthesized peptide hormones, but did not induce the carcinoid syndrome, was analysed histochemically, immunohistochemically and ultrastructurally. Dot-immunobinding assays were performed in order to determine the endocrine gene expression. The amylase resistant colloid was found to be PAS-positive in the follicular portions of the tumour. Carcinoid cells showed Grimelius positive argyophilic granules in the subnuclear position. The Fontana-Masson argentaffin reaction was negative. Immunohistochemistry for adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) revealed strong reactivity in the follicular areas of the carcinoid. The immunoreactivity for somatotropic release inhibiting factor (SRIF) was found positive in the trabecular portion of the carcinoid tumour, thyroglobulin in the follicles. Neuron-specific enolase, protein S-100 A/B, synaptophysin and chromogranin A evoked weak cytoplasmic immunostaining of the tumor cells. Dot-immunobinding assays substantiated these immunohistochemical results, except for the thermolabile protein S-100 A/B. Electron microscopy of tumor cells showed numerous electron-dense cytoplasmic granules, 250 to 350 nm in diameter, both in follicular and trabecular areas of the tumor. Plasma levels of tumor-associated ACTH, SRIF and thyroglobulin were measured by radioimmunoassay and were found to be within the normal range.
19215430: !synaptophysin Vasopressin Expression in Cultured Neurons is Stimulated by Cyclic AMP. Abstract Vasopressin and oxytocin genes are expressed in mutually exclusive sets of magnocellular neurons in the hypothalamus. Cell specificity and regulation are probably controlled by extra- and intracellular signals acting on one or the other gene. In order to identify factors that regulate peptide expression, we have used primary dissociated cultures derived from 14-day old foetal rats. Vasopressin expression was monitored by combined immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. Treatment of cultures with forskolin and/or the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX), both of which result in elevated intracellular cyclic AMP levels, increased the numbers of vasopressin-expressing cells up to 10-fold. The specific Vasopressin messenger ribonucleic acid accumulation was verified quantitatively by ribonuclease protection assays. Forskolin and IBMX did not change the levels of the general neuronal markers, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, suggesting that the effect of these drugs was specific for vasopressin-expressing cells. The drugs were not mitogenic for magnocellular neurons. Furthermore, their effect was not mediated trans-synaptically, as the drugs were also effective in cultures grown in low Ca(2+)/high Mg(2+) medium, as well as in cultures treated with either tetanus toxin or tetrodotoxin. The presence of putative response elements for the transcription factor AP-2 in the 5'promoter regions of all vasopressin genes sequenced so far may provide the molecular basis of the observed cyclic AMP effect. No such elements are present in the genes for oxytocin, the messenger ribonucleic acid levels of which were not measurably affected by forskolin and IBMX in our cultures.
2174403: !synaptophysin Neural differentiation in small round cell tumors of bone and soft tissue with the translocation t(11;22)(q24;q12): an immunohistochemical study of 11 cases. Clinical, cytogenetic, histopathologic, and immunohistochemical data were obtained in a series of 11 small round cell tumors (SRCT) of bone and soft tissue with the translocation t(11;22) (q24;q12). Ten cases were primary in bone, and one was of extraskeletal origin. According to conventional histopathologic criteria, 10 cases were Ewing's sarcomas (ES) and one was a peripheral neuroectodermal tumor (PNET). Besides the t(11;22), six cases had additional chromosomal aberrations, including trisomy 7 and partial trisomy for the long arm of chromosome 1, which have both been described as nonspecific secondary abnormalities often associated with tumor progression. The tumors were screened for neural differentiation with an antibody panel consisting of neuron-specific enolase, S100 protein, Leu-7, chromogranin, synaptophysin, and neurofilament. Three cases of ES were positive for S100 protein. The PNET and one case of ES were positive for neuron-specific enolase. All of the remaining immunohistochemical stains were negative. Hence, five of 11 SRCT of bone or soft tissue with the t(11;22) showed morphologic and/or immunohistochemical evidence of neural differentiation. In this limited series of cases, no cytogenetic or prognostic differences could be demonstrated between cases with and without a neural phenotype. Our results support the hypothesis that SRCT of bone of soft tissue with the t(11;22) form a single biologic entity displaying varying degrees of neuroectodermal differentiation. The clinical significance of additional cytogenetic abnormalities and of morphologic or immunohistochemical evidence of neural differentiation in this group of tumors needs to be further studied.
2149862: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural double localization of B-50/GAP43 and synaptophysin (p38) in the neonatal and adult rat hippocampus. B-50/GAP43, a neuron-specific phosphoprotein, is highly expressed in developing nervous tissue. Monospecific polyclonal affinity-purified B-50 antibodies were used to document the ultrastructural distribution of B-50 in the hippocampus of 90-day-old (P90) and 1-day-old (P1) rats. Double-labelling immunoprocedures were performed to compare the localization of B-50 and synaptophysin (p38), a protein specific for synaptic vesicles. By immunofluorescence light microscopy B-50 and p38 were similarly distributed in the CA1 neuropil of P90 rats. In contrast, in P1 rats B-50 was more widely distributed than p38. By electron microscopy of P90 hippocampus, B-50 was located at the plasma membranes of axon shafts and of p38-immunoreactive axon terminals. Some B-50 was found in the cytosol of axon terminals. B-50 was absent at the plasma membranes of apical dendrites and of pyramidal cells. In the P1 rat hippocampus, B-50 was detected at the plasma membrane of growth cones, axon terminals and axon shafts, but not in their cytosol. The plasma membranes of pyramidal cell bodies and their processes extending into the stratum radiatum were without B-50. B-50-immunoreactive organelles of the lysosomal family were found in the cytosol of pyramidal cells of the hippocampus of P1 and P90 rats. This ultrastructural study shows that during development of the stratum radium in the hippocampal field CA1, the localization of B-50 persist at the plasma membrane of axons and axon terminals in P1 and P90 rats. This localization of B-50 is consistent with the suggestion that B-50 acts as a regulator of neurotransmitter release and intracellular messengers.
2124413: !synaptophysin Diffuse plaques do not accentuate synapse loss in Alzheimer's disease. Applying the relatively new technique of laser confocal imaging, vibratome sections which were double immunolabeled for amyloid beta protein and the presynaptic terminal marker synaptophysin were examined. It was found that while synaptic density was generally diminished in Alzheimer's disease (AD) cortical neuropil as compared to controls, the reduction was no greater within the diffuse plaques than outside them. Synapse loss was accentuated, however, within immature and mature plaques. These findings suggest that the pathogenetic process in AD might commence with synapse loss and neurodegeneration rather than with deposition of amyloid beta protein.
1701351: !synaptophysin Effect of epidermal growth factor on the cellular proliferation and phenotype of a neoplastic human salivary intercalated duct cell line or its derivatives. A neoplastic human salivary intercalated duct cell line (HSG) and its derivatives, HSG with a myoepithelial cell phenotype (HSG-AZA1) and HSG with an acinar cell phenotype (HSG-AZA3), which were induced by 5-azacytidine treatment of HSG cells, were cultivated in the presence of epidermal growth factor (EGF). Morphological changes occurred; cells that were spindle shaped or stellate and had long cytoplasmic processes appeared in all of the treated cells. Major alterations, such as expression of neuron-specific enolase, neurofilaments, or synaptophysin as well as formation of neurite-like structures densely packed with microfibrils and microtubules, were observed in these cells with a phenotype similar to that of neuron-like cells. Both the anchorage-independent and anchorage-dependent growths of the treated HSG cells and only anchorage-dependent growth of the treated HSG-AZA1 cells were suppressed, whereas the anchorage-dependent growth of the treated HSG-AZA3 cells was enhanced according to the increasing concentrations of EGF. In addition, it has been found by statistical analysis that the growth of HSG cells in culture is suppressed and that of HSG-AZA3 cells in culture is stimulated according to the increasing concentrations of EGF added, whereas the growth of cultured HSG-AZA1 cells is hardly affected by EGF treatment. The HSG, HSG-AZA1, and HSG-AZA3 cell had 1.8 x 10(5), 1.83 x 10(5), and 1.34 x 10(5) EGF receptors, respectively. The amounts of the EGF internalized into cells were larger in HSG-AZA3 cells than in HSG or HSG-AZA1 cells. These findings indicate that the conversion of HSG, HSG-AZA1, and HSG-AZA3 cells into neuron-like cells occurs in growth medium containing EGF, with a concomitant modulation of the growth potentials of the cells which were examined in a different manner.
2262601: !synaptophysin Afferent and efferent innervation of the cat cochlea: quantitative analysis with light and electron microscopy. The purpose of the present study was to describe the longitudinal and radial gradients of cochlear innervation in the cat. To this end, afferent and efferent terminals of both the inner (IHC) and outer hair cell (OHC) regions were reconstructed from serial ultrathin sections at six and eight cochlear locations, respectively, corresponding to roughly octave intervals of characteristic frequency (CF). Analysis of the afferent innervation of the IHCs showed 1) the number of radial fibers per IHC rises from 10 per IHC at the 0.25 kHz region to a maximum of 30 per IHC at the 10 kHz locus; 2) branching of radial fibers is essentially restricted to regions apical to the 1.0 kHz point; and 3) there are significant differences in synaptic-body morphology for synapses on different sides of the IHC, corresponding to known differences in afferent threshold and rate of spontaneous activity. With respect to efferent innervation in the IHC area, we found 1) that there were numerous vesicle-filled terminals contacting every IHC examined; however, those with obvious synaptic specialization were confined to the most apical regions; and 2) there were roughly the same numbers of efferent synapses per radial fiber at all cochlear locations; however, at each location, radial fibers contacting the modiolar side of the hair cell (corresponding to high-threshold afferents) showed significantly more efferent synapses than radial fibers contacting the pillar side. Analysis of the OHC afferent innervation showed 1) a clear rise in numbers of terminals per OHC from roughly 3 per cell in the base to 15 per cell in the apex, 2) no systematic differences in the numbers of terminals as a function of OHC row, and 3) that synaptic bodies at the OHC afferent synapse are common only apical to the 1.0 kHz locus. Counts of efferent terminals on OHCs revealed 1) maximal numbers (9 per OHC) between the 6 and 24 kHz regions and 2) striking decrease in terminal counts from first- to third-row OHCs. Ultrastructural data on efferent innervation were compared quantitatively with light-microscopic analysis of cochleas immunostained (with antibody to synaptophysin) to reveal all vesiculated terminals.
2171745: !synaptophysin Identification of somatostatin receptors in human small cell lung carcinoma. Biopsy specimens obtained from eight patients with lung cancer were tested for content of somatostatin receptors by autoradiography. Somatostatin receptors were detected in two of three patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) but in none of five patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) including adenocarcinoma (two), squamous cell carcinoma (two), and bronchoalveolar carcinoma (one). In those with SCLC, specific somatostatin receptor binding was evidenced only in tumor foci and not in surrounding stroma or normal lung parenchyma. Further tissue characterization by immunoperoxidase staining with the pancytokeratin monoclonal antibody, mAB-lu-5, revealed labeling to all of the NSCLC but to none of the SCLC specimen. Selective immunoreactivity was detected in both the SCLC and the NSCLC specimen to chromogranin and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) whereas none of the specimen had detectable immunostaining to somatostatin, bombesin, serotonin, adrenocorticotropic hormone, neurofilament, calcitonin, and synaptophysin. The identification of somatostatin receptors in primary human lung cancer may have a bearing on the biology of this disease and perhaps on the clinical application of somatostatin analogues in patients with SCLC.
1700595: !synaptophysin Olfactory neuroblastoma. Additional immunohistochemical characterization. A panel of 12 antibodies was used to further characterize the immunohistochemical staining profile of olfactory neuroblastoma. The following results were obtained for the 11 neoplasms that were immunostained: neuron-specific enolase 11/11(+), S-100 protein 8/11(+), microtubule-associated protein-2 8/11(+), class III beta-tubulin isotype 9/11(+), neurofilament 200 kD 8/11(+), synaptophysin 7/11(+), glial fibrillary acidic protein 1/11(+), chromogranin A 1/11(+), vimentin 1/11(+), keratin (CAM 5.2) 4/11(+), keratin (AEI/AE3) 0/11(+), and epithelial membrane antigen 0/11(+). Expression of two intermediate filaments was found in 4 of the 11 tumors. The authors' data showing that 72% of olfactory neuroblastomas were S-100 protein positive and only one was immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein agree with other published immunohistochemical studies. With only a single exception, each of the 11 neoplasms was labeled with one or more antibodies that detect neuronal cytoskeletal proteins (class III beta-tubulin isotype, microtubule-associated protein-2, neurofilament 200 kD). These immunohistochemical results are complementary to the reported electron microscopic findings of intermediate filaments and microtubules in olfactory neuroblastomas.
2274847: !synaptophysin The Merkel cell and associated neoplasms in the eyelids and periocular region. Merkel cells are clear oval cells in the epidermis and outer root sheaths of hair follicles, which are probably of epithelial origin, share ultrastructural features with neuroendocrine cells, and are found in association with touch receptors. In the eyelid, they occur singly in the epidermis and external root sheaths of hairs and eyelashes, and in specialized touch spots alternating with eyelashes. Their typical electron microscopical and antigenic features include dense-core granules, intranuclear rodlets, spinous processes, and a positive reaction for specific cytokeratins, epithelial membrane antigen, neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin and synaptophysin. Merkel cell carcinoma probably develops from precursor cells which give rise to keratinocytes and Merkel cells, and nearly one out of ten Merkel cell carcinomas occur in the eyelid and periocular region. They tend to be bulging lesions near the lid margin of elderly patients, reddish in color, and erythematous with telangiectatic vessels. The diagnosis is based on the frequent presence of neurofilaments and paranuclear aggregates of intermediate filaments in addition to features typical of normal Merkel cells. The tumor often mimics lymphoma or undifferentiated carcinoma and frequently invades lymphatic vessels. One third of Merkel cell carcinomas recur, almost two thirds give rise to regional node metastases, and up to one half metastasize widely and result in death. Initial treatment should be prompt and aggressive, with wide resection and routine postoperative irradiation. Although metastatic lesions often respond to radiation therapy and cytostatic drugs, these treatments are mainly of palliative value.
2227926: !synaptophysin Giant cell tumor of the pancreas of mixed osteoclastic and pleomorphic cell type: evidence for a histogenetic relationship and mesenchymal differentiation. We describe a giant cell tumor of the pancreas composed of a mixture of osteoclastic and pleomorphic cell types. This rare tumor had a unique immunohistochemical profile. Both types of tumor giant cells stained for vimentin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-1-antichymotrypsin, synaptophysin, muscle actin, and neuron-specific enolase, but not for epithelial markers. Electron microscopy showed cells which resembled primitive fibroblasts and osteoclast with no epithelial features. These findings are most consistent with mesenchymal differentiation. The extensive homologies in immunohistochemical staining of both osteoclastic and pleomorphic giant cells in this case indicates that these cells are histogenetically related.
2177080: !synaptophysin Establishment and characterization of a primitive neuroectodermal tumor of bone continuous cell line (LAP-35). A continuous tumor cell line (LAP-35) was established from a primitive neuroectodermal tumor of bone from the right tibia of a 12-year-old female. The neural character of the cell line was documented by the spontaneous growth of neurites and by the presence of several neural markers, including neuron-specific enolase (NSE), S-100 protein, neurofilaments, chromogranin A, synaptophysin and positivity to monoclonal antibodies UJ127.11, UJ13A, UJ181.4. Cell-sorter analysis showed a high expression of nerve growth factor receptor (NGFr) and major histocompatibility complex class I-related molecules. A unique cytogenetic profile was observed, including a reciprocal chromosomal translocation (rct) 11:22 (q24;q12), typically associated with Ewing's sarcoma and neuroepithelioma, and deletion of the short arm of chromosome 1 (lp-), otherwise a feature of neuroblastoma. N-myc proto-oncogene was neither amplified nor expressed, whereas the expression of c-myc was documented by northern blot analysis. These features distinguish this new cell line from previously reported neuroectodermal cell lines, identifying LAP-35 as a unique model of a group of neural bone tumors that share characteristics of neuroblastoma as well as neuroepithelioma.
2173427: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinoma of the colon and rectum. A clinicopathologic, ultrastructural, and immunohistochemical study of 24 cases. To further characterize the clinicopathologic spectrum of colorectal neuroendocrine neoplasia, 24 carcinomas with neuroendocrine differentiation were subtyped as either small cell neuroendocrine, oat cell variant (six cases), small cell neuroendocrine, intermediate variant (16 cases), or moderately differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma (two cases). Five oat cell variants, 14 intermediate variants, and two moderately differentiated tumors were studied with antibodies to cytokeratin, vimentin, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin (CRG), synaptophysin (SYN), neurofilament, S-100 protein, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), and Leu-7. All tumors were immunoreactive for cytokeratin and the majority were also positive for EMA and NSE. Positivity for specific neuroendocrine markers was uncommon, with SYN reactivity noted in one oat cell variant and four intermediate variants, and CRG positivity observed in four intermediate variants and one moderately differentiated tumor. Ultrastructural analysis of four oat cell, eight intermediate, and one moderately differentiated tumor revealed neurosecretory-type, dense-core granules in all lesions, except two oat cell variants studied from paraffin-retrieved material. Hepatic and regional lymph node metastases were noted in five of six oat cell, eight of 16 intermediate, and two of two moderately differentiated tumors. Of 17 patients with follow-up (four oat cell, 11 intermediate, and two moderately differentiated tumors), only two individuals were alive after 1 year. There were no detectable differences in survival or response to treatment between morphologic subtypes. The prognosis of colorectal neuroendocrine carcinoma appears worse than for adenocarcinoma of comparable stage. Their distinction is thus warranted, especially in regard to the intermediate variant and moderately differentiated tumors, which may be potentially misinterpreted as forms of adenocarcinoma.
2121745: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin binds to physophilin, a putative synaptic plasma membrane protein. We have developed procedures for detecting synaptic vesicle-binding proteins by using glutaraldehyde-fixed or native vesicle fractions as absorbent matrices. Both adsorbents identify a prominent synaptic vesicle-binding protein of 36 kD in rat brain synaptosomes and mouse brain primary cultures. The binding of this protein to synaptic vesicles is competed by synaptophysin, a major integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles, with half-maximal inhibition seen between 10(-8) and 10(-7) M synaptophysin. Because of its affinity for synaptophysin, we named the 36-kD synaptic vesicle-binding protein physophilin (psi nu sigma alpha, greek = bubble, vesicle; psi iota lambda os, greek = friend). Physophilin exhibits an isoelectric point of approximately 7.8, a Stokes radius of 6.6 nm, and an apparent sedimentation coefficient of 5.6 S, pointing to an oligomeric structure of this protein. It is present in synaptic plasma membranes prepared from synaptosomes but not in synaptic vesicles. In solubilization experiments, physophilin behaves as an integral membrane protein. Thus, a putative synaptic plasma membrane protein exhibits a specific interaction with one of the major membrane proteins of synaptic vesicles. This interaction may play a role in docking and/or fusion of synaptic vesicles to the presynaptic plasma membrane.
1705801: !synaptophysin Structure in lissencephaly determined by immunohistochemical staining. The brains of patients with lissencephaly were examined by peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunohistochemical staining of synaptophysin, myelin basic protein, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. In contrast to the normal cortical pattern, the cortex, with a smooth surface, demonstrated quite different staining patterns in the molecular, superficial cellular, sparsely cellular, and deep cellular layers. The molecular layer was abnormally positive with synaptophysin staining. The superficial cellular layer was also diffusely stained for synaptophysin; there was a positive reaction in the linearly arranged myelin sheaths. The sparsely cellular layer revealed less staining for synaptophysin, but was perivascularly positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein. In the deep cellular layer, synaptophysin staining had multiple neuronal columns and myelin basic protein-staining had a reticular pattern around neuronal columns. These results suggest that the sparsely cellular layer may correspond to the molecular layer and white matter in normal brain; neurons with forming myelin sheaths in the superficial cellular layer regularly penetrate the surface of the molecular layer, forming arrested cortical columns in the deep cellular layer.
1700614: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine features of reactive bile ductules in cholestatic liver disease. Various cholestatic liver diseases are accompanied by a striking increase in the number of bile ductules. This so-called ductular reaction is thought to arise both from ductular metaplasia of hepatocytes and from proliferation of pre-existing bile ductules. Previous studies have shown that these reactive bile ductules differ from their normal counterpart in enzyme and immunohistochemical make-up. Using monoclonal antibodies directed to neuroendocrine markers and immunohistochemistry, we found that reactive bile ductules in cholestatic liver disease display neuroendocrine features. In all cases of primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC), extrahepatic obstruction, and acute hepatitis A, reactive bile ductules expressed the neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) and reacted with monoclonal antibody A2B5. Both N-CAM and the ganglioside, recognized by A2B5, are restricted to neuroendocrine cells and tissues. In all but four of these cases, the same bile ductules expressed chromogranin-A, present in the matrix of neuroendocrine granules. Furthermore, in three cases of longstanding cholestasis, scattered periportal hepatocytes expressed chromogranin-A but not N-CAM. Other neuroendocrine markers such as neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, or myelin-associated glycoprotein were lacking from both bile ductules and hepatocytes. The neuroendocrine phenotype of bile ductules and hepatocytes was confirmed on electronmicroscopy, demonstrating various numbers of dense-cored, neuroendocrine granules near the peripheral cell membrane in bile ductules as well as in cells intermediate between hepatocytes and bile ductular cells. In 10 cases of normal liver tissue without ductular reaction, bile ductules lacked neuroendocrine markers except in two cases in which very weak reactivity for chromogranin-A was observed. These findings illustrate the presence of a new, neuroendocrine cell type that emerges in the liver during cholestasis. Elucidation of the significance of the neuroendocrine substance(s) produced in the dense cored granules of reactive bile ductules awaits their isolation and characterization. We can speculate that this molecule plays an autocrine or paracrine regulatory role in the process of ductular metaplasia of hepatocytes or growth of bile ductules.
1700226: !synaptophysin Small cell lung carcinoma: clinicopathological, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study. Sixty-seven cases of small cell lung carcinoma (SCLA) in Tri-Service General Hospital (TSGH) during the past 16 years were studied. For patients with extensive stage of disease, the mean survival time and 2-year survival rate were 7.2 months and 3.1% versus 13.4 months and 16.7% for patients with limited stage. A better prognosis was obtained by treatment with a combination of intensive chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Immunohistochemical studies were performed by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. The positive rates in descending order were bombesin (80%), synaptophysin (74.3%), neurofilament (68.6%), neuron-specific enolase (60%), low molecular weight cytokeratin (54.3%), high molecular weight cytokeratin (25.7%), chromogranin-A (22.9%), adrenocorticotrophic hormone (0). Seven cases were examined and found to be ultrastructure; only 3 cases were found to contain neurosecretory granules. We emphasize that electron microscopy is not necessary as a routine diagnostic procedure, while light microscopy should be employed whenever possible; the immunohistochemical study should be considered within this context.
2129060: !synaptophysin Chronic osmotic stimulation reduces vasopressin but not synaptophysin content in rat neurohypophysis. The content of synaptophysin, a vesicular integral membrane protein of neurons and endocrine cells, and that of vasopressin was measured in neurohypophyses of rats during chronic osmotic stimulation. The animals received 2% NaCl in their drinking water for up to 4 days. Synaptophysin content of neurohypophyses was determined using quantitative immunoblotting, vasopressin content was measured by radioimmunoassay. Salt loading caused a decrease in the content of vasopressin to about 15% of that of control animals, whether expressed per neurohypophysis or relative to the total tissue protein. In contrast, no change was found in the synaptophysin content. Taken together with published evidence of changes in the relative numbers of the hormone-containing neurosecretory granules (NSGs) and the microvesicles (MVs) under the conditions of chronic osmotic stimulation, these results strongly indicate the surface density of synaptophysin on NSGs to be significantly lower than its surface density on MVs.
2121537: !synaptophysin Differential expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule NCAM 140 in human pituitary tumors. We have analyzed the expression of the intracellular marker protein neuron specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin (SYN) and of the cell surface marker NCAM (neural cell adhesion molecule) in both normal hypophysis and in pituitary adenomas in order to explore their potential use as diagnostic tools. All adenomas (4 prolactinomas, 3 growth hormone (GH) producing adenomas and 4 inactive adenomas) showed SYN and NSE immunoreactivity on tissue sections and this was confirmed by immunoblots. NCAM 140 (an isoform of NCAM with molecular mass 140 kDa) was detected by immunoblotting in normal human adenohypophysis, in all GH adenomas, and in three out of four inactive adenomas, but not in prolactinomas. Using highly sensitive techniques, NCAM immunoreactivity was observed by electron microscopy in all adenomas. These data indicate that NCAM 140 is a constituent of the cell surface of endocrine cells in both normal human adenohypophysis and its tumors. Since prolactinomas express very low levels of NCAM 140 compared to other hypophyseal tumors its virtual absence could be used for differential diagnosis. A combined analysis of NCAM, SYN and NSE could be useful to characterize inactive adenomas which are not immunoreactive for pituitary hormones and which may contain no or only low levels of the alpha chain of the glycoprotein hormones.
2262801: !synaptophysin Primitive pineal tumor with retinoblastomatous and retinal/ciliary epithelial differentiation: an immunohistochemical study. A one year old boy was found to have a large tumor encompassing the pineal region and extending towards the third and lateral ventricles and quadrigeminal plate. The tumor was composed mostly of small, undifferentiated cells. Some small cells were arranged in Flexner-Wintersteiner rosettes and a few displayed fleurettes. The tumor contained immature cartilage and skeletal muscle and numerous clusters of pigmented epithelial-like cells which, histologically, resembled those found in melanotic neuroectodermal tumors of infancy (retinal anlage tumors) and retinal or ciliary epithelium. Immunologic stains demonstrated neurofilaments synaptophysin and retinal S-antigen in some of the small cells and transthyretin in some of the epithelial-like cells. The findings indicate that certain primary pineal parenchymal tumors have features in common with tumors of the ocular medullary epithelium.
2206533: !synaptophysin Synaptoporin, a novel putative channel protein of synaptic vesicles. By homology screening of a rat brain library, we have isolated cDNAs that encode a novel member of the synaptophysin/connexin channel protein superfamily. The deduced protein, named synaptoporin, displays 58% amino acid identity to synaptophysin, with highly conserved transmembrane segments, but a divergent cytoplasmic tail. Northern blot analysis and PCR amplification of RNA from different rat tissues indicate expression of synaptoporin transcripts in the CNS. Antibodies against a synthetic peptide or a fusion construct encompassing the cytoplasmic tail region of synaptoporin detect a polypeptide of 37 kd that copurifies with small synaptic vesicles. Our data suggest the existence of a family of vesicular channel proteins whose members may be differently distributed among synaptic vesicle subpopulations.
2124206: !synaptophysin Pulmonary blastoma with neuroendocrine differentiation in cell morules resembling neuroepithelial bodies. Pulmonary blastoma is an infrequent malignant neoplasm, so called because of its resemblance to fetal lung. The original description outlined the components as variable mixtures of epithelial and stromal elements. More recently, a variant displaying almost exclusively epithelial differentiation has been described. We report our findings in a case of pulmonary blastoma with predominance of epithelial cells, forming tubular structures and large morules. The architectural arrangement of the morules was remarkably similar to normal bronchial neuroepithelial bodies. Moreover, their immunohistochemical profiles were also very similar, including the expression of cytokeratins, chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, gastrin, calcitonin, bombesin, somatostatin and serotonin.
1976556: !synaptophysin Transiently catecholaminergic (TC) cells in the bowel of the fetal rat: precursors of noncatecholaminergic enteric neurons. Experiments were done to study the fate of transient catecholaminergic (TC) cells that develop in the rodent gut during ontogeny. When they are first detected, at Day E11 in rats, TC cells are distributed along the vagal pathway, in advance of the descending fibers of the vagus nerves, and in the foregut. The early TC cells coexpress the immunoreactivities of several neural markers, including 150-kDa neurofilament protein, peripherin, microtubule associated protein (MAP) 5, and growth-associated protein (GAP)-43, with those of the catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH). All cells in the fetal rat bowel at Day E11 that express neural markers also express TH immunoreactivity. The primitive TC cells also express the immunoreactivities of neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor (and NGF receptor mRNA). By Day E12 TC cells are found along the vagal pathway and throughout the entire preumbilical bowel. At this age TC cells acquire additional characteristics, including MAP 2 and synaptophysin immunoreactivities and acetylcholinesterase activity, which indicate that they continue to mature as neurons. In addition, TC cells of the rat are immunostained at Day E12 by the NC-1 monoclonal antibody, which in rats labels multiple cell types including migrating cells of neural crest origin. Despite their neural properties, at least some TC cells divide and therefore are neural precursors and not terminally differentiated neurons. At Day E10 TH mRNA-containing cells were not detected by in situ hybridization; however, by Day E11 TH mRNA was detected in sympathetic ganglia and in scattered cells in the mesenchyme of the foregut and vagal pathway. At this age, the number of enteric and vagal cells containing TH mRNA is about 30% less than the number of cells containing TH immunoreactivity in adjacent sections. The ratio of TH mRNA-containing cells to TH-immunoreactive vagal and enteric cells is even less at Day E12, especially in more caudal regions of the preumbilical bowel. A similar decline in the ratio of TH mRNA-containing to TH-immunoreactive cells was not observed in sympathetic ganglia. After Day E12 TH mRNA cannot be detected in enteric or vagal cells by in situ hybridization; nevertheless, TH immunoreactivity continues to be present through Day E14. DBH, NPY, and NGF receptor immunoreactivities are expressed by TH-immunoreactive transitional cells in the fetal rat gut after TH mRNA is no longer detectable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1698121: !synaptophysin Induction of cells with phenotypic features of neuronal cells by treatment with dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate in a human parotid gland adenocarcinoma cell line in culture. A human parotid gland adenocarcinoma cell line, with an intercalated duct cell phenotype of the salivary gland and expression of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and amylase, was cultivated in the presence of dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (dB-cAMP). Morphological changes occurred; cells formed long cytoplasmic processes densely packed with ample microfibrils, as well as microtubules, and grew in a netlike appearance. In addition, it has been found by the immunofluorescence staining technique, immunoblotting, or immunoelectron microscopy that the cells treated with dB-cAMP express neurofilaments, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and HNK-1 antigen, as well as the alpha- and beta-chains of tubulin, whereas these antigens are not detected in untreated cells. The expression of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide detected diffusely in the cytoplasm of untreated cells was restricted to the cell membranes during the cultivation of cells in the presence of dB-cAMP, while expression of amylase persisted in the treated cells in a fashion similar to that in untreated cells. Moreover, both anchorage-independent and anchorage-dependent growth of the cells was markedly suppressed in the presence of dB-cAMP. After removal of dB-cAMP from the culture, the treated cells returned rapidly to the phenotype and growth rate of the untreated cells. These findings indicate that reversible conversion into cells with phenotypic features of neuronal cells of a human parotid adenocarcinoma cell line occurs in growth medium containing dB-cAMP.
2168288: !synaptophysin A comparison of synaptophysin, chromogranin, and L-dopa decarboxylase as markers for neuroendocrine differentiation in lung cancer cell lines. Synaptophysin is a Mr 38,000 integral membrane glycoprotein expressed by a variety of normal and neoplastic neuroendocrine cells. We studied synaptophysin as an immunocytochemical marker for neuroendocrine differentiation in lung cancer and compared it to the immunocytochemical expression of chromogranin A, a marker for dense core (endocrine) granules, and the biochemical activity of L-dopa decarboxylase (DDC), the key amine-handling enzyme. Of the 250 cell lines available to us, we selected examples representative of the following cell types: bronchial carcinoids (n = 4), small cell lung cancer (SCLC) (n = 7), extrapulmonary small cell carcinomas (n = 4), and non-small cell lung cancers (n = 18) whose neuroendocrine status had been previously determined on the basis of electron microscopy and DDC activity. We demonstrated (a) there was a higher incidence of synaptophysin than chromogranin A immunoreactivity in carcinoid (100 versus 75%), classic SCLC (70 versus 50%), and variant SCLC (57 versus 29%) cell lines; (b) 3 of the 4 (75%) extrapulmonary small cell lung cancer cell lines expressed synaptophysin and chromogranin A; (c) 5 of the 7 (71%) non-small cell lung cancer cell lines previously shown to express multiple neuroendocrine markers were positive for synaptophysin, chromogranin A, and DDC activity; (d) none of the other 11 non-small cell lung cancer cell lines expressed synaptophysin or chromogranin A; and (e) formalin fixation and paraffin embedding reduced synaptophysin immunoreactivity in 11 of 14 (79%) of the cell lines, as compared to freshly prepared specimens fixed in 95% ethanol. Western blot analysis using the synaptophysin antibody (SY38) demonstrated immunoreactive proteins ranging from Mr 43,000 to 45,000 in five representative cell lines. The concordance of expression of all three neuroendocrine markers was statistically significant when values for all cell lines were totalled. Synaptophysin was a more commonly expressed marker for variant SCLC cell lines, which rarely showed DDC activity. We conclude that synaptophysin may be a more sensitive and specific marker for neuroendocrine differentiation, when compared to chromogranin A and DDC in lung cancer cell lines which express only part of the neuroendocrine program.
2384784: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma of the cauda equina. Report of three cases. The authors report the clinical, radiological, and pathological findings in three cases of paraganglioma of the cauda equina. In one case, magnetic resonance imaging and neurochemical study results are described. No specific identifying features were encountered either clinically or radiologically that were helpful in making a distinction between this and other more common tumors at this site such as ependymoma or neurofibroma. At surgery, these neoplasms were well-circumscribed red fleshy tumors. Histological examination of one paraganglioma showed a superficial resemblance to ependymoma, and this may be particularly true on initial assessment by frozen section or smear. The use of electron microscopy and immunohistochemical demonstration of synaptophysin in these tumors allowed a confident diagnosis to be made. Neurochemical assessment in one case showed very high levels of serotonin and a turnover of dopamine similar to that of human cerebral cortex. Paraganglioma of the cauda equina is an uncommon tumor with just over 50 cases reported in the world literature. The clinical course of these tumors is benign and they should be completely removed at surgery to prevent later recurrence.
2202275: !synaptophysin Mesenchymal chondrosarcoma. An immunohistochemical study. Mesenchymal chondrosarcoma is an uncommon small-cell neoplasm of bone and soft tissue, the chondrogenic nature of which has been generally accepted. However, the phenotypic attributes of the small-cell population in this neoplasm have not been well characterized, and its relationship to "precartilage mesenchyme" remains unclear. In an attempt to address this issue, we performed an immunohistochemical analysis of nine cases, using antibodies to vimentin, S100 protein, Leu-7 antigen, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, desmin, muscle-specific actin, cytokeratin, and epithelial membrane antigen, and the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex (ABC) method. The small cells of mesenchymal chondrosarcoma failed to express S100 protein, whereas all components of the tumors (small cells, lacunar chondroblasts, and chondroid matrix) stained for Leu-7 antigen in six cases. Neuron-specific enolase was identified in the small cells of four cases and in the lacunar cells of seven. None contained desmin, actin, cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, or synaptophysin. The immunophenotype of mesenchymal chondrosarcoma resembled that of embryonic cartilage and thus did not contradict the premise that this tumor was the neoplastic counterpart of fetal chondroid tissues. However, immunohistologic studies are not overly helpful in the differential diagnosis between mesenchymal chondrosarcoma and other small round cell lesions.
1975480: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: structure of the human gene and assignment to the X chromosome in man and mouse. Synaptophysin is an integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles in brain and endocrine cells. We have determined the structure and organization of the human synaptophysin gene and have established the chromosome localizations in man and mouse. Analysis of a cosmid clone containing the human synaptophysin gene (SYP) revealed seven exons distributed over approximately 20 kb, when compared with the previously published cDNA sequence. The exon-intron boundaries have been identified and do not correlate with functional domains. One intron interrupts the 3' untranslated region. Chromosomal localization of the human and murine genes for synaptophysin established the human SYP locus on the X chromosome in subbands Xp11.22-p11.23 and the mouse synaptophysin gene locus (Syp) on the X chromosome in region A-D. In addition, an Eco0109 RFLP has been identified and used in genetic mapping of the human SYP locus and supports the order TIMP-SYP-DXS14 within a span of approximately 4-7 centimorgans.
1975191: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical localization of peptide-containing nerves in human airways: age-related changes. Bronchial reactivity changes during childhood, indicating possible changes in neural control. Nerves supplying the intrapulmonary airways were therefore studied in autopsy tissue from 14 normal infants (0 to 3.5 yr), 3 children (8.3 to 10.75 yr), and 4 adults (17 to 24 yr). An indirect immunofluorescence technique was used to study the distribution and relative number of nerve fibers containing the general neuronal markers protein gene product 9.5 and synaptophysin. Nerve subpopulations were identified using antisera to neuropeptide tyrosine, vasoactive intestine polypeptide, somatostatin, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase. Between birth and 3 yr, the distribution and relative number of immunoreactive nerves shown by both the general neuronal markers and specific antisera did not change. Neuropeptide tyrosine-immunoreactive nerves were the most common peptide-containing nerve subpopulation identified in the human lung, supplying bronchial smooth muscle, submucosal glands, cartilage, and submucosa. Other peptide-containing nerves exhibited distinct distribution patterns. Two differences in the airway innervation were identified between cases aged 0 to 3.5 yr and the older age groups. Relatively fewer peptide-containing nerves occurred in the adult bronchioli and respiratory unit, but the relative number of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing nerves supplying the bronchial and bronchiolar smooth muscle was greater in the two older age groups. Given these apparent age-related differences in the number of peptide-containing nerves supplying the human airway, studies on the development of peptide receptors are indicated.
2373060: !synaptophysin Effects of splanchnic nerve stimulation on the adrenal cortex may be mediated by chromaffin cells in a paracrine manner. The effects of nerve activation and of the catecholamines epinephrine and norepinephrine on adrenal corticosteroid release were investigated in intact isolated perfused pig adrenals with preserved nerve supply. To study the contact zones of medullary and cortical tissues, porcine adrenals were examined on the histological and ultrastructural levels. Splanchnic nerve activation stimulated in parallel the release of epinephrine (from a basal value of 0.31 +/- 0.11 to 8.13 +/- 0.60 microgram/min) and norepinephrine (from 0.76 +/- 0.68 to 12.94 +/- 3.58 micrograms/min) and the release of the corticosteroids cortisol (from 0.62 +/- 0.19 to 2.00 +/- 0.35 micrograms/min) and aldosterone (from 3.34 +/- 0.59 to 7.53 +/- 1.63 ng sigma in). Also, perfusion of the isolated adrenals with catecholamines provoked a significant release of the corticosteroids. Epinephrine (10(-6) M) stimulated the release of cortisol (from 0.59 +/- 0.31 to 2.66 +/- 0.34 micrograms/min) and aldosterone (from 2.12 +/- 0.42 to 4.68 +/- 0.92 ng/min). Norepinephrine (10(-6) M) stimulated the release of cortisol (from 0.26 +/- 0.07 to 1.28 +/- 0.10 micrograms/min) and aldosterone (from 1.28 +/- 0.37 to 3.57 +/- 0.80 ng/min). Using an immunostaining for synaptophysin, which is specific for neuroendocrine cells, chromaffin cells could be detected within all three zones of the adrenal cortex. The two endocrine tissues appear to be closely interwoven. On the ultrastructural level, medullary cells are in apposition to cortical cells, with close cellular contacts. These results show that the release of corticosteroids cortisol and aldosterone can be stimulated through the sympatho-adrenal system. Taking into consideration the close colocalization of cortical and medullary tissues, this stimulation may be mediated by chromaffin cells in a paracrine manner.
2198006: !synaptophysin Paraganglioma of the spermatic cord. Report of a case with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies. We describe a case of paraganglioma arising in the spermatic cord, which is an extremely rare location. Immunohistochemical studies characterized two types of cells: (1) polygonal cells expressing neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, and synaptophysin and (2) S100 protein-positive sustentacular cells. Electron microscopy revealed that within the cytoplasm of the polygonal cells, there were electron-dense granules whose morphological appearance was consistent with that of neurosecretory granules. Paraganglioma of the spermatic cord may originate from embryonic chromaffin cells that have followed the testis into the scrotum.
2165182: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis: a clinicopathological, morphological and immunohistochemical study of 2 cases. Two women, 62 and 66 years old, with combined small cell carcinoma and transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis are reported. The clinical picture was similar to that seen in conventional transitional cell carcinoma. A brief review of the literature indicates that in the urinary tract, small cell carcinoma occurs most commonly in the bladder and is exceedingly rare in the renal pelvis; only 2 cases have been reported previously. The morphological spectrum of the small cell carcinomatous component is similar to that seen in lung tumors. Neuroendocrine differentiation of the small cell carcinoma component was supported by a positive immunoreaction to neuron-specific enolase in both cases and to synaptophysin in 1. One patient died with metastases 8 months after diagnosis, and 1 was alive with clinical evidence of lymph node metastases and contralateral papillary transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis 16 months after diagnosis.
2116326: !synaptophysin Chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin as neuroendocrine cell markers in the diagnosis of tumours of the gastro-entero-pancreatic system. Neuroendocrine (NE) tumours of the gastro-entero-pancreatic tract were analysed immunohistochemically for the expression of chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. In all cases at least one marker was present and in 17 out of 19 investigated neoplasms, at least one of the three markers could be demonstrated in more than 75% of the NE tumour cells. Monoclonal antibody chromogranin A stained a much higher proportion of NE cells in tumours with hormonal activity than in hormonally inactive ones. Immunostaining of the primary tumour as compared to its respective metastases was almost identical. Thus, chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin identify NE tumours and their metastases regardless of their localization and their state of hormonal activity. As 'panendocrine' markers of NE tumours they are of special diagnostic value in NE tumours that do not produce hormones and peptides.
1700325: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical evidence for the selective involvement of dorsal root fibres in Friedreich's ataxia. An immunohistochemical study was carried out in order to elucidate the selective involvement of the dorsal root fibres from two patients with Friedreich's ataxia in comparison with those of 10 neurologically normal control individuals. For this purpose, antibodies to substance P and to synaptophysin were used. Substance P-immunoreactive unmyelinated fibres forming a dense network in the normal substantia gelatinosa of the spinal dorsal horn predominantly originate from a subpopulation of small cells of the dorsal root ganglia, while synaptophysin is present in virtually all nerve cell axon terminals and is useful for visualizing axon terminals in the nervous system. Strong substance P-like immunoreactivity was seen in the substantia gelatinosa of patients with Friedreich's ataxia. By contrast, there was marked depletion of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the posterior column nuclei, with the gracile nucleus showing greater loss of positive puncta than the cuneate nucleus.
1699872: !synaptophysin The innervation and neuroendocrine cell population of the appendix in total colonic aganglionosis. There is little published information on changes in the appendix in Hirschsprung's disease despite the presence within the mucosa of nerves and neuroendocrine cells together forming a 'neuroendocrine ganglion'. The innervation and neuroendocrine cell population of 11 appendices (two from patients with total colonic aganglionosis, six from patients with short segment Hirschsprung's disease and three normal controls) were examined using H & E, a standard Grimelius silver stain and immunocytochemistry for S-100 protein, neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament and synaptophysin. Compared with both normal and short segment Hirschsprung's disease controls, the total colonic aganglionosis appendices showed decreased numbers of nerve bundles around the muscle layers and within the submucosa, markedly decreased numbers of smaller fibres within the circular muscle and absence of the finer fibres within the lamina propria. There was no change in the overall number of epithelial neuroendocrine cells but subepithelial neuroendocrine cells, normally found in association with mucosal nerve fibres, were totally absent. The concomitant loss of nerve fibres and neuroendocrine cells from the lamina propria in total colonic aganglionosis suggests a different embryological origin for epithelial and sub-epithelial neuroendocrine cells.
1696332: !synaptophysin Human Merkel cell regeneration in skin derived from cultured keratinocyte grafts. Human Merkel cell regeneration in epidermis derived from cultured keratinocyte autografts was studied from 6 days to 6 years after transplantation. Cultured keratinocyte sheets derived from skin of the sole, axilla, groin, or scalp were transplanted to full-thickness wounds in 20 pediatric patients treated for massive burns or giant congenital nevi. Normal age- and site-matched skin as well as meshed split-thickness autografts from the same patients served as controls. Merkel cells were identified by immunohistochemistry using antibodies to cytokeratins #8 and #18. Cultured keratinocytes in vitro expressed no neuroendocrine markers, but nonspecific, simple-epithelial cytokeratin expression was observed in about 20% of cells. After transplantation, Merkel cells were identified only in cultured grafts derived from sole skin and appeared in the epidermis as early as 21 days postgrafting. Dermal Merkel cells were rarely observed, but their appearance invariably succeeded that of intraepidermal Merkel cells. Regenerated Merkel cells were never innervated, and their emergence was unrelated either spatially or temporally to epidermal reinnervation. In skin bridges of meshed split-thickness grafts, Merkel cells survived after degeneration of associated neurites, but no Merkel cells appeared within re-epithelialized interstices. Among the neuroendocrine markers tested, Merkel cells in cultured grafts, meshed skin grafts or normal pediatric skin expressed only neuron-specific enolase. They failed to stain for calcitonin, chromogranin A, Leu-7, synaptophysin, bombesin, or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide by immunohistochemistry. These findings suggest that: (a) Merkel cells derive from keratinocyte precursors which undergo neuroendocrine differentiation in the epidermis; (b) that keratinocyte stem cells are capable of undergoing Merkel cell differentiation postnatally; (c) that postnatal Merkel cell differentiation may be body-site dependent; and (d) that Merkel cell development and maintenance is independent of neural induction.
2165922: !synaptophysin NCAM: a surface marker for human small cell lung cancer cells. Immunocytochemical and immunochemical techniques were used to study the expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) by human lung cancer cell lines. Intense surface staining for NCAM was found at light and electron microscopic levels on small cell lung cancer cells. The NCAM polypeptide of Mr 140,000 (NCAM 140) was detected by immunoblotting in all of 7 small cell lung cancer cell lines examined and in one out of two of the closely related large cell cancer cell lines: it was not detected in cell lines obtained from one patient with a mesothelioma, in two cases of adenocarcinoma, nor in two cases of squamous cell cancer. In contrast, neuron-specific enolase was found by immunoblotting in all the lung cancer cell lines tested and synaptophysin in all but the adenocarcinoma cell lines. These antigens were localized intracellularly. The specific expression of NCAM 140 by human small and large cell lung carcinomas suggests its potential as a diagnostic marker.
2165811: !synaptophysin Identification and localization of low-molecular-mass GTP-binding proteins associated with synaptic vesicles and other membranes. GTP-binding proteins were studied in synaptic vesicles prepared from bovine brain by differential centrifugation and separated further from plasma membranes using gel permeation chromatography. Following separation by SDS-PAGE of proteins from the different fractions, and transfer to nitrocellulose sheets, the presence and localization of low-molecular-mass GTP-binding proteins were assessed by [alpha-32 P]GTP binding. The vesicle-membrane fraction (SV) was enriched in synaptophysin (p38, a synaptic vesicle marker) and contained low-molecular-mass GTP-binding proteins; these consisted of a major 27 kDa protein and minor components (Mr 26 and 24 kDa) which were trypsin-sensitive and immunologically distinguishable from ras p21 protein. GTP-binding proteins of low molecular mass, but displaying less sensitivity to trypsin, were also found in the plasma membrane fraction (PM; enriched in Na+/K(+)-ATPase). In addition, the PM fraction contained GTP-binding proteins with higher Mr (Gi alpha and G0 alpha), together with another GTP-binding protein, ras p21. Putative function(s) of these GTP-binding proteins with low mass are discussed.
2229191: !synaptophysin Localization of human growth hormone to a sub-set of cytoplasmic vesicles in transfected PC12 cells. Two distinct population of vesicles can be identified in PC12 cells by subcellular fractionation and immunofluorescence. Density gradient separation reveals one population of dense vesicles that contains the transgenic regulated secretory protein hGH (human growth hormone) along with the endogenous neurotransmitter norepinephrine. Some of the neuronal vesicle marker synaptophysin (P38) is also associated with these vesicles. A second population of low-density vesicles contains synaptophysin but not hGH or norepinephrine. Immunofluorescence localization of hGH revealed a pattern consistent with packaging into catecholaminergic vesicles: the staining is punctate and most concentrated in the tips of the neuritic processes, with secondary accumulation in the perinuclear region. Double-staining of cells for hGH and synaptophysin confirms that these proteins do not co-localize but rather are spatially segregated within the cell. The observed distribution of vesicle markers is inconsistent with simple models for the generation of one type of vesicle from the other, suggesting that the vesicles are products of two divergent biosynthetic pathways. While the hGH is clearly contained in regulated secretory vesicles, the function of the second population of vesicles remains uncertain.
2217153: !synaptophysin Neural patterns in inflammatory bowel disease: an immunohistochemical survey. The differential diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease remains a significant diagnostic problem for surgical pathologists. Neural abnormalities, such as hypertrophy of nerve plexi, hyperplasia of ganglion cells, and ultrastructural axonal degeneration have been described in patients with regional enteritis. We performed an immunohistochemical survey of forty cases of regional enteritis, ulcerative colitis, nonspecific colitis, and normal colon. A panel of antibodies, directed against neuron-specific enolase, S-100 protein, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, and nerve growth factor receptor, was utilized to evaluate the distribution of nerve fibers in paraffin-embedded tissue. Anti-synaptophysin and anti-nerve growth factor receptor highlighted small, arborizing nerve fibers in the mucosa, not apparent in the routinely stained sections. Intense staining of these fibers was observed in regional enteritis with antinerve growth factor receptor. This antibody may aid the discrimination of inflammatory bowel disease from other causes of colonic inflammation and facilitate the identification of regional enteritis in endoscopic biopsies.
2200185: !synaptophysin Ultrastructural features of neuroendocrine differentiated carcinomas of the breast. The ultrastructural patterns of neuroendocrine (NE) differentiated breast carcinomas are analyzed and discussed. Reports in the literature describe wide variations in the size of observed dense-core membrane-bound granules and discrepancies in their interpretation. In the present study 24 cases of breast carcinoma with recognized morphologic, histochemical, and immunocytochemical features of NE tumors were investigated. Five different types of dense-core granules of neurosecretory (NS) type (confirmed by the ultrastructural localization of chromogranin A) and five different cell types were recognized. Some amphicrine cells were found to contain both mucin and NS granules. Another notable ultrastructural feature of breast NE carcinomas was the presence of clear vesicles of presynaptic type, which correlated with expression of synaptophysin.
2170973: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in poorly differentiated lung carcinomas: a light microscopic and immunohistologic study. Frozen, unfixed tissue sections from 56 poorly differentiated, non-small cell primary lung tumors were examined by the immunoperoxidase technique with a panel of monoclonal antibodies to neuroendocrine (chromogranin A (CGA), synaptophysin (SYN), S-100) and intermediate filament (cytokeratin, vimentin, neurofilament) antigens. Although light microscopic features of neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation were not present, staining for CGA and/or SYN was identified in 5/17 (29%) large cell carcinomas (LCC) and 4/19 (21%) poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas (PDA). Diffuse, strong SYN staining was present in two LCC and one PDA. Heterogeneous intermediate filament expression (vimentin and/or neurofilament) was frequent (LCC, 10/17 (59%); PDA, 10/19 (53%)) and accompanied NE markers in 8/9 (89%) cases. Poorly differentiated squamous carcinomas were more homogeneous, with focal SYN in only 1/20 (5%) and focal presence of intermediate filaments other than cytokeratin in only 2/20 (10%). We conclude: (a) immunohistologic evidence of NE differentiation is present in a significant proportion of pulmonary large cell and poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas and rare in poorly differentiated squamous carcinomas; (b) NE differentiation is generally accompanied by heterogeneous intermediate filament expression; (c) divergent NE differentiation is not necessarily reflected by light microscopic features.
2114884: !synaptophysin Synapsins in the vertebrate retina: absence from ribbon synapses and heterogeneous distribution among conventional synapses. The vertebrate retina contains two ultrastructurally distinct types of vesicle-containing synapses: conventional synapses, made predominantly by amacrine cells, and ribbon synapses, formed by photoreceptor and bipolar cells. To identify molecular differences between these synapse types, we have compared the distribution of the synapsins, a family of nerve terminal phosphoproteins, with that of synaptophysin (p38) and SV2, two intrinsic membrane proteins of synaptic vesicles. We report an absence of synapsin I and II immunoreactivity from all ribbon-containing nerve terminals. These include terminals of rod cells in developing and adult rat retina, rod and cone cells in monkey and salamander retinas, and rat bipolar cells. Furthermore, we show that synapsins I and II are differentially distributed among conventional synapses of amacrine cells. The absence of the synapsins from ribbon synapses suggests that vesicle clustering and mobilization in these terminals differ from that in conventional synapses.
1695724: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: a substrate for the protein tyrosine kinase pp60c-src in intact synaptic vesicles. Expression of pp60c-src, the first well defined proto-oncogene product, is developmentally regulated and tissue-specific, with neuronal tissues displaying high amounts of the c-src encoded pp60c-src kinase activity. In the central nervous system pp60c-src is preferentially expressed in regions characterized by a high content of grey matter and elevated density of nerve terminals. In this study we show for the first time a direct interaction between pp60c-src and synaptophysin as a physiological target protein in neurons by demonstrating that endogenous pp60c-src is able to phosphorylate synaptophysin (p38). p38 is a major constituent of the synaptic vesicle membrane protein and is thought to play a key role in the exocytosis of small synaptic vesicles and possibly small clear vesicles in neuroendocrine cells.
1693875: !synaptophysin Small cell carcinoma of the major salivary glands. An immunohistochemical study. Small cell carcinomas of the major salivary glands are rare tumors, accounting for less than 1% of malignant neoplasms at these sites. To date, approximately 41 such tumors have been described. They recently have been classified into two groups, based on the ultrastructural presence or absence of intracytoplasmic neuroendocrine (NE) granules, "small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma" and "small cell ductal carcinoma". This study concerns 11 primary small cell carcinomas that had been previously studied ultrastructurally; it was undertaken to determine whether these lesions possessed a neuroendocrine phenotype, using a battery of immunohistochemical stains. Antibodies to epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), cytokeratin (CK), Leu 7, vimentin (VIM), synaptophysin (SYN), chromogranin (CHR), and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) were employed, with the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex technique and paraffin sections. All tumors in this study expressed at least one neuroendocrine marker. In eight tumors EMA was found; CK was present in all 11 cases, seven of which demonstrated focal paranuclear staining. Leu 7 was seen in eight tumors, VIM was expressed in two cases, SYN was found in three tumors, and CHR was detected in three neoplasms. Anti-neuron-specific enolase labeled eight tumors. From the preceding data one may conclude that all small cell salivary gland carcinomas have neuroendocrine characteristics, even though dense core granules cannot be demonstrated in some of them ultrastructurally.
2114316: !synaptophysin A protein with homology to the C-terminal repeat sequence of Octopus rhodopsin and synaptophysin is a member of a multigene family in Dictyostelium discoideum. Monoclonal antibodies were raised against a protein with a molecular mass of 24 kDa that has been described as a membrane-associated, actin binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum [( 1985) J. Cell Biol. 100, 727-735]. Using these monoclonal antibodies we isolated from a lambda gt11 expression library cDNA clones coding for this protein. The cDNA deduced amino acid sequence revealed the presence of an unusual carboxy-terminus which has homologies to the C-termini of Octopus rhodopsin and synaptophysin. This part of the protein sequence contains 5 direct repeats with the motif GYP (P)Q(P). Southern and Northern blots showed that this sequence is present in a series of Dictyostelium genes transcribed in all stages of development.
2365053: !synaptophysin Divergent changes of chromogranin A/secretogranin II levels in differentiating human neuroblastoma cells. Human neuroblastoma cells were cultured either in the absence or presence of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) known to induce neuronal differentiation. This treatment led to a marked increase in the concentration of secretogranin II but to a decrease of chromogranin A. Analogous changes were observed for the respective mRNAs. Thus during differentiation of these cells the biosynthesis of two vesicle constituents of large dense core vesicles is differentially regulated as determined both at the mRNA and the protein level. Levels of both synaptin/synaptophysin large dense core vesicles is differentially regulated as determined both at the mRNA and the protein level. Levels of both synaptin/synaptophysin and SV2 were also elevated but to a smaller degree than that of secretogranin II.
2346135: !synaptophysin DNA ploidy in pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. The nuclear DNA content of 17 pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors was measured from paraffin-embedded tissue with flow cytometry. The tumors were classified by immunostaining with antisera for synaptophysin, insulin, gastrin, glucagon, pancreatic polypeptide, somatostatin, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Eight (47%) of the 17 tumors were aneuploid, and two (12%) were multiploid (had two aneuploid stemlines of cells). Seven of the eight insulinomas, one of the four gastrinomas, and two of the four nonspecified neuroendocrine tumors had an abnormal nuclear DNA content. The DNA indices of the aneuploid and multiploid cases ranged from 1.13 to 1.93, and three cases had a DNA index greater than 1.50. During the follow-up for up to 16 years (mean, 7 years), one patient with diploid nonspecified tumor died of the disease, another patient with a multiploid gastrinoma had metastatic disease develop, and a third patient with a multiploid nonspecified tumor was alive with the disease. The authors conclude that many neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas have an abnormal nuclear DNA content as measured by DNA flow cytometry. DNA multiploid pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors may be associated with a less favorable clinical course, but this needs to be confirmed in additional studies.
2194140: !synaptophysin Intraventricular neurocytoma: a clinical and pathological study of three cases and review of the literature. Three patients with a recently described tumor of neuronal origin, intraventricular neurocytoma, are presented. These tumors occur as intraventricular lesions in young patients, and the prognosis after surgical treatment is favorable. The initial pathological diagnosis of intraventricular neurocytoma may be difficult because of the striking resemblance of these tumors to oligodendroglioma and, to a lesser extent, ependymoma on light microscopic examination. Despite the use of wide-ranging panels of monoclonal antibodies, previous authors have not found any characteristic immunohistochemical staining patterns, but in our three patients, the use of synaptophysin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and Leu-7 demonstrated staining patterns that may be useful in the diagnosis of this tumor. The monoclonal antibody Ki-67 was used to stain one tumor and showed a low cell proliferation rate. We have reviewed the clinical, radiological, and pathological features of these 3 patients and 17 previously described patients in an attempt to determine the important diagnostic features of intraventricular neurocytoma. Intraventricular neurocytoma should be considered in any young patient with symptoms of raised intracranial pressure and radiological evidence of an intraventricular lesion. Pathological diagnosis requires the use of electron microscopy to show features of neuronal differentiation; however, immunohistochemical demonstration of a neuronal phenotype is also a useful adjunct to diagnosis. Failure to use specialized techniques for pathological diagnosis will lead to misdiagnosis of these lesions as oligodendrogliomas, as was the initial diagnosis in 2 of our patients before review.
2110586: !synaptophysin Quantitative immunohistochemistry of synaptophysin in human neocortex: an alternative method to estimate density of presynaptic terminals in paraffin sections. Currently available specific synaptic markers have made it possible to estimate the synaptic density by immunochemical techniques. In the present study we labeled the neocortical presynaptic terminals in histological sections of human autopsy tissue with a monoclonal antibody against synaptophysin. The characteristic granular neuropil reaction was quantified by measuring the average optical density (OD) in the different layers of the parietal cortex with the aid of image analysis equipment. The raw neuropil OD was corrected by subtracting the OD of the white matter in the same section. Our study showed that consistent microdensitometric results can be obtained on 5-microns paraffin sections from specimens with less than 8 hr of post-mortem time before fixation, incubated with 5 micrograms/ml of anti-synaptophysin. The corrected OD measurements were slightly larger in neocortical layers II, III, and V than in layers I, IV, and VI, but the differences were not statistically significant. In area 17, layer IV was denser than the others. We conclude that with certain precautions this method can be used to measure relative amounts of synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity and to infer the density of presynaptic boutons in human situations and in animal models.
2088503: !synaptophysin Sympathetic hyperplasia and neuroblastomas in transgenic mice expressing polyoma middle T antigen. Transgenic mice carrying a cDNA to the polyoma virus middle T (mT) antigen linked to the thymidine kinase promoter were generated to study the consequences of deregulated expression of mT-associated tyrosine kinase activity in a wide variety of tissues. Four independent transgenic founder animals were obtained, from one of which was established a transgenic line. This mouse and all its offspring developed multiple neuroblastomas between 2 and 3 months of age. Expression of the transgene (assayed by tyrosine kinase assay and in situ hybridization) was restricted to the neurons of the central and peripheral nervous tissue, probably because of a positional effect of the transgene integration. Characteristic preneoplastic lesions in the sympathetic ganglia and in the adrenal medulla were identified from which the neuroblastomas originated. The tumors arising in these mice show striking analogies to human neuroblastomas, including the sites of development of the tumors, their histological and ultrastructural appearance, and the expression of diagnostic markers, such as synaptophysin, and high expression of the N-myc oncogene. This animal model thus provides a unique tool for studying growth control in sympathetic neuroblasts and the pathogenesis of neuroblastoma.
2111326: !synaptophysin The multisubunit structure of synaptophysin. Relationship between disulfide bonding and homo-oligomerization. Synaptophysin, a major membrane protein of synaptic vesicles, contains four transmembrane regions and two intravesicular loops. Synaptophysin monomers associate into homopolymers that have the potential to form channels in the synaptic vesicle membrane. Here we show that in native synaptophysin, homopolymers are linked by noncovalent forces. The molecule contains unstable intramolecular disulfide bonds that undergo disulfide exchange during solubilization, thereby covalently cross-linking neighboring synaptophysin molecules. The locations of the intramolecular disulfide bonds in synaptophysin were determined, revealing that each of the two intravesicular loops of synaptophysin is circularized by a single disulfide bond. Cross-linking of synaptophysin by disulfide bonds can be triggered in synaptic vesicles and in intact cells by a cycle of reduction and oxidation, suggesting that native synaptophysin is a homomultimer in situ. In addition, chemical cross-linking of native synaptophysin demonstrates that a low molecular weight protein is specifically associated with synaptophysin complexes and is lost upon reduction of the intramolecular disulfide bonds. These data suggest that native synaptophysin forms a noncovalent homomultimeric complex whose structure and interaction with other proteins are dependent on the integrity of its intramolecular disulfide bonds and phospholipid environment.
2140487: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemistry on fine needle aspirates in paraffin miniblocks. A simplified method of processing of fine needle aspirates for paraffin miniblocks suitable for both morphologic and immunocytochemical evaluation is described. Aspirates were fixed in ethanol at 4 degrees C, dehydrated in acetone and xylene and embedded in paraffin (58 degrees C). All steps were carried out in a single Eppendorf centrifuge tube; the total process took less than four hours. Deparaffinized sections were stained using the alkaline phosphatase-antialkaline phosphatase technique with monoclonal and conventional antibodies helpful in the differential cytologic diagnosis of alcohol-fixed aspiration biopsy specimens. Antibodies to keratin, vimentin, desmin, neurofilaments, glial fibrillary acidic protein, leukocyte-common antigen, synaptophysin and immunoglobulin kappa and lambda light chains reacted positively on the miniblock material. Since the paraffin miniblocks combine the histologic pattern of the tumor with the differentiation-specific information provided by immunocytochemistry, their use can improve the accuracy of tumor typing in aspirates.
2113427: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry in childhood brain tumors: what are the facts? In the past, contradictory results have been reported concerning the specificity of neuronal or glial cell markers. However, we have investigated this aspect in a large group of more than 550 brain tumors (among them 60 medulloblastomas). These contradictions can easily be explained by considering two basic facts. First, every neoplastic cell population, especially in embryonic tumors, diffusely infiltrates the brain tissue: non-neoplastic cells, intermingled with tumor cells, can therefore give rise to immunohistochemical and histogenetic misinterpretations. Second, different cell markers can be expressed by one and the same cell (e.g., GFAP, NSE, vimentin), making nosological interpretation of the tumor difficult, impossible, or at best rather subjective. Clear-cut marker positivity is mostly found in the differentiated tumors for which the nosological classification is already clear by the usual histological methods. Only synaptophysin seems to be a reliable marker for neurogenic cells. In embryonic brain tumors (so-called PNET), no correlations between the presence of a given cell marker and the biological behavior of the tumor have so far been detected.
2110571: !synaptophysin Biogenesis of synaptic vesicle-like structures in a pheochromocytoma cell line PC-12. The presence of unique proteins in synaptic vesicles of neurons suggests selective targeting during vesicle formation. Endocrine, but not other cells, also express synaptic vesicle membrane proteins and target them selectively to small intracellular vesicles. We show that the rat pheochromocytoma cell line, PC12, has a population of small vesicles with sedimentation and density properties very similar to those of rat brain synaptic vesicles. When synaptophysin is expressed in nonneuronal cells, it is found in intracellular organelles that are not the size of synaptic vesicles. The major protein in the small vesicles isolated from PC12 cells is found to be synaptophysin, which is also the major protein in rat brain vesicles. At least two of the minor proteins in the small vesicles are also known synaptic vesicle membrane proteins. Synaptic vesicle-like structures in PC12 cells can be shown to take up an exogenous bulk phase marker, HRP. Their proteins, including synaptophysin, are labeled if the cells are surface labeled and subsequently warmed. Although the PC12 vesicles can arise by endocytosis, they seem to exclude the receptor-mediated endocytosis marker, transferrin. We conclude that PC12 cells contain synaptic vesicle-like structures that resemble authentic synaptic vesicles in physical properties, protein composition and endocytotic origin.
2109046: !synaptophysin GABAergic growth cones: release of endogenous gamma-aminobutyric acid precedes the expression of synaptic vesicle antigens. Growth cone fractions isolated from neonatal [postnatal day 3 (P3)] rat forebrain contain GABAergic growth cones as demonstrated by immunofluorescence staining with monospecific antibodies to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). HPLC analysis shows that GABAergic growth cones release this endogenous GABA when stimulated with high K+. Endogenous GABA release is Ca2(+)-independent and, in this respect, similar to that seen previously with [3H]GABA. Isolated growth cone fractions also exhibit a K(+)-stimulated, Ca2(+)-independent release of endogenous taurine. None of the other amino acids shown to be present in isolated growth cone fractions were released, including glutamate, aspartate, and glycine. A population of dissociated cerebral cortical neurones prepared from P1 rat forebrain were GABA-immunoreactive after 1 day in culture. The cell body, neurites, and growth cones of these neurones were all stained with GABA antibodies. At this time in culture, neurones did not stain with either of two antibodies to synaptic vesicle antigens, i.e., p65 and synaptophysin. Growth cones isolated from P3 rat forebrain were also not immunoreactive with these antibodies. After about 8 days in culture, when neurones had established extensive networks of long, varicose axons and elaborately branched dendrites, many neurones and their neurites were immunoreactive for GABA antibodies. At this time in culture, p65 and synaptophysin antibodies did stain neuronal cell bodies and particularly their varicose axons. Dendrites were not stained with synaptic vesicle antibodies. These results suggest that GABAergic neurones synthesize GABA during neurite outgrowth and that GABA is present in, and can be released from, the growth cones of these neurones. The presence of GABA in GABAergic growth cones is not associated with synaptic vesicles, which explains the Ca2+ independency of both endogenous and [3H]GABA release from these growth cones.
2110534: !synaptophysin A high ratio of chromogranin A to synaptin/synaptophysin is a common feature of brains in Alzheimer and Pick disease. Chromogranin A and synaptin/synaptophysin were characterized by immunological methods in human autopsy brain tissue from patients with Alzheimer's and Pick's disease. In immunoblots there was no qualitative difference between the antigens in control and diseased brain, but significant quantitative differences were found. In all Alzheimer cases there was a significantly lower level of synaptin/synaptophysin, whereas chromogranin A was higher in 4 out of 5 cases and in all cases relative to synaptin/synaptophysin. An analogous finding was obtained for Pick's disease. Immunohistologically a consistent staining of neuritic plaques for chromogranin A, but not for secretogranin II was found in Alzheimer cases. In Pick's disease the characteristic Pick bodies showed an analogous specific immunostaining.
2350878: !synaptophysin Cultured rat olfactory neurons are excitable and respond to odors. Newborn rat nasal tissues containing olfactory epithelium were dissociated and maintained in a monolayer cell culture. Neurons were present, as determined by immunostaining with antibodies to 4 neuron-specific proteins: neuron-specific enolase, microtubule-associated protein 2, tau protein and synaptophysin. Immunostained neurons had a distinctive morphology resembling olfactory neurons. By patch-clamp analysis, these cells were electrically active. Responses of some neurons to physiological concentrations of an odorant mixture identified them as olfactory receptor cells.
2317894: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical demonstration of human cardiac innervation before and after transplantation. Knowledge about the distribution and origins of peptide-containing nerves in the innervated and transplanted heart is lacking. Immunohistochemical and histochemical techniques were used to visualize human cardiac innervation before and after transplantation. In the recipient heart cardiac nerve fibers and fascicles displayed immunoreactivity for general neural (protein gene product 9.5 and synaptophysin) and Schwann cell markers (S-100). A major proportion of cardiac nerves displayed neuropeptide tyrosine and tyrosine hydroxylase immunofluorescence staining. Subpopulations of nerves contained somatostatin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P- or neurokinin-like immunoreactivity, and acetylcholinesterase activity. Tissues from cardiac allografts (5 weeks to 63 months after transplantation) contained nerves and ganglion cells that were acetylcholinesterase positive and immunoreactive for the general neural markers. These nerves were less numerous than in recipient hearts and rarely displayed neuropeptide immunostaining. Atrial natriuretic peptide immunoreactivity was localized to myocardial cells in transplanted hearts as well as explanted recipient and postmortem hearts. While most human cardiac allografts remain functionally extrinsically denervated, they appear to contain viable intrinsic nerves, and myocardial cells retain the capacity to produce atrial natriuretic peptide.
2182650: !synaptophysin P29: a novel tyrosine-phosphorylated membrane protein present in small clear vesicles of neurons and endocrine cells. A novel membrane protein from rat brain synaptic vesicles with an apparent 29,000 Mr (p29) was characterized. Using monospecific polyclonal antibodies, the distribution of p29 was studied in a variety of tissues by light and electron microscopy and immunoblot analysis. Within the nervous system, p29 was present in virtually all nerve terminals. It was selectively associated with small synaptic vesicles and a perinuclear region corresponding to the area of the Golgi complex. P29 was not detected in any other subcellular organelles including large dense-core vesicles. The distribution of p29 in various subcellular fractions from rat brain was very similar to that of synaptophysin and synaptobrevin. The highest enrichment occurred in purified small synaptic vesicles. Outside the nervous system, p29 was found only in endocrine cell types specialized for peptide hormone secretion. In these cells, p29 had a distribution very similar to that of synaptophysin. It was associated with microvesicles of heterogeneous size and shape that are primarily concentrated in the centrosomal-Golgi complex area. Secretory granules were mostly unlabeled, but their membrane occasionally contained small labeled evaginations. Immunoisolation of subcellular organelles from undifferentiated PC12 cells with antisynaptophysin antibodies led to a concomitant enrichment of p29, synaptobrevin, and synaptophysin, further supporting a colocalization of all three proteins. P29 has an isoelectric point of approximately 5.0 and is not N-glycosylated. It is an integral membrane protein and all antibody binding sites are exposed on the cytoplasmic side of the vesicles. Two monoclonal antibodies raised against p29 cross reacted with synaptophysin, indicating the presence of related epitopes. P29, like synaptophysin, was phosphorylated on tyrosine residues by endogenous tyrosine kinase activity in intact vesicles.
2159086: !synaptophysin Primitive neuroectodermal tumors of the central nervous system. Patterns of expression of neuroendocrine markers, and all classes of intermediate filament proteins. Snap-frozen samples from 22 primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) primary in the central nervous system were studied with antibodies to synaptophysin, bombesin, somatostatin, substance P, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, all classes of intermediate filaments, and desmoplakins I and II. Frozen sections were immunostained by the avidin-biotin peroxidase complex and indirect immunofluorescence microscopy methods. Selected cases were also studied by double and triple label immunofluorescence microscopy, and by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis. We found that all 22 PNETs expressed synaptophysin extensively. Focal expression of 2 or more neuropeptides was noted in 10 samples studied. All PNETs expressed vimentin, 21 of 22 expressed glial filament protein (GFP), 16 of 22 expressed neurofilament proteins (NFP), 4 of 22 expressed desmin, and 3 of 22 expressed cytokeratins. In only one case were focal and questionable reactions with desmoplakin antibodies seen. Immunoblots confirmed the presence of desmin. Double and triple immunofluorescence revealed a number of antigenic coexpressions in individual cells including: synaptophysin with vimentin, GFP, NFP and desmin, vimentin-GFP, vimentin-NFP, vimentin-cytokeratin, vimentin-desmin and desmin-NFP; similarly, combinations of vimentin-GFP-NFP, vimentin-GFP-desmin, and vimentin-GFP-cytokeratin were found. The consistent expression of synaptophysin and 2 or more neuropeptides indicates that central nervous system PNETs have significant phenotypic features in common with neuroendocrine tumors. Their complex and variable intermediate filament complement patterns combined with their consistent expression of specific neuroendocrine differentiation markers, suggest that central nervous system PNETs comprise a distinct, albeit heterogeneous group of neoplasms.
1969977: !synaptophysin Pancreatic somatostatinoma: a case report and review of the literature. A 56-year-old man underwent distal pancreatectomy, splenectomy, and partial resection of the splenic flexure of the colon because of tumor in the tail of pancreas and the splenic hilus. The patient presented with symptoms of general malaise, anorexia, weight loss, mild diarrhea, and borderline diabetes mellitus, although there was no cholelithiasis. The diagnosis remained unclear until immunohistochemical studies of the resected specimen revealed somatostatin and synaptophysin, suggesting a somatostatinoma. Twenty-three reported cases of pancreatic somatostatinoma are reviewed and their clinical features discussed. The role of immunohistochemical studies in the diagnosis of somatostatinoma is described.
1969355: !synaptophysin Early fetal acquisition of the chromaffin and neuronal immunophenotype by human adrenal medullary cells. An immunohistological study using monoclonal antibodies to chromogranin A, synaptophysin, tyrosine hydroxylase, and neuronal cytoskeletal proteins. The development of chromaffin and neuronal features in the adrenal medulla was studied in normal human fetuses with gestational ages (GAs) of 6-34 weeks. Monoclonal antibodies specific for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and tyrosine hydroxylase; for different subunits and phosphoisoforms of neurofilament (NF) proteins; and for microtubule-associated proteins were applied. Morphologically, two major cell types could be distinguished, i.e., "large" cells with pale nuclei and ill-defined cytoplasm, which were present from 9 weeks GA on, and clusters of "small," primitive appearing cells, present from 14 weeks GA on. The large cells were immunoreactive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, tyrosine hydroxylase, and NF proteins, similar to adult chromaffin cells. In contrast, small cells expressed NF proteins and tyrosine hydroxylase, but not chromogranin A or synaptophysin, more resembling ganglion cells in the adult adrenal medulla. At the latest developmental stages large cells were observed in the center of the clusters of "small" cells, which morphologically resembled immature ganglion cells and expressed NF proteins in their perikarya. These observations indicate that chromaffin and ganglion cells establish their immunophenotype early in embryogenesis. They suggest that "large" and "small" cells are progenitors of the chromaffin and the ganglion cells, respectively, of the mature adrenal medulla.
2311518: !synaptophysin [Morphology and clinical picture of thymus carcinoid]. A large mediastinal tumour was discovered radiologically in a 50-year-old man, with at times blood-tinged sputum and dyspnoea. Parasternal needle biopsy revealed a thymic carcinoid. After surgical excision of the tumour, which had argyrophilic foci (total weight of tumour 1,605 g), histochemical analysis demonstrated neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin and chromogranin, as well as calcitonin (as the only hormone). For the first time in a thymic carcinoid, radioimmunoassay demonstrated growth-hormone-releasing hormone (2 micrograms/g tumour tissue). Post-operative radiotherapy (total dosage 50.5 Gy) was instituted because histological examination had shown invasion of the capsule and blood vessels. There has been no local recurrence or metastases after three years.
2307706: !synaptophysin Sorting during transport to the surface of PC12 cells: divergence of synaptic vesicle and secretory granule proteins. PC12 cells, a cell line derived from a rat pheochromocytoma, have both regulated and constitutive secretory pathways. Regulated secretion occurs via large dense core granules, which are related to chromaffin granules and are abundant in these cells. In addition, PC12 cells also contain small electron-lucent vesicles, whose numbers increase in response to nerve growth factor and which may be related to cholinergic synaptic vesicles. These could characterize a second regulated secretory pathway. We have investigated the trafficking of protein markers for both these organelles. We have purified and characterized the large dense core granules from these cells using sequential velocity and equilibrium gradients. We demonstrate the copurification of the major PC12 soluble regulated secretory protein (secretogranin II) with this organelle. As a marker for the synaptic vesicle-like organelles in this system, we have used the integral membrane glycoprotein p38 or synaptophysin. We show that the p38-enriched fraction of PC12 cells comigrates with rat brain synaptic vesicles on an equilibrium gradient. We also demonstrate that p38 purifies away from the dense core granules; less than 5% of this protein is found in our dense granule fraction. Finally we show that p38 does not pass through the dense granule fraction in pulse-chase experiments. These results rule out the possibility of p38 reaching the small clear vesicles via mature dense granules and imply that these cells may have two independently derived regulated pathways.
2158936: !synaptophysin Protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 as a reliable marker in primitive neuroectodermal tumours--an immunohistochemical study of 21 childhood cases. A number of antibodies to neural proteins have been used to demonstrate neuronal differentiation in primitive neuroectodermal tumours. One of them is protein gene product (PGP) 9.5, a neuronal protein isolated from brain, whose function is unknown at present. We have studied differentiation in 21 cases of primitive neuroectodermal tumours of the CNS in children. Immunocytochemical staining was performed for such neuronal markers as: PGP 9.5, neuron specific enolase and synaptophysin, a glycosylated protein associated with synaptic vesicles. Positive staining for PGP 9.5 was present in 16 cases (strong staining in 12), for neuron-specific enolase in 16 cases (strong staining in 10) and for synaptophysin in 10 cases (strong staining in six). Both PGP 9.5 and synaptophysin showed a clear staining pattern with less non-specific background than with neuron-specific enolase. Our findings demonstrate the value of using more than one antibody marker in assessing neuronal differentiation in tumours. The high incidence of positive staining with antibody to PGP 9.5 suggests that this is an essential marker in the panel of antibodies used for the identification of primitive neuroectodermal tumours.
2155426: !synaptophysin Serotonin uptake, storage, and synthesis in an immortalized committed cell line derived from mouse teratocarcinoma. We report the isolation and characterization of a serotoninergic cell line, 1C11, derived from a mouse teratocarcinoma. The clone 1C11 was immortalized through the expression of the simian virus 40 oncogenes. 1C11 presents two states: an immature epithelial-like state (1C11 precursor) and a more differentiated state (1C11). After induction by dibutyryl cyclic AMP and cyclohexanecarboxylic acid, almost 100% of 1C11 cells continue to divide and have acquired a neural-like phenotype. 1C11* cells coexpress several neural markers, such as synaptophysin (the membrane constituent of synaptic vesicles), the neuropeptide [Met5]enkephalin, and the neurotransmitter serotonin. 1C11* cells store endogenous serotonin and are able to synthesize serotonin from L-tryptophan and to catabolize it by monoamine oxidase B. Moreover, the cells take up serotonin by a carrier-mediated mechanism very similar to that of serotoninergic neurons. The expression of the simian virus 40 oncogenes, which promoted immortalization, does not therefore prevent further differentiation. This inducible cell line constitutes a valuable model for cellular and molecular studies concerning the physiology and the pharmacological modulation of the serotoninergic phenotype.
2109316: !synaptophysin A clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical analysis of 53 cases of medulloblastoma with emphasis on synaptophysin expression. Synaptophysin (SYN) has been identified as an integral membrane glycoprotein of presynaptic vesicles in neurons and neuroendocrine cells, and as a marker for medulloblastoma and other neuronal tumors. SYN expression was studied with a monoclonal antibody (MAb) by the immunoperoxidase technique in 53 medulloblastomas. The expression of neuron-specific enolase (NSE), Leu-7 (LEU), S-100 protein (S100), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), neurofilament protein (NF), vimentin (VIM), cytokeratin (CKER), and desmin (DES) was also assessed with antisera and MAbs. SYN reactivity was present in 94% of tumors, whereas reactivity with other markers of neuronal differentiation was also observed: NSE (100%) and LEU (83%). Regarding the intermediate filament proteins, 38% of the cases were reactive for VIM, 21% for GFAP, and 9% for DES; none expressed NF or CKER. Eight percent were reactive for S100. Among the 53 cases, the male-female ratio was 1:3; 80% of DES-positive tumors occurred in females. The mean age was 10.5 yr, (60% diagnosed in the first decade; peak age incidence between 5 and 10 yr). Five tumors were discovered in patients older than 20 yr of age. Follow-up showed that 40% of patients developed a recurrence and 47% of patients died of tumor. No statistically significant relationship was demonstrated between patterns of immunoreactivity and prognosis. We conclude that SYN is a useful marker for medulloblastomas, indicating that this tumor is a primitive neuronal-neuroblastic neoplasm. However, it is but one of several immunophenotypic markers expressed by the medulloblastoma.
2107138: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: a sensitive and specific marker for ganglion cells in central nervous system neoplasms. Synaptophysin, a 38-kilodalton glycoprotein found in synaptic vesicle membranes, has been shown to be a sensitive marker of neuroendocrine differentiation in non-central nervous system (CNS) tumors. We analyzed the patterns of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in CNS neoplasms in comparison with various normal CNS sites in biopsies. Normal gray matter structures all showed a diffuse punctate granular pattern of neuropil staining without staining of neuronal cell bodies. In contrast, neoplastic ganglion cells in 18 of 18 gangliogliomas/gangliocytomas showed intense immunoreactivity outlining the borders of the cell bodies. Focal staining was also seen in five of 16 primitive neuroectodermal tumors and in one of three central neurocytomas, but these tumors had a finely granular neuropil pattern of immunoreactivity more like that of normal gray matter than like that of the gangliogliomas. All 35 examples of pure gliomas of various types showed no immunoreactivity. Our data highlight synaptophysin as a sensitive and specific marker of both neuronal lineage and neoplastic character in gangliogliomas.
1689555: !synaptophysin Clear cell tumor of the lung. A clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study of eight cases. We studied eight clear cell tumors of the lung (CCTL) to better define their clinical, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features, and to clarify their distinction from other neoplasms, particularly metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Patients ranged in age from 31 to 67 years (mean, 51 years). Seven patients had clinically benign, asymptomatic lesions measuring less than 2 cm in diameter that were devoid of necrosis. The eighth patient had a symptomatic, partially necrotic CCTL 4.5 cm in diameter that metastasized to the liver and peritoneum; the patient died of tumor 17 years after diagnosis. Ultrastructural study of seven CCTL showed interdigitating cell processes (all cases), primitive cell junctions (five of seven cases), intracytoplasmic glycogen (all cases), and rare dense core granules (two of seven cases). Immunohistochemically, paraffin-embedded sections from all eight CCTL were negative for cytokeratin (CK), epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), chromogranin, and vimentin. Focal staining was seen for S-100 protein (three of eight cases), neuron-specific enolase (three cases), synaptophysin (one case), and Leu 7 (one case). Although these findings suggest that at least some CCTL exhibit neuroendocrine differentiation, the tumor's histogenesis remains uncertain. Of more practical importance, the combined absence of CK, EMA, and vimentin in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded CCTL virtually precludes confusion with renal cell carcinoma. Although traditionally considered benign, CCTL larger than 2 cm that are symptomatic, and focally necrotic should be regarded as potentially malignant neoplasms.
1690151: !synaptophysin Mapping of a dominant immunogenic region of synaptophysin, a major membrane protein of synaptic vesicles. Synaptophysin is a major integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles. Its transmembrane topology deduced from the cDNA sequence predicts 4 transmembrane regions and a carboxy-terminal cytoplasmic tail containing a characteristic pentapeptide repeat structure. The monoclonal antibody (mAb), SY38, binds to a cytoplasmic domain of synaptophysin. By using fusion proteins corresponding to truncated forms of the cytoplasmic tail, its epitope was located to a flexible segment in the center of the repeat structure. Four other mAbs (c7.1, c7.2, c7.3, c7.4) share the same epitope, which thus emerges as the major immunogenic region of this membrane protein.
1968052: !synaptophysin Somatostatin receptors are present in small-cell but not in non-small-cell primary lung carcinomas: relationship to EGF-receptors. Sixteen primary human lung tumours were analysed for their content of somatostatin receptors using receptor autoradiography with somatostatin-28 and somatostatin octapeptide analogues as radio-ligands. Two out of 4 small-cell lung carcinomas were somatostatin receptor-positive, with a high density of homogeneously distributed receptors on tumour tissue only. Somatostatin receptors were characterized in one of the tumours in homogenate binding assay as saturable, high-affinity binding sites (KD = 0.53 nM) with a number of sites (Bmax) equivalent to 189 fmoles/mg protein. These sites were specific for somatostatin, since only biologically active somatostatin analogues but not unrelated peptides showed high-affinity binding. Both receptor-positive patients had limited disease; furthermore, the small-cell lung carcinoma patient with the longest survival was receptor-positive, while the one with the shortest survival was receptor-negative. None of the 12 non-small-cell lung carcinomas (5 squamous carcinomas, 7 adenocarcinomas) contained somatostatin receptors. For comparison, epidermal growth factor receptors were found in all non-small-cell lung carcinomas. Neuroendocrine features (synaptophysin, chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase, protein gene product 9.5) were present in all small-cell lung carcinomas but absent in non-small-cell lung carcinomas. Given the receptor-mediated action of somatostatin in other neuroendocrine tumours, these data may have a bearing on the clinical application of somatostatin analogues in patients with small-cell lung carcinomas.
2106365: !synaptophysin Torpedo synaptophysin: evolution of a synaptic vesicle protein. Synaptophysin is an integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles found in neurons and endocrine cells. Synaptophysin monomers associate into hexamers forming a large conductance channel. We present an analysis of synaptophysin from the nervous system of the marine ray Torpedo californica. Analysis of cDNA clones reveals a 62% amino acid similarity between the Torpedo and rat sequences. The 4 hydrophobic membrane spanning domains and the glycosylation site are conserved. In contrast, the two intravesicular loops connecting the membrane spanning regions, show varying degrees of sequence conservation, suggesting that portions of these domains may play critical functional roles. The carboxyterminal tail has been proposed to bind calcium and is a major site for tyrosine phosphorylation. The precise sequence of this region has almost completely diverged while the proline-tyrosine rich nature is maintained. Blotting studies reveal the RNA and the protein in nervous system tissues and demonstrate that the molecule copurifies with cholinergic synaptic vesicles.
2106363: !synaptophysin Characterization of synaptophysin and G proteins in synaptic vesicles and plasma membrane of Aplysia californica. Two components of synaptic terminals that may be involved in transmitter release are synaptophysin (p38) and G proteins. In order to study release mechanisms in Aplysia californica we have prepared subcellular fractions from nervous tissue to characterize and localize these components. We identify Aplysia synaptophysin by Western blot analysis with monoclonal antibody SY38, find that it is enriched in synaptic vesicles, and, using immunocytochemistry, show that it is localized to neuropil. These characteristics indicate that Aplysia synaptophysin is closely related to mammalian synaptophysin; it appears to be much smaller, however, having a mass of 28 kDa instead of 38 kDa. We previously determined that G protein subunits in Aplysia are enriched in neuropil and synaptosomes. We now show that within the synaptic terminal the pertussis toxin-sensitive alpha-subunit as well as the beta-subunit are associated with plasma membrane using [32P]ADP-ribosylation and Western blotting with G protein-specific antibodies.
2109298: !synaptophysin A clinicopathologic study of three carcinoid tumors metastatic to the orbit. Immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and DNA flow cytometric studies. Three patients with histopathologically proven orbital metastatic lesions from a carcinoid tumor are reported. Computed tomography (CT) disclosed a well-circumscribed orbital mass in two of three cases. Each tumor was studied by both light and electron microscopy as well as immunohistochemistry and DNA flow cytometry. A review of the literature discloses the relatively rare occurrence of carcinoid tumors metastasizing to the eye and orbit. With the exception of one case, the reported metastatic carcinoid tumors to the uvea all developed from primary bronchial carcinoids. In contrast, the vast majority of the reported orbital metastases arose from ileal carcinoids. Immunohistochemical markers such as chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and serotonin have proven to be useful diagnostic tools in evaluating carcinoid tumors. Furthermore, DNA flow cytometry may be of prognostic value in patients with metastatic carcinoid tumor.
1967610: !synaptophysin Redistribution of synaptophysin and synapsin I during alpha-latrotoxin-induced release of neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction. The distribution of two synaptic vesicle-specific phosphoproteins, synaptophysin and synapsin I, during intense quantal secretion was studied by applying an immunogold labeling technique to ultrathin frozen sections. In nerve-muscle preparations treated for 1 h with a low dose of alpha-latrotoxin in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ (a condition under which nerve terminals are depleted of both quanta of neurotransmitter and synaptic vesicles), the immunolabeling for both proteins was distributed along the axolemma. These findings indicate that, in the presence of a block of endocytosis, exocytosis leads to the permanent incorporation of the synaptic vesicle membrane into the axolemma and suggest that, under this condition, at least some of the synapsin I molecules remain associated with the vesicle membrane after fusion. When the same dose of alpha-latrotoxin was applied in the presence of extracellular Ca2+, the immunoreactivity patterns resembled those obtained in resting preparations: immunogold particles were selectively associated with the membrane of synaptic vesicles, whereas the axolemma was virtually unlabeled. Under this condition an active recycling of both quanta of neurotransmitter and vesicles operates. These findings indicate that the retrieval of components of the synaptic vesicle membrane is an efficient process that does not involve extensive intermixing between molecular components of the vesicle and plasma membrane, and show that synaptic vesicles that are rapidly recycling still have the bulk of synapsin I associated with their membrane.
1689542: !synaptophysin The neuroendocrine and neural profiles of neuroblastomas, ganglioneuroblastomas, and ganglioneuromas. To establish the neuroendocrine and neural features of peripheral neuroblastic tumors, a prospectively collected group of 12 neuroblastomas (NB), 2 ganglioneuroblastomas (GNB), and 4 ganglioneuromas (GN) was probed with a panel of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to neuroendocrine and neural antigens. All tumors expressed the pan-neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and chromogranin A. They also showed extensive expression of neuronal antigens, ie, of each of the neurofilament (NF) triplet proteins and of the microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) MAP2 and tau-protein. However, only in the GNBs and GNs was the pattern of NF phosphoisoforms relatively mature. In the latter tumors glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and myelin basic protein (MBP) could be demonstrated as well, suggesting the presence of nonmyelinating and myelinating Schwann cells, respectively. The glial markers did not colocalize with the neural markers. On the basis of these data, it was concluded that all peripheral neuroblastic tumors manifest molecular characteristics of neuroendocrine cells and of neurons. The latter were most developed in GNBs and GNs, in which they were accompanied by Schwann cell differentiation in a separate population of cells. The above-outlined neuronal profile of peripheral neuroblastic tumors, including NBs, distinguishes this group of tumors from the much-less neuronally differentiated primitive neuroectodermal tumors of the central nervous system.
1688830: !synaptophysin Multidirectional differentiation in a newly established human epithelioid sarcoma cell line (GRU-1) with co-expression of vimentin, cytokeratins and neurofilament proteins. A new permanent cell line (GRU-1) derived from the lymph-node metastasis of a human epithelioid sarcoma was established in tissue culture. Immunohistochemically, the original tumor had exhibited an intriguing potential for multidirectional differentiation with features of mesenchymal, epithelial and neural differentiation, evidenced by the co-expression of vimentin, cytokeratins and neurofilament proteins, respectively. This capability for multidirectional differentiation was fully preserved in the cultured cells. GRU-1 tumor cells proved to be uniformly positive for vimentin and a considerable proportion of the tumor cells exhibited a positive reaction for cytokeratins and neurofilament proteins. The neural markers neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and synaptophysin were observed in a small proportion of GRU-1 cells. Ultrastructurally, GRU-1 cells showed desmoplastic activity in vitro, being enmeshed by collagen fibrils. DNA distribution, as studied by flow cytophotometry, revealed DNA-diploidy (DNA index = 1) and a G0/G1-proportion of 70.5%. After heterotransplantation in nude mice, GRU-1 tumor cells expressed vimentin and cytokeratin only, whereas the neural markers could not be further demonstrated.
20504634: !synaptophysin Amine handling properties of human carcinoid tumour cells in tissue culture. Carcinoid tumour tissue from two patients was removed from lymph node metastases during surgery. Under sterile conditions the cells were prepared for tissue culture, and grew in clusters for a period of 3-4 weeks. Using immunofluorescence the neoplastic cells were investigated for the presence of various antigens characteristic for other amine handling cell types (adrenal medullary cells, adrenergic neurons, endocrine cells); thus, the presence of catecholamine synthesizing enzymes, 5-HT, MAOs, neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin A and neurofilaments was demonstrated in the carcinoid tumour cells. Also ?-adrenoceptor-like immunoreactivity was present, as was NGF-like immunoreactivity. The amine handling properties were investigated by measuring spontaneous and drug-induced release of 5-HT into the culture medium. Reserpine enhanced the 5-HT levels in the medium, and this was further potentiated by the MAO-inhibitor nialamide or the membrane pump blocker imipramine. The 5-HT synthetic capacity was pronounced, as indicated by measuring the cumulative 5-HT release into the medium after frequent changes of media (at 1 h intervals). If media were changed every 4 d 5-HT levels reached a saturation. In the fluorescence microscope the effect of reserpine in depleting the 5-HT stores was slow; at 24 h of reserpine presence in the media many cells still contained strong 5-HT fluorescence (partly with an agranular appearance) while some cells appeared depleted. Thus, there was a striking difference between individual cells in the reaction to reserpine. ?-Adrenoceptor activation with isoprenaline released 5-HT into the medium in a dose-dependent manner, not blocked by propranolol. This indicates unusual properties of the ?-adrenoceptor, also demonstrated to be present on these neoplastic cells by immunocytochemistry.
2404375: !synaptophysin Pulmonary spindle cell carcinoid. Needle aspiration biopsy, histologic and immunohistochemical findings. Six pulmonary spindle cell carcinoids were reviewed. The patients were asymptomatic women ranging from 56 to 76 years of age. Four cases were diagnosed or suspected by percutaneous needle aspiration biopsy. The four patients treated by wedge resection or lobectomy showed no recurrence during the followup period; one patient was followed radiologically without resection for over five years, during which time the lesion remained stable. The cytologic preparations showed groups and single oval or elongated cells that had nuclei with finely granular, evenly dispersed chromatin, usually one small nucleolus and easily disrupted, finely granular cytoplasm. The histologic sections showed circumscribed or infiltrative neoplasms growing as sheets or vaguely organoid cell masses with vascular, focally hyalinized stroma. Immunoreactivity for chromogranin, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, S-100 protein and Leu-7 was typically present; bombesin, serotonin, insulin and calcitonin were focally present in some cases. No reactivity for adrenocorticotropic hormone, somatostatin, gastrin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, pancreatic polypeptide, low-molecular-weight cytokeratin (MAK-6) or carcinoembryonic antigen was observed.
2403741: !synaptophysin Alveolar soft part sarcoma. Immunohistochemical evidence for muscle cell differentiation. Seven cases of alveolar soft part sarcomas (ASPSs) were studied immunohistochemically for the presence of a number of differentiation markers in an attempt to define the cellular nature of this tumor. Desmin-positive tumor cells were found in three and muscle actin-positive cells in four cases when studied in formaldehyde-fixed and paraffin-embedded material. In one case studied in frozen sections, focal desmin positivity but no other intermediate filaments were found. Immunostaining for synaptophysin, a general neuroendocrine marker, was negative in all cases. All tumors were positive with a monoclonal antibody NK1C3, which consistently stains melanomas, and three cases showed significant numbers of S-100 protein-positive tumor cells, but immunostaining with HMB-45, a melanoma-specific monoclonal antibody, was negative in all cases. However, several rhabdomyosarcomas studied for NK1C3 and S-100 protein for comparison were also at least focally positive. Electron microscopic examination, performed in three cases, showed uniform paucity of all kinds of filaments in the tumor cells of ASPS, and it specifically failed to reveal any signs of smooth or striated muscle cell differentiation. Thus, the results of the present study do not unequivocally define the nature of ASPS but speak against its paraganglionic character and present evidence for muscle cell differentiation.
2166978: !synaptophysin Calcitonin free oat-cell carcinoma of the thyroid gland. Two cases of primary oat-cell carcinoma of thyroid, in a 63-year-old woman and a 73-year-old man, are described. Case 1 was a compound tumour with the oat-cell component merging with a papillary component. Both tumours, in addition to histological features consistent with oat-cell carcinoma, showed immunohistochemical positivity with anti-chromagranin A and anti-synaptophysin antisera. Negative results were obtained when anti-calcitonin and anti-thyroglobulin antisera were employed. Using in situ hybridization, chromogranin A and B messenger RNAs were localized with biotinylated oligonucleotide probes. In contrast, with in situ hybridization, no localization for calcitonin messenger RNA was seen using radioactive and biotinylated probes. It is concluded that these calcitonin-free, small-cell carcinomas should be considered separately from medullary thyroid carcinomas and be regarded as a distinct entity, probably the thyroid equivalent of oat-cell carcinomas of the lung.
2166332: !synaptophysin Long-term follow-up of classical bronchial carcinoid tumors. Clinicopathologic observations. Twenty-seven cases of classical bronchial carcinoid were followed up for at least 10 years after curative resection. Surgery was conservative in 15 cases. True lymph-node metastases were identified at operation in two cases. Distant metastases were confirmed in two patients after 5 and 10 years, respectively. One died of unrelated cause 10 years, and the other is alive 19 years, postoperatively. Radiotherapy relieved bone pain in both cases, and chemotherapy halted disease progression in one of them. In immunostaining the original histologic material, all carcinoids expressed neuron-specific enolase, and most expressed chromogranin A, synaptophysin and serotonin. Demonstration of ACTH and related opiopeptides did not portend a more aggressive course or identify cases with nodal metastases. Despite their low malignant potential, long-term follow-up of bronchial carcinoids is warranted. Even in the rare cases of distant metastases, long-term survival seems to be the rule. The occasional presence of nodal metastases and/or demonstration of ACTH and other opiopeptides, while more frequent in neuroendocrine carcinomas, are not inconsistent with bronchial carcinoids and seemingly do not alter their overall favorable prognosis.
2163183: !synaptophysin Calcineurin and synaptophysin in the human spinal cord of normal individuals and patients with familial dysautonomia. This report concerns the immunohistochemical demonstration of two neuronal Ca2(+)-binding proteins, calcineurin and synaptophysin, in the spinal cord of normal controls and from patients with familial dysautonomia. In controls, calcineurin immunoreactivity was highly concentrated in small nerve cells and fibers of the substantia gelatinosa. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was normally distributed throughout the spinal cord gray matter, being highly concentrated in the substantia gelatinosa, the dorsal nucleus of Clarke and the anterior horn. In patients with familial dysautonomia, no apparent changes in calcineurin immunoreactivity were found in the substantia gelatinosa. By contrast, there was a significant depletion of synaptophysin-positive axon terminals in the substantia gelatinosa and in the dorsal nucleus of Clarke of patients with familial dysautonomia.
2160654: !synaptophysin Characterization of gastrin-releasing peptide immunoreactivity in distinct storage particles in guinea pig myenteric and Torpedo electromotor neurones. Using high resolution centrifugal density-gradient separation of cytoplasmic extracts of guinea pig myenteric plexus and Torpedo electric tissue, we have succeeded in isolating fractions of storage particles rich in gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP). In extracts of myenteric plexus and gradients derived therefrom, the 10-amino acid GRP peptide (GRP-10) was the sole form present; this was bimodally distributed in the gradients, one peak copurifying with Golgi membranes and apparently consisting of immature storage particles, the other with other synaptophysin-rich neuropeptide-containing particles. In extracts of electric organ, a tissue rich in cholinergic electromotor nerve terminals, and gradients derived therefrom, GRP-like immunoreactivity behaved in gel permeation and reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography like the 27-amino acid peptide (GRP-27). About half of the immunoreactivity sedimented in the centrifugal gradient to a region rich in particles containing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity; the remainder was recovered in a very dense region of the gradient containing larger membrane fragments, including synaptosomes. The electromotor nerves and cell bodies also contained GRP-27-like immunoreactivity in relatively high concentration as did the Torpedo gut. It is concluded that this GRP-like peptide is packaged in dense storage particles in the electromotor neurones.
2144850: !synaptophysin Influence of neonatal motor denervation on expression of myosin heavy chain isoforms in rat muscle spindles. In order to evaluate the effects of fusimotor elimination on the expression of myosin heavy chain (MHC) proteins in intrafusal fibres, we compared the muscle spindles in hind limb muscles of 3- to 6-week-old rats de-efferented at birth with those of their litter-mate controls. Serial sections were labelled with antibodies against slow tonic, slow twitch, fast twitch and neonatal MHC isoforms, against synaptophysin, the neurofilament 68 kD subunit and laminin. We found that de-efferented intrafusal fibres differentiated, as in normal spindles, into nuclear bag and bag fibres both containing predominantly slow MHC, and nuclear chain fibres that contained fast and neonatal MHC. In both de-efferented and control intrafusal fibres the same MHCs were stained; the degree and extent of staining, however, varied. Both types of de-efferented bag fibres displayed a high content of slow tonic and slow twitch MHC along most of the fibre length, in contrast to the prominent regional variation in control bag fibres. In their encapsulated regions, the de-efferented bag fibres were more similar to each other in their reactivity to anti-fast twitch and anti-neonatal MHC antibodies than the control bag fibres. In these aspects they resembled more closely the bag fibres of newborn rats. The differences might be due to an arrest of "specialization" in the regional expression of the different MHC isoforms. Chain fibres developed MHC patterns identical to those of control spindles with all the antibodies used, even though they differentiated from the beginning in the absence of motor innervation. The structural differentiation of the capsule and sensory innervation in de-efferented muscle spindles, as shown by anti-laminin, anti-synaptophysin and anti-neurofilament staining, did not differ from the controls. We conclude, in agreement with previous studies, that the sensory innervation plays a key role in inducing and supporting the differentiation of intrafusal fibres and the specific expression of their MHC. However, we also show that motor innervation and/or muscle function seem to be necessary for the diversity in the expression and distribution of different slow and fast MHC isoforms in the bag and bag fibres.
2141751: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin expression in the striatum in Huntington's disease. This immunohistochemical study compares the expression of synaptophysin (SYP) in the striatum in Huntington's disease (HD) with that of calcineurin (CaN), a marker for striatal medium-sized spinous neurons. As compared to controls, in the HD striatum there was a significant loss of SYP immunoreactivity with residual staining displaying an inhomogeneous pattern, which strikingly resembled that of CaN. Our results may indicate that there is a synaptic loss in the striatum with HD and this is most likely due to loss of medium-sized spinous neurons characteristic of this disease.
2139224: !synaptophysin Polyproline, beta-turn helices. Novel secondary structures proposed for the tandem repeats within rhodopsin, synaptophysin, synexin, gliadin, RNA polymerase II, hordein, and gluten. Seven proteins each contain 8 to 52 tandem repeats of a unique class of oligopeptide. The consensus peptide for each is rhodopsin Tyr Pro Pro Gln Gly synaptophysin Tyr Gly Pro Gln Gly synexin Tyr Pro Pro Pro Pro Gly gliadin Tyr Pro Pro Pro Gln Pro RNA polymerase II Tyr Ser Pro Thr Ser Pro Ser hordein Phe Pro Gln Gln Pro Gln Gln Pro gluten Tyr Pro Thr Ser Pro Gln Gln Gly Tyr Although there is obvious variation of sequence and of length, the penta- to nonapeptides share an initial Tyr (or Phe) and have high Pro contents and abundant Gly, Gln, and Ser. We have evaluated helical models that both recognize the uniqueness of these sequence repeats and accommodate variations on the basic theme. We have developed a group of related helical models for these proteins with about three oligopeptide repeats per turn of 10-20 A. These models share several common features: Most of the phi dihedral angles are -54 degrees, to accommodate Pro at all positions except the first (Tyr). Except for the beta-turns, most psi dihedral angles are near +140 degrees as found in polyproline. Each oligopeptide has at least one beta-turn; several have two. Some contain a cis-Tyr, Pro peptide bond; a few have a cis-bond plus one beta-turn. Tyr side chains vary from totally exposed to buried within the helices and could move to accommodate either external hydrophobic interactions or phosphorylation. The several related structures seem to be readily interconverted without major change in the overall helical parameters, and therein may lie the key to their functions.
2127568: !synaptophysin Delayed synaptogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the thyroid-deficient developing rat. The synaptogenesis in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus was studied during the development of normal and thyroid-deficient rats using a monoclonal antibody directed against synaptophysin, a marker of the synaptic vesicles. Immunostaining appeared after birth in the lateral edge of the molecular layer and spread over the entire length of the layer during the following days. Such a lateral-medial gradient has previously been reported for cell acquisition in the granule cell layer. Thyroid deficiency caused a delay of about 2 days in the progression of labeling along the layer. Synaptogenesis in the molecular layer is thus altered when thyroid hormone is lacking during the critical period of dentate gyrus development, probably affecting the nature and function of the synaptic networks that are formed in this area. This may partly account for the neurological defects observed after perinatal hypothyroidism.
2124102: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical detection of protein p38 in human dental pulp. The occurrence and distribution of protein p38 (synaptophysin) were investigated by immunofluorescence. Immunoreactivity for protein p38-like antigen was detected within axons of radicular nerve trunks entering the tooth and within nerve terminals close to blood vessels. Immunoreactive structures were also observed in the para-odontoblastic region. It is proposed that protein p38, translocated within small synaptic vesicles from neuronal perikarya along the axons, may be a reliable marker for detection of nerve endings in human tooth.
2123305: !synaptophysin Sympathetic axons and nerve terminals: the protein composition of small and large dense-core and of a third type of vesicles. Homogenates of bovine splenic nerve and of vas deferens were subjected to differential and density gradient centrifugation to investigate their noradrenaline-storing organelles. The subcellular fractions obtained were analysed by immunoblotting in order to define the presence of various antigens in small dense-core and large dense-core vesicles. In both large granule and microsomal fractions from splenic nerve only one type of noradrenaline-storing vesicle was found, which represents the large dense-core vesicles. These organelles contained chromogranin A, chromogranin B, cytochrome b-561, carboxypeptidase H, glycoprotein II, glycoprotein III, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and the monoamine carrier which are also present in adrenal chromaffin granules. The subcellular distribution of synaptin/synatophysin was more complex since this protein was apparently present in two organelles: in a light vesicle which did not contain significant amounts of antigens found in large dense-core vesicles (dopamine beta-hydroxylase, cytochrome b-561 and the monoamine carrier) and in the dense fractions of the gradient, possibly within large dense-core vesicles. In the microsomal gradient from vas deferens several markers (catecholamines, synaptin/synaptophysin and dopamine beta-hydroxylase) were found in a bimodal distribution, which is consistent with their presence in small and large dense-core vesicles. When the larger granules were removed with higher centrifugation speed a microsomal fraction containing only light vesicles was obtained. After gradient centrifugation of this fraction several components (catecholamines, dopamine beta-hydroxylase, cytochrome b-561, the monoamine carrier and synaptin/synaptophysin) were concentrated in a peak at low density; apparently only small dense-core vesicles were now present.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2119356: !synaptophysin Neuronal markers in the rodent pineal gland--an immunohistochemical investigation. Although some embryological and morphological features speak in favour of a neuronal character of rodent pinealocytes, histochemistry and ultrastructure let this issue appear controversial. Using antibodies to different neurofilaments, the neural adhesion molecule L1, synaptophysin and tubulin as neuronal markers, the pineal glands of rat and guinea-pig were studied by means of immunofluorescence. Neurofilament-immunoreactivity was present in some rat pineal nerve fibers and in the majority of guinea-pig pinealocytes, L1 decorated rat intrapineal nerve fibers, synaptophysin was almost ubiquitously distributed in the pineal of both species, while tubulin-immunofluorescence was seen in nerve fibers of rat and guinea-pig pineal and in some pinealocytes of the latter. These findings speak in favour of the neuronal character of guinea-pig pinealocytes. The lack of neurofilament- and tubulin-immunoreactivity in rat pinealocytes might be attributable to very low concentrations of these proteins or species differences as to their expression. Further studies including in situ-hybridisation of relevant mRNAs will be necessary to answer these questions definitely.
2118461: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity in Merkel cells of fetal rat skin. 
2115313: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical localization of synaptophysin (p38) in the pineal gland of the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus). Synaptophysin (protein p38), a major integral membrane glycoprotein of small presynaptic vesicles, was localized immunohistochemically in semithin sections of the superficial pineal gland of the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus). Synaptophysin immunoreactivity could be detected in all pinealocytes, which were visualized with antibodies directed against neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in adjacent sections. No p38 immunoreactivity was discernible in the interstitial glial cells, which showed a heterogeneous pattern of immunostaining for the intermediate filament proteins glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin. Pinealocytes exhibited considerable intercellular differences in the densities of immunostaining. The various degrees of synaptophysin immunoreactivities in pinealocytes were not correlated with the densities of NSE immunostaining. Nerve terminals and varicosities displayed stronger immunoreactivities than pinealocytes. They were particularly numerous in the perivascular spaces. It is not clear whether this distribution indicates an innervation of pineal capillaries in addition to the functionally important innervation of pinealocytes. Several highly p38-positive dots of variable size were a conspicuous feature throughout the gland. By the consecutive semithin-thin section technique, they could be identified as processes of pinealocytes, filled with accumulations of small clear vesicles. Obviously, these vesicles represent the major site of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in pinealocytes. In the gerbil, similar vesicles have been ascribed a role in the secretory activity of the gland, and/or in the transport of calcium. The intercellular differences in the degrees of p38 immunostaining may, therefore, reflect different states of a specific cellular activity. The presence of synaptophysin in pinealocytes of the normal pineal, including the deep portions of the gland, emphasizes the paraneuronal character of these cells.
2113758: !synaptophysin Histogenesis of intracranial haemangiopericytoma and haemangioblastoma. An immunohistochemical study. An immunohistochemical study was performed on three meningeal haemangiopericytomas and four cerebellar haemangioblastomas (paraffin embedded) in an attempt to elucidate the uncertain histogenesis of these tumours. The tumour cells of all meningeal haemangiopericytomas show no expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin and, thus, no immunohistochemical proof of their true pericytic nature can be obtained. The stromal cells of cerebellar haemangioblastomas show foci of positive staining for S-100 protein, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, thereby clearly indicating their neuroectodermal origin. These results allow the conclusion that the present nomenclature of these tumours is at least arguable and probably incorrect.
2109482: !synaptophysin Neuronal inputs to hippocampal formation in Alzheimer's disease and in parkinsonism-dementia complex on Guam. This study concerns the expression of synaptophysin in the hippocampal formation of normal controls, of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and of patients with parkinsonism-dementia complex on Guam (P-D complex). A monoclonal antibody was used to visualize synaptophysin, an integral component of presynaptic vesicle membranes. In the normal controls, a strong synaptophysin immunoreactivity was seen in the stratum pyramidale, stratum radiatum and stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the hippocampus proper, in the subiculum and in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. In the dentate gyrus molecular layer, the reaction product was distributed in a laminar fashion. By contrast, in AD and in P-D complex a significant decrease in immunoreactivity was observed in all hippocampal strata, and especially of the hippocampal subfield CA1 and the subiculum. In both diseases, synaptophysin expression was also diminished in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus of all patients examined, with the inner portion exhibiting almost normal and the outer portion a strikingly reduced synaptophysin immunoreactivity.
2109481: !synaptophysin Patterns of differentiation in central neurocytoma. An immunohistochemical study of eleven biopsies. Central neurocytoma has been characterised by its intraventricular localisation, predominant occurrence in young adults, oligodendroglioma-like histology, benign course and ultrastructural evidence for neuronal differentiation. Eleven intraventricular central neurocytomas were studied histopathologically, employing cell type-specific immunocytochemical markers and electron microscopic analysis. In the past, these lesions have caused diagnostic problems since central neurocytomas share basic histopathological features with other periventricular neoplasms. Accordingly, several tumours of this series had previously been classified as ependymomas of the foramen of Monro or oligodendrogliomas. Although generally regarded as benign lesions, two central neurocytomas of this series showed histopathological evidence of anaplasia, with focal necrosis, mitotic activity and vascular proliferation. All central neurocytomas exhibited immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, indicating consistent neuronal differentiation. Three tumours were studied by electron microscopy and contained synaptic vesicles, neuritic processes and neurosecretory granules. In addition, one tumour contained ganglioid cells and this was associated with focal immunoreactivity for neurofilament protein, suggesting that some central neurocytomas may, at least focally, continue to differentiate towards the formation of mature neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2104823: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: a sensitive and specific marker for ganglion cells in central nervous system neoplasms. Synaptophysin, a 38-kilodalton glycoprotein found in synaptic vesicle membranes, has been shown to be a sensitive marker of neuroendocrine differentiation in non-central nervous system (CNS) tumors. We analyzed the patterns of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in CNS neoplasms in comparison with various normal CNS sites in biopsies. Normal gray matter structures all showed a diffuse punctate granular pattern of neuropil staining without staining of neuronal cell bodies. In contrast, neoplastic ganglion cells in 18 of 18 gangliogliomas/gangliocytomas showed intense immunoreactivity outlinging the borders of the cell bodies. Focal staining was also seen in five of 16 primitive neuroectodermal tumors and in one of three central neurocytomas, but these tumors had a finely granular neuropil pattern of immunoreactivity more like that of normal gray matter than like that of the gangliogliomas. All 35 examples of pure gliomas of various types showed no immunoreactivity. Our data highlight synaptophysin as a sensitive and specific marker of both neuronal lineage and neoplastic character in gangliogliomas.
1964227: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical identification of neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin and endocrine granule constituent in neuroendocrine tumours. Immunohistochemical identification of neuroendocrine tumour markers in paraffin embedded material from 22 tumours (5 small cell carcinomas of the lung (SCCL), 12 carcinoids, 2 medullary thyroid carcinomas, 2 pheochromocytomas and one paraganglioma) with electron microscopically verified dense-core granules revealed neuron-specific enolase in all but one tumour, synaptophsin in 15/22 (2 SCCL and 6 carcinoids negative), chromogranin in 16/22 (all SCCL and one carcinoid negative), and endocrine granule constituent in 18/22 (4 SCCL negative). The Grimelius silver methods stained 13/22 (all cases of SCCL and 4 carcinoids negative).
1708604: !synaptophysin [Histology, immunocytochemistry and DNA cytophotometry of adrenocortical tumors--a clinicomorphological study of 72 tumors]. Surgical specimens of 72 adrenocortical tumours were investigated by conventional histology, immunocytochemistry and DNA-cytophotometry. Histologically, 57 tumours were classified as adenomas and 15 as carcinomas. Nine adenomas weighed more, 2 carcinomas less than 50g. Only in 9 of the latter cases were distant metastases and/or lethal outcome of disease recorded, while the clinical course of the remaining patients was uneventful. No significant differences in DNA content were found between adenomas and carcinomas or between carcinomas with aggressive and indolent behaviour. Neither could immunocytochemistry discriminate between these conditions. Immunostaining with the monoclonal antibody D 11 proved to be the only effective means to definitely type adrenocortical neoplasia. Thirty-one cases exhibited positivity upon immunostaining with a polyclonal antiserum against synaptophysin. This phenomenon has so far not been encountered in non-neuroendocrine neoplasia.
1690416: !synaptophysin Neuroblastoma and other childhood neural tumors: a review. Neuroblastoma is the most common nonhematopoietic solid tumor of childhood and has been intensively studied for at least 4 decades. Despite this, few predictive histopathologic clues to its behavior exist. Age, anatomic sites of occurrence, and clinical stage have traditionally been the only reliable prognostic factors in this disease. A number of laboratory studies that focus on biologic features such as neurotransmitter synthesis (adrenergic and noradrenergic catecholamines), neurotransmitter enzyme expression (dopamine beta hydroxylase, choline acetyl transferase), cytogenetics (homogeneously staining regions, double minute chromosomes, chromosome 1p deletions), molecular genetics (N-myc oncogene amplification and expression), and immunophenotype (surface epitopes such as HLA antigens and GD2 ganglioside and intracytoplasmic determinants such as neurofilament protein, synaptophysin, chromogranin, and neuron specific enolase) now enable the pathologist to predict clinical course in many cases and to distinguish bona fide neuroblastomas, regardless of age, site, or histologic appearance, from a host of related but distinctly separate neuroectodermal tumor entities with apparent different histogenesis, treatment sensitivity, and prognosis.
1690221: !synaptophysin Paraganglial cells of urinary bladder and prostate: potential diagnostic problem. A transurethral prostatic resection for prostatism in a 73 year old man showed a cluster of richly capillarised clear cells originally thought to be indicative of invasive carcinoma. Immunohistochemical studies were carried out on this tissue specimen and three similar cases using a variety of antibodies--Neuron specific enolase, PGP 9.5, chromogranin, synaptophysin, serotonin, somatostatin, substance P, calcitonin, calcitonin gene related peptide, met-enkephalin, VIP, neurofilament, CAM 5.2, S100 protein, prostatic specific antigen and prostatic acid phosphatase. The cellular foci were shown to be composed of paraganglionic cells. The cell clusters were well defined and predominantly comprised clear cells with scanty, fine eosinophilic cytoplasmic granules in three cases. The cell nuclei were round to oval, moderately pleomorphic, with evenly dispersed dense chromatin. It is concluded that the presence of minute foci of paraganglial cells in the bladder wall and prostate gland may be misinterpreted as malignant because of their close association with nerves and their relative rarity. Immunohistochemical staining with neuroendocrine markers should dispel any doubt about their identity.
1688449: !synaptophysin Brain-associated small-cell lung cancer antigen (BASCA) is expressed in developing lung: an immunohistochemical and immunoelectron microscopic study. Expression of brain-associated small-cell lung cancer antigen (BASCA) in developing lung and in lung tumors was investigated immunohistochemically and immunoelectron microscopically with monoclonal antibodies recognizing different epitopes of BASCA. In fetal lung, epithelial and mesenchymal cells had different spatial and temporal expression patterns, in contrast to the consistent pattern in neural cells. The cell membranes of epithelial cells of the proximal bronchial tubes were diffusely positive at the pseudoglandular stage. Ciliated cells lost immunoreactivity shortly after their emergence, but non-ciliated cells, including endocrine cells, lost it at the alveolar stage. The immunoreactivity in mesenchymal cells was reduced in the proximal airway, but positivity remained in the distal lung later during the postnatal period. All endocrine tumors of the lung, defined by diffuse synaptophysin immunoreactivity, expressed BASCA, but some non-endocrine carcinomas which also lacked densely cored granules ultrastructurally, showed BASCA positivity. The temporal and spatial pattern of BASCA expression in the developing lung suggests that BASCA plays an active role in lung morphogenesis. BASCA may be expressed as an oncofetal substance in some non-endocrine carcinomas of the lung.
2559526: !synaptophysin Large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung. Large cell neuroendocrine (LCNE) carcinomas of the lung are a newly recognized, highly aggressive and frequently misdiagnosed entity. We report a case of stage I LCNE lung carcinoma initially misdiagnosed as large cell undifferentiated carcinoma or poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. The tumor was very extensively necrotic and its neuroendocrine differentiation was only demonstrable with immunohistochemical staining with PHE-5 monoclonal antibody and with antisera against synaptophysin and calcitonin. ACTH, somatostatin and neurofilaments were not demonstrable. The clinical course was ominous and the patient died within 17 months. The reason for this rapid fatal outcome could be ascribed either to the neuroendocrine phenotype of the tumor, or to the extensive necrosis, or both.
2699837: !synaptophysin The synaptic vesicle membrane: origin, axonal distribution, protein components, exocytosis and recycling. The paper discusses functional and molecular aspects of the synaptic vesicle membrane during its life cycle. The distribution of the synaptic vesicle membrane compartment in an entire cholinergic neuron is monitored using colloidal gold labelling and a monoclonal antibody against the synaptic vesicle membrane protein SV2. This provides new insights concerning vesicle origin and fate in the various compartments of the neuron. A new synaptic vesicle membrane protein (svp25) of Mr 25,000 with properties similar to synaptophysin as well as a synaptic vesicle binding phosphoprotein of the presynaptic membrane (Mr 92,000) likely to be involved in vesicle exocytosis are described. The membrane compartment recycled on induced transmitter release contains synaptic vesicle but not plasma membrane markers and encloses both newly synthesized transmitter and a sample of extracellular medium.
2622623: !synaptophysin Glioneuroma associated with colobomatous dysplasia of the anterior uvea and retina. A case simulating medulloepithelioma. The left eye of an otherwise healthy child was enucleated at the age of 2 months because of an enlarging mass involving the temporal iris, ciliary body, and anterior retina. The initial histopathologic diagnosis was malignant medulloepithelioma with orbital extension. Closer study revealed a superotemporal chorioretinal and ciliary body coloboma; dysplasia of the adjacent retina; a glioneuromatous mass replacing the temporal ciliary body, chamber angle structures, and iris and extending through the sclera to involve the insertion of the lateral rectus muscle; neuroepithelial elements resembling medulloepithelioma; and abnormally developed iris pigment epithelium, and dilator and sphincter muscles. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the main mass consisted of neurons positive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin and neurofilaments, and glial cells expressing vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and S-100 protein. The neuroepithelial elements reacted positively for cytokeratins and S-100 protein, in addition to NSE and vimentin, suggesting ciliary epithelial rather than embryonic retinal origin. The tumor was rediagnosed as glioneuroma, which in this case was part of a widespread colobomatous dysplasia of the anterior uvea and retina. The patient is alive without metastases or local recurrence 2 years following enucleation and subtotal removal of the lesion.
2611862: !synaptophysin Membrane proteins of synaptic vesicles and cytoskeletal specializations at the node of Ranvier in electric ray and rat. Binding sites for antibodies against membrane proteins of synaptic vesicles have been shown to be enhanced at nodes of Ranvier in electromotor axons of the electric ray Torpedo marmorata and sciatic nerve axons of the rat, using indirect immunofluorescence and monoclonal antibodies against the synaptic vesicle transmembrane proteins SV2 and synaptophysin (rat) or SV2 (Torpedo). In the electric lobe of Torpedo, vesicle-membrane constituents occurred at higher density in the proximal axon segments covered by oligodendroglia cells than in the distal axon segments where myelin is formed by Schwann cells. Antibody binding sites were enhanced at nodes forming the borderline of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Filamentous actin was present in the Schwann-cell processes covering both the nodal and the paranodal axon segments as suggested by the pattern of phalloidin labelling. Furthermore, in rat sciatic nerve, Schmidt-Lanterman incisures were intensely labelled by phalloidin. A similar nodal distribution was found for binding sites of antibodies against actin and myosin. Binding of antibodies to tubulin was enhanced at nodes in Torpedo electromotor axons. The apparent nodal accumulation of constituents of synaptic vesicle membranes and the presence of filamentous actin and of myosin are discussed in relation to the substantial constriction of the axoplasm at nodes of Ranvier.
2517595: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin and synapsin I as tools for the study of the exo-endocytotic cycle. Synaptophysin, an integral protein of the synaptic vesicle membrane, and synapsin I, a phosphoprotein associated with the cytoplasmic side of synaptic vesicles, represent useful markers that allow to follow the movements of the vesicle membrane during recycling. The use of antibodies against these proteins to label nerve terminals during experimental treatments which stimulate secretion has provided evidence that during the exo-endocytotic cycle synaptic vesicles transiently fuse with the axolemma, from which they are specifically recovered. When recycling is blocked, exocytosis leads to the permanent incorporation of the synaptic vesicle membrane into the axolemma and to diffusion of the vesicle components in the plane of the membrane.
2515255: !synaptophysin Histogenesis and cell lineage analysis of medulloblastomas. Although the histopathology, ultrastructural features, and cellular immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin suggest that medulloblastomas are neuronal in character, the histogenesis of these tumors has not been firmly established due to conflicting observations surrounding the expression of intermediate filament proteins. In the present study the question of cell lineage in medulloblastomas was re-explored by examining tumors for the presence of neurofilament protein using a highly sensitive assay which employs a cocktail of monoclonal antibodies, as well as A2B5 antigen, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. With this assay, 12 of 14 tumors tested (86%) expressed high levels of both neurofilament protein and A2B5 antigen, whereas glial fibrillary acidic protein was either absent or expressed in very low percentages of the cells. The distributions of neurofilament and A2B5 antigens closely paralleled one another. These observations suggest that medulloblastomas have a common histogenesis from A2B5+ progenitor cells, and consistently manifest a trend toward neuronal rather than glial differentiation.
2513331: !synaptophysin Microvesicles of the neurohypophysis are biochemically related to small synaptic vesicles of presynaptic nerve terminals. Nerve endings of the posterior pituitary are densely populated by dense-core neurosecretory granules which are the storage sites for peptide neurohormones. In addition, they contain numerous clear microvesicles which are the same size as small synaptic vesicles of typical presynaptic nerve terminals. Several of the major proteins of small synaptic vesicles of presynaptic nerve terminals are present at high concentration in the posterior pituitary. We have now investigated the subcellular localization of such proteins. By immunogold electron microscopy carried out on bovine neurohypophysis we have found that three of these proteins, synapsin I, Protein III, and synaptophysin (protein p38) were concentrated on microvesicles but were not detectable in the membranes of neurosecretory granules. In addition, we have studied the distribution of the same proteins and of the synaptic vesicle protein p65 in subcellular fractions of bovine posterior pituitaries obtained by sucrose density centrifugation. We have found that the intrinsic membrane proteins synaptophysin and p65 had an identical distribution and were restricted to low density fractions of the gradient which contained numerous clear microvesicles with a size range the same as that of small synaptic vesicles. The peripheral membrane proteins synapsin I and Protein III exhibited a broader distribution extending into the denser part of the gradient. However, the amount of these proteins clearly declined in the fractions preceding the peak of neurosecretory granules. Our results suggest that microvesicles of the neurohypophysis are biochemically related to small synaptic vesicles of all other nerve terminals and argue against the hypothesis that such vesicles represent an endocytic byproduct of exocytosis of neurosecretory granules.
2481151: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical spectrum of malignant melanoma. The common presence of keratins. Acetone-fixed frozen sections of 15 malignant melanomas of the skin with metastases were studied immunohistochemically for the presence of different types of intermediate filament proteins, synaptophysin, muscle cell actins, and desmoplakins. One of the melanomas was a primary toe tumor, and the others mainly regional lymph node metastases. The original diagnosis of melanoma was reconfirmed in each case, and the melanoma diagnosis of the metastases was verified by S100 protein immunostaining in all cases and by a monoclonal antibody to melanoma cells (NK1C3) in 7 cases. All melanomas were prominently vimentin-positive. In 10 of 15 cases, immunoreactive keratin could be demonstrated with antibody CAM 5.2. The presence of keratins was confirmed in selected cases with three other monoclonal antibodies including AE1, PKK1, and a monoclonal antibody specific for keratin number 18. Desmoplakin, another marker of epithelial differentiation, was not found in melanoma cells. Two melanomas contained neurofilament-positive tumor cells, which were however negative for synaptophysin. Desmin, muscle actins, and glial fibrillary acidic protein were not found in the neoplastic cells. On the basis of the present results one could conclude that the protein composition of the cytoskeleton of melanomas is more complex than has been previously thought and most importantly that melanomas may contain keratins.
2583290: !synaptophysin Adrenal chromaffin granules and secretory granules from thyroid parafollicular cells have several common antigens. The presence of various antigens in two types of isolated endocrine vesicles (chromaffin granules and secretory vesicles of thyroid parafollicular cells) was investigated by immunoblotting. The two types of vesicles have three common secretory proteins: chromogranin A, chromogranin B and secretogranin II. Furthermore, six common membrane antigens were found: cytochrome b-561, carboxypeptidase H, glycoprotein II, glycoprotein III, synaptin/synaptophysin and SV 2. These results demonstrate that vesicles obtained from neural crest-derived endocrine cells not only share several common secretory peptides and proteins, but also have common properties as far as their membrane antigens are concerned.
2478297: !synaptophysin Topogenesis and sorting of synaptophysin: synthesis of a synaptic vesicle protein from a gene transfected into nonneuroendocrine cells. Diverse nonneuroendocrine (non-NE) cells were forced to express synaptophysin (SY), the major and typical transmembrane glycoprotein of small (30-80 nm) neurotransmitter vesicles of NE cells, using microinjection of RNA synthesized in vitro from cDNA or transient and stable transfections with cDNA brought under SV40 promoter control. The glycoprotein synthesized in non-NE cells is indistinguishable from SY of NE cells and is integrated with similar, if not identical, orientation in the membranes of a specific, novel type of small cytoplasmic vesicle that structurally resembles synaptic vesicles and in which SY is the only major protein detected. A non-N-glycosylated form of SY generated by site-directed mutagenesis showed the same behavior and specific distribution in small vesicles. The results show that the information contained in this protein alone is sufficient to secure its sorting into a special type of vesicle in a heterotypic context, i.e., in the absence of other NE-specific components.
2817080: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical study of neuropeptides and neuronal cytoskeletal proteins in the neuroepithelial component of a spontaneous murine ovarian teratoma. Primitive neuroepithelium displays immunoreactivity for neuropeptides and neuron-associated beta-tubulin isotype. Approximately one third of the female mice of the LTXBO strain develop spontaneous ovarian teratomas. These tumors contain a large neuroepithelial component, which includes primitive neural structures resembling embryonic neural tubes (medulloepithelial rosettes), ependymoblastic and ependymal rosettes, neuroblasts, mature ganglionic neurons, myelinated neurites, and astrocytes. The purpose of this study was to characterize these tumors according to the immunohistochemical location of some well-characterized trophic and regulatory neuropeptides and neurotransmitters, several neuronal-associated cytoskeletal proteins, and other proteins indicative of neuronal and glial differentiation. Medulloepithelial rosettes showed focal serotonin-like, opioid peptide-like and gamma-amino butyric acid-like immunoreactivity, and displayed immunostaining for the neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin isotype. The mature ganglion cells were also immunoreactive for these markers, and, in addition, for somatostatin, cholecystokinin, bombesin, glucagon, vasoactive intestinal peptide, and neuropeptide Y. Mature ganglion cells were also immunoreactive for proteins associated with the neuronal cytoskeleton (including microtubule-associated proteins, MAP2 and tau, and higher molecular weight phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated neurofilament subunits), neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin. Undifferentiated stem cells, ependymoblastic and ependymal rosettes, and astroglia all stained with a monoclonal antibody that recognizes all mammalian beta-tubulin isotypes, but did not react with antibodies to neuronal-associated cytoskeletal proteins or neuropeptides. Neuropeptide-like immunoreactivity and demonstration of the class III beta-tubulin isotype indicate early neuronal commitment in neoplastic primitive neuroepithelium. These patterns of immunoreactivity closely follow those encountered in the normal neurocytogenesis of the mammalian and avian forebrain, and increase the precision with which the early stages of progressive neuroepithelial differentiation can be analyzed in human embryonal tumors of the CNS.
2686736: !synaptophysin A study of nerves containing peptides in the pulmonary vasculature of healthy infants and children and of those with pulmonary hypertension. Nerves containing peptides that supply the human intrapulmonary vasculature were studied in 21 controls aged one month to 24 years and in 13 patients with pulmonary hypertension aged 11 days to eight years. An indirect immunofluorescence technique was used to study the distribution and relative density of nerve fibres containing the general neuronal marker, protein gene product 9.5; tyrosine hydroxylase; synaptophysin; neuropeptide tyrosine; vasoactive intestinal polypeptide; substance P, somatostatin; and calcitonin gene related peptide. At all ages in normal and hypertensive lungs neuropeptide tyrosine was the predominant neuropeptide associated with the pulmonary vascular nerves. In normal lungs the relative density of nerve fibres increased during childhood only in the arteries of the respiratory unit. Pulmonary hypertension was associated with the premature innervation of these arteries during the first year of life. Innervation of small, abnormally thick-walled pre-capillary vessels by predominantly vasoconstrictor nerves may help to explain the susceptibility of infants to pulmonary hypertensive crises.
2679154: !synaptophysin Unusual sinonasal small-cell neoplasms following radiotherapy for bilateral retinoblastomas. Two patients developed sinonasal small-cell neoplasms that arose 22 years and 37 years, respectively, following radiotherapy for bilateral retinoblastomas. The tumors were composed of small cells with scant cytoplasm and had a few scattered Homer-Wright rosettes. Immunohistochemically, one tumor was positive for keratin (CAM 5.2 and AE1/AE3), epithelial membrane antigen, and neuron-specific enolase. The other neoplasm was immunoreactive for keratin (CAM 5.2 only) and neuron-specific enolase; it also had focal immunopositivity for S-100 protein, desmin, and muscle-specific actin. Both were negative for CEA, vimentin, melanocyte-specific antigen (HMB45), chromogranin A, synaptophysin, Leu-7, 200 kd neurofilament, and retinal S-antigen. Despite aggressive multimodal therapy, the patients died of metastatic tumor 7 months and 10 months following their initial diagnosis, respectively. Although osteosarcoma is the most frequent second cancer following bilateral retinoblastomas, some patients develop clinically aggressive sinonasal small-cell tumors that are difficult to place into conventional classifications. Both of our cases showed evidence of multidirectional differentiation; one tumor labeled with epithelial and neural markers, and the other expressed epithelial, neural, and myogenous antigens.
2512391: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptophysin and neuron-specific enolase during neuronal differentiation in vitro: effects of dimethyl sulfoxide. Neural development in dissociated cell cultures of fetal rat brain can be expected to depend on synaptic interactions between cultured neurons. Therefore, an attempt was made to obtain a quantitative measure of the time course of synaptogenesis in such a culture system by assessing the level of the secretory vesicle-associated protein synaptophysin (p38). The developmental schedule of p38 was compared to that of neuron-specific enolase (NSE), an established marker of neuronal differentiation. Cultures were raised from dissociated 14 day-old fetal rat diencephalon. In cultures grown for 1-2 days in vitro (DIV), p38-immunoreactivity was preferentially located in neuronal perikarya. After 10-16 DIV, neurons in culture had formed a dense neuritic network, and almost all of the p38-immunoreactivity occurred in the form of fine punctate deposits associated with neuronal processes that often outlined neuronal cell bodies in a basket-like fashion. Electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry proved the punctate deposits to be presynaptic elements, mostly in the form of axonal varicosities. Quantitative immunoblotting showed that levels of p38 increased from the start of cultivation to DIV 4, stayed fairly constant from DIV 4 to DIV 8, and rose again steeply to peak at DIV 12. In contrast, levels of NSE rose continuously up to DIV 12. After DIV 12, levels of both p38 and NSE fell again. Treatment of cultures with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), an agent known to induce differentiation in various normal and malignant cell types, resulted in a significant increase of p38 levels and in a decrease of NSE levels. The amount of p38 continued to increase beyond DIV 12, whereas NSE diminished after having reached a maximum at DIV 12.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2510994: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin is targeted to similar microvesicles in CHO and PC12 cells. Synaptophysin, an integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, was expressed by transfection in fibroblastic CHO-K1 cells. The properties and localization of synaptophysin were compared between transfected CHO-K1 cells and native neuroendocrine PC12 cells. Both cell types similarly glycosylate synaptophysin and sort it into indistinguishable microvesicles. These become labeled by endocytic markers and are primarily concentrated below the plasmalemma and at the area of the Golgi complex and the centrosomes. A small pool of synaptophysin is transiently found on the plasma membrane. In CHO-K1 cells synaptophysin co-localizes with transferrin that has been internalized by receptor-mediated endocytosis. These findings suggest that synaptophysin in transfected CHO-K1 cells and neuroendocrine PC12 cells is directed into a pathway of recycling microvesicles which, in CHO cells, is shown to coincide with that of the transferrin receptor. They further indicate that fibroblasts have the ability to sort a synaptic vesicle membrane protein. Our results suggest a pathway for the evolution of small synaptic vesicles from a constitutively recycling organelle which is normally present in all cells.
2509223: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptophysin in the rat pheochromocytoma cell line PC12. Expression of the integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, synaptophysin, was investigated in the pheochromocytoma cell line PC12 using a quantiative dot immunoassay. Specific synaptophysin contents of the cultures varied with cell density, high levels being observed in densely seeded dishes and/or after some days of subculturing. Northern blot analysis revealed these cell density-related changes in synaptophysin protein contents to result partly from corresponding alterations in mRNA levels. Treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF), but not with various other effectors of intracellular messenger systems, inhibited both synaptophysin and DNA accumulation in the cultures. These data indicate that synaptophysin expression is high in densely proliferating PC12 cells and uncoupled from process formation and neuronotypic differentiation induced by NGF.
2504884: !synaptophysin Subcellular distribution of 65,000 calmodulin-binding protein (p65) and synaptophysin (p38) in adrenal medulla. Both neuronal and endocrine cells contain secretory vesicles that store and release neurotransmitters and peptides. Neuronal cells release their secretory material from both small synaptic vesicles and large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs), whereas endocrine cells release secretory products from LDCVs. Neuronal small synaptic vesicles are known to express three integral membrane proteins: 65,000 calmodulin-binding protein (65-CMBP) (p65), synaptophysin (p38), and SV2. A controversial question surrounding these three proteins is whether they are present in LDCV membranes of endocrine and neuronal cells. Sucrose density centrifugation of adrenal medulla was performed to study and compare the subcellular distribution of two of these small synaptic vesicle proteins (65-CMBP and synaptophysin). Subsequent immunoblotting and 125I-Protein A binding experiments performed on the fractions obtained from sucrose gradients showed that 65-CMBP was present in fractions corresponding to granule membranes and intact chromaffin granules. Similar immunoblotting and 125I-Protein A binding experiments with synaptophysin antibodies showed that this protein was also present in intact granules and granule membrane fractions. However, an additional membrane component, equilibrating near the upper portion of the sucrose gradient, also showed strong immunoreactivity with anti-synaptophysin and high 125I-Protein A binding activity. In addition, immunoblotting experiments on purified plasma and granule membranes demonstrated that 65-CMBP was a component of both membranes, whereas synaptophysin was only present in granule membranes. Thus, there appears to be a different subcellular localization between 65-CMBP and synaptophysin in the chromaffin cell.
2586719: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical characterization of the primitive and maturing neuroepithelial components in the OTT-6050 transplantable mouse teratoma. The neuroepithelial component of the OTT-6050 mouse teratoma has previously been characterized as an experimental system for the study of differentiation and cytologic maturation in embryonal tumours of the human central nervous system. A number of transplantable tumours composed of primitive stem cells and of a neuroepithelial component displaying a spectrum of differentiation were previously produced by centrifugal elutriation of the dissociated OTT-6050 teratoma. These tumours have provided a reproducible cell population that has permitted the study of both the early and later stages of neoplastic neurocytogenesis. The purpose of the present study was to detect, by immunohistochemistry, the earliest stages of neurocytogenesis in these tumours as shown by the expression of neuron-associated microtubule proteins. This was correlated to the appearance and localization of other markers associated with neuronal and glial differentiation. The primitive neuroepithelial structures resembling neural tubes (medulloepithelial rosettes) contained single or small groups of cells which reacted with the monoclonal antibody TUJ1, specific for the neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin isotype. Immature neuroblasts and maturing polar neurons also showed immunoreactivity with TUJ1, whereas reactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), tau, the 200 kilodalton isoform of neurofilament protein, neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin was primarily seen in maturing neurons. By comparison, both medulloepithelial and ependymoblastic rosettes, neuroblasts and glial cells were immunopositive with monoclonal antibody TU27, which defines an antigenic site shared by most mammalian beta-tubulin isotypes. Astroglia were reactive with antisera to glial fibrillary acidic and S-100 proteins, but not with monoclonal antibody (MAb) TUJ1, or with MAbs to the other neuron-associated cytoskeletal proteins, MAP2, tau and the 200 kilodalton subunit of neurofilament protein. Our findings suggest that (1) expression of the class III beta-tubulin isotype is an early event during neoplastic neurocytogenesis, (2) this isotype is subsequently preserved in maturing neuronal populations, and (3) it is not present at detectable levels in stem cells or glial cells. The observation that morphologically undifferentiated neuroepithelial cells express a neuron-associated beta-tubulin isotype signifies the value of examining tubulin isotype expression in the characterization of normal and neoplastic neuroepithelial differentiation.
2556884: !synaptophysin Comparative study of neuroectodermal tumor and Ewing's sarcoma of the bone. Histopathologic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features. We carried out a histologic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of 19 tumors, previously classified as Ewing's sarcoma of the bone (ESB). The tumors were categorized histologically into four groups according to the presence or absence and the distribution of Homer-Wright rosettes, together with the immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features: 1) neuroectodermal tumor of bone (NTB) with diffusely dispersed rosettes (4 cases), 2) conventional ESB totally lacking the rosettes (9 cases), 3) intermediate-type tumor with characteristics of both NTB and ESB (4 cases), and 4) spindle cell-type tumor with focal rosettes (2 cases). Ultrastructurally, NTB contained neurotubules and neurosecretory granules, whereas ESB consisted of only undifferentiated cells. Immunoreactivity with antineural antibodies, such as Leu-7, and those against synaptophysin, NSE, neurofilament, and chromogranin, was detected in the majority of NTB, in intermediate- and spindle cell-type tumors and in two of the nine cases of ESB. In view of these findings, we propose that use of the term "neuroectodermal tumor of the bone" should be restricted to tumors with an extensive distribution of rosettes, and that those without unequivocal rosettes should be classified as ESB, although ESB may be the most undifferentiated form of NTB and some overlap may occur between the two tumor types.
2511498: !synaptophysin A comparative immunocytochemical study of human cerebellar cortex in X-chromosome-linked copper malabsorption (Menkes' kinky hair disease) and granule cell type cerebellar degeneration. A comparative immunocytochemical study on the cerebellar cortex with X-chromosome-linked copper malabsorption (X-cLCM) and granule cell type cerebellar degeneration (gc-CD) was carried out by using specific monoclonal antibodies to synaptophysin (SY) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). In X-cLCM cases, marked depletion of SY-immunoreactivity (IR) and reduction in number of SY-positive glomeruli were seen in the molecular and granular layers, respectively. Abnormal Purkinje cells occasionally showed moderately strong SY-IR having a fine granular pattern. Proliferation of GFAP-positive cells was observed in the granular and Purkinje cell layers. In the gc-CD case, SY-positive materials were coarsely distributed in a less dense fashion in the molecular layer as compared to a normal control. Purkinje cell perikarya did not show SY-IR. In the gc-CD granular layer, SY-IR appeared to have a coarsely punctate pattern, whereas immunoreactive glomeruli were almost completely absent. A number of GFAP-positive Bergmann cells was observed in the Purkinje cell layer and their fibres were densely and irregularly distributed in the molecular layer, whereas the granular layer was devoid of GFAP-positive cells. We present an immunocytochemical study of the X-cLCM and gc-CD cerebellar cortices, discuss the possible pathogenic mechanisms occurring in these diseases and discuss the usefulness of the SY-immunostaining technique for visualization of axon terminal involvement in these pathological conditions.
2505732: !synaptophysin Cerebellar desmoplastic medulloblastomas. A further immunohistochemical characterization of the reticulin-free pale islands. We studied by immunohistochemistry the features of differentiation in 24 desmoplastic and 16 classic medulloblastomas (median patient ages, 18 and 6.5 years, respectively) with the use of a panel of cytoskeletal and synaptosomal markers. A distinctive pattern of immunoreactivity with a series of monoclonal antibodies (Mabs) was documented in the polar tumor cells forming the reticulin-free pale islands of the desmoplastic variant, denoting overt neuritogenesis. These comprised the following: (1) Mab Tp-NFP1A3 recognizing an epitope in the high-molecular-weight (Mr) isoform of neurofilament protein; (2) Mab AP18 to the high-Mr microtubule-associated protein 2; (3) Mab TUJ1 recognizing the class III beta-tubulin isotype (human h beta 4); and (4) Mab SY38 to synaptophysin. Immunoblot analysis confirmed the expression of h beta 4 in three medulloblastomas, yielding strong single bands in two desmoplastic medulloblastomas and a considerably weaker band in one classic medulloblastoma. Glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive tumor cells frequently formed an integral component of the pale islands. Oligodendrogliallike areas in one classic and in three desmoplastic medulloblastomas were immunopositive for the Mabs to synaptophysin, microtubule-associated protein 2, and h beta 4, indicating a neuroblastic nature. We propose that the reticulin-free structures of desmoplastic medulloblastomas constitute neoplastic foci with features of predominantly neuronal and, to a lesser degree, astroglial differentiation.
2505201: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical quantification of the synapse-related protein synaptophysin in Alzheimer disease. Alzheimer disease (AD) as well as other dementing disorders are characterized by a continuous loss of neurons in cortical and subcortical areas and probably by an extensive synaptic loss. In order to substantiate and localize the loss of synapses in AD, we quantified by microdensitometry the neuropil immunoreactivity to an antibody that labels the protein synaptophysin (p38), which is localized in the presynaptic terminals. We found in the AD cases an average 50% decrease in the density of the granular neuropil immunoreaction in parietal, temporal and midfrontal cortex. In contrast, Pick disease cases presented close to normal values in parietal cortex, but major losses in temporal and frontal cortex. Our data strongly suggest an important role of synapse loss in dementia.
2757489: !synaptophysin Focal neuronal gigantism and cerebral cortical thickening after therapeutic irradiation of the central nervous system. An exceptional type of cortical dysplasia is described in the brain of a 32-year-old woman who had received radiation therapy for a large pituitary adenoma 6 years before death. Markedly thickened gyri of the left inferior frontal, insular, and temporal cortex were found grossly. Microscopically, these gyri showed laminar disorganization and many unusually large and abnormally shaped ganglion cells. These neurons were heavily impregnated with silver preparations; were strongly reactive for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and neuronal cytoskeletal proteins (68- and 200-kd subunits of neurofilament protein, microtubule-associated protein 2, and tau); and ultrastructurally contained numerous perikaryal neurofilaments. Collectively, these findings suggest that the abnormally large, misshapen neurons contained excessive accumulations of cytoskeletal intermediate filaments. The present case and a similar one described in 1964 are the only two documented instances of neuronal gigantism apparently related to therapeutic irradiation of the brain.
2757484: !synaptophysin Gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumors. 'Plexosarcomas'. Four plexosarcomas (gastrointestinal autonomic nerve tumors) characterized by light microscopic, immunocytochemical, and ultrastructural examination, including immunoelectron microscopy in one case, are described. The four neoplasms occurred in the small intestine (duodenum, two; jejunum, one; and ileum, one) and they had an aggressive course with either local or distant metastases. The light-microscopic patterns varied from epithelioid and organoid to spindle cells, mimicking endocrine and sarcomatous neoplasms. Ultrastructurally, these tumors exhibited interdigitating cytoplasmic processes that contained scattered aggregates of membrane-bound granules varying in size from 100 to 300 nm intermixed with empty vesicles and numerous diffusely distributed intermediate filaments. Basal lamina covering cell surfaces, attachment plaques, and myofilaments, as expected in smooth-muscle tumors, were not identified, and diffusely distributed membrane-bound granules, as seen in paragangliomas and carcinoid tumors, were also absent. By immunocytochemistry, the tumors were intensely positive for vimentin and neuron-specific enolase and focally positive for neurofilaments and synaptophysin. In addition, three tumors were S100 protein positive and one stained for vasoactive intestinal peptide. Similar positive immunocytochemical reactions were identified in normal enteric plexus. It is essential to recognize plexosarcomas, which are invariably accompanied by aggressive clinical behavior, in spite of a seemingly benign, mitotically inactive light-microscopic appearance in most instances. Ultrastructural examination can readily separate plexosarcomas from paragangliomas and other sarcomatous and endocrine neoplasms.
2509640: !synaptophysin Reorganization of intrinsic components in the distal motor axon during outgrowth. We have studied the changes in the distribution of three intrinsic axonal components during the growth and maturation of sprouts in vivo. Neurofilaments, tubulin and synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle protein, were visualized in motor axons and their sprouts using immunocytochemical staining of frozen longitudinal sections of muscle. We examined changes in these elements in sprouts regenerating after axonal crush injury and in those evoked from intact axons by denervation changes in muscle. Our results show that intrinsic axonal components move into newly formed motor axon sprouts in different temporal patterns. Based on the patterns of reorganization of staining of intrinsic axonal components, two types of outgrowth can be distinguished. One type, synaptic elaboration, is manifest by short, broad axonal processes that produce enlargement of the synaptic zone (synaptophysin staining) with little change in the distribution of intrinsic cytoskeletal elements. A second type of outgrowth, axonal elongation, occurs during axonal regeneration and ultraterminal sprouting and is longitudinal in form. In these sprouts there is a sequential appearance of neurofilament and then, several days later, tubulin immunostaining. Synaptophysin only accumulates in these sprouts after two weeks at points of synaptic contact with a muscle fibre.
2769482: !synaptophysin Null cell adenomas of the pituitary gland. An immunohistochemical study. Fourteen null cell adenomas of the pituitary gland were examined immunohistochemically with antisera against three general neuroendocrine markers and 22 hormones. All cases showed positive immunostaining for neuron-specific enolase, ten cases for synaptophysin, and six cases expressed chromogranin immunoreactivity. Hormone immunoreactivity was detected in a few cells in ten of the 14 cases studied and the number of hormones demonstrated in each case was one or two. Thyroid-stimulating hormone was detected in five of the 14 cases, gastrin in four, beta-endorphin in two, calcitonin gene related peptide in one, prolactin in one, and follicle-stimulating hormone in one.
2750701: !synaptophysin Gangliocytic paraganglioma. A study of gangliocytic paragangliomas (GPs) of the gastrointestinal tract from 51 patients showed characteristic microscopic features: epithelioid cells with an endocrine growth pattern, spindle cells, and ganglion cells. Forty-nine tumors were located in the duodenum, 1 in the jejunum, and 1 in the pylorus. Twenty-one patients were female, 28 male, and for two the sex was unknown. The average age at presentation was 54 years (range, 23-83). No patient had a recurrence. No neuroendocrine syndrome was found in any patient or patient's family. Immunohistochemical stains in 33 cases yielded the following (proportion positive): S-100 protein 94%, synaptophysin 94%, neuron-specific enolase 94%, pancreatic polypeptide 88%, somatostatin 75%, chromogranin 72%, neurofilament protein 64%, keratin 52%, leu-enkephalin 48%, serotonin (one case), and gastrin (one case). Antisera usually stained one or two of the three major cell types. Pancreatic-type tissue was identified in or near 28 tumors, including the pyloric and jejunal lesions and two in the distal duodenum. The authors conclude that GP is benign; is not associated with endocrine syndromes; contains autonomic, neural, and endocrine cell types; and is related to pancreatic development.
2668940: !synaptophysin Cutaneous neuroendocrine (Merkel cell) carcinoma: an immunophenotypic, clinicopathologic, and flow cytometric study. Twenty-one cases of cutaneous neuroendocrine (Merkel cell) carcinoma (CNEC) were examined by the ABC-immunoperoxidase method with a panel of antibodies to 5 intermediate filaments, 6 neuroendocrine-associated antigens, 6 peptide hormones, as well as melanoma-associated cytoplasmic antigen (HMB-45) and leukocyte common antigen. All tumors showed strong cytokeratin staining in characteristic dense, inclusion-like, cytoplasmic globules and in a reticular peripheral cytoplasmic pattern. Cytoplasmic coexpression of inclusions of neurofilament antigen was observed in 9/21 cases. Staining for one or more neuroendocrine markers in formalin-fixed tissue (bombesin, 7/20; chromogranin, 11/21; synaptophysin, 6/21) was weak and focal but present in 17/21 cases. In 3 cases, sections of unfixed, snap-frozen tumor were compared with formalin-fixed tissue, and these showed strong, diffuse staining for multiple neuroendocrine antigens. Immunostaining for peptide hormones was not observed, with the exception of weak, focal staining for insulin (1 case), calcitonin (1 case) and somatostatin (2 cases). In 13 cases DNA indices and S-phase fractions (SPF) were determined by flow cytometry on nuclear suspensions from paraffin blocks. DNA histograms in 12 of 13 cases had normal range DNA content (diploid) and elevated S-phase fractions (mean 15%, range 8 to 22%). Mean SPF was not significantly different in the group of patients who developed recurrent and/or metastatic disease (15.6%, N = 10) compared with patients without recurrence (15.8%, N = 10).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2549534: !synaptophysin [Synaptophysin, chromogranin A and neuron-specific enolase as tumor markers in neuroendocrine tumors of the gastrointestinal tract and lung. An immunohistochemical study]. 
2502329: !synaptophysin Postnatal development of protein P-38 ('synaptophysin') immunoreactivity in pontine and medullary gustatory zones of rat. Neurons located in gustatory zones of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) and parabrachial nucleus (PBN) exhibit extensive morphological development during the first 5-7 weeks of rat's postnatal life. The present study examined the time course for development of protein P-38 ('synaptophysin'), a specific integral membrane glycoprotien of clear synaptic vesicles, in the rostral NST and PBN. Results show that volumetric fractions of P-38 immunoreactions increase in the NST from P1 to P10, and are adult-like in the NST after approximately P11. In contrast, volumetric fractions of P-38 immunoreactivity increase in the PBN between approximately P11 and P30. Because we have previously demonstrated that dendritic growth in the rostral gustatory NST precedes dendritic growth in the PBN, these results confirm that maturation of both presynaptic and postsynaptic constituents of brainstem gustatory relays develop in a temporally sequential manner. Relationships between neurological development of brainstem gustatory relays and the ontogeny of taste-guided responses are discussed.
2733163: !synaptophysin Papillary cystic tumor of the pancreas: an immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of 14 patients. We report herein the clinicopathological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies on 13 female patients and one male patient with papillary cystic tumors of the pancreas. Their ages ranged from 12 to 60 (mean 25) years. Most patients complained of abdominal mass or abdominal pain. Following complete resection of the tumor, all have remained well for between 3 months and 19 years (maen 5 years). In one patient the tumor was malignant and, 10 years after the initial partial resection, there was a recurrence with involvement of the colon, metastasis to the lymph nodes and venous invasion. Immunohistochemically, most tumor cells were positive for neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin, alpha-1-antitrypsin and vimentin and sometimes for the estrogen receptor related antigen, ER-D5, and the oncogen product of c-Ha-ras, c-Ha-ras P21. Ultrastructurally there were zymogen-like intracytoplasmic granules, intercellular junctions and intercellular spaces. These results support the hypothesis that the tumor originates from undifferentiated cells capable of differentiation toward acinar, endocrine or ductular cells. Estrogen and the c-Ha-ras oncogene presumably are linked to the development.
2723634: !synaptophysin Introduction of macromolecules into bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells and rat pheochromocytoma cells (PC12) by permeabilization with streptolysin O: inhibitory effect of tetanus toxin on catecholamine secretion. Conditions are described for controlled plasma membrane permeabilization of rat pheochromocytoma cells (PC12) and cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells by streptolysin O (SLO). The transmembrane pores created by SLO invoke rapid efflux of intracellular 86Rb+ and ATP, and also permit passive diffusion of proteins, including immunoglobulins, into the cells. SLO-permeabilized PC12 cells release [3H]dopamine in response to micromolar concentrations of free Ca2+. Permeabilized adrenal chromaffin cells present a similar exocytotic response to Ca2+ in the presence of Mg2+/ATP. Permeabilized PC12 cells accumulate antibodies against synaptophysin and calmodulin, but neither antibody reduces the Ca2+-dependent secretory response. Reduced tetanus toxin, although ineffective when applied to intact chromaffin cells, inhibits Ca2+-induced exocytosis by both types of permeabilized cells studied. Omission of dithiothreitol, toxin inactivation by boiling, or preincubation with neutralizing antibodies abolishes the inhibitory effect. The data indicate that plasma membrane permeabilization by streptolysin O is a useful tool to probe and define cellular components that are involved in the final steps of exocytosis.
2723632: !synaptophysin Isolation and characterization of secretory granules storing a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like peptide in Torpedo cholinergic electromotor neurones. Previous immunocytochemical work showed that the cholinergic electromotor neurones of Torpedo marmorata contain a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity (VIPLI) that is conveyed to the terminals by axonal transport from the cell bodies where it is presumably synthesized. In extension of this work, we have now succeeded in isolating the VIPLI storage granules from both the terminals and the axons of these neurones and characterizing them morphologically and biochemically. They were readily separated from synaptic vesicles but contained several components in common that had previously been regarded as specific for synaptic vesicles. Among these were a heparan sulphate type of proteoglycan, synaptophysin, and a Mg2+-dependent ATPase. The VIPLI concentration in lobe tissue and the amount of tissue available were both insufficient to permit the isolation of granules from the electromotor cell bodies by the same technique but it was possible to establish the presence of such granules by particle-exclusion chromatography, using the stable markers mentioned above. In contrast to the VIPLI-containing granules, axonal synaptic vesicles differed from their terminal counterparts in having a very low acetylcholine content relative to stable vesicle markers: they presumably fill up on reaching the terminal where they are exposed to higher concentrations of cytoplasmic acetylcholine.
2544606: !synaptophysin Human neuroblastoma cells acquire regulated secretory properties and different sensitivity to Ca2+ and alpha-latrotoxin after exposure to differentiating agents. IMR-32 human neuroblastoma cells are unable to release [3H]dopamine in response to secretagogues. However, they express a normal complement of membrane receptors and ion channels which are efficiently coupled to second messenger production. In the present study we took advantage of the ability of this cell line to differentiate in vitro in the presence of either dibutyrryl-cAMP or 5-bromodeoxyuridine, to analyze any developmentally regulated changes in its secretory properties. Uptake, storage, and release of [3H]dopamine were studied biochemically and by autoradiography. The calcium ionophore ionomycin, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and the presynaptic acting neurotoxin alpha-latrotoxin were used in both control and differentiated cells as secretagogue agents. The presence of secretory organelles was investigated by electron microscopy; the expression of secretory organelle markers, such as chromogranin/secretogranin proteins (secretory proteins) and synaptophysin (membrane protein), was detected by Western blotting and immunofluorescence. The results obtained indicate that IMR-32 cells acquire regulated secretory properties after in vitro drug-induced differentiation: (a) they assemble "de novo" secretory organelles, as revealed by electron microscopy and detection of secretory organelle markers, and (b) they are able to store [3H]dopamine and to release the neurotransmitter in response to secretagogue stimuli. Furthermore, secretagogue sensitivity was found to be different, depending on the differentiating agent. In fact, dibutyrryl-cAMP treated cells release [3H]dopamine in response to alpha-latrotoxin, but not in response to ionomycin, whereas 5-bromodeoxyuridine treated cells release the neurotransmitter in response to both secretagogues. All together these results suggest that IMR-32 cells represent an adequate model for studying the development of the secretory apparatus in cultured human neurons.
2712186: !synaptophysin Palisaded myofibroblastoma. A benign mesenchymal tumor of lymph node. We report 22 examples of an unusual and distinctive benign mesenchymal tumor arising exclusively from lymph nodes of the groin. The tumor, which presents clinically as a swelling, is composed of spindled cells arranged in solid sheets or short, vaguely palisaded fascicles similar to a neurilemoma. The spindled cells blend gradually with large mats of eosinophilic material that appear as thick bands, ellipses, or circular profiles, depending on the plane of section. These eosinophilic structures, which represent a highly characteristic feature of the tumor, contain deeply eosinophilic, collagen-rich cores surrounded by a weakly eosinophilic, actin-rich cuff. The actin within these eosinophilic structures is derived by coalescence of intracellular actin globules extruded from neighboring cells. In all cases, a thin, compressed rim of normal lymph node was identified. Immunohistochemical analysis indicates that the cells express actin but lack S-100 protein, synaptophysin, desmin, keratin, and epithelial membrane antigen. Delicate, linear striations were identified in only two cases by conventional histochemical techniques. The foregoing features suggest that the tumor is related to a myofibroblast or a specialized smooth-muscle cell. These tumors, therefore, probably arise from smooth-muscle-like cells, which are normally present in some lymph node capsules or stroma. Follow-up information on 17 patients indicated that all are alive and well without any evidence of recurrence or metastasis.
2503862: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in carcinomas of the breast: a study of 51 cases. A group of human breast carcinomas shows morphologic and histochemical evidence of neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation. This study presents a structural, immunologic, and electron microscopic analysis of 51 cases in order to establish positive criteria for identification of these tumors, their incidence, variants, and biological behavior. Argyrophilia (by the Grimelius procedure), presence of chromogranin A and/or B, and of synaptophysin are the most reliable histochemical features, correlating with the ultrastructural demonstration of dense-core secretory granules and of clear vesicles of the synaptic type. Structural features alone may be suggestive, but do not prove NE differentiation, which has to be established by additional techniques. Seven histologic types were identified, but those herein described as types A, B, and C, which show cohesive, mucoid, and mixed patterns, respectively, comprise the vast majority of the tumors. Rare NE carcinomas of the breast show structural similarities to Merkel cell and oat cell carcinomas, and behave as highly aggressive tumors. Type B (mucinous) tumors proved to be relatively indolent, while the most frequent types of endocrine tumors (types A and C) have an intermediate grade of malignancy. The analysis of a consecutive series of 100 cases of breast cancer indicates that about 8% of breast carcinomas display some degree of NE differentiation.
2503413: !synaptophysin Laminin induces formation of neurite-like processes and potentiates prolactin secretion by GH3 rat pituitary cells. Tumor-derived GH3 rat pituitary cell lines are widely utilized to study mechanisms of prolactin secretion and responsiveness to secretagogues. These cells served here as a model with which to study relationships between shape and function. When GH3 cells were routinely grown in serum-supplemented medium, they exhibited the polygonal phenotype of epithelial cells, with scarce secretory granules. In contrast, when seeded in a serum-free medium, they attached loosely and contained more secretory granules. In both cases, they released prolactin in a nonpolarized manner. We show in the present work that laminin extracted from Englebreth-Holm-Swarm (EHS) tumors was a potent attachment and spreading factor for GH3/B6 cells seeded in serum-free medium. Moreover, it induced the formation of neurite-like processes, which were increased in number and length by chronic treatment with a specific secretagogue, thyroliberin (TRH). These changes in cell shape were correlated with a potentiation of prolactin secretion, both basal and TRH-stimulated. Furthermore, using immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy, we revealed--at the dilated tip of processes--an accumulation not only of prolactin, but also of synaptophysin, a vesicle membrane marker, and of several organelles, such as secretory granules, smooth vesicles, dense bodies and mitochondria. The cytoplasmic processes contained long parallel bundles of microtubules and showed a strong immunoreactivity for beta 2-tubulin. In addition, we found immunocyto-chemical evidence for the presence of 200-k Da neurofilament protein in GH3/B6 cell processes as well as in neurites of cultured hypothalamic neurons. We conclude that, in GH3/B6 cells, laminin induced the differentiation of neurite-like processes, which were the site of polarized organelle transport and exhibited some neuronal markers.
2496198: !synaptophysin Most synaptic vesicles isolated from rat brain carry three membrane proteins, SV2, synaptophysin, and p65. We have prepared highly purified synaptic vesicles from rat brain by subjecting vesicles purified by our previous method to a further fractionation step, i.e., equilibrium centrifugation on a Ficoll gradient. Monoclonal antibodies to three membrane proteins enriched in synaptic vesicles--SV2, synaptophysin, and p65--each were able to immunoprecipitate specifically approximately 90% of the total membrane protein from Ficoll-purified synaptic vesicle preparations. Anti-SV2 precipitated 96% of protein, anti-synaptophysin 92%, and anti-p65 83%. These results demonstrate two points: (1) Ficoll-purified synaptic vesicles appear to be greater than 90% pure, i.e., less than 10% of membranes in the preparation do not carry synaptic vesicle-associated proteins. These very pure synaptic vesicles may be useful for direct biochemical analyses of mammalian synaptic vesicle composition and function. (2) SV2, synaptophysin, and p65 coexist on most rat brain synaptic vesicles. This result suggests that the functions of these proteins are common to most brain synaptic vesicles. However, if SV2, synaptophysin, or p65 is involved in synaptic vesicle dynamics, e.g., in vesicle trafficking or exocytosis, separate cellular systems are very likely required to modulate the activity of such proteins in a temporally or spatially specific manner.
2468736: !synaptophysin Characterization, by size, density, osmotic fragility, and immunoaffinity, of acetylcholine- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing storage particles from myenteric neurones of the guinea-pig. When cytoplasmic extracts of guinea-pig myenteric neurones are submitted to centrifugal density gradient fractionation in a zonal rotor acetylcholine is bimodally distributed in the gradient, in a peak (I) rich in synaptic vesicles of the classic type and in a denser peak (II/VI) rich in densecored vesicles and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). The putative stable synaptic vesicle markers synaptophysin (p38), vesicular proteoglycan, and Mg2+-activated ATPase were also bimodally distributed, with a peak coincident with peak I and another, broader peak embracing peak II/VI, and neighbouring peaks of other neuropeptides resolved from peak II/VI by the density gradient separation procedure used. To establish whether the stable markers, acetylcholine and VIP in peak II/VI were present in one particle or several, attempts were made to separate them by particle-exclusion chromatography and differential osmotic fragility. These were unsuccessful, leading us to conclude that the storage particles in peak II/VI contain both neurotransmitters and all three putative stable synaptic vesicle markers. It is suggested that such particles are the counterparts, in cholinergic neurones of the myenteric plexus, of the dense-cored, enkephalin- and noradrenaline-containing vesicles of certain adrenergic neurones and, like the latter, may exist in a precursor-product relationship with the classic synaptic vesicles containing the small-molecular-mass transmitters and found in the same nerve terminals.
2928345: !synaptophysin Striatal phosphoproteins in Parkinson disease and progressive supranuclear palsy. This study was undertaken to evaluate the levels of cAMP-regulated phosphoproteins in the striatum of patients with neurodegenerative diseases of the dopaminergic system. Postmortem samples of caudate nucleus and putamen from 24 control subjects, 23 patients with Parkinson disease, and 13 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy were studied with immunoblotting techniques. The levels of tyrosine hydroxylase were reduced in patients with Parkinson disease (levels were 24% and 10% of controls in caudate nucleus and putamen, respectively) and with progressive supranuclear palsy (levels were 11% and 6% of controls in caudate nucleus and putamen, respectively). Five phosphoproteins, which are present in striatal neurons and are likely to play a role in the postsynaptic actions of dopamine, were measured. These included ARPP-16, ARPP-19, ARPP-21 (cAMP-regulated phosphoproteins of Mr 16,000, 19,000, and 21,000, respectively), DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr 32,000), and phosphatase inhibitor I. The levels of these phosphoproteins were inversely correlated with postmortem delay. In brains of patients with Parkinson disease or progressive supranuclear palsy with postmortem delays comparable to those of controls, the levels of these proteins as well as those of synaptic (synapsin I and synaptophysin) and glial (glial fibrillary acidic protein and myelin basic protein) markers were not significantly modified. We conclude that the levels of several phosphoproteins involved in signal transduction in striatal neurons are not altered in Parkinson disease and progressive supranuclear palsy. This observation supports the view that the striatal output neurons are intact in both diseases.
2785160: !synaptophysin Involvement of the Golgi apparatus in sorting of materials to opposite ends of frog rod retinal photoreceptors. We have studied the rod cells of retinas of Rana pipiens by phosphatase cytochemistry and immunocytochemistry. We find that the Golgi apparatus of these cells, although different in its intracellular distribution from that of other neurons, has a cis-trans organization like that of other neurons as regards morphological features and the distribution of phosphatase activities. Antibodies against opsin bind to several sacs of the rod Golgi apparatus, especially those at the trans side of the Golgi stack. This suggests that Golgi involvement in the packaging of opsin for eventual delivery to the photoreceptive outer segments of the cell involves passage through trans Golgi systems. Proteins destined for the opposite end of the cell--the presynaptic terminal--also seem to pass through trans Golgi systems, as is indicated both by immunocytochemical localization of the synaptic vesicle protein p38 (synaptophysin) and by the presence of thiamine pyrophosphatase activity in some of the synaptic vesicles. Our findings suggest that sorting of membrane proteins destined for opposite ends of the photoreceptor takes place in systems at or near the trans Golgi face.
2564424: !synaptophysin Endogenous amino acid release from cultured cerebellar neuronal cells: effect of tetanus toxin on glutamate release. Endogenous amino acid release was measured in developing cerebellar neuronal cells in primary culture. In the presence of 25 mM K+ added to the culture medium, cerebellar cells survived more than 3 weeks and showed a high level of differentiation. These cultures are highly enriched in neurons, and electron-microscopic observation of these cells after 12 days in vitro (DIV) confirmed the presence of a very large proportion of cells with the morphological characteristics of granule cells, making synapses containing many synaptic vesicles. Synaptogenesis was also confirmed by immunostaining the cells with antisera against synapsin I and synaptophysin, two proteins associated with synaptic vesicles. From these cultures, endogenous glutamate release stimulated by 56 mM K+ was already detected after only a few days in culture, the maximal release value (1,579% increase over basal release) being reached after 10 DIV. In addition to that of glutamate, the release of aspartate, asparagine, alanine, and, particularly, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) was stimulated by 56 mM K+ after 14 DIV, but to a lesser extent. No increase in serine, glutamine, taurine, or tyrosine release was observed during K+ depolarization. The effect of K+ on amino acid release was strictly Ca2+-dependent. Stimulation of the cells with veratridine resulted in a qualitatively similar effect on endogenous amino acid release. In the absence of Ca2+, 30% of the veratridine effect persisted. The Ca2+-dependent release was quantitatively similar after stimulation by veratridine and K+. Treatment of cerebellar cells with tetanus toxin (5 micrograms/ml) for 24 h resulted in a total inhibition of the Ca2+-dependent component of the glutamate release evoked by K+ or veratridine. It is concluded that glutamate is the main amino acid neurotransmitter of cerebellar cells developed in primary culture under the present conditions and that glutamate is probably mainly released through the exocytosis of synaptic vesicles.
2495784: !synaptophysin Expression of pan-neuroendocrine proteins in 53 neuroblastic tumors. An immunohistochemical study with neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, and synaptophysin. The presence and distribution of pan-neuroendocrine markers such as neuron-specific enolase (NSE), chromogranin (CG), and synaptophysin (SYP) were investigated by immunohistochemistry in 53 cases of neuroblastic tumors, including three cases of ganglioneuromas, 17 ganglioneuroblastomas, and 33 neuroblastomas. In ganglioneuromas, all three markers were observed both in ganglion cells and in neurofibrils. All cases of ganglioneuroblastoma were positive for these markers, however, some variability of staining intensity was noted. Of the 33 cases of neuroblastomas, all were positive for NSE, 23 (70%) for CG, and 31 (94%) for SYP. Neuron-specific enolase was detected not only in the majority of the neuroblasts showing signs of differentiation, but also in some undifferentiated neuroblasts. Chromogranin was found mainly in differentiated neuroblasts with enlarged cytoplasm and nuclei, but was scarcely found in undifferentiated cells. Synaptophysin was detected in some undifferentiated neuroblasts, as well as in differentiated neuroblasts. Two cases without SYP-positive cells were also negative for CG. Our observations conclude that antibodies against NSE and SYP are helpful as a diagnostic aid for neuroblastic tumors.
2469342: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in basal cell carcinoma. An immunohistochemical study. Neuroendocrine differentiation in basal cell carcinoma (BCC) of the skin has been reported in the past on the basis of ultrastructural findings, argyrophilia, and the immunohistochemical detection of neuropeptides in such neoplasms. To assess further the relative frequency of neuroendocrine differentiation in BCC, paraffin sections of 53 randomly chosen cases were evaluated for Churukian-Schenk stain positivity and the expression of sensitive neuroendocrine markers. These included neuron-specific enolase (using a highly absorbed monospecific antiserum), chromogranin-A, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, and Leu-7 antigen. Although 25% of cases demonstrated argyrophilia with the Churukian-Schenk method, suggesting a high frequency of possible neuroendocrine differentiation, immunohistochemical evidence of the same was observed in only two tumors (4%). These demonstrated immunoreactivity for chromogranin and neuron-specific enolase. The results of this analysis suggest that neuroendocrine differentiation in BCC is relatively uncommon, and that it is not reliably predicted by the results of argyrophil stains done on paraffin sections.
2564377: !synaptophysin Correlative study on neuro-endocrine differentiation and presence of somatostatin receptors in breast carcinomas. To correlate the expression of neuro-endocrine (NE) markers with the presence of somatostatin receptors (SSR) in human breast cancer, a series of 100 cases was stained with the Grimelius silver procedure, by immunocytochemistry with specific NE markers (i.e., chromogranin A and B and synaptophysin) and by autoradiography for SSR. Nine cases were positive for at least one NE marker, while 4 cases were positive for all of them. SSR were detected in 17 cases, either with low (10 cases) or with high receptor density (7 cases). A highly significant correlation was established between the expression of NE markers and high SSR density. Our findings are additional evidence of the existence of a group of breast cancers showing morphological and cytochemical similarity with neuro-endocrine tumors present in other organs. The identification of this type of breast cancer is of biological and potential therapeutic interest.
2927643: !synaptophysin Synaptic loss in Alzheimer's disease and other dementias. The extent and location of neuronal losses necessary or sufficient to produce dementia in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is unknown. To approach this question, we studied synaptic terminals in postmortem brain tissue utilizing immunohistochemical techniques. We used antibodies against two proteins found in synaptic terminals--synapsin I and synaptophysin--as synaptic markers in the hippocampal complexes of eight patients with autopsy-proven AD and eight nondemented control subjects. Quantitative microscopy measured the regional density of synaptic staining. All AD patients showed a striking decrease in synaptic staining in the outer half of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus compared with control brains, where the density of synaptic terminals was uniform throughout. In an additional patient with progressive degenerative dementia but without plaques or tangles on neuropathologic examination, similar depletion of synaptic staining was seen in the dentate gyrus. Quantitative densitometric analyses confirmed the focal decrease in synaptic staining in the outer half of the molecular layer in demented patients. We also found a slight increase in synaptic staining in the inner half of this layer.
2656493: !synaptophysin Peripheral neuroectodermal sarcoma of soft tissue (peripheral neuroepithelioma): a pathologic study of ten cases with differential diagnosis regarding other small, round-cell sarcomas. Peripheral neuroepithelioma of soft tissue belongs to the group of peripheral neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs), but because of its clinical, biological, and morphological characteristics, it differs from other small, round-cell sarcomas that appear in children (neuroblastoma) or in the thoracopulmonary region (Askin's tumor) and bone (peripheral neuroectodermal sarcoma of bone). We report ten new cases of such PNET variety, based on their histologic, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopic findings. In all of these cases, the clinicopathologic correlations demonstrated high malignancy, with an ominous outcome in nine cases. The mean age of the patients was 32.6 years and there was a clear male predominance (eight men, two women). Histologically, the presence of Homer-Wright rosettes is mandatory for diagnosis, being complemented with positive immunohistochemistry for several neural immunomarkers using paraffin-embedded material. Neuron-specific enolase, E-36, HNK-1, and chromogranin neural markers proved to be positive in a high number of cases, but other markers (S-100 protein, synapto-physin, GFA protein, and neurofilaments [70 kilodalton]) were absent. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of neural structures, both by scanning and transmission electron microscopy.
2467076: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemistry of a spontaneous murine ovarian teratoma with neuroepithelial differentiation. Neuron-associated beta-tubulin as a marker for primitive neuroepithelium. Spontaneous ovarian teratomas develop in a large proportion of female LT strain mice. These tumors display a large neuroectodermal component with morphologic differentiation ranging from primitive neuroepithelium (medulloepithelial and ependymoblastic rosettes) to mature neurons, and provide a useful system for the study of various asynchronous stages of neuroepithelial differentiation. The aim of this study was to assess the expression of various cytoskeletal proteins in conjunction with other differentiation-related antigens in these tumors. We found that the medulloepithelial rosettes reacted with only two anti-beta-tubulin monoclonal antibodies. One of these (TU27) recognizes an epitope common to all of the mammalian beta-tubulin isotypes. The other monoclonal antibody (TUJ1) recognizes an epitope unique to class III beta-tubulin isotypes (neuronal-associated). Whereas immunoreactivity in the ependymoblastic rosettes was limited to TU27, differentiating polar neuroblasts reacted with both TU27 and TUJ1 and expressed neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and the 68 kilodalton subunit of neurofilament protein. In well-differentiated foci, mature neurons were positive for all three neurofilament protein subunits (68, 168 and 200 kilodaltons), microtubule-associated-protein 2, synaptophysin, and neuron-specific-enolase, and reacted with both TU27 and TUJ1. By contrast, glial elements expressed glial fibrillary acidic and S-100 proteins, Leu-7 and TU27 but not TUJ1. Myelin basic protein and myelin-associated glycoprotein reactivity was found in the neuropile of these mature areas. The neuroepithelial components were negative for retinal S-antigen and cytokeratin. The expression of the class III beta-tubulin isotype by medulloepithelial rosettes suggests that this isotype may be one of the earliest markers to signal neuronal commitment in primitive neuroepithelium.
2742148: !synaptophysin An immunoblot assay for the simultaneous quantification of several antigens. A radioimmunologic assay method that allows for the simultaneous quantification of several antigens in one sample is described. Polypeptide antigens are resolved electrophoretically and electroblotted to nitrocellulose. The nitrocellulose is then reacted with a mixture of several antisera simultaneously, and antibody-binding proteins are visualized by incubation with 125I-protein A and by autoradiography. Antigens are identified according to their molecular weights and quantified by counting the bound radioactivity. The sensitivity of the assay is in the low nanogram range and can be adjusted individually for each antigen by appropriately diluting the first antiserum. The procedure is presently applied to the detection of three neural antigens, neural cell adhesion molecule, neuron-specific enolase, and synaptophysin, in adult brain tissue and to the assessment of expression of the latter two during development of brain cells in primary culture. The method is fast, comparatively cheap, and associated with a low radiation exposure. It should prove especially useful when only scarce amounts of sample are available.
2494237: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin expression during synaptogenesis in the rat cerebellar cortex. In order to study the mechanisms of synaptogenesis in the rat cerebellar cortex, a library of monoclonal antibodies has been generated against proteins of the isolated synapse. One recognizes a glycosylated 38 kDa protein that is concentrated in the synaptic vesicle fraction and resembles synaptophysin biochemically in its molecular weight, charge, and pattern of glycosylation. In the adult cerebellar cortex, the antisynaptophysin(mabQ155) immunoreactivity is codistributed with synapses. Immunoreactivity is strongest in the molecular layer where punctate deposits of reaction product outline the Purkinje cell dendrites. Discrete small profiles, consistent with the distribution of basket cell axon terminals, surround the Purkinje cells, and in the granular layer the synaptic glomeruli are intensely stained. There is no immunoreactivity in the white matter axon tracts. Electron microscope immunocytochemistry confirms the synaptic location of the antigen and suggests that the reaction product is associated with synaptic vesicles. Both round and flat vesicle populations are immunoreactive. Antisynaptophysin(mabQ155) has been used to follow synaptogenesis in the developing rat cerebellum. In the newborn rat (P0), despite the paucity of synapses, there is some specific immunoreactivity, especially in the subcortical white matter. Electron microscopy shows that the antigenicity is associated with vesicles within growth cones, filopodia, and immature axon profiles. During development, antisynaptophysin immunoreactivity increases progressively, along with the maturing cell populations, for both the granule cell-Purkinje cell and the mossy fiber-granule cell synapses. Quantitative biochemical analysis confirms the cytochemical results. These data suggest that neuronal growth cones express a synapse-specific antigen before complete morphological synapses are present.
2916647: !synaptophysin Histogenesis of stromal cells in cerebellar hemangioblastomas. An immunohistochemical study. Fifteen cerebellar hemangioblastomas were examined by immunohistochemistry for expression of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and various neuropeptides using the avidin-biotin-complex peroxidase reaction with the following antibodies: NSE, synaptophysin, serotonin, substance P, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), neuropeptide YY, neurotensin, and leu-enkephalin. In all tumor biopsies most of the stromal cells were positive for NSE. About 30% of the stromal cells showed a weak cytoplasmic synaptophysin positivity. Approximately 25% of the stromal cells were labeled with antibodies against substance P and neuropeptide YY. The partly strong reactivity was localized preferentially in perinuclear regions. These positive cells were mainly distributed in small cell clusters but were also scattered in the tumor parenchyma. In all tumor biopsies scattered cells exhibited strong perinuclear enkephalin positivity, corresponding probably to mast cells, whereas stromal cells were entirely negative. For serotonin, VIP, and neurotensin no specific reaction was seen. On the basis of these findings it is proposed that hemangioblastomas have a neuroendocrine component.
2498078: !synaptophysin Synaptobrevin: an integral membrane protein of 18,000 daltons present in small synaptic vesicles of rat brain. A protein with an apparent mol. wt of 18,000 daltons (synaptobrevin) was identified in synaptic vesicles from rat brain. Some of its properties were studied using monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies. Synaptobrevin is an integral membrane protein with an isoelectric point of approximately 6.6. During subcellular fractionation, synaptobrevin followed the distribution of small synaptic vesicles, with the highest enrichment in the purified vesicle fraction. Immunogold electron microscopy of subcellular particles revealed that synaptobrevin is localized in nerve endings where it is concentrated in the membranes of virtually all small synaptic vesicles. No significant labeling was observed on the membranes of peptide-containing large dense core vesicles. In agreement with these results, synaptobrevin immunoreactivity has a widespread distribution in nerve terminal-containing regions of the central and peripheral nervous system as shown by light microscopy immunocytochemistry. Outside the nervous system, synaptobrevin immunoreactivity was found in endocrine cells and cell lines (endocrine pancreas, adrenal medulla, PC12 cells, insulinoma cells) but not in other cell types, for example smooth muscle, skeletal muscle and exocrine pancreas. Thus, the distribution of synaptobrevin is similar to that of synaptophysin, a well-characterized membrane protein of small vesicles in neurons and endocrine cells.
2464554: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin in the human retina and retinoblastoma. An immunohistochemical and Western blotting study. Fifty-four formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded intraocular retinoblastoma specimens and three human eyes enucleated because of orbital tumors were studied for the presence of synaptophysin, a neuron-associated integral membrane glycoprotein of presynaptic vesicles, by using the monoclonal antibody SY38. Normal human brain was used as control. In the human retina, synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity was present in both plexiform layers, but could not be detected in neuronal perikarya. However, in reactive retinas present in retinoblastoma eyes, synaptophysin was often observed in perikarya and processes of photoreceptors. Positive neoplastic cells were found in 45 of the 54 retinoblastomas. Differentiated tumors tended to contain greater numbers of positive cells than undifferentiated ones, a third of which were entirely negative. Identical immunoreactivity was seen in frozen specimens from human retina and from three retinoblastomas. Using Western blotting, a major polypeptide comigrating with human brain synaptophysin was detected in human retina, and a similar but slightly slower migrating band in retinoblastoma. The results support a primarily neuronal origin for this tumor and point to the possibility that synaptic elements, previously observed in a few cases, may be more frequent in retinoblastoma than had been thought.
2492017: !synaptophysin Transmembrane topography and evolutionary conservation of synaptophysin. Synaptophysin is the major integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles. Its primary structure deduced from rat and human complementary DNA sequences predicts that synaptophysin contains four transmembrane regions and a carboxyl-terminal domain having a novel repetitive structure. To elucidate the transmembrane organization of this protein in the synaptic vesicle, five antipeptide antibodies were raised. The site-specific antibodies were used to map the cognate sequences to the cytoplasmic or intravesicular side of the synaptic vesicle membrane by determining the susceptibility of the epitopes to proteolysis. The results confirm a topographic model for synaptophysin in which the protein spans the vesicle membrane four times, with both the amino and carboxyl terminus being cytoplasmic. In addition, the evolutionary conservation of the synaptophysin domains was addressed as a function of their membrane localization. To this end the primary structure of bovine synaptophysin was determined. Sequence comparisons between bovine, rat, and human synaptophysin revealed that only the intravesicular loops showed a significant number of amino acid substitutions (22%), while the transmembrane regions and cytoplasmic sequences were highly conserved (3% substitutions). These results depict synaptophysin as a protein with multiple membrane spanning regions whose functional site is likely to reside in highly conserved intramembranous and cytoplasmic sequences.
2920157: !synaptophysin Rabies: ocular pathology. Ocular pathology in the first European case of human bat-borne rabies is described. The patient was a 30-year-old bat scientist who seven weeks after bat bite developed neurological symptoms and died 23 days later. Rabies virus antigens were detected in brain smears. After extensive virological studies the virus turned out to be a rabies-related virus, closely resembling the Duvenhage virus isolated from bats in South Africa in 1980. By light microscopy focal chronic inflammatory infiltration of the ciliary body and of the choroid was found. PAS-positive exudate was seen in the subretinal and in the outer plexiform layers of the retina, and retinal veins showed endothelial damage and perivascular inflammation. Many of the retinal ganglion cells were destroyed. The presence of rabies-related viral antigen in the retinal ganglion cells was shown by positive cytoplasmic immunofluorescence, though electron microscopy failed to identify definite viral structures in the retina. By immunohistochemistry glial fibrillary acidic protein was observed in the Müller's cells, which are normally negative for this antigen but express it as a reactive change when the retina is damaged. Synaptophysin, a constituent of presynaptic vesicles of normal retinal neurons, was not detected in the retina.
2807488: !synaptophysin Tumour induction in fetal brain transplants exposed to the viral oncogenes polyoma middle T and v-src. Using a neural transplantation model, we have studied the effect of polyoma virus middle T antigen and of the viral src oncogene on the developing rat brain. For this purpose, single-cell suspensions of fetal rat brain were prepared on day 14 of gestation (E14), infected with a replication-defective retroviral vector which carries the middle T oncogene driven by an internal thymidine kinase promoter, and stereotaxically injected into the caudoputamen of adult host rats. With mock-infected donor cells, the transplants developed into an organotypically differentiated population of neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and other central nervous system cell types and expressed marker proteins of mature neuroectodermal cells, including neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, neurofilament protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein and S-100 protein. A high percentage of rats carrying transplants infected with the middle T-encoding vector died within two to six weeks from massive haemorrhage into the transplant. Upon microscopic examination, gross abnormalities of the microvasculature were seen, with formation of large blood-filled spaces lined by a thin layer of proliferating endothelial cells. This effect of middle T was apparently cell type-specific, since the differentiation of neuroectodermal cells within the graft proceeded in a regular fashion. In order to assess further the cell-specificity of the oncogene, analogous experiments were carried out with a retroviral construct in which the middle T cDNA had been replaced by the viral src gene (v-src). Transplants infected with the v-src vector developed astrocytomas, but no vascular abnormalities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2763798: !synaptophysin Microglial and neural differentiation in human teratomas. Ten human teratomas arising outside the central nervous system (CNS) were studied using a panel of immunohistochemical, and lectin histochemical stains to determine the relationship of the presence of microglia to markers of neural maturity or differentiation. Microglia, identified by silver carbonate, Ricinus communis agglutinin-1 (RCA-1), or both were found in eight out of ten cases. They were common in mature areas which also had S-100, glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin, neurofilament, and synaptophysin immunostaining. Microglia were distinguished from macrophages in necrotic foci. Cells which were RCA-1 positive and silver carbonate positive were found in immature neural tissues but these lacked all typical features of microglia. These observations indicate that true microglia are frequent in nonCNS teratomas and that they are found in association with other indicators of neural maturation. The presence of possible precursors in immature areas suggests that microglia undergo maturation concurrent with neural differentiation in these tumors.
2643884: !synaptophysin Neuroblastic differentiation potential of the human retinoblastoma cell lines Y-79 and WERI-Rb1 maintained in an organ culture system. An immunohistochemical, electron microscopic, and biochemical study. The differentiation potential of the human retinoblastoma cell lines Y-79 and WERI-Rb1 was evaluated in vitro for up to 120 days in a matrix system and in rotary suspension for 30 days. Matrix cultures were grown with 10% fetal calf serum (FCS), with and without differentiation-promoting agents. The latter were applied for a total of 5-45 days (usually 30 days) and included 7S nerve growth factor, dibutyryl cyclic AMP, sodium butyrate, retinoic acid, hydrocortisone, and ascorbic acid. Fully defined, serum-free medium and medium containing 5 or 15% FCS were also used for matrix cultures, and medium with 5 or 10% FCS for suspension cultures. By immunoperoxidase (performed on matrix cultures, both untreated and treated for 30 days with differentiation-promoting agents), the cells of both lines were positive for neuron-specific enolase (NSE), microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), class III beta-tubulin (human h beta 4) isotype, and synaptophysin. In addition, the WERI-Rb1 cells expressed 200 kd neurofilament protein (NFP-H) and retinal S-antigen. Both lines were invariably negative for glial fibrillary acidic (GFA) protein, myelin-associated glycoprotein, myelin basic protein, the epitope recognized by the Leu-7 monoclonal antibody, opsin, and hydroxy-indole-O-methyltransferase. In the Y-79 line the presence of NSE and the absence of NF proteins-H, -M and -L, of GFA protein, and of retinal S-antigen were confirmed biochemically. No differentiated features were found by electron microscopy in either line. Thus, in the matrix system employed, both lines exhibited solely a potential for neuroblastic differentiation, which was more advanced in the WERI-Rb1 line, as reflected by the antigenic expression of NFP-H and of retinal S-antigen.
2609935: !synaptophysin An immunohistochemical study of the primitive and maturing elements of human cerebral medulloepitheliomas. Four examples of human cerebral medulloepithelioma were studied immunohistochemically with a panel of antibodies and antisera to neuronal and glial proteins. The tumors, in addition to primitive medullary epithelium, contained areas of neuroblastic, ganglionic, astrocytic, ependymoblastic and ependymal differentiation, and in one tumor, areas resembling polar spongioblastoma. Tumor cells throughout the primitive medullary epithelium displayed focal immunoreactivity for vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic (GFA) protein and for the neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin isotype. Neuroblasts showed immunoreactivity for the class III beta-tubulin isotype, microtubule-associated protein 2 and neuron-specific enolase. Immunoreactivity for neurofilament epitopes and synaptophysin was detected in areas of ganglionic differentiation and coincided with the demonstration of neurofibrils in Bielschowsky's silver impregnations. Vimentin was the only marker detected in ependymoblastic and ependymal rosettes or in areas of polar spongioblastoma, as well as in mesenchymal cells. The results indicate that, even in very primitive neoplastic neuroepithelium, immunocytochemical evidence of early commitment of some of the cells to a neuronal or glial lineage can be demonstrated. The neuron-associated class III beta-tubulin isotype appears to be one of the earliest markers indicative of neuronal differentiation in normal and neoplastic primitive neuroepithelium.
2575822: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin and chromogranins/secretogranins--widespread constituents of distinct types of neuroendocrine vesicles and new tools in tumor diagnosis. Normal and neoplastic neuroendocrine (NE) cells have been identified for many years by morphological criteria only. With the advent of immunocytochemistry, antibodies against NE-specific polypeptides have been used to identify NE cells that had been missed by conventional techniques, thus improving the diagnosis of NE cells. In this review article we discuss (i) the biochemical, cell biological and molecular biological data obtained so far for two major types of NE markers, synaptophysin, which is characteristic of the small "transparent-looking" neurosecretory vesicles, and the chromogranins/secretogranins, which are widespread constituents of the larger "dense-cored" secretory granules; (ii) the immunohistochemical data obtained for these marker proteins in normal and neoplastic human NE cells and tissues; and (iii) future possible developments involving these as well as other proteins that are associated with these two distinct secretory organelles of NE cells and may serve as potential markers in NE cell diagnosis.
2521288: !synaptophysin Clear cell sarcoma. An immunohistochemical analysis of six cases and comparison with other epithelioid neoplasms of soft tissue. Clear cell sarcoma (CCS) is an uncommon, clinicopathologically distinct neoplasm that typically arises in association with tendons and aponeuroses. It shares several histologic and ultrastructural features with malignant melanoma. Clear cell sarcoma occasionally may be confused with other tumors of soft tissue that have a predominantly epithelioid appearance, including epithelioid leiomyosarcoma, epithelioid neurofibrosarcoma, synovial sarcoma, and epithelioid sarcoma. To assess the potential contribution of immunohistochemistry to this differential diagnosis, a panel of immunostains was applied to examples of each of these neoplasms. All six CCSs contained vimentin, and five were reactive with the melanoma-specific monoclonal antibody HMB-45. In addition, five CCSs expressed neuron-specific enolase, four cases displayed S100 protein, and four examples contained LN3 antigen. Synaptophysin and Leu-7 antigen were present in one case each. Cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen, desmin, muscle-specific actin, and leukocyte common antigen were invariably absent. No other primary epithelioid neoplasm of soft tissue reacted with HMB-45. Clear cell sarcoma could be separated from epithelioid leiomyosarcoma by the presence of desmin and muscle-specific actin in the latter neoplasm. Similarly, both synovial sarcoma and epithelioid sarcoma differed from CCS by their expression of cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen. Clear cell sarcoma and malignant melanoma were immunohistochemically indistinguishable, supporting the concept that they share a common pattern of differentiation.
2519961: !synaptophysin Hypoxic injury of rat cortical neurons in primary cell cultures. Introduction of a modified method to create the hypoxic state. A primary culture of cortical neurons was established from a 17-day-old rat embryo. Twenty-four hours after plating (day 0), the medium was changed to a chemically defined one. Hypoxia was exerted for 4 h by placing cultures in an air-tight chamber connected to a vacuum pump and a cylinder filled with 95% N2 and 5% CO2. Hypoxic stress was exerted on one of the consecutive days from day 0 to day 3. Hypoxia on days 0, 1 or 2 reduced the number of surviving neurons immediately following exposure. However, hypoxia on day 3 resulted in delayed reduction. Anit-synaptophysin antibody was used immunocytochemically to examine whether the difference is related to teh synaptic formation of cultured neurons. Neurons which had more and longer neurites were clearly stained for synaptophysin. We suspect that neurons with synaptic formation release substances from their presynaptic vesicles, and that these substances might account for the delay reduction.
2504688: !synaptophysin Heart innervation after ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). Distribution and amount of neuropeptide Y- and synaptophysin-immunoreactive nervous structures within the heart were investigated in dogs 4 days after ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). In the right atrium and posterior left ventricular regions, which were taken as (non-infarcted) control areas, neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive paravascular nerves and a perivascular nerve plexus running within the adventitia of the coronary arteries and their branches down to the arterioles were observed. Morphometric measurements of the area density revealed 0.099 +/- 0.014% for synaptophysin- and 0.037 +/- 0.0072% for neuropeptide Y-immunoreactivity within the posterior wall of the left ventricular myocardium. Four days after ligation of the LAD only single synaptophysin- and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerve fibers were very rarely detected in the infarcted region of the anterior wall of the left ventricle. Above the ligature larger than normal neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive axons within nerves along the LAD indicated a blockage of the axoplasmic transport of this peptide. When investigating this model of experimental myocardial infarction, mechanical traumatization of peri- and paravascular nerves of the LAD by the ligature has to be considered as a major pathogenetic factor, in addition to ischemia leading to denervation of infarcted as well as non-ischemic myocardium.
2501723: !synaptophysin Localization of the integral membrane glycoprotein synaptophysin and the surface glycoprotein Egp-34 in the embryonic and adult human inner ear. By using well-defined monoclonal antibodies, the distribution of synaptophysin and the glycoprotein Egp-34, the first of its kind, was analyzed immunohistochemically in the fetal and the adult human inner ear. In fetal labyrinths, a distinct immunoreactivity for synaptophysin occurred in the apical region of both outer and inner hair cells as well as in nerve terminals adjacent to both cochlear and vestibular hair cells. In adult hair cells, immunoreactivity was found throughout the cytoplasm. Synaptophysin may act as an important calcium binding protein in the sensory transduction of hair cells. A selective expression of Egp-34 was found in the area of marginal and intermediate cell infoldings in the stria vascularis. A similar localization pattern was found for a number of membrane transport enzymes. The glycoprotein Egp-34 is probably of importance for the active mechanisms regulating the homeostasis of endolymph.
2496330: !synaptophysin The ventral striatopallidal complex: an immunocytochemical analysis of medium-sized striatal neurons and striatopallidal fibers in the basal forebrain of the rat. The borders of the ventral striatum and ventral pallidum of the rat brain have been studied with immunocytochemistry for two protein markers that are present in these regions. One of these, DARPP-32 (dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr 32,000), is specifically enriched in medium-sized spiny neurons of the neostriatum and in the projection of these neurons upon pallidal regions. The second protein, synaptophysin, a marker for nerve terminals, effectively labels pallidal synapses. In the ventral striatum, neurons strongly immunoreactive for DARPP-32 were densely packed throughout its three components, i.e., the fundus striati and the nucleus accumbens septi, the olfactory tubercle, and the cell bridges that connect the tubercle with the overlying caudatoputamen and the nucleus accumbens. In the ventral pallidum, axons and axon terminals immunoreactive for DARPP-32 and axon terminals immunoreactive for synaptophysin were clearly delineated. As defined by these markers, the ventral pallidum was traced rostroventrally from the globus pallidus to the superficial layers of the olfactory tubercle, medially to the insula Calleja magna and the lateral septum, laterally to the pyriform cortex, and caudally to the anterior amygdaloid area. The ventral striatum and pallidum were densely intermingled in parts of the olfactory tubercle and medial forebrain bundle regions, and clearly separated in more caudal regions. The insulae Callejae did not contain typical striatal or pallidal staining patterns. Our results indicate that the ventral striatopallidal complex in the rat extends both rostrocaudally and dorsoventrally, in a highly complex, intermingled fashion, throughout most of the basal forebrain.
2493182: !synaptophysin Synaptophysinlike immunoreactivity in the Merkel cells of pig-snout skin. Synaptophysin is a membrane glycoprotein (Mr 38,000) found in small vesicles with clear content. It is present in neurons and in a variety of neuroendocrine cells and neoplasms, including the neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin (Merkel cell tumor). We report the presence of synaptophysinlike immunoreactivity in normal Merkel cells of the pig-snout epidermis and vibrissae. The immunostaining was primarily localized in the Merkel cell side opposite to the nerve terminal. This fact suggests that in Merkel cells, as well as in other neuroendocrine cells, synaptophysin could occur in small clear vesicles (accumulated in Merkel cells in the side opposite to the neurite) and not in the secretory granules themselves (which are concentrated in the cellular side apposed to the neurite).
2479214: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical visualization of afferent nerve terminals in human globus pallidus and its alteration in neostriatal neurodegenerative disorders. The afferent nerve terminal in the human globus pallidus, which receives the projection nerve fibers from both the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus, were clearly visualized immunohistochemically using antibodies to calcineurin, synaptophysin, Met-enkephalin (MEnk) and substance P (SP). In normal control case, MEnk and SP-like immunoreactivities were densely localized in the external and internal pallidal segments, respectively, whereas calcineurin and synaptophysin were distributed throughout the globus pallidus. Calcineurin, synaptophysin, MEnk and SP-like immunoreactive peroxidase products decorated most of the long radiating dendrites and the cell bodies of the pallidal neurons. In the cases with Huntington's disease (HD) and striatonigral degeneration (SND), marked loss of calcineurin, MEnk and SP-like immunoreactivities was seen in the globus pallidus corresponding to areas of striatal neurodegeneration, whereas synaptophysin immunoreactivity remained in areas which revealed almost complete loss of calcineurin, MEnk and SP-like immunoreactivities. Calcineurin, MEnk and SP, which show difference in their localization patterns, may provide reliable markers for the striatal efferent nerve terminals, and synaptophysin for the entire pallidal afferent nerve terminals. This report demonstrates the distribution patterns of these neurochemical molecules in the globus pallidus with HD and SND.
2479167: !synaptophysin Duodenal gangliocytic paraganglioma. Report of a case and review of the literature. A case of gangliocytic paraganglioma (GP) of the ampulla of Vater is reported and the literature reviewed, with special attention to immunohistochemical studies. The present case, which occurred in a 56-year-old woman, shows the typical histological admixture of epithelioid, ganglion and spindle cells. Immunohistochemistry reveals strong reactivity for synaptophysin, Leu-7, somatostatin, S-100 protein and vimentin. A few ganglion cells are reactive for neurofilaments. Chromogranin A, myelin basic protein, desmin and cytokeratin are absent. Immunohistochemical data from literature regarding the cytoskeletal composition of GPs are not unequivocal: cytokeratin and neurofilament positivity is reported by some authors and denied by others. More uniformity is reported concerning the peptides produced by GPs: somatostatin and pancreatic polypeptide are the most frequently found antigens, followed by serotonin. General neuroendocrine markers like neuron specific enolase and protein gene product 9.5 are always positive, whereas chromogranins are rarely found. S-100 protein is always positive in the spindle cell component. Our data are in keeping with those previously reported and add the diffuse positivity for the Leu-7 antigen and the positivity of ganglion cells for synaptophysin. The nature of the tumour is still a matter of debate and it is difficult to agree with either of the proposed hypotheses--hamartoma/choristoma versus true neoplasm. However the recent reports of the occasional malignant evolution of GPs may support their true neoplastic nature.
2476285: !synaptophysin Undifferentiated small round-cell tumors of childhood: the immunocytochemical demonstration of myogenic differentiation in fine-needle aspirates. The recognition of myogenic differentiation is not always possible using routine light or electron microscopic techniques. In this article, we describe our experience with two small round-cell neoplasms occurring in young children, each of which exhibited an undifferentiated light microscopic appearance. In both cases, myogenic features were revealed by immunocytochemical methods applied to fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsies. Each was immunoreactive for desmin and vimentin and failed to react with antibodies to leukocyte-common antigen. Moreover, formalin-fixed tissue sections of one case were negative for cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen. Sporadic reactivity for neuron-specific enolase and Leu-7 antigen was observed in occasional cells in FNA specimens, but synaptophysin was not identified. The rapidity of the method and the reliability of the immunocytochemical findings, when compared with routine cytologic evaluation, emphasize the diagnostic utility of immunocytochemical analysis when FNAs of pediatric soft-tissue tumors are obtained.
2472821: !synaptophysin In vitro culture of neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas and gut. Long-time culturing of neuroendocrine tumors from gut and pancreas obtained by surgery was performed with the addition of different growth factors, such as nerve growth factor (NGF), fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) to Hite's medium. Furthermore, the cells were also cultured on epithelial cell matrix (ECM) coated flasks with or without 5% fetal calf serum (FCS) supplemented to the medium. In ECM coated flasks the cells displayed a flattened, non-overlapping pattern and sometimes glandular formation. On the addition of 5% FCS to the culture medium single cells often appeared in cord-like pattern. Culturing in uncoated flasks led to free floating cell colonies or cell clusters attached to fibroblasts present. When different growth factors were added to tumor cells in uncoated culture flasks, no morphological difference could be noticed between the experiments. The tumor cells aggregated to big cell colonies, free-floating in the medium. However, the addition of growth factors to the culture medium showed varying degrees of positive silver staining in cultured tumor cells, while cells cultured in Hite's medium only, with or without FCS supplemented, were negative. The result might indicate that the cells cultured with growth factors retained their endocrine differentiation even after long-term culture. This observation correlated to positive immunostaining to chromogranin A and synaptophysin. Different growth factors might stimulate different fractions of tumor cells to retain the endocrine characteristics.
2462508: !synaptophysin Demonstration of immunochemical identity between the synaptic vesicle proteins synaptin and synaptophysin/p38. The synaptic vesicle proteins synaptin and synaptophysin/p38 were shown to be immunochemically identical. Western immunoblot analysis of Triton X-100 extracts from rat brain showed that polyclonal polyspecific anti-synaptin antibodies and monoclonal antibody SY38 against synaptophysin both reacted with a band of 38 kDa. In two-dimensional immunoblots of chromaffin granule membranes from bovine adrenal medulla anti-synaptin and anti-synaptophysin antibodies also recognized the same component. Finally, in a Western immunoblotting experiment SY38 reacted with an immuno-isolated synaptin antigen.
3194834: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine carcinomas of the colon and rectum: a clinicopathologic evaluation. Neuroendocrine carcinomas were diagnosed in 13 of 683 patients who had colon cancers removed from January 1980 to June 1987 for an incidence of 1.9%. The patients were 28 to 89 years of age (median, 72 years). There were seven male and six female patients. The treatment was as follows: right hemicolectomy, 5; transverse colectomy, 1; left hemicolectomy, 1; low anterior resection, 2; abdominal-perineal resection, 1; and in 3 patients with rectal tumors, biopsy examination only was performed. Microscopic stages were as follows: Dukes' stage B, 1; stage C, 6; stage D, 5; and stage indeterminate, 1. By light microscopy, the tumors showed solid clusters or ribbons of round to fusiform, small to intermediate-sized cells with variably abundant mitoses. Eight tumors had foci of glandular and/or squamous differentiation. By immunohistochemistry, all tumors showed one or more neuroendocrine markers, including neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin, synaptophysin, serotonin, and various neuropeptides. By electron microscopy, single membrane-bound neurosecretory granules were noted. The sites of metastases included regional nodes, 8; liver, 5; bone, 1. Four patients were treated with a combination of chemotherapy and radiation therapy. These tumors were, as a group, aggressive, with eight patients dead within 12 months of diagnosis. Median survival was 7 months, with three patients alive at 2, 38, and 68 months, respectively. Specifically, small- and intermediate-cell neuroendocrine carcinomas of the colon and rectum behaved very aggressively and displayed numerous structural and functional similarities with their bronchopulmonary counterparts.
3144557: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin (p38) at the frog neuromuscular junction: its incorporation into the axolemma and recycling after intense quantal secretion. Recycling of synaptophysin (p38), a synaptic vesicle integral membrane protein, was studied by the use of antisera raised against the protein purified from frog brain. When frog cutaneous pectoris muscles were fixed at rest, a bright, specific immunofluorescent signal was observed in nerve-terminal regions only if their plasma membranes had been previously permeabilized. When muscles were fixed after they had been treated for 1 h with a low dose of alpha-latrotoxin in Ca2+-free medium, an equally intense fluorescence could be observed without previous permeabilization. Under this condition, alpha-latrotoxin depletes nerve terminals of their quantal store of acetylcholine and of synaptic vesicles. These results indicate that fusion of synaptic vesicles leads to the exposure of intravesicular antigenic determinants of synaptophysin on the outer surface of the axolemma, and provide direct support for the vesicle hypothesis of neurotransmitter release. After 1 h treatment with the same dose of alpha-latrotoxin in the presence of 1.8 mM extracellular Ca2+, immunofluorescent images were obtained only after permeabilization with detergents. Under this condition, the vesicle population was maintained by an active process of recycling and more than two times the initial store of quanta were secreted. Thus, despite the active turnover of synaptic vesicles and of quanta of neurotransmitter, no extensive intermixing occurs between components of the vesicle and presynaptic plasma membrane.
3143814: !synaptophysin Secretory function of the vestibular nerve calyx suggested by presence of vesicles, synapsin I, and synaptophysin. Type I sensory hair cells of the vestibular epithelium are nearly completely ensheathed by an afferent nerve ending, the vestibular nerve calyx. We have recently reported that the nerve calyx, and, in particular, its apical portions surrounding the neck of the hair cell, are immunoreactive for synapsin I (Favre et al., 1986), a major membrane component of small synaptic vesicles of axonal endings. We have now found, by electron microscopy, that the same region of the calyx is densely populated by microvesicles morphologically similar to typical presynaptic small synaptic vesicles. Furthermore, we have established by light microscopy immunocytochemistry that this region of the calyx also contains a high concentration of synaptophysin, another well-characterized major component of small synaptic vesicle membranes. These results suggest that the upper portion of the calyx is equipped with the machinery that in presynaptic terminals is involved in the release of neurotransmitters and raise the possibility that the calyx, via secretion of neurotransmitterlike substances, might modulate the function of type I hair cells.
2461946: !synaptophysin p60c-src is complexed with a cellular protein in subcellular compartments involved in exocytosis. We found high levels of the c-src gene product in neuroendocrine tissues from adult animals. To understand the role of this proto-oncogene product, the subcellular localization of p60c-src was studied in neuroendocrine tissue from adrenal medulla. The results indicate that p60c-src was highly enriched in chromaffin granule membranes, in stable association with a protein of 38 kD. The complex with the 38-kD protein was also detected in brain, a tissue known to carry high levels of p60c-src. The 38-kD protein is not calpactin I, II, or synaptophysin. Comparison of its peptide map showed a high degree of conservation among the different species and tissues examined. The interaction between p60c-src and the 38-kD protein involves disulphide bonds that are stable even when the cell fractionation is performed in the presence of a reducing agent. Since the presence of disulphide bonds among cytoplasmic proteins is very unlikely, the possibility of a noncovalent association between p60c-src and the 38-kD protein in vivo is discussed. The 38-kD protein may be involved in a function of p60c-src related to secretory organelles.
3142795: !synaptophysin Fractionation of synaptophysin-containing vesicles from rat brain and cultured PC12 pheochromocytoma cells. Synaptophysin is a transmembrane glycoprotein of neuroendocrine vesicles. Its content and distribution in subcellular fractions from cultured PC12 cells, rat brain and bovine adrenal medulla were determined by a sensitive dot immunoassay. Synaptophysin-containing fractions appeared as monodispersed populations similar to synaptic vesicles in density and size distribution. Membranes from synaptic vesicles contained approximately 100-times more synaptophysin than chromaffin granules. In conclusion, synaptophysin is located almost exclusively in vesicles of brain and PC12 cells which are distinct from dense core granules.
2461586: !synaptophysin Identification of synaptophysin as a hexameric channel protein of the synaptic vesicle membrane. The quaternary structure and functional properties of synaptophysin, a major integral membrane protein of small presynaptic vesicles, were investigated. Cross-linking and sedimentation studies indicate that synaptophysin is a hexameric homo-oligomer, which in electron micrographs exhibits structural features common to channel-forming proteins. On reconstitution into planar lipid bilayers, purified synaptophysin displays voltage-sensitive channel activity with an average conductance of about 150 picosiemens. Because specific channels and fusion pores have been implicated in vesicular uptake and release of secretory compounds, synaptophysin may have a role in these processes.
3218965: !synaptophysin Characterization of a continuous cell line (MHH-NB-11) derived from advanced neuroblastoma. A continuous cell line was established from an explanted tumor biopsy obtained from a patient with advanced neuroblastoma, which showed no response to chemotherapy. This cell line MHH-NB-11 retained most properties of the original immature tumor, even after xenotransplantation into nude mice. The cell line consisted of small dense cells with scant cytoplasm and thin; long processes and expressed neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, but neither GFAP nor S-100 protein. Karyotyping showed karyograms with 49 to 54 chromosomes, with a modal at 52. Most cells had trisomy 2,7,8,20, but only few structural aberrations were observed. Two of four chromosomes 1 showed a rearrangement of the terminal 1p segment, and all cells had a long HSR on the long arm of one of the chromosomes 13. This region hybridized in situ with the N-myc probe pNB-1. N-myc was amplified 20-fold in this neuroblastoma cell line as determined in Southern blot analysis. This cell line should be a useful tool in vitro or as a xenograft model for neuroblastoma research.
3211466: !synaptophysin Recurrent medulloepithelioma of the ciliary body. Immunohistochemical characteristics. A predominantly benign medulloepithelioma of the ciliary body was diagnosed in an 8-year-old girl and resected by iridocyclectomy. It recurred twice during 30 months. Highly malignant histopathologic features developed, and the eye finally perforated and had to be enucleated. No recurrence or metastases have subsequently developed. Histologically, the tumor was a nonteratoid medulloepithelioma consisting of elements resembling embryonic retina, nonpigmented ciliary epithelium, and neuroblasts, but had also areas of obvious glial and neuronal differentiation as judged by immunohistochemistry. The neuroepithelial tumor cells were positive for neuron-specific enolase, vimentin, and often for S-100 protein. The neuroblastic cells were generally positive for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin, but were intermixed with glia-like tumor cells positive for vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and S-100 protein. The results suggest that even a nonteratoid medulloepithelioma may be, unlike retinoblastoma, a truly multipotential tumor.
3149059: !synaptophysin Tissue fixation methods alter the immunohistochemical demonstrability of synaptophysin. 
3141718: !synaptophysin Expression of intermediate filaments and synaptophysin show neuronal properties and lack of glial characteristics in Y79 retinoblastoma cells. The expression of intermediate filaments and synaptophysin in Y79 retinoblastoma cells was studied. The cells grew normally in suspension as floating aggregates. Sodium butyrate and dibutyryl cyclic AMP induced adherence and rapid spreading of Y79 cells on laminin-coated substratum and many of the cells presented long cellular extensions. As judged by immunostaining with monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies, most untreated Y79 cells expressed synaptophysin, whereas only vimentin intermediate filaments were detected in a few cells. A more bright fibrillar vimentin-positivity, which responded by coiling to disruption of microtubules, could be seen in the spread cells. Furthermore, especially when exposed to butyrate, a distinct fibrillar positivity could be revealed in some of the spread cells with antibodies recognizing a phosphorylated epitope in neurofilaments. Western blotting results showed the presence of the molecular weight 57,000 vimentin polypeptide and the molecular weight 38,000 synaptophysin polypeptide in both undifferentiated and spread Y79 cells, and a phosphorylated molecular weight 200,000 neurofilament polypeptide in spread cells only. In contrast, both immunostaining and Western blotting results with several antibodies indicated lack of glial fibrillary acidic protein in Y79 cells suggesting hence, a lack of glial differentiation. The present results do not support the hypothesis that retinoblastomas would originate from a common precursor cell of neurons and glia, and show the presence of mainly neuronal features in Y79 retinoblastoma cells.
3139837: !synaptophysin In adrenal medulla synaptophysin (protein p38) is present in chromaffin granules and in a special vesicle population. We have analyzed the properties and subcellular localization of synaptophysin (protein p38) in bovine adrenal medulla. In one-dimensional immunoblotting the adrenal antigen appears identical to synaptophysin of rat synaptic vesicles. In two-dimensional immunoblotting it migrates as a heterogeneous band varying in pI from 4.5 to 5.8. Subcellular fractionation by various sucrose gradients revealed that synaptophysin was present in two different cell particles. More than half of the antigens present in adrenal medulla were confined to special membranes that sedimented both with the "large granules" and with microsomal elements. These membranes could be removed from the large granule sediment by washing. In gradients it equilibrated in regions of low sucrose density. These membranes did not contain any markers for chromaffin granules. Less than half of the amount of synaptophysin present in adrenal medulla copurified with chromaffin granules. Despite several variations in the fractionation scheme synaptophysin could not be removed from chromaffin granules. After washing of granule membranes with alkaline solution synaptophysin still cosedimented in gradients with typical granule markers. The concentration of synaptophysin in membranes of chromaffin granules is low (less than 10%) when compared with synaptic vesicles. It is concluded that in adrenal medulla synaptophysin is present in special membranes, probably in high concentration, and in membranes of chromaffin granules, either in a low concentration in all or in a higher concentration in some of them.
3139487: !synaptophysin Identification of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine cells in normal and neoplastic human tissue with antibodies against synaptophysin, chromogranin A, secretogranin I (chromogranin B), and secretogranin II. Gastroenteropancreatic human neuroendocrine (NE) cells (normal and neoplastic) were investigated for the expression of the neuroendocrine-specific polypeptides synaptophysin, chromogranin A, secretogranin I (chromogranin B), and secretogranin II, using immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting. Monoclonal antibody against synaptophysin stained most, and possibly all, of the neuroendocrine cells in both normal and neoplastic tissue. Monoclonal antibody against chromogranin A also stained a high proportion of normal and neoplastic neuroendocrine cells. Immunostaining with polyclonal antisecretogranin I and antisecretogranin II antibodies was detectable in almost all of the normal and neoplastic tissue sections that were analyzed, and it was confined to a smaller population of neuroendocrine cells than that observed for synaptophysin and chromogranin A. Consistent with the immunohistochemical observations, immunoblotting revealed the presence of all four antigens in various tumors. The data show that synaptophysin and chromogranin A, for which monoclonal antibodies are commercially available, may be used as diagnostic markers for human gastroenteropancreatic tumors. Our results also suggest that the development of monoclonal antibodies against human secretogranins I and II will provide additional tools for a refined diagnosis of such tumors.
2851773: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical identification of exocrine and neuroendocrine subsets of large cell lung carcinomas. Formalin fixed, paraffin embedded sections of 52 cases of pulmonary large cell undifferentiated carcinoma (LCUC) as defined in the current WHO classification were studied immunohistochemically to assess features of exocrine and neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation. Monoclonal antibody 44-3A6 was applied to detect a membrane association protein related to exocrine differentiation. A panel of ten neuroendocrine markers including antibodies to synaptophysin, chromogranin A, serotonin, and seven neuropeptides was used to assess NE differentiation. The broad spectrum anticytokeratin antibody PKK1 was used to confirm the epithelial differentiation of these tumors. Exocrine differentiation was detected in 40/52 (77%) of surgically resected LCUC, despite the absence of recognizable glands by light microscopy. Eighteen of 52 (35%) LCUC exhibited NE differentiation; synaptophysin was the most frequently detected NE marker. Cytokeratin immunostaining with PKK1 was demonstrated in 41/52 (79%) cases. Subsets of LCUC were defined based on their expression of exocrine or NE phenotypic markers. Accordingly, 28/52 (54%) LCUC displayed an exocrine phenotype, 6/52 (12%) a NE phenotype, 12/52 (23%) had combined exocrine and NE phenotypes, and 6/52 (12%) exhibited neither phenotype. In this surgical series, there were no significant differences in stage at presentation for the four subsets. Interestingly, two year survival appeared decreased in patients with tumors displaying the "pure" NE phenotype.
2460064: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine differentiation in prostatic carcinomas. A retrospective autopsy study. Neuroendocrine differentiation in prostatic neoplasms has in the past been considered extremely uncommon. The histologic neuroendocrine patterns reported previously vary from small cell to carcinoidlike to mixed adenocarcinoma--small cell or carcinoid. The majority of the tumors reported are of the mixed variety. We reviewed 2648 autopsies, revealing 69 prostatic carcinomas, eight with neuroendocrine differentiation (five mixed adenocarcinoma--small-cell carcinoma, two "pure" small cell, and one "pure" carcinoidlike). The mean patient age was 69.5 years. One patient presented with markedly elevated serum corticotropin and another was severely hypercalcemic with elevated serum parathyroid hormone level. Three neoplasms were incidental autopsy findings. The mean survival time, after diagnosis, was 19 months for the other patients. Three of the cases were examined ultrastructurally and showed cytoplasmic processes containing membrane-bound granules in the neuroendocrine component. The areas with neuroendocrine differentiation were positive for markers as follows: neuron-specific enolase, seven of eight; prostate-specific antigen (PSA), none of eight; chromogranin A, seven of eight; synaptophysin, four of eight; and calcitonin, four of eight. Those neoplasms mixed with an adenocarcinoma component showed well-defined PSA positivity in the glandular elements. This study suggests that neuroendocrine differentiation in prostatic neoplasms may be more common than previously thought. Often, the areas with neuroendocrine differentiation are considered to represent poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. It is important to recognize neuroendocrine components in prostatic carcinomas owing to prognostic and potential therapeutic implications.
3145326: !synaptophysin Regional heterogeneity in the distal motor axon: three zones with distinctive intrinsic components. In this study we examined the distribution of cytoskeletal and other intrinsic axonal elements in motor nerve terminals in vivo. Components of axons were visualized with immunocytochemical staining of frozen longitudinal sections of muscle. Using these methods we compared the distribution of neurofilaments, tubulin, MAP2, actin and synaptic elements in distal regions of axons at and near neuromuscular junctions in rat muscles. Our results show that three discrete regions can be defined based on the anatomy and intrinsic components of distal axons. The preterminal axon, extending from its exit from the intramuscular nerve toward the neuromuscular junction, has a cytoskeletal composition similar to the more proximal axon with abundant staining of neurofilaments, tubulin, MAP2 and actin. The terminal arborization, a branched region of the axon extending through the endplate region, contains neurofilaments but little tubulin, actin, MAP2 or synaptic elements. Finally, the synaptic zone, demonstrated with antibodies to the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, contains few cytoskeletal elements. We conclude that there is considerable regional heterogeneity in the composition of distal motor axons. The distribution of neurofilaments, other cytoskeletal elements and synaptic vesicle proteins varies among different discrete zones of terminal motor axons.
3058408: !synaptophysin [Carcinoid tumor of the ampulla of Vater. Morphology, diagnosis and therapy of a rare papilla tumor]. We report on a patient with a carcinoid tumour of the ampulla of Vater and review the 33 known cases of the literature with regard to clinical presentation, morphology and therapy. As it is apparent from the location of the tumour, obstructive jaundice, pancreatitis and nonspecific upper abdominal complaints are the most frequent symptoms. The ampullary carcinoid belongs histogenetically to the APUD cell system with the ability of multiple endocrine activity. The expression of somatostatin peptide and neuron-specific enolase are the most common histopathological findings. A systemic function of these hormones, however, has not yet been shown. For diagnostic purposes in surgical pathology we found synaptophysin and chromogranin A to be important markers. For surgical treatment, partial duodenopancreatectomy remains the current therapy of choise, if the tumour exceeds two centimeters in diameter.
2973836: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural localisation of peptide-containing nerves and myocardial cells in the human atrial appendage. The innervation and myocardial cells of the human atrial appendage were investigated by means of immunocytochemical and ultrastructural techniques using both tissue sections and whole mount preparations. A dense innervation of the myocardium, blood vessels and endocardium was revealed with antisera to general neuronal (protein gene product 9.5 and synaptophysin) and Schwann cell markers (S-100). The majority of nerve fibres possessed neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity and were found associated with myocardial cells, around small arteries and arterioles at the adventitial-medial border and forming a plexus in the endocardium. Subpopulations of nerve fibres displayed immunoreactivity for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, somatostatin, substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide. In whole-mount preparations of endocardium, substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivities were found to coexist in the same varicose nerve terminals. Ultrastructural studies revealed the presence of numerous varicose terminals associated with myocardial, vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells. Neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was localised to large electron-dense secretory vesicles in nerve terminals which also contained numerous small vesicles. Atrial natriuretic peptide immunoreactivity occurred exclusively in myocardial cells where it was localised to large secretory vesicles. The human atrial appendage comprises a neuroendocrine complex of peptide-containing nerves and myocardial cells producing ANP.
2903047: !synaptophysin Uptake of GABA by rat brain synaptic vesicles isolated by a new procedure. Uptake of GABA was demonstrated in rat brain synaptic vesicles which were prepared by a new and efficient procedure. The uptake activity co-purified with the synaptic vesicles during the isolation procedure. The purity of the vesicle fraction was rigorously examined by analysis of marker enzymes and marker proteins and also by immunogold electron microscopy using antibodies against p38 (synaptophysin). Contamination by other cellular components was negligible, indicating that GABA uptake by the synaptic vesicle fraction is specific for synaptic vesicles and not due to the presence of other structure possessing GABA uptake or binding activities. GABA uptake was ATP dependent and similar to the uptake of glutamate, which was assayed for a comparison. Both uptake activities were independent of sodium. They were inhibited by the uncoupler carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone, indicating that the energy for the uptake is provided by an electrochemical proton gradient. This gradient is generated by a proton ATPase of the vacuolar type as suggested by the effects of various ATPase inhibitors on neurotransmitter uptake and proton pumping. Competition experiments revealed that the transporters for GABA and glutamate are selective for the respective neurotransmitters.
3194994: !synaptophysin Pheochromocytoma combined with malignant schwannoma: unusual neoplasm of the adrenal medulla. A 38-year-old woman was operated on to remove a large tumor that replaced the left adrenal gland. The tumor was encapsulated and showed small areas typical of pheochromocytoma, and spindle cell or undifferentiated round cell sarcoma in most areas. Metastases of primitive round cell appearance were operated from the abdominal cavity and abdominal wall shortly after the initial surgery. Eighteen months after the first operation, the patient was alive with metastases in liver and retroperitoneal space. The pheochromocytomalike component showed a typical ultrastructural and immunohistochemical profile of pheochromocytoma and was positive for neurofilaments, synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, and S-100 protein in the sustentacular cells. The sarcomatous areas showed fibroblastoid spindle cells that were often surrounded by a basal lamina. Immunohistochemistry revealed S-100 protein positivity in many spindle cells, but markers of pheochromocytoma or epithelial differentiation were absent. The metastases lacked all markers except for vimentin, and the cells were undifferentiated by electron microscopy. These findings suggest that the neoplasm was a compound tumor with a typical pheochromocytoma component and a sarcoma resembling a malignant schwannoma. Neoplastic proliferation of the S-100 protein-positive Schwann-cell-like sustentacular cells of the pheochromocytoma would be an explanation for the genesis of this sarcoma associated with pheochromocytoma.
3143927: !synaptophysin Immunoelectron microscopic localization of synaptophysin in a Golgi subcompartment of developing hypothalamic neurons. Synaptophysin, previously identified as an integral membrane glycoprotein (mol. wt 38,000) characteristic of presynaptic vesicles of mature neurons, provides a molecular marker to study the origin, formation and traffic of synaptic vesicles. Using the monoclonal antibody SY38 against this polypeptide we have localized synaptophysin by immunofluorescence and electron microscope immunoperoxidase methods in cultured mouse hypothalamic neurons taken from 16-day-old fetuses which achieve synaptogenesis after 10-12 days in vitro. We have compared the localization of synaptophysin in perikarya and nerve endings as a function of age (2-19 days in vitro) and of treatment of mature neurons with nocodazole. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, synaptophysin was already detected in neuronal soma at 2 days in vitro, where the initiation of neurite development is observed. At the electron microscope level, virtually all mature synaptic boutons and varicosities showed an extensive synaptophysin labeling of synaptic vesicles at 12-13 days in culture whereas neurites showed only very few labeled vesicles. In neuronal soma taken before synapse formation (6 days in vitro), synaptophysin was selectively localized in membranes of the innermost cisternae of the Golgi zone and in vesicles of variable size and shape in the core of the Golgi zone. In contrast, after synapse formation, synaptophysin labeling was barely detected in the Golgi zone of neurons but a very strong labeling of synaptic vesicles in synaptic boutons was observed. Treatment of mature neurons (12 days in vitro) with nocodazole (10(-5) M) resulted in a conspicuous synaptophysin staining of the innermost trans-Golgi cisternae and numerous vesicles in the cytoplasm. Furthermore, an accumulation of labeled synaptic vesicles on the presynaptic membrane of nerve terminals was found. The data suggest that synaptophysin is released from the Golgi apparatus in a vesicular form, after glycosylation, and is then transported to nerve endings by a mechanism which requires integrity of microtubules.
2465910: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical analyses of oncocytic and chromophobe pituitary adenomas. Immunohistochemical analyses using antibodies against the major pituitary hormones, the alpha-subunit of glycoprotein hormones, chromogranin and synaptophysin were performed on 10 adenomas with oncocytic parts (26%-50% oncocytes, Group I), on 9 oncocytic adenomas with 51%-75% oncocytes (Group II), and on 12 oncocytic adenomas with 76%-100% oncocytes (Group III). Only 11 of the 31 investigated adenomas (35%) showed negative immunostaining for all major anterior pituitary hormones. FSH-content could be shown in 16 of 31 adenomas (52%), LH-content in 12 of 31 adenomas (39%), TSH-content in 3 of 31 adenomas (10%). Comparing all three groups of adenomas, there are no differences in the immunoreactivity to alpha-subunit (24 of 31 adenomas, 77%), chromogranin (26 of 31 adenomas, 84%), and of synaptophysin (13 of 31 adenomas, 42%). Considering the high percentage of cells of oncocytes showing alpha-subunit immunoreactivity we regard oncocytomas as originating very often from TSH-gonadotropin cell complexes of the anterior hypophysis. Alpha-subunit might become a reliable marker for oncocytomas. The finding of immunoreactivity to chromogranin in most cases confirms morphological studies that oncocytes contain some secretory granules. In most cases, the studied oncocytomas did not react to synaptophysin showing different results from other adenomas of the anterior hypophysis.
3141909: !synaptophysin Expression of neuroendocrine markers (neuronspecific enolase, synaptophysin and bombesin) in carcinoma of the lung. The value of immunoreactivity of antibodies against neuronspecific enolase (NSE), bombesin (GRP), and synaptophysin (SY 38) as markers for various human lung carcinoma has been assessed. One hundred-forty-two primary bronchus carcinomas (small cell anaplastic carcinoma, epidermoid carcinoma, adeno carcinoma, and large cell anaplastic carcinoma) were studied by the indirect immunoperoxidase method (PAP). SY 38 was found to react positively in 49/68 (79%) of the small cell anaplastic carcinoma (SCCL) and in 6/74 (8%) of the non-small cell carcinoma of the lung (NSCCL). Positive immunohistochemical data with antibody SY 38 showed in some cases an immunoreactive polypeptide of Mr = 40.000 obtained by immunoblotting similar in molecular weight as described for synaptophysin in other tumours. Reactivity of NSE was observed in 41/68 (61%) of the SCCL and in 8/74 (10%) of the NSCCL. Positive reactivity to GRP was similar to NSE in 42/68 (62%) of SCCL and in 7/74 (10%) of NSCCL. All cases of NSCCL reacting positively to SY 38 were found to react positively to NSE, and to GRP. Prognostic value of SY 38 was calculated vp = 0.71 for positive prediction and vn = 0.91 for negative prediction. The data indicate that SY 38 represents the broadest marker for neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung since in addition to the majority of SCCL about 10% of NSCCL are recognized by the antibody SY 38.
3134875: !synaptophysin Immunocytochemical localization of synaptophysin in human hypophyses and pituitary adenomas. Synaptophysin (SYP) was demonstrated in the cytoplasm of somatotrophs, lactotrophs, thyrotrophs, and gonadotrophs by the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method using a monoclonal antibody (SY38). Some adenohypophysial corticotrophs, most corticotrophs spreading to the posterior lobe, and Crooke's hyaline material did not immunoreact with anti-SYP. In the neurohypophysis, nerve fibers and pituicytes were immunopositive. Most pituitary adenomas, including null cell adenomas, immunostained with SYP. The presence of SYP could not be correlated with hormone content, cytoplasmic granularity, and clinical symptoms. Neuron-specific enolase was expressed with SYP in most adenomas, whereas chromogranin was present only in a few tumors. Although SYP cannot be used as a general marker to identify specifically pituitary cells or adenomas, its demonstration may be helpful in immunocytochemical characterization of some null cell adenomas.
3225869: !synaptophysin Expression of GD3 ganglioside by developing rat cerebellar Purkinje cells in situ. GD3 is a major ganglioside of the immature vertebrate CNS, and its expression is suggested to be characteristic of immature neuroectodermal cells. Using immunocytochemistry on cryostat sections of developing rat cerebellum with a monoclonal antibody specific for GD3, we have found that GD3 begins to be expressed on the plasma membrane of Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites beginning at postnatal day 7. Staining became brighter as the dendritic tree of the cells enlarged. As the Purkinje cells began to mature in different folia, they became GD3+, until by 15 days postnatal all Purkinje cells were GD3+. Positive staining of the dendritic tree was still present in the adult cerebellum. Using a monoclonal antibody 7-8D2, which recognizes cerebellar granule cells and their axons (the parallel fibres), and polyclonal antibodies against a synaptic vesicle component synaptophysin, double-immunofluorescence staining together with anti-GD3 antibodies suggested that the appearance of GD3 immunoreactivity did not correlate either with the ingrowth of parallel fibres or the presence of their synapses on Purkinje cell dendrites. However, comparison with earlier morphological studies showed that the appearance of GD3 immunoreactivity correlated well with the formation of climbing fibre synapses on Purkinje cell dendrites and the onset of the rapid expansion of the dendritic tree. These results are in keeping with the idea that elevated GD3 concentrations are found in certain cell types during periods of rapid growth or high metabolic activity but also show that this is not only restricted to immature cells.
3133243: !synaptophysin Quantification of p38/synaptophysin in highly purified adrenal medullary chromaffin vesicles. Chromaffin vesicles were first purified by differential and density gradient centrifugation in isotonic (Percoll) gradients. In subsequent sucrose gradients p38/synaptophysin exhibited the same distribution as established marker substances of chromaffin vesicles. Quantification of immunoblots revealed that 750 ng p38/synaptophysin per mg of protein were present in the chromaffin vesicles recovered from the sucrose gradient. Thus the amount of p38/synaptophysin per mg protein of chromaffin vesicles is about 100 times lower than that observed in clear (synaptic) vesicles. However, because of the large difference in surface area and protein content, the amount of p38/synaptophysin per single vesicle is the same in both types of organelles.
3377660: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical diagnosis of sinonasal melanoma, carcinoma, and neuroblastoma with monoclonal antibodies HMB-45 and anti-synaptophysin. The efficacy of two new monoclonal antibodies with cell lineage-restricted reactivity (HMB-45 [melanocytes] and anti-synaptophysin [neuroepithelial cells]) was compared with that of "traditional" antibody panels in the delineation of malignant melanoma (MM) of the sinonasal region, nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), and olfactory neuroblastoma (ONBL). HMB-45 recognized all of eight melanomas and stained one of five neuroblastomas, but failed to label any of 12 cases of NPC. All examples of ONBL were stained by anti-synaptophysin; other tumors were nonreactive with this reagent. A panel of antibodies to cytokeratin, vimentin, epithelial membrane antigen, and S100 protein was also effective in discriminating between MM, NPC and ONBL. These results suggest that HMB-45 and anti-synaptophysin are comparable in utility to more extended antibody panels in the diagnosis of sinonasal malignancies, but only if used in combination with one another.
2967699: !synaptophysin Pattern of repeating aromatic residues in synexin. Similarity to the cytoplasmic domain of synaptophysin. Synexin was isolated from bovine liver by high resolution cation exchange chromatography and fragmented with cyanogen bromide or trypsin. Peptides were isolated and their amino acid sequences partially determined. Twenty percent of the synexin sequence was determined in one contiguous sequence of 61 residues and a nonoverlapping sequence of 20 residues. The sequence is characterized by a hexapeptide repeat of the form YPXXXX occurring eight times in series, with phenylalanine substituting for tyrosine in two positions. The intervening amino acids (X) are predominantly proline, glycine and alanine. This pattern of periodic aromatic residues suggests the presence of a novel secondary structure and is similar to repeats present in synaptophysin, gliadin and type II keratin.
3361314: !synaptophysin Synaptic vesicles from mammalian brain: large-scale purification and physical and immunochemical characterization. Purification of synaptic vesicles directly from homogenates of mammalian brain is compared with a classical method based on osmotic lysis of brain synaptosomes. The direct method affords increased yield and purity of synaptic vesicles prepared under isoosmotic conditions. Antigen SV2 and the antigens (primarily synaptophysin) recognized by rabbit antiserum R10, raised to purified rat brain synaptic vesicles, are localized specifically on approximately 40-nm-diameter microsomal vesicles from rat brain. Rat brain synaptic vesicles have equilibrium densities of approximately 1.11 g/ml on Nycodenz density gradients, 1.12 g/ml on glycerol/Nycodenz, and 1.07 g/ml on Ficoll gradients. Both SV2 and the R10 antigens are enriched approximately 50-fold in purified rat brain synaptic vesicles. Synaptic vesicles purified from rat or cow brain show active uptake of [3H]norepinephrine that is reserpine sensitive and dependent on ATP and Mg2+. Synaptic vesicles exhibiting [3H]norepinephrine uptake comigrate with approximately 40-nm-diameter synaptic vesicles carrying SV2 or R10 antigens during permeation chromatography. After the Sephacryl S-1000 chromatography step, [3H]-norepinephrine uptake activity is purified approximately 90-fold. Highly purified brain synaptic vesicles should facilitate studies at the molecular level of the roles of these organelles in neurotransmission at mammalian synapses.
3130468: !synaptophysin The synaptic vesicle proteins synapsin I and synaptophysin (protein P38) are concentrated both in efferent and afferent nerve endings of the skeletal muscle. Synapsin I and synaptophysin (protein p38) are 2 major protein components of the membranes of small synaptic vesicles of virtually all presynaptic nerve endings. Synapsin I, a phosphoprotein regulated by both Ca2+ and cAMP, is a peripheral protein of the cytoplasmic surface of the vesicle membrane. It is thought to anchor the vesicle surface to the cytoskeleton of the terminal and to play a regulatory role in neurotransmitter release. Synaptophysin is an intrinsic transmembrane glycoprotein. We report here that both proteins are present and concentrated also in afferent nerve endings, which provide the sensory innervation of the skeletal muscle and of the tendon. The distribution of both antigens in sensory nerve endings is consistent with their localization on the microvesicles that have been described in such endings. Thus, our results suggest the existence of important biochemical, and possibly functional, similarities between small synaptic vesicles of presynaptic nerve endings and microvesicles of sensory endings. Such findings provide new clues to the understanding of the physiology of sensory endings.
3129538: !synaptophysin Identification and characterization of the major proteins of mammalian brain synaptic vesicles. Highly purified rat and cow brain synaptic vesicles contain major proteins with molecular weights of approximately 74,000, 60,000, 57,000, 40,000, 38,000, and 34,000 by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The presence of the major proteins on synaptic vesicles was confirmed by immunoprecipitation of intact rat brain synaptic vesicles with a synaptic vesicle-specific monoclonal antibody. The 40,000-Mr protein appeared to be identical to the 38,000-Mr integral membrane glycoprotein, p38 or synaptophysin, previously identified as a major component of mammalian synaptic vesicles. The isoelectric point of the 75,000-Mr proteins from either rat or cow brain synaptic vesicles is 5.0, and the pI of the 57,000-Mr protein is approximately 5.1 in both species. The similarity in size and charge of several major proteins in rat and cow synaptic vesicles suggests a high degree of structure conservation of these proteins in diverse mammalian species and raises the possibility that a set of functions common to most or all mammalian synaptic vesicles is mediated by these proteins.
2833341: !synaptophysin N-myc oncogene expression in histopathologically unrelated bilateral pediatric renal tumors. Renal tumors of childhood occasionally exhibit histopathologic and clinical features that preclude accurate diagnosis. Molecular and cell culture techniques may be helpful in better characterizing these cases. This approach was used to examine unusual bilateral renal tumors from a young boy. The left kidney tumor was an undifferentiated neoplasm with light microscopic features suggestive of both Wilms' tumor and neuroblastoma, and the right kidney tumor was identified as multilocular cystic nephroma (MLCN). In vitro tissue culture of tumor cells and hybridization experiments with an N-myc oncogene DNA probe contributed to a revised diagnosis of intrarenal neuroblastoma of the left kidney. A cell line established from the left tumor exhibited neurite outgrowth and was positive for neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin. N-myc was greater than ten-fold amplified in chromosomal DNA from the left kidney tumor. Measurement of N-myc RNA expression enabled distinction between benign and malignant tumor tissue. The detection of N-myc gene amplification predicted a poor prognosis which was confirmed by the patient's subsequent clinical course.
2467285: !synaptophysin Paragangliomas of the head and neck: immunohistochemical neuroendocrine and intermediate filament typing. Twenty-nine paragangliomas of the head and neck region including 20 glomus jugulare (GJ) and nine carotid body (CB) tumors were evaluated for the presence of neuroendocrine and intermediate filament antigens. Immunohistochemistry on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue was used to identify: S-100 protein (S-100); neuron-specific enolase (NSE); chromogranin A (CHA); serotonin (SER); synaptophysin (SYN); cytokeratin (CK); neurofilament (NF); desmin (DES); vimentin (VIM); and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). S-100 protein staining of sustentacular cell nuclei and cytoplasm was found in all tumors and was present in chief cells in 4 of 20 GJ and 3 of 9 CB tumors. All tumors stained with at least three neuroendocrine markers (29 of 29 NSE, 28 of 29 SYN, 26 of 29 CHA, 25 of 29 SER). CK was detected in 2 GJ and 1 CB tumor using anticytokeratins AE 1/3 and CAM 5.2. Neurofilament protein could not be demonstrated in fixed material, and all tumors were negative for GFAP and desmin. Vimentin was inconsistently detected in chief and sustentacular cells. We conclude that, in formalin-fixed material, paragangliomas have S-100 protein staining of sustentacular cells with chief cells containing antigens associated with neuroendocrine differentiation. The presence of CK in some paragangliomas is consistent with recent tissue culture studies demonstrating immunoblot confirmation of CK in pheochromocytomas and represents a potential source of immunohistologic misinterpretation in diagnosis, unless a panel of markers is utilized.
3372787: !synaptophysin Malignant rhabdoid skin tumor: an uncommon primary skin neoplasm. Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical analysis. Rhabdomyosarcomatoid renal tumors were initially described as a subset of tumors in the National Wilms Tumor Study that had light microscopic features similar to rhabdomyosarcomas. Subsequent studies failed to reveal evidence of muscle differentiation, thus the genesis of the term "rhabdoid" tumor. Such renal tumors are rapidly lethal. Recent reports suggest the occurrence of tumors with similar morphology in other anatomic sites. We wish to report a primary malignant rhabdoid tumor of the facial skin with detailed immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies. Vimentin was expressed in the tumor cells, but there was no immunoreactivity for cytokeratins, neurofilaments, muscle actin, synaptophysin, S-100, melanoma antigen HMB-45, epithelial membrane antigen, neuron specific enolase, Leu-7, leucocyte common antigen or lysozyme/alpha-1-antitrypsin. Ultrastructure revealed typical whorled cytoplasmic aggregates of intermediate filaments. These studies along with a literature review reveal the heterogeneous immunohistochemical profiles of these tumors with common morphologic features. While the histogenesis of these tumors remain uncertain, it is necessary to recognize that these aggressive neoplasms may occur primarily in the skin.
3290868: !synaptophysin Immunohistochemical evaluation of neuroendocrine cells and neoplasms of the lung. The dispersed neuroendocrine (NE) system is represented in the bronchopulmonary tract by submucosal nerves and ganglion cells and, in the mucosal lining by solitary NE cells and neuroepithalial bodies (NEB's). The latter two components variably express pan-NE markers including NSE, chromogranin (s) and, notably, synaptophysin. The expression of serotonin, bombesin, calcitonin and leu-enkephalin has been well established; additional eutopic materials include somatostatin and calcitonin gene-related peptide. Solitary NE cells and NEB's are epithelial structures as defined by their consistent cytokeratin expression. Hyperplasia and dysplasia of NE cells may be found in association with various forms of chronic injury; they have been noted in chronic bronchiectasis and in the vicinity of neoplasms of various types. Hyperplastic and dysplastic pulmonary NE cells frequently express ectopic materials particularly ACTH. NE neoplasms of the bronchopulmonary tract comprice a spectrum that includes a) carcinoids, b) well differentiated NE carcinomas, c) intermediate cell NE carcinomas and d) small cell NE carcinomas. The precise pathologic criteria defining these entities are discussed in detail as are their clinical implications. The entire spectrum of lung NE neoplasms express NE markers demonstrable by immunocytochemistry; these include pan-NE markers, serotonin and numerous neuropeptides. The expression of multiple hormonal materials is frequent. Within any given tumor, some variation in expression may be noted in different sites and in different periods of the "normal" or therapeutically modified lifespan of the tumor. The entire spectrum of lung NE neoplasms is epithelial for they express cytokeratin polypeptides and desmoplakin; subsets of the tumors coexpress cytokeratins and neurofilament proteins. Also, subsets of these NE neoplasms may be immunostained with monoclonal antibodies to antigens related to exocrine phenotype suggesting focal amphicrine features.
3290867: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine neoplasms of the thymus. Neuroendocrine tumors of the thymus bear many similarities to "carcinoids" and "oat-cell carcinomas" in other organs, and are clinicopathologically distinct from thymomas, thymic seminomas, and other primary tumors of this gland. They are associated with Cushing's syndrome or multiple endocrine neoplasia in 35% of cases, and are often locally aggressive. Approximately 30-40% of patients have distant metastases of their tumors that ultimately result in fatality, since the response of thymic neuroendocrine neoplasms to irradiation and chemotherapy is poor. Ultrastructural studies and immunohistochemical stains for chromogranin, protein gene product 9.5, and synaptophysin are effective tools for the diagnosis of thymic carcinoid and oat-cell carcinoma.
3290866: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. Neoplastic proliferations of neuroendocrine cells (NE) may occur throughout the entire GI tract but affect particularly appendix and ileum ("midgut carcinoids"), rectum ("hindgut carcinoids"), as well as stomach and the duodenum ("foregut carcinoids"). Only more exceptionally, they arise in the esophagus, jejunum and colon. The NE tumors encompass a heterogeneous gross and microscopic structural spectrum, ranging from inconspicuous microproliferations ("mucous membrane nevi") to bulky tumor masses. Their growth patterns are usually characteristic and easily recognized. In doubtful cases their NE differentiation becomes established by a characteristic silver affinity, by the ultrastructurally observed presence of characteristic "endocrine" secretion granules, and by immunohistochemically detectable occurrence of "pan-NE markers" (neuron-specific enolase, chromogranins, and synaptophysin), biogenic amines (mainly serotonin), and neurohormonal peptides. Foregut carcinoids usually contain serotonin, gastrin, and somatostatin, midgut carcinoids often only serotonin and tachykinins, whereas the hindgut carcinoids as a rule are multihormonal with a wide spectrum of hormonal peptides, including even insulin. Most GI NE tumors are found in the appendix (50%) and the ileum (30%). Practically all (98%) of the appendiceal NE tumors are benign. They have recently been proposed as arising from apparently Schwann-cell-related NE cells in the submucosa, whereas the ileal--and probably also all the other non-appendiceal NE tumors--are derived from the totipotential cells in epithelial crypts of the mucosa. Among the ileal NE neoplasms a large number can metastasize and result in a fatal outcome. The ability to metastasize is related to the size and to the multiplicity of the primary tumors at the time of initial diagnosis and, to some extent, to their histopathologic growth pattern. Now, some relationship between the prognosis and the cytochemically assessed nuclear DNA content of the NE tumor cells has also been established; not less than about 1/4 to 1/3 seem to be aneuploid. Almost 90% of the rectal carcinoids are benign. Exceptionally, a highly malignant NE neoplasms can arise from the colon/rectum--as well as from the esophagus--composed of NE cells of small and intermediate size. The NE tumors of the stomach are often composed of ECL (enterochromaffin-cell-like) cells; such ECL cell carcinoids are related to atrophic gastritis with pernicious anemia; experimentally, they can be induced by hypergastrinemia in rats. Duodenal carcinoids often contain psammoma bodies and can be associated with neurofibromatosis.
3123608: !synaptophysin Distribution of [3H]dihydrotetrabenazine binding in bovine striatal subsynaptic fractions: enrichment of higher affinity binding in a synaptic vesicle fraction. [3H]Dihydrotetrabenazine bound to a single class of binding sites in bovine striatal synaptic vesicles with an apparent dissociation constant of 3-9 nM. This is comparable to the inhibitory potency of dihydrotetrabenazine in catecholamine transport assays. In contrast to these results, [3H]dihydrotetrabenazine bound to at least two classes of sites in all other subsynaptic fractions investigated. The higher affinity class of sites was comparable in affinity to that of synaptic vesicles, whereas the lower affinity sites exhibited an apparent dissociation constant of 95-400 nM. Higher affinity sites were most abundant in the synaptic vesicle fraction, and little higher affinity binding was observed in mitochondrial and myelin fractions, or in highly purified synaptic plasma membranes. Lower affinity binding was not enriched in any subsynaptic fraction and was the only class of binding sites detected in homogenates of liver and diaphragm. The distribution of the presynaptic vesicle marker synaptophysin corresponded with that of higher affinity but not lower affinity binding. These results are consistent with the expectation that the higher affinity sites are associated primarily with synaptic vesicles and other neuronal entities that are in communication with these organelles.
3124110: !synaptophysin Protein tyrosine phosphorylation in synaptic vesicles. Protein tyrosine phosphorylation in purified synaptic vesicles from rat forebrain has been studied in the presence of Mn2+ and orthovanadate. High levels of endogenous protein tyrosine phosphorylation were observed. Four major phosphoproteins, with apparent molecular masses of 105, 94, 38, and 30 kDa, were shown to contain phosphotyrosine. The 38-kDa phosphoprotein was identified as synaptophysin (p38), a well-characterized integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles. The three other phosphotyrosine-containing proteins distributed in the same manner as synaptophysin in all subcellular fractions. Like synaptophysin, the two high molecular weight phosphotyrosine proteins (105 and 94 kDa) were found to be glycoproteins by lectin chromatography. Tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptophysin was an intravesicular reaction and reached 50% of maximal level within 3 min. Triton X-100, a nonionic detergent, inhibited tyrosine phosphorylation of endogenous protein substrates but not the phosphorylation of an exogenous substrate, poly(Glu80,-Tyr20). Tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptophysin was also demonstrated in synaptosomes, indicating that tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptic vesicle proteins occurs in intact nerve terminals.
20501236: !synaptophysin Heterogeneous distribution of synaptophysin and protein 65 in synaptic vesicles isolated from rat cerebral cortex. Rat brain cerebral cortex derived synaptic vesicles sedimenting on a 0.4 M sucrose solution were further fractionated according to size by column chromatography on Sephacryl-1000 and analyzed for their binding activities of antibodies directed against the vesicle-associated proteins synaptophysin, synapsin I, protein 65 and clathrin. Whereas synapsin I and particularly protein 65 and clathrin are associated with a large range of vesicle sizes, synaptophysin elutes with small vesicles only. Using monoclonal antibodies against either synaptophysin or protein 65 and polyacrylamide beads for solid matrix immunoprecipitation, significant differences could be revealed in the protein composition of the resulting vesicle populations. Whereas synapsin I is associated with both synaptophysin and protein 65 immunoprecipitated vesicle populations, synaptophysin appears to be only a minor constituent of vesicles precipitated with anti-protein 65. Vesicles precipitated with anti-synaptophysin antibodies are enriched in acetylcholine. Our results suggest that the vesicle membrane protein synaptophysin and protein 65 may not have a ubiquitous distribution among synaptic vesicles. Protein 65 containing large vesicle populations contain little synaptophysin and synaptophysin is mainly associated with synaptic vesicles of small diameter.
3394496: !synaptophysin Haemangioblastoma. An immunohistochemical study of ten cases. Ten cases of cerebellar haemangioblastoma were studied using the immunoperoxidase technique for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), Factor VIII-related antigen (F8RA), Ulex europeus agglutinin 1 (UEA-1), S-100 protein, neurone-specific enolase (NSE), leucocyte common antigen, synaptophysin, chromogranin and eight polypeptide hormones (bombesin, pancreatic polypeptide, somatostatin, thyroglobulin, calcitonin, glucagon, insulin and gastrin). GFAP and S-100 were demonstrated at the periphery of all tumours and in small groups of cells in the centre of four cases. Most of these cells had the morphology of reactive astrocytes but some had the appearance of stromal cells. In general stromal cells gave negative results. F8RA and UEA-1 stained the endothelial cells in each case but there was no stromal cell reactivity. NSE was present in the stromal cell component of all tumours. There was no staining for synaptophysin, for chromogranin, or any of the polypeptide hormones. It therefore appears that some haemangioblastomas contain an admixed non-neoplastic astrocytic element. NSE, F8RA and UEA-1 staining demonstrates that the endothelial and stromal cell parts of the tumour are antigenically distinct. Recent reports of polypeptide hormone expression cannot be confirmed and it is therefore unlikely that stromal cells originate from primitive peptidergic neurones.
3214497: !synaptophysin [Melanotic adenocarcinoma of the uterus. Neuroendocrine tumor of the uterus]. The case reported concerns a 76-year-old woman under treatment for a previously diagnosed "poorly differentiated endocervical adenocarcinoma". New biopsies revealed an adenocarcinomatous tumor with unexpected melanotic pigmentation. The patient underwent cesium therapy followed by colpohysterectomy with lymphadenectomy. As there were no metastases, external complementary radiotherapy was not used. Four months after surgery, a large recurrence was detected; surgical excision proved impossible but revealed a grossly pigmented tumor from which several samples were taken. The patient died 11 months after the first consultation. No autopsy was performed. Morphological study was done on the initial biopsy, on the uterine tumor and on the recurrent tumor, using histological, cytological, ultrastructural and immunohistochemical techniques. Flow cytometry and biochemical study were also carried out on the recurrent tumor. All the samples studied histologically revealed uniform tumor morphology showing a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with an irregular distribution of melanin pigmentation (Fontana +). Electron microscopy confirmed the epithelial nature of the tumor, showing differentiated apical poles with villosities, linked by desmosomes. Basement membranes were irregularly present. Electron microscopy also demonstrated the melanotic nature of the pigmentation with melanosomes and premelanosomes. A few membrane-bound neurosecretory granules were seen. Immunohistochemistry showed that the tumor contains no S 100 protein and that no staining was obtained with monoclonal antibodies against malignant melanoma. Hormonal secretion and chromogranin were not detected. Tumor cells contained neither GFAP nor neurofilaments. Positive staining was obtained for neuron specific enolase and synaptophysin. Tumor cells contained three types of intermediate filament proteins = Vimentin, cytokeratins and peripherin (peripherin is an intermediate filament protein identified in 1984 by Portier, of the college of France, who very kindly supplied the antiserum and was good enough to do most of the biochemical study. Peripherin is considered to be characteristic of the peripheral nervous system. This case is the first example of demonstration of peripherin in a tumor). The biochemical study gave the following results: Cytosol assays for estrogen and progesterone receptors were negative. Vimentin, cytokeratins and peripherin were demonstrated by a study carried out in the Collège de France. No GFAP was found. A study of the metabolism of melanin derivatives showed high levels of urinary dopamine, serum and cytosol L. dopa.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
3145671: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin in the developing cochlea. The immunoreactivity to SY38 (anti-synaptophysin antibody) was investigated in rat and guinea-pig cochleas during development. In rat pups SY38 reactivity first appeared in the inner spiral bundle (below inner hair cells) at postnatal day 3. Later on (days 10 and 15) the basal pole of outer hair cells (OHCs) was also reactive. In fetal guinea-pigs, the inner spiral bundle was reactive on day 45 of gestation, while the reactivity occurred below OHCs on day 62 of gestation. A preliminary electron microscopic finding (from a guinea-pig 62 days of gestation) indicated that SY38 immunoreactivity is localized within varicosities of efferent (olivo-cochlear) endings. Synaptophysin is thus present in the cochlea at the level where the two efferent systems terminate. Moreover, the occurrence of SY38 immunoreactivity, first at the ISB then at the OHC levels, is in accordance with the observation that the maturation of lateral efferents precedes that of medial efferents.
3142072: !synaptophysin Quantitation of nerve terminal populations: synaptic vesicle-associated proteins as markers for synaptic density in the rat neostriatum. This study has assessed the contributions of the corticostriatal fibers, the ascending striatopetal fibers, and the intrinsic neostriatal neurons to the nerve terminal population found in the rat neostriatum (caudatoputamen). For this purpose, we have analysed the levels of two different synaptic vesicle-associated proteins, synapsin I and protein p38 (also called synaptophysin), in the neostriatum after specific lesions. Our results indicate that 45-50% of the synaptic vesicle proteins in the rat neostriatum derive from the corticostriatal fibers, that approximately 25-30% of the synaptic vesicle proteins are present in kainic acid-sensitive structures, presumably intrinsic terminals and local collaterals, and that ascending fibers contain 20-25% of the vesicle-associated proteins in the neostriatum. These three neuronal populations therefore comprise 95-100% of the synaptic vesicle-associated proteins in the rat neostriatum, and thus make up most of the nerve terminals in this brain region. The results, which are in general agreement with previous morphometric studies on the rat basal ganglia, therefore indicate that nerve terminals in the central nervous system can be quantitated by use of these biochemical nerve terminal markers. The results also indicate that a somewhat higher percentage of neostriatal nerve terminals belongs to the corticostriatal fibers that previously believed.
3141225: !synaptophysin Normal Merkel cells express a synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity. Synaptophysin (SY), a specific component of the membrane of presynaptic vesicles, has been reported as a novel marker for neurons, certain neuroendocrine cells and their neoplasms including neuroendocrine carcinomas of the skin. The origin of the Merkel cells (MC) being far from clear, this study was performed to establish if normal MC express SY. It is demonstrated by immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy using a monoclonal antibody SY38 to this glycoprotein that normal MC in man, rabbit and pigs express an SY-like reactivity. Although immunoblotting identification of the immunoreactive material gave negative results, it is likely that normal MC contain SY. By immunoelectron microscopy, the staining was located at the surface of cytoplasmic vesicles. In view of the possible involvement of SY in the Ca2+-dependent neurotransmitter release, the observation of an SY-like immunoreactivity in MC supports the view that they are epithelial neuroendocrine cells and that they may possess a neurosecretory function.
2849230: !synaptophysin Small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the urinary bladder. An immunohistochemical and ultrastructural evaluation of 3 cases with a review of the literature. Small cell carcinoma with the histological appearance of pulmonary small cell carcinoma is a rare tumour in the urinary bladder. In previous case reports the neuroendocrine nature of small cell bladder carcinoma has been accepted, but on review the evidence for true neuroendocrine differentiation appears unsatisfactory. In this study the histological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural characteristics of three cases of small cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder are described. Ultrastructurally, the cytoplasm of all three tumours contained neurosecretory-type granules and each of the tumours demonstrated positive immunoreaction for two or more neuroendocrine markers, from a panel including neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin A, Leu-7, bombesin and synaptophysin. Although the combination of ultrastructural and immunohistochemical examination obviously offers the strongest evidence in establishing neuroendocrine differentiation, it is argued that immunohistochemistry alone may also yield important information in demonstrating a neuroendocrine nature, provided that at least neuron-specific enolase and synaptophysin are included as markers. The clinical relevance of identifying neuroendocrine differentiation in small cell bladder carcinoma is suggested by the favourable response to combination chemotherapy in two of our cases.
2846953: !synaptophysin Differentiation markers as an aid in the histological diagnosis of small-cell carcinoma of the lung: synopsis of intermediate filament protein and synaptophysin expression. Small-cell carcinomas of the lung (SCLCs) are frequent tumors of the bronchopulmonary tract which are distinguished by their neuroendocrine (NE) features, indicative of a derivation from the sparse neuroendocrine cells present in the normal epithelium. Because of the lack of marked morphological details, the differential diagnosis of this tumor is very difficult. We show that the epithelial nature and origin of SCLCs can be demonstrated, biochemically and immunocytochemically, by the expression of cytokeratins, notably cytokeratins 8 and 18, often together with desmosomal proteins as another independent differentiation marker. The NE character of SCLCs, on the other hand, is revealed by antibodies to certain NE-specific components, notably the broad range NE marker, the membrane protein synaptophysin. Both kinds of differentiation markers are also expressed in a number of SCLC-derived cultured cell lines which therefore may serve as valuable biological model systems to study the biology of SCLC.
2839087: !synaptophysin The morphology and neuroendocrine profile of pancreatic epithelial VIPomas and extrapancreatic, VIP-producing, neurogenic tumors. The histology, histochemistry, and ultrastructure of 43 VIP-producing tumors (34 from the pancreas, one jejunal, six retroperitoneal and two mediastinic), 37 of which were associated with the WDHA syndrome, have been investigated on paraffin sections of primary or metastatic tumor tissue. The pancreatic and jejunal tumors showed all structural and secretory patterns of epithelial endocrine tumors, including expression of cytokeratin, neuroendocrine markers like neuron-specific enolase, chromogranins and synaptophysin, peptides like VIP, PHM, GRH, PP, insulin, neurotensin, glucagon, somatostatin and enkephalin, secretory granules, small clear vesicles, peculiar osmiophilic bodies, and occasional formation of tubules or microacini with specialized luminal surfaces. All the remaining tumors were neurogenic, showing either neurons and nerve fibers together with Schwann cells (ganglioneuromas and ganglioneuroblastomas) or endocrine cells (pheochromocytomas) reacting with VIP, PHM, NPY, enkephalin, somatostatin, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and MAP2 (but not cytokeratin, PP, or GRH) antibodies. A possible origin of pancreatic VIPomas from transformed pancreatic PP cells or ductular stem cells partially committed to differentiation along the PP cell line is suggested.
2452812: !synaptophysin Computer-assisted morphometric study of the innervation of the guinea pig heart. A computer-assisted method is introduced for the morphometric analysis of immunoreactive markers of the innervation of the heart, such as synaptophysin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), neurotensin (NT), substance P (SP), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Video images of stained sections were digitalized and the area density (AD) of the immunoreactive structures was measured by discrimination for grey levels within the myocardium of the right atrium, the perivascular region of epicardial arteries, and the trunk of the bundle of His. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity (IR), which served as a marker for presynaptic vesicles, indicated a dense innervation of the conductive system (AD 1.5241). Marked differences in the pattern of distribution were found between the neuropeptides. The AD of NPY-IR (0.5073) and SP-IR (0.1352) was highest in the perivascular tissue, while NT-IR (0.1628) and CGRP-IR (0.5161) exhibited maximal values in the bundle of His. The computer-assisted morphometric measurement of the AD of immunoreactive markers is suggested to be a suitable method for quantitative studies of the innervation of the heart under normal and experimental conditions.
3134611: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin immunoreactivity and small clear vesicles in neuroendocrine cells and related tumours. Synaptophysin (protein p38) immunoreactivity has been detected immunohistochemically in neuroendocrine cells of the human adrenal medulla, carotid body, skin, pituitary, thyroid, lung, pancreas and gastrointestinal mucosa as well as in 87 out of 93 neuroendocrine tumours investigated, including pheochromocytomas, chromaffin and non-chromaffin paragangliomas, ganglioneuromas, pituitary adenomas, thyroid medullary carcinomas, parathyroid adenomas, lung carcinoids and neuroendocrine carcinomas, pancreatic and gut endocrine tumours and cutaneous merkelomas. Parallel ultrastructural investigation of synaptophysin-reactive cells and tumours revealed the presence, in addition to dense-cored, secretory granules, of a population of pleomorphic, small, clear vesicles resembling synaptic vesicles of nerve terminals as well as the synaptophysin immunoreactive vesicles already described in rat adrenal medullary and pituitary cells. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity showed several differences in its distribution among tumour and non-tumour endocrine cells when compared to chromogranin A immunoreactivity, a well known marker of the core of endocrine granules. Synaptophysin represents a reliable general marker of neuroendocrine cells and tumours, which may be useful in diagnostic histopathology.
3120152: !synaptophysin The cDNA and derived amino acid sequences for rat and human synaptophysin. 
3120313: !synaptophysin A synaptic vesicle protein with a novel cytoplasmic domain and four transmembrane regions. Complementary DNA and genomic clones were isolated and sequenced corresponding to rat and human synaptophysin (p38), a major integral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles. The deduced amino acid sequences indicate an evolutionarily highly conserved protein that spans the membrane four times. Both amino and carboxyl termini face the cytoplasm, with the latter containing ten copies of a tyrosine-rich pentapeptide repeat. The structure of synaptophysin suggests that the protein may function as a channel in the synaptic vesicle membrane, with the carboxyl terminus serving as a binding site for cellular factors.
3674283: !synaptophysin Papillary cystic tumor of the pancreas. An analysis of cellular differentiation by electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Three cases of clinically benign pancreatic papillary cystic tumors in young female patients were studied by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy in order to define the cellular nature of this type of neoplasm. Two of the tumors showed focal cytokeratin- and desmoplakin-positivity as evidence of focal epithelial differentiation, while the tumor cells were in all cases positive for vimentin--the intermediate filament protein typical of (but not specific for) mesenchymal cells. Electron microscopy showed some cell-cell junctions, but there was no evidence of acinar or islet cell differentiation. The tumors were at least focally positive for neuron-specific enolase, and small clusters of polypeptide hormone immunoreactive cells were present in all cases (glucagon 3/3, somatostatin 2/3, insulin 2/3). However, the tumors were negative for synaptophysin and neurofilament proteins, unlike most islet cell tumors. Trypsin and chymotrypsin immunoreactivity was found in all tumors, but because many nonpancreatic carcinomas were also positive, we doubt whether these two enzyme proteins can act as specific markers for pancreatic acinar cell differentiation. Two of the tumors that were studied immunohistochemically for the presence of nuclear estrogen receptors, were negative. Therefore no proof of the suggested hormone dependence of this tumor could be obtained. We conclude that papillary cystic tumor is a neoplasm of primitive pancreatic epithelial cells, that may exhibit focal endocrine cell differentiation.
3123215: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: molecular organization and mRNA expression as determined from cloned cDNA. Synaptophysin is a major glycoprotein of Mr approximately 38,000 (in deglycosylated form: Mr approximately 34,000) characteristic of a certain class of small (30-80 nm diameter) neurosecretory vesicles, including presynaptic vesicles, but also vesicles of various neuroendocrine cells of both neuronal and epithelial phenotype. Using synaptophysin-specific antibodies we have isolated cDNA clones from rat nervous tissue libraries, which identify an approximately 2.5-kb mRNA in rat and human cells, including neuroendocrine tumours, that contains a reading frame for a polypeptide of 307 amino acids with a total mol. wt of 33 312. The deduced amino acid sequence, which was partly confirmed by comparison with sequences of two tryptic peptides obtained from purified synaptophysin, revealed four hydrophobic regions of 24 amino acids each, which are characterized, according to conformation prediction analyses, by marked alpha-helicity. The sequence shows a single potential N-glycosylation site, which is assigned to the vesicle interior, and a carboxy-terminal tail of 89 amino acids which contains glycine-rich tetrapeptide repeats, the epitope of monoclonal antibody SY38, and a number of collagenase-sensitive sites accessible on the surface of the intact vesicles. These features suggest that the polypeptide spans the vesicle membrane four times, with both N and C termini located on the outer, i.e. cytoplasmic, surface of the vesicles.
3118696: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin identified in metastases of neuroendocrine tumors by immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting. Synaptophysin, an Mr 38,000 integral membrane glycoprotein of neurotransmitter vesicles, has been identified in diverse primary neuroendocrine (NE) tumors of both neural and epithelial origin (Wiedenmann and co-workers, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1986; 83: 3500-3504). In the present study, metastases of several types of NE tumors, including medullary thyroid carcinoma, gastrinoma, insulinoma, small (oat) cell carcinoma of the lung, gastrointestinal carcinoid, and neuroblastoma, were examined for the presence of synaptophysin by immunocytochemistry, with the use of tissue sections as well as centrifuged cell suspensions and by immunoblotting of tumor proteins. The results show that expression of synaptophysin can be maintained during formation of metastases. Therefore, the authors propose that synaptophysin antibodies be used for the positive identification of metastatic NE tumors, notably in differential diagnosis. The possible implications of these findings for tumor diagnosis are discussed.
3115225: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin. A new and promising pan-neuroendocrine marker. 
2820344: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin and neurofilament proteins as markers for neuroendocrine tumors. Synaptophysin, a membrane glycoprotein of presynaptic vesicles, and neurofilament (NF) proteins were tested as immunohistochemical markers for neuroendocrine tumors. Synaptophysin was consistently present in the tumor cells of pheochromocytomas (10/10), thyroid medullary carcinomas (8/8), and pancreatic islet cell tumors (6/6). Most gastrointestinal and thoracic carcinoid tumors (12/13) were positive, as were neuroendocrine carcinomas (7/9), of which two Merkel cell carcinomas were negative. The NF proteins were present in all pheochromocytomas, in three thoracic and one gastric carcinoid tumors, in four of eight thyroid medullary carcinomas, and in five of six pancreatic islet cell tumors. All intestinal carcinoids were negative for NF proteins, as were neuroendocrine carcinomas, except for two Merkel cell carcinomas that were positive. The 68-kilodalton (kd) NF subunit protein was the most prevalent in all NF-positive neuroendocrine tumors, and the 160-kd subunit was relatively often present, although in a smaller number of cells. The 200-kd NF subunit protein was regularly found in pheochromocytomas and only occasionally found in other neuroendocrine tumors. A series of nonneuroendocrine tumors, such as adenocarcinomas, sarcomas, lymphomas, and melanomas, were negative for both synaptophysin and NF proteins. Thus, synaptophysin is a specific and fairly sensitive marker for neuroendocrine tumors of both low and high grades of malignancy. The NF proteins are good markers for pheochromocytoma, and their presence is of basic tumor biologic interest and of potential diagnostic value in other neuroendocrine neoplasms.
3117578: !synaptophysin Neuroendocrine background of the pathology of the islets of Langerhans. A minireview with particular reference to synaptophysin and chromogranin A as neuroendocrine markers and to the ontogeny of argyrophil insulin immunoreactive cells in the rabbit. As in diseases of other (neuro)endocrine glands, the pathology of the islets of Langerhans comprises both states of hypofunction, notably hypoinsulinism,--diabetes mellitus--and those of hyperfunction, such as hyperinsulinism from either nesidiodysplasia ("nesidioblastosis") or genuine islet-cell neoplasms. The pathogenesis of some characteristic structural lesions of these diseases of the islet parenchymal cells is reviewed against their neuroendocrine background, both phylogenetically and ontogenetically. A preliminary report is given of the appearance of argyrophil insulin cells during the normal foetal development of the islet parenchyma of the rabbit. In addition, the distribution of the newly discovered neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and chromogranin A has been reviewed immunohistochemically in normal and neoplastic islet parenchyma cells; the insulin cells do not seem to contain chromogranin A.
3113175: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin--an immuno-histochemical marker for childhood neuroblastoma. Synaptophysin, an integral membrane glycoprotein of presynaptic vesicles, was tested as an immuno-histochemical marker for childhood neuroblastoma. Synaptophysin immuno-reactivity was found in all neuroblastomas (6/6), but not in the other small round-cell tumors to be considered in its differential diagnosis. Thus, rhabdomyosarcomas (0/5), lymphomas (0/4), or Ewing's sarcomas (0/2) were negative for synaptophysin. The results suggest that synaptophysin is a useful marker for neuroblastoma, and it should belong to the marker panel used for the differential diagnosis of small round-cell tumors of childhood.
3111171: !synaptophysin Pineocytoma with neuronal differentiation demonstrated immunocytochemically. A case report. Stereotactic biopsies were obtained from a tumor in the pineal gland of a 37 year old man. Histological and smear preparations were studied using conventional staining techniques as well as immunocytochemical methods with monoclonal antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), the neurofilament proteins (NFP), the presynaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin as well as with antisera to neuronal specific enolase (NSE). The tumor was classified as a pineocytoma. The tumor cells uniformly contained no cytoplasmic GFAP but NFP, NSE and synaptophysin as shown by the immunocytochemical techniques. The pineocytoma could thus be subclassified as a pineocytoma with neuronal differentiation. The patient subsequently succumbed due to a hemorrhage into the tumor and autopsy confirmed the biopsy findings. We conclude that immunocytochemical techniques may prove invaluable in the subclassification of tumors of the pineal region.
2442448: !synaptophysin [Immunopathology of brain tumors]. The various classifications of brain tumors are characterized by a rather disturbing diversity of tumor designations. This diversity results from the heterogeneity of human brain tumors, but also from the lack of knowledge about the histogenesis of many of these tumors. The histogenesis of some of the different types of tumor could be resolved by the application of electron microscopical studies. New aspects are gained from immunohistochemical investigations using mono- and polyclonal antibodies against intermediate filaments (GFAP, vimentin, cytokeratins), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), protein S-100, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), myelin-associated glycoprotein (Leu 7), synaptophysin and nuclear proliferating antigen (Ki-67). The present paper gives a survey on how immunohistochemistry can be advantageously used in the diagnosis of brain tumors.
3032010: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin. A new marker for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Synaptophysin (SYP) is a glycoprotein recently isolated from presynaptic vesicles of bovine neurons. Initial studies have demonstrated its presence in neurons in the brain, spinal cord and retina, and in adrenal medullary cells. A subsequent study demonstrated it in pancreatic islet cells and certain neuroendocrine (NE) neoplasms, including several pancreatic islet cell tumors. Based on these preliminary observations, we examined, by immunohistochemistry, conventionally fixed, paraffin sections of 57 pancreatic endocrine tumors with a monoclonal antibody to SYP. Furthermore, we compared the SYP immunoreactivity of 30 of these same tumors with that of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and of chromogranin (CG). SYP was demonstrated in all but one of the 57 tumors. In the comparative study, for which material was available in only 30 cases, SYP and NSE were present in 29 of the tumors, whereas CG was seen in only 15 cases. We conclude that SYP is a highly sensitive and useful marker for pancreatic NE neoplasms. Moreover, in view of the increasingly evident limited specificity of NSE, SYP should be considered the marker of choice for pancreatic NE neoplasms.
3103452: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin expression in neuroendocrine neoplasms as determined by immunocytochemistry. Synaptophysin is an integral membrane glycoprotein originally isolated from presynaptic vesicles of bovine neurons. The authors have studied a wide spectrum of neuroendocrine (NE) neoplasms by immunofluorescence microscopy on cryostat sections of freshly frozen tissues using a monoclonal antibody to this protein (SY 38). Without exception, they found the identical--or a very similar--protein expressed in all neuroblastomas, ganglioneuroblastomas, ganglioneuromas, pheochromocytomas, and paragangliomas studied. In these "neural" type NE neoplasms, synaptophysin was coexpressed with neurofilament proteins. Synaptophysin was also demonstrated in NE neoplasms of "epithelial" type in which it was predominantly coexpressed with cytokeratins and desmoplakin. It was invariably found in all variants of islet cell neoplasms and in all medullary thyroid carcinomas. Synaptophysin was also demonstrated in several adenomas of the hypophysis and parathyroids, in the majority of carcinoids of the bronchopulmonary and gastrointestinal tracts, and in many, though not all, NE carcinomas of the same sites, and of the skin. Conversely, SY 38 did not immunostain any of a large number of benign and malignant non-NE epithelial neoplasms; nor was any immunostaining obtained in a group of mesenchymal tumors. It is remarkable that SY 38 did not immunostain a number of malignant melanomas, including several that were immunostained for neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and several neuropeptides. Parallel studies conducted on conventionally fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections immunostained by the use of the avidin-biotin complex technique yielded very similar results. The findings indicate that synaptophysin is expressed in the whole range of NE neoplasms without detectable relation to the expression of other NE markers such as NSE, serotonin, and neuropeptides. Nor could the expression of synaptophysin by these tumors be correlated with their epithelial and/or neural cytoskeletal characteristics, their clinical aggressiveness, or the presence or absence of endocrinologic abnormalities. While the consistent expression of synaptophysin by the "neural" type of NE neoplasms would seem predictable its presence in diverse benign and malignant NE tumors of "epithelial" type is remarkable. It is concluded that synaptophysin is a significant as well as novel NE marker, and the use of antibody SY 38 as a broad range marker for the study and diagnosis of NE neoplasms is proposed.
3107209: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: a reliable marker for medulloblastomas. Synaptophysin is an acidic, integral membrane glycoprotein (Mr 38,000) of presynaptic vesicles in various neurons and neuroendocrine cells, and in tumours derived from such cells. By indirect immunofluorescence microscopy of cryostat sections, using the monoclonal antibody SY 38 to synaptophysin, a consistent positive immunoreactivity was observed in all medulloblastomas (n = 6) and neuroblastomas (n = 3) as well as a ganglioneuroma and a glioneuronal hamartoma. The presence of synaptophysin in medulloblastomas was confirmed biochemically by immunoblotting experiments. For purpose of comparison, the expression of intermediate-sized filament (IF) proteins was also examined. While neurofilament proteins were consistently expressed in the neuroblastomas (3/3), the ganglioneuroma and the glioneuronal hamartoma, IF distribution in medulloblastomas was variable. A neurofilament-positive type of tumour (1/6) could be distinguished from vimentin-expressing neoplasms (4/6) by immunocytochemistry. These data indicate that synaptophysin is a reliable marker for medulloblastomas as well as other differentiated and undifferentiated neuronal tumours and in this respect is superior to the more heterogeneous expression patterns of IF proteins in these tumours.
2442053: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin expressed in the bronchopulmonary tract: neuroendocrine cells, neuroepithelial bodies, and neuroendocrine neoplasms. Synaptophysin is an integral membrane glycoprotein with an Mr of 38,000 that occurs in the small, clear vesicles present in neuronal cells and tumors as well as in pancreatic islet cells and various neuroendocrine (NE) carcinomas. We found that synaptophysin is also expressed in normal NE cells of the lungs of newborn rabbits and mice as well as of human fetuses. In bronchial ganglion cells and in nerves, synaptophysin is coexpressed with neurofilament proteins (NFPs), whereas in solitary NE cells and in at least some of the neuroepithelial bodies (NEBs) of the bronchial mucosal lining, synaptophysin coexists with cytokeratins. We also studied a series of NE neoplasms of the lung covering the entire spectrum of differentiation (i.e., from carcinoids to small-cell NE carcinomas), and found that synpatophysin was present in the majority of them. In these tumors, synaptophysin was invariably coexpressed with cytokeratin filaments and desmoplakin, as well as, occasionally, with NFP. Synaptophysin was identified throughout, the whole range of these NE neoplasms, i.e., from benign to low-grade to aggressive and rapidly metastasizing carcinomas; its presence was unaffected by the highly variable expression of serotonin and/or neuropeptides in these neoplasms, and was unrelated to the presence or absence of associated endocrine syndromes. Our findings indicate that synaptophysin occurs in the neural as well as in the epithelial components of the dispered NE system of the lung as well as in the majority of NE neoplasms of this organ, and that the expression of this protein is therefore independent of the cytoskeletal characteristics and other differentiation features of both normal and transformed NE cells of the lung. We emphasize the value of synaptophysin as an immunocytochemical marker of NE differentiation.
3097029: !synaptophysin Protein p38: an integral membrane protein specific for small vesicles of neurons and neuroendocrine cells. An intrinsic membrane protein of brain synaptic vesicles with Mr 38,000 (p38, synaptophysin) has recently been partially characterized (Jahn, R., W. Schiebler, C. Ouimet, and P. Greengard, 1985, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 83:4137-4141; Wiedenmann, B., and W. W. Franke, 1985, Cell, 41:1017-1028). We have now studied the presence of p38 in a variety of tissues by light and electron microscopy immunocytochemistry and by immunochemistry. Our results indicate that, within the nervous system, p38, like the neuron-specific phosphoprotein synapsin I, is present in virtually all nerve terminals and is selectively associated with small synaptic vesicles (SSVs). No p38 was detectable on large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs). p38 and synapsin I were found to be present in similar concentrations throughout the brain. Outside the nervous system, p38 was found in a variety of neuroendocrine cells, but not in any other cell type. In neuroendocrine cells p38 was localized on a pleiomorphic population of small, smooth-surfaced vesicles, which were interspersed among secretory granules and concentrated in the Golgi area, but not on the secretory granules themselves. Immunoblot analysis of endocrine tissues and cell lines revealed a band with a mobility slightly different from that of neuronal p38. This difference was attributable to a difference in glycosylation. The finding that p38, like synapsin I, is a component of SSVs of virtually all neurons, but not of LDCVs, supports the idea that SSVs and LDCVs are organelles of two distinct pathways for regulated neuronal secretion. In addition, our results indicate the presence in a variety of neuroendocrine cells of an endomembrane system, which is related to SSVs of neurons but is distinct from secretory granules.
3093369: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: a novel marker for neurons, certain neuroendocrine cells, and their neoplasms. 
3091767: !synaptophysin Expression of synaptophysin during postnatal development of the mouse brain. The expression of the synaptic vesicle membrane protein, synaptophysin, was analyzed during postnatal development of the mouse cerebrum using a quantitative immunoblotting procedure. From birth to adulthood, the relative contents of synaptophysin increased 80-fold, reaching a final level of 3.5 micrograms/mg of total protein. The time course of accumulation suggests that synaptophysin expression is correlated with synaptogenesis. Thus synaptophysin may be used as a reliable marker of nerve terminal differentiation.
3010302: !synaptophysin Synaptophysin: a marker protein for neuroendocrine cells and neoplasms. Synaptophysin is an integral membrane glycoprotein (Mr 38,000) that occurs in presynaptic vesicles of neurons and in similar vesicles of the adrenal medulla. By using a monoclonal antibody to this protein (SY38), we have found, by immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting, that an identical or similar protein is also expressed in neuroendocrine tumors of neural type, such as pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas. In addition, this protein occurs in certain neuroendocrine epithelial cells, such as pancreatic islet cells; in a variety of neuroendocrine epithelial tumors, including isletcell adenomas and carcinomas and several carcinoids and neuroendocrine carcinomas of the gastrointestinal and the bronchial tracts; and in medullary carcinomas of the thyroid. Our results show that synaptophysin, and the vesicles that contain it, can occur in normal and neoplastic neuroendocrine cells of neural type, as demonstrated by colocalization with neurofilaments, as well as in those of epithelial type, as shown by colocalization with cytokeratin filaments and desmoplakins. We conclude that synaptophysin is expressed independently of other neuronal differentiation markers and propose that it be used as a differentiation marker in tumor diagnosis.
3086086: !synaptophysin Molecular characterization of synaptophysin, a major calcium-binding protein of the synaptic vesicle membrane. Synaptophysin, a mol. wt 38 000 glycopolypeptide of the synaptic vesicle membrane, was solubilized using Triton X-100 and purified by immunoaffinity or ion-exchange chromatography. From gel permeation and sucrose-density centrifugation in H2O/D2O, a Stokes radius of 7.3 nm, a partial specific volume of 0.830 and a total mol. wt of 119 000 were calculated for the native protein. Cross-linking of synaptic vesicles with glutaraldehyde, dimethylsuberimidate, or Cu2+ -o-phenantroline, resulted in the formation of a mol. wt 76 kd dimer of synaptophysin. Crosslinking of the purified protein in addition produced tri- and tetrameric adducts of the polypeptide. Native synaptophysin thus is a homooligomeric protein. Synaptophysin is N-glycosylated, since cultivation of the rat phaeochromocytoma cell line PC12 in the presence of tunicamycin reduced its mol. wt by about 6 kd. Upon transfer to nitrocellulose and incubation with 45Ca2+, synaptophysin behaved as one of the major calcium-binding proteins of the synaptic vesicle membrane. Pronase treatment of intact synaptic vesicles abolished this 45Ca2+ binding indicating that the Ca2+ binding site of synaptophysin must reside on a cytoplasmic domain of the transmembrane polypeptide. Based on these data, we propose that synaptophysin may play an important role in Ca2+-dependent neurotransmitter release.
3102413: !synaptophysin Distribution of synaptophysin immunoreactivity in guinea pig heart. The distribution of synaptophysin, an integral polypeptide of presynaptic vesicle membranes, was investigated in guinea pig heart by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal antibodies. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was found in varicose nerve terminals in all regions of the heart. Dense networks of immunoreactive varicosities were found to surround the vasculature and to be located within the subendocardial layers of the atria and ventricles, the highest levels being seen in the innervation of the conductive system. As synaptophysin is probably a component of the presynaptic vesicles of all synapses, its use as a marker of all nerve terminals within the heart is proposed.
3924408: !synaptophysin Identification and localization of synaptophysin, an integral membrane glycoprotein of Mr 38,000 characteristic of presynaptic vesicles. A polypeptide of Mr 38,000 has been identified as a specific component of the membrane of presynaptic vesicles, using the monoclonal antibody SY38. This protein, which is acidic (isoelectric at approximately pH 4.8) and glycosylated, appears to be an integral membrane protein, as suggested by its solubilization with the nonionic detergent Triton X-100 and the finding that the epitope recognized by antibody SY38 is located on the cytoplasmic surface of those vesicles. It is found in presynaptic vesicles of neurons of the brain, spinal cord, and retina as well as at neuromuscular junctions. It is also found in the adrenal medulla. Its occurrence in diverse vertebrate species indicates its stability during evolution. This protein, for which we propose the name synaptophysin*, provides a molecular marker for the presynaptic vesicle membrane and may be involved in synaptic vesicle formation and exocytosis.
