1Mag: !Mag Characterization of Clostridium thermocellum JW20.
2Mag: !Mag Organochlorine and heavy metal contamination in the eggs of the Spanish Imperial Eagle (Aquila (heliaca) adalberti) and accompanying changes in eggshell morphology and chemistry.
3Mag: !Mag A molecular orbital study of a model of the Mg2+ coordination complex of the self splicing reaction of ribosomal RNA.
4Mag: !Mag Distribution and diagenesis of microfossils from the lower Proterozoic Duck Creek Dolomite, Western Australia.
5Mag: !Mag Microfossils from oolites and pisolites of the Upper Proterozoic Eleonore Bay Group, Central East Greenland.
6Mag: !Mag Carbonates and sulfates in CI chondrites:  formation by aqueous activity on the parent body.
7Mag: !Mag The influence of prebiotic-type organic molecules on the crystallization of Al and Mg hydroxides.
8Mag: !Mag Changes in several blood and urine parameters during combined hyperfluid therapy for the treatment of chronic obstructive bronchitis (COB) in the horse
9Mag: !Mag Lymphocyte potassium and magnesium coMagnesium_Migraine_before1988ncentrations as prognostic factors after acute myocardial infarction.
10Mag: !Mag Salt-induced enhancement of measles virus yields in cultured cells.
11Mag: !Mag Amiloride prevents thiazide-induced intracellular potassium and magnesium losses.
12Mag: !Mag Magnesium-containing crystals in human dental calculus.
13Mag: !Mag Vitamin D metabolism in preterm infants: effect of a calcium load.
14Mag: !Mag Excretory function of intact kidney after contralateral denervation on unanaesthetized dogs.
15Mag: !Mag Benzamide-inhibitable alterations in spectral properties of chromatin accompany DNA repair in UVC-exposed L5178Y cells.
16Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia in patients with eating disorders.
17Mag: !Mag Transplacental effects of vitamin A on fetal bones in mice--follow-up studies on postnatal recovery.
18Mag: !Mag Fluid-electrolyte metabolism and renal function in men under hypokinesia and physical exercise.
19Mag: !Mag Synthesis of erythromycin by resting cells of Streptomyces erythreus.
20Mag: !Mag The effect of diuretic therapy on adrenaline-induced hypokalaemia and hypomagnesaemia.
21Mag: !Mag Circadian characteristics of dialyzable and non-dialyzable human urinary electrolytes, trace elements and total solids.
22Mag: !Mag Mechanism of calcium and magnesium translocation in acute pancreatitis: a temporal correlation between hypocalcemia and membrane-mediated excessive intracellular calcium accumulation in soft tissues.
23Mag: !Mag Clinical validation of an automated thin-film reflectance method for measurement of magnesium in serum and urine.
24Mag: !Mag Isolation of transketolase from rabbit liver and comparison of some of its kinetic properties with transketolase from other sources.
25Mag: !Mag Experimental data on the antiulcerous action of the pharmaceutical product Gastrofibran.
26Mag: !Mag Urban-rural factors affecting cancer mortality in Kentucky, 1950-1969.
27Mag: !Mag Decreased skeletal muscle potassium in obesity.
28Mag: !Mag Acute acid load in recurrent oxalate stone formers.
29Mag: !Mag Low urinary calcium excretion in Bartter's syndrome.
30Mag: !Mag Changes in calcitonin secretion and in serum magnesium following adrenalectomy in rats.
31Mag: !Mag Magnesium levels after magnesium-containing cathartics.
32Mag: !Mag Magnesium and nitrogen metabolism in lambs fed or abomasally infused with a high level of potassium.
33Mag: !Mag Magnesium pyridoxal 5-phosphate glutamate reduces hyperlipidaemia in patients with chronic renal insufficiency.
34Mag: !Mag Hydrofluoric acid burns.
35Mag: !Mag Divalent cation requirements for mounting a respiratory burst in response to phorbol diesters by macrophages from SENCAR and C57BL/6 mice.
36Mag: !Mag Effect of cisplatin on proximal straight tubule transport of divalent cations in the rabbit.
37Mag: !Mag Serum and red blood cell Mg levels in acute coronary events.
38Mag: !Mag Semen magnesium levels in fertile and infertile subjects.
39Mag: !Mag Fundamental issues for the interpretation of cellular magnesium.
40Mag: !Mag Interactions of adrenaline and magnesium on the cardiovascular system of the baboon.
41Mag: !Mag Plasma and erythrocyte magnesium concentrations and correlations with maximum oxygen consumption in nine- to twelve-year-old competitive swimmers.
42Mag: !Mag Arginine-induced hypermagnesemia and hyperkalemia in nephrectomized rats.
43Mag: !Mag Changes in intestinal calcium transport and binding in magnesium-deficient chicks.
44Mag: !Mag Density gradients for isolation of mononuclear blood cells for magnesium analysis by electron probe X-ray microanalysis.
45Mag: !Mag Experimental extracorporeal shockwave nephrolithotripsy
46Mag: !Mag Atomic absorption spectrometry of magnesium.
47Mag: !Mag Alterations in vitamin D metabolites and minerals in diabetic pregnancy.
48Mag: !Mag An open comparative study of two diuretic combinations, frusemide/amiloride ('Frumil') and bumetanide/potassium chloride ('Burinex' K), in the treatment of congestive cardiac failure in hospital out-patients.
49Mag: !Mag Hemodynamic and metabolic effects of hypomagnesemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
50Mag: !Mag Acute and chronic effects of torasemide in healthy volunteers.
51Mag: !Mag Urinary biochemical profile of patients with ureteric calculi in Jodhpur region (north western India).
52Mag: !Mag Effects of triamterene on serum and skeletal muscle electrolytes in diuretic-treated patients.
53Mag: !Mag Adsorption of antihypertensives by suspensoids. Part 2. The adsorption of acebutolol, metoprolol, nadolol, oxprenolol, and timolol by attapulgite, charcoal, kaolin and magnesium trisilicate.
54Mag: !Mag Mutagenesis; carcinogenesis and the metal elements--DNA interaction.
55Mag: !Mag Structural and microanalytical changes in dentition after radiotherapy applied in cases of tumour in the oral cavity region.
56Mag: !Mag Comparative evaluation of the toxicity of aqueous extracts of the ashes of brown coals
57Mag: !Mag The mechanism of the drug induced partial displacement of methyl green from DNA.
58Mag: !Mag A retrospective cohort mortality study of males mining and milling attapulgite clay.
59Mag: !Mag Endaural phonophoresis in treating inoperable forms of otosclerosis
60Mag: !Mag A rapid method for the quantification of C, N and O in biomedical samples by proton-induced gamma-ray emission analysis applied to human placental samples.
61Mag: !Mag Effect of ethanol on serum electrolytes and osmolality.
62Mag: !Mag Characterization of 3Hforskolin binding sites in the iris-ciliary body of the albino rabbit.
63Mag: !Mag Effects of sodium and magnesium sulfate in drinking water on mallard ducklings.
64Mag: !Mag Evaluation of magnesium, calcium and 226Ra uptake from soils into agricultural plants
65Mag: !Mag Chromatin organization in isolated nuclei: flow cytometric characterization employing forward and perpendicular light scatter.
66Mag: !Mag Accidental actinomycin D overdosage in man, a case report.
67Mag: !Mag A-61827 (A-60969), a new fluoronaphthyridine with activity against both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria.
68Mag: !Mag Magnesium metabolism in the rumens of lactating dairy cows fed on spring grass.
69Mag: !Mag The human platelet as an independent unit for sulfate conjugation.
70Mag: !Mag Maintenance of cardiac glutathione levels after cold ischemia.
71Mag: !Mag A fresh look at hypomagnesaemia.
72Mag: !Mag Studies in sheep on the absorption of magnesium from a low molecular weight fraction of the reticulo-rumen contents.
73Mag: !Mag Acidic colonic microclimate--possible reason for false negative hydrogen breath tests.
74Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy for acute myocardial infarction.
75Mag: !Mag Influence of chronic diuretic therapy on serum, lymphocyte and erythrocyte potassium, magnesium and calcium concentrations.
76Mag: !Mag The mechanism of action of GTP on Ca2+ efflux from rat liver microsomal vesicles. Measurement of vesicle fusion by fluorescence energy transfer.
77Mag: !Mag The essential role of cobalt in the inhibition of the cytosolic isozyme of 3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonate-7-phosphate synthase from Nicotiana silvestris by glyphosate.
78Mag: !Mag Stimulating effects of calcium and magnesium on serum pseudocholinesterase activity.
79Mag: !Mag Multiple overnight urine collections may be used for estimating the excretion of electrolytes and creatinine.
80Mag: !Mag Improved determination of selenium in serum by Zeeman atomic absorption spectrometry.
81Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in bacteremic patients.
82Mag: !Mag The anesthetic contribution of magnesium sulfate and ritodrine hydrochloride in rats.
83Mag: !Mag Active calcium transport by intestinal endoplasmic reticulum during maturation.
84Mag: !Mag Decreased maternal serum magnesium concentration and adverse fetal outcome in insulin-dependent diabetic women.
85Mag: !Mag Alterations in magnesium and zinc metabolism in thyroid disease.
86Mag: !Mag Improved myocardial protection by oxygenation of St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solutions. Studies in the rat.
87Mag: !Mag An investigation into the role of ascorbic acid in renal calculogenesis in albino rats.
88Mag: !Mag Variation in zinc, calcium, and magnesium concentrations of human milk within a 24-hour period from 1 to 6 months of lactation.
89Mag: !Mag Regulation of norepinephrine uptake by adenine nucleotides and divalent cations: role for extracellular protein phosphorylation.
90Mag: !Mag Effect of prolonged bedrest on the propensity for renal stone formation.
91Mag: !Mag Energy-dependent transport of nickel by Clostridium pasteurianum.
92Mag: !Mag Cerebral cation shifts in hypoxic-ischemic brain damage are prevented by the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin.
93Mag: !Mag Magnesium and inflammatory bowel disease.
94Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium-ATP following liver ischemia.
95Mag: !Mag Ischemic heart disease and magnesium.
96Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy in infants with postneonatal apnea.
97Mag: !Mag Enhancement of radioprotective effectiveness of adenosine monophosphate by magnesium aspartate in mice.
98Mag: !Mag Physiology of hard tissues in comparison with the solubility of synthetic calcium phosphates.
99Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia-induced cardiomyopathy.
100Mag: !Mag Evaluation of salmon calcitonin treatment in bone metastases from breast cancer--a controlled trial.
101Mag: !Mag Selective binding of amino acid residues to tRNA molecules detected by anticodon-anticodon interactions.
102Mag: !Mag In vitro hexagonal assembly of R-form lipopolysaccharides: effect of pH on the Mg+2-mediated hexagonal assembly.
103Mag: !Mag The influence of helium pressure on the reduction induced in field potentials by various amino acids and on the GABA-mediated inhibition in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices in the rat.
104Mag: !Mag Protection of Escherichia coli K12 structural integrity by Ca2+ and Mg2+ in bactericidal and bacteriolytic tests.
105Mag: !Mag Calcium antagonists as a new treatment modality in hypertension.
106Mag: !Mag Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency: assay for 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase activity in erythrocytes, and detection of patients and heterozygous carriers.
107Mag: !Mag Bioavailability of iron in prenatal multivitamin/multimineral supplements administered to pregnant teenagers.
108Mag: !Mag Evaluation of antacid tablets and liquid in fasting and fed men and women.
109Mag: !Mag Magnesium content and concentration of mononuclear and T lymphocyte blood cells.
110Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium hydroxide on the absorption of tolfenamic and mefenamic acids.
111Mag: !Mag Magnesium counteracts nickel-induced suppression of T lymphocyte response to concanavalin A.
112Mag: !Mag Evaluation of exposure of forest animals to industrial emissions based on changes in mineral composition of the masticatory system of deer from the regions of Western Pomerania
113Mag: !Mag The relationship between blood and fertility parameters in post partum dairy cows.
114Mag: !Mag Retrieval of intrauterine contraceptive devices with missing tails, using Lamicel.
115Mag: !Mag Crystal structure of magnesium-containing beta-tricalcium phosphate
116Mag: !Mag Use of 111In-labeled alginate to study the pH dependence of alginic acid anti-esophageal reflux barrier.
117Mag: !Mag X-ray diffraction and thermal studies of crystals from the outer and inner layers of human dental enamel.
118Mag: !Mag Evaluation of occupational exposure to nickel and other metals based on the analysis of air in the production of nickel alloys
119Mag: !Mag Dietary intake levels and food sources of magnesium and calcium for selected segments of the US population.
120Mag: !Mag Idiopathic hypercalciuria: effects of calcium load test on magnesiuria.
121Mag: !Mag Intranuclear distribution of rat liver glucocorticoid receptors by nuclease digestion in a cell-free system.
122Mag: !Mag Application and significance of X-ray analytical scanning electron microscopy in investigation of rat urinary bladder stones
123Mag: !Mag Fluidity and osmotic sensitivity changes of phospholipase A2-treated liposomes.
124Mag: !Mag Increased Ca++ or mg++ concentration reduces relative tight-junction permeability to Na+ in the cortical thick ascending limb of Henle's loop of rabbit kidney.
125Mag: !Mag Changes in cellular bioenergetic state following graded traumatic brain injury in rats: determination by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy.
126Mag: !Mag Hormone studies in Myxine glutinosa: effects of the eicosanoids arachidonic acid, prostaglandin E1, E2, A2, F2 alpha, thromboxane B2 and of indomethacin on plasma cortisol, blood pressure, urine flow and electrolyte balance.
127Mag: !Mag Studies on the nature of thiamine pyrophosphate binding and dependency on divalent cations of transketolase from human erythrocytes.
128Mag: !Mag Keeping sore muscles at bay.
129Mag: !Mag Subunit dissociation and denaturation of Fasciolaria tulipa hemocyanin.
130Mag: !Mag Urinary magnesium excretion in nephrolithiasis
131Mag: !Mag Collection and biochemical analysis of human dental plaque from the approximal tooth surfaces and comparison with plaque from free smooth surfaces.
132Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium on glucose utilization in ascites tumor cells.
133Mag: !Mag Meprin phenotype and cyclosporin A toxicity in mice.
134Mag: !Mag Spectral processing for parallel recording of elemental maps.
135Mag: !Mag Diuretic-induced CNS magnesium alteration and digoxin intoxication.
136Mag: !Mag Structural changes in lungs of magnesium-deficient weanling rats dying spontaneously or after spontaneous recovery from the seizure-shock episode. Possible methods for sudden infant death syndromes.
137Mag: !Mag Serum and erythrocyte magnesium levels in junior high school students: relation to blood pressure and a family history of hypertension.
138Mag: !Mag Sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium in the erythrocytes of patients with borderline hypertension
139Mag: !Mag Valinomycin-induced chloride permeability in isolated rat liver mitochondria.
140Mag: !Mag Activity of cefixime (FK 027) for resistant gram-negative bacilli.
141Mag: !Mag Effects of a variety of calcium sources on mineral metabolism in anemic rats.
142Mag: !Mag Ventricular fibrillation in acute experimental myocardial ischemia: protection by magnesium sulfate.
143Mag: !Mag Excretory function after renal denervation and administration of diuretics to unanesthetized dogs.
144Mag: !Mag Cardiovascular and some biochemical effects of high alcohol consumption.
145Mag: !Mag Sodium thiosulfate prevents cisplatin-induced hypomagnesemia.
146Mag: !Mag Effect of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin on the hepatic distribution of iron, copper, zinc, and magnesium in rats.
147Mag: !Mag Action of praziquantel on calcium transport in Hymenolepis diminuta.
148Mag: !Mag Selective depletion of the acetylcholine and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide of the guinea-pig myenteric plexus by differential mobilization of distinct transmitter pools.
149Mag: !Mag Characterization of alkaline phosphatase in polymorphonuclear neutrophils from normal sheep.
150Mag: !Mag Molecular flexibility of extended and compacted polynucleosomes. A steady-state fluorescence polarization study.
151Mag: !Mag Effect of an antacid on duodenal pH in severe excretory pancreatic insufficiency
152Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalysis of the element content in the hearts of mice treated with digoxin.
153Mag: !Mag An attempt to fortify drinking juices with magnesium salts.
154Mag: !Mag The effect of glucose intake on urine saturation with calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate, uric acid and sodium urate.
155Mag: !Mag Dose-related effect of inhaled magnesium sulfate on histamine bronchial challenge in asthmatics.
156Mag: !Mag Inability of flunarizine, lidoflazine or magnesium to counteract delayed hypoperfusion after forebrain ischaemia in the rat.
157Mag: !Mag Fluoride intake and utilization by Hungarian children: associations and interrelationships.
158Mag: !Mag Aluminium, calcium and magnesium content of Hungarian foods and dietary intakes by children aged 3.9 and 14 years.
159Mag: !Mag Antacid in the prevention of upper gastrointestinal bleeding in burns.
160Mag: !Mag Kidney calculi: pathogenesis and treatment
161Mag: !Mag Late changes in serum proteins and possibilities of their influencing in irradiated rats.
162Mag: !Mag Refractory hypokalemia secondary to hypomagnesemia in eating-disorder patients.
163Mag: !Mag Canine renal and systemic hemodynamic measurements after 4 weeks of a magnesium deficient diet.
164Mag: !Mag Involvement of GABA and ACh in retinal spreading depression: effects of "low calcium-high magnesium" solutions.
165Mag: !Mag Localization of different alcian blue-proteoglycan particles in the intervertebral disc.
166Mag: !Mag The behavior of trace elements in bronchial carcinoma
167Mag: !Mag The effect of age on erythrocyte magnesium concentrations of dairy cows during late pregnancy and early lactation.
168Mag: !Mag The importance of egg protein in reduced protein diets designed for dogs with renal failure.
169Mag: !Mag Investigation of ischaemic necrosis of the femoral head with trace elements.
170Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte, plasma and urinary magnesium in men before and after a marathon.
171Mag: !Mag Ten-year-replicated circadian profiles for 36 physiological, serological and urinary variables in healthy men.
172Mag: !Mag Digoxin, magnesium, and potassium levels in a forensic autopsy material of sudden death from ischemic heart disease.
173Mag: !Mag Modification of the ionic environment in the tumor cell by hyperthermia.
174Mag: !Mag Urine saturation with calcium oxalate in urolithiasis
175Mag: !Mag Hyperventilation syndrome
176Mag: !Mag Hemiacidrin: a useful component in the treatment of infectious renal stones.
177Mag: !Mag Mechanisms of mitochondrial calcium transport.
178Mag: !Mag Improved bone morphology by normalizing serum magnesium in chronically hemodialyzed patients.
179Mag: !Mag Circadian rhythm with acrophase at night for urinary excretion of calcium and magnesium in childhood: population-based data of the cimitile study in southern Italy.
180Mag: !Mag Conditions affecting the results of susceptibility testing for the quinolone compounds.
181Mag: !Mag Aldosterone and magnesium in essential arterial hypertension.
182Mag: !Mag Magnesium, potassium and zinc deficiency in subjects with type II diabetes mellitus.
183Mag: !Mag Effect of Mg2+ on fast Ka+-channels in molluskan neurons
184Mag: !Mag Influence of dietary picolinic acid on mineral metabolism in the rat.
185Mag: !Mag The effect of induced hypomagnesaemia and hypermagnesaemia on the erythrocyte magnesium concentration in cattle.
186Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency exacerbates and pretreatment improves outcome following traumatic brain injury in rats: 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy and behavioral studies.
187Mag: !Mag Chromatin and nuclear envelope of freeze-fractured, neuronal interphase nuclei, resolved by scanning electron microscopy.
188Mag: !Mag Influence of magnesium sulfate on the sizes of myocardial infarction in rabbits
189Mag: !Mag Effects of age on erythrocyte magnesium, sodium and potassium concentrations in female dairy cattle.
190Mag: !Mag Estimation of the upper limit of the free magnesium concentration measured with Mg-sensitive microelectrodes in ferret ventricular muscle: (1) use of the Nicolsky-Eisenman equation and (2) in calibrating solutions of the appropriate concentration.
191Mag: !Mag Magnesium action on the stability of fluorapatite.
192Mag: !Mag Dietary magnesium, manganese and boron affect the response of rats to high dietary aluminum.
193Mag: !Mag Postpartum changes in the mechanical responses of the circular muscle of rat uterus.
194Mag: !Mag Atrio-ventricular block in a baboon (Papio ursinus).
195Mag: !Mag Metabolic effects of glucagon on plasma and urine zinc, copper, calcium and magnesium levels.
196Mag: !Mag Acute effects of human growth hormone on zinc, copper, calcium and magnesium metabolism in normal subjects.
197Mag: !Mag Magnesium ion activity in the mammalian endolymph measured with ion-selective microelectrodes.
198Mag: !Mag A new suspension form of smectite (Liquid 'Diasorb') for the treatment of acute diarrhoea: a randomized comparative study.
199Mag: !Mag Circannual changes in the serum levels of calcium and magnesium in laboratory mice.
200Mag: !Mag Changes in the magnesium content in the blood serum of mice treated with sodium glutamate and kainic acid.
201Mag: !Mag Altered element concentrations in tissues of spontaneously hypertensive rats.
202Mag: !Mag Alcohol intake correlated with serum trace elements.
203Mag: !Mag Investigation of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity in cystic fibrosis patients.
204Mag: !Mag Acute hypomagnesaemia complicating the treatment of meconium ileus equivalent in cystic fibrosis.
205Mag: !Mag Impairment of gonadotropin binding occurs during membrane rigidification in plasma membrane samples prepared from regressed rat corpora lutea.
206Mag: !Mag The influence of magnesium on the release of calcium from intracellular depots in vascular smooth muscle cells.
207Mag: !Mag Hemodynamic changes in pregnancy and pregnancy complicated by hypertension.
208Mag: !Mag Prevention of cisplatin-induced hypomagnesemia.
209Mag: !Mag Spermine inhibition of basal and stimulated adenylate cyclase is mediated by the inhibitory GTP-binding protein (Gi).
210Mag: !Mag Unique properties of a new GTP-binding protein with a molecular mass of 24,000 daltons purified from porcine brain membranes.
211Mag: !Mag Determinations of serum and muscle magnesium in Cebus monkeys infected with different T. cruzi strains.
212Mag: !Mag Magnesium hydroxide as a complementary aluminium-free phosphate binder to moderate doses of oral calcium in uraemic patients on chronic haemodialysis: lack of deleterious effect on bone mineralisation.
213Mag: !Mag 45Ca2+ uptake and peptide hormones secretion in the presence of excess Mg2+ content.
214Mag: !Mag Cultured cell extracts support organelle movement on microtubules in vitro.
215Mag: !Mag Calcium: a program in BASIC for calculating the composition of solutions with specified free concentrations of calcium, magnesium and other divalent cations.
216Mag: !Mag Comparison of anti-arrhythmic activities of valproic acid derivatives in animals
217Mag: !Mag Protection of cadmium toxicity to B. cereus, E. coli and A. niger by Na+, Mg++ and Ca++ ions.
218Mag: !Mag Effects of Ca in the presence and absence of Mg on the cytoplasmic aspect of the Na/K pump in high K sheep red cells.
219Mag: !Mag Changes in maternal serum concentration of zinc, copper and magnesium in cases of pathological pregnancy
220Mag: !Mag Haemodynamic and metabolic effects of prophylactic nitroglycerin infusion in the immediate period following coronary artery bypass grafting.
221Mag: !Mag Characterization of the alternative complement pathway of carp.
222Mag: !Mag Magnesium release from red blood cells of hypertensive man by the ionophore A 23187.
223Mag: !Mag Amikacin disrupts the cell envelope of Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 9027.
224Mag: !Mag Does PAPS generation determine the overall sulfate conjugation in human platelets?
225Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on ATP labelling by kidney brush border membrane.
226Mag: !Mag Studies on the effect of K, Na, NH4+, VFA and CO2 on the net absorption of magnesium from the temporarily isolated rumen of heifers.
227Mag: !Mag The concentration of blood glucose, urea, calcium and magnesium in milking dairy cows.
228Mag: !Mag Acetaldehyde oxidation in rat liver mitochondria, action of Mg2+, ATP and rotenone on acetaldehyde oxidation in intact mitochondria, and on some purified aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes.
229Mag: !Mag Endogenous ADP-ribosylation in skeletal muscle membranes.
230Mag: !Mag Relationship between the sulfur content of total parenteral nutrition and sulfoester excretion in low-birthweight infants.
231Mag: !Mag Recombinants within the tyrosine kinase region of v-abl and v-src identify a v-abl segment that confers lymphoid specificity.
232Mag: !Mag Partial characterization of the enzymatic activity associated with the binary toxin (type C2) produced by Clostridium botulinum.
233Mag: !Mag Albumin and GTP modulate the affinity of prostaglandin E2 receptors in rat epididymal adipocyte membranes.
234Mag: !Mag Structure and function of bacteriorhodopsin.
235Mag: !Mag Polyamines in the cell cycle of the malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum.
236Mag: !Mag Regulation of protein synthesis by polyamines.
237Mag: !Mag Possibilities in antacid therapy.
238Mag: !Mag Magnesium, Staphylococcus aureus and toxic shock syndrome.
239Mag: !Mag Genetic regulation of blood and tissue magnesium content in mammals.
240Mag: !Mag Status of the determination of magnesium in mononuclear blood cells in humans.
241Mag: !Mag Magnesium and immune function: an overview.
242Mag: !Mag Phagocytes and monokines: perspectives on metabolic regulation in sepsis.
243Mag: !Mag Studies of magnesium metabolism in man. Original data and a review.
244Mag: !Mag Availability of body magnesium during magnesium deficiency.
245Mag: !Mag Recurrence of oxalate deposition in a renal transplant during ciclosporin A therapy.
246Mag: !Mag Effects of insulin on renal electrolyte handling.
247Mag: !Mag Is parathormone a cardiac toxin in uremia?
248Mag: !Mag Insulin modulation of pyruvate dehydrogenase in human circulating lymphocytes.
249Mag: !Mag Human tolerability and pharmacodynamic study of Tisacid tablet in duodenal ulcer patients. A prospective, randomized, self-controlled clinicopharmacological study.
250Mag: !Mag Magnesium and other nutrient deficiencies as possible causes of hypertension and low birthweight.
251Mag: !Mag Magnesium and the lungs.
252Mag: !Mag Nonpharmacologic treatment of hypertension in the United States.
253Mag: !Mag Mg2+/NH4+/polyamine system for polyuridine-dependent polyphenylalanine synthesis with near in vivo characteristics.
254Mag: !Mag Total reconstitution of 70S ribosomes from Escherichia coli.
255Mag: !Mag Management of magnesium depletion.
256Mag: !Mag Treatment of uremic hyperphosphatemia--is there still a need for aluminum salts?
257Mag: !Mag Traumatic brain injury in the rat: effects on lipid metabolism, tissue magnesium, and water content.
258Mag: !Mag Primary hypoparathyroidism in the dog. Report of 15 cases and review of 13 previously reported cases.
259Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium movements through sarcoplasmic reticulum, endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondria.
260Mag: !Mag Effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in heart failure
261Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency cardiomyopathy.
262Mag: !Mag Magnesium in health and disease.
263Mag: !Mag Consequences of phosphate imbalance.
264Mag: !Mag Controversies in the treatment of autistic children: vitamin and drug therapy.
265Mag: !Mag Oral administration of magnesium hydroxide to subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: effects on magnesium and potassium levels and on insulin requirements.
266Mag: !Mag Carrot phytoalexin alters the membrane permeability of Candida albicans and multilamellar liposomes.
267Mag: !Mag Effects of insulin on pyruvate dehydrogenase in circulating lymphocytes from normal and diabetic rats.
268Mag: !Mag Calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide in the prevention of renal osteodystrophy or the demise of aluminum toxicity in uremia. Analysis of 5 years experience.
269Mag: !Mag Renal osteodystrophy and aluminum bone disease in CAPD patients.
270Mag: !Mag Isolation and reactivation of highly-coupled newt lung cilia.
271Mag: !Mag Role of drug therapies in the treatment of alcoholism: alcohol and anxiety--alcohol and depression.
272Mag: !Mag Minerals, trace elements and cardiovascular disease. An overview.
273Mag: !Mag Fibrogenic and carcinogenic effects of antigorite.
274Mag: !Mag Innovation of the antiepileptic therapy with magnesium lactate.
275Mag: !Mag The seasonal dependence of magnesium and zinc in blood in young sportsmen.
276Mag: !Mag Thick filaments of fish myosin and its actin-activated Mg-ATPase activity.
277Mag: !Mag Disorders of metabolism of magnesium and its clinical and laboratory features.
278Mag: !Mag Hemodynamic, renal, and endocrine effects of 4-h infusions of human atrial natriuretic peptide in normal volunteers.
279Mag: !Mag Influence of EDTA on the ATPase activities of plasma membranes from winter wheat roots.
280Mag: !Mag The modifiability of periodontal tissue in Wistar rats by a variation in the magnesium content of the diet
281Mag: !Mag Characterization of a glucosyltransferase activity in liver plasma membrane: modulation by cations and lipidic effectors.
282Mag: !Mag Effect of vanadate on the vacuolar ATPase of Acer pseudoplatanus
283Mag: !Mag Evidence for in vitro regulation of IgE receptors on the human basophil membrane by their removal and reexpression: effects of Ca2+, Mg2+, some metabolic inhibitors and fetal calf serum.
284Mag: !Mag Characterization of ATPase activity in the mycelial form cells of yeast Saccharomycopsis fibuligera.
285Mag: !Mag Distribution of water, fat, and metals in normal liver and in liver metastases influencing attenuation on computed tomography.
286Mag: !Mag Characterization of a high-affinity Mg2+-independent Ca2+-ATPase from rat brain synaptosomal membranes.
287Mag: !Mag Studies of mutagenesis and neoplastic transformation by bivalent metal ions and ionizing radiation.
288Mag: !Mag Rapid kinetics measurements of Mg2+ and Ca2+ ions release from CF1-ATPase.
289Mag: !Mag N-acetylglucosamine binding activity in extracts of adult newt skin.
290Mag: !Mag The Arabian race camel normal parameters--I. Haemogram, enzymes and minerals.
291Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium, calcium, phosphate and PTH following long-term beta-blockade in ischaemic heart disease.
292Mag: !Mag The effect of alkaline earth cations and of ionic strength on the dissociation of earthworm hemoglobin at alkaline pH.
293Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia, hypoalbuminaemia and plasma lipid changes in rats following the oral administration of ciclosporin.
294Mag: !Mag Concentrations of physiologically important metal ions in glial cells cultured from chick cerebral cortex.
295Mag: !Mag Antidiarrhoeal activity of bisnordihydrotoxiferine isolated from the root bark of Strychnos trinervis (Vell.) Mart. (Loganiaceae).
296Mag: !Mag Manganese complexes and the generation and scavenging of hydroxyl free radicals.
297Mag: !Mag Kinetic characterization of a thermostable inorganic pyrophosphatase from Thermus thermophilus.
298Mag: !Mag Combined cimetidine-alginate antacid therapy versus single agent treatment for reflux oesophagitis: results of prospective double-blind randomised clinical trial.
299Mag: !Mag Lymphocyte migration molecules.
300Mag: !Mag Magnesium and regulation of carbohydrate metabolism at the molecular level.
301Mag: !Mag The medical and metabolic consequences of administration of sodium acetate.
302Mag: !Mag Nilacid tablet a new type antacid.
303Mag: !Mag Superoxide anion may trigger DNA strand breaks in human granulocytes by acting at a membrane target.
304Mag: !Mag Magnesium and cell proliferation.
305Mag: !Mag Metals of bovine heart cytochrome c oxidase.
306Mag: !Mag Effects of enalapril on lymphocyte sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium levels in patients with severe congestive heart failure.
307Mag: !Mag Clearance of chrysotile asbestos from human lung.
308Mag: !Mag Interaction of Alphaviruses with the serum complement system is a function of method of purification.
309Mag: !Mag Sodium/proton antiporters in the mitochondrial inner membrane.
310Mag: !Mag Comparative study, with photoelectron spectroscopy of the adsorption of phospholipids by 3 fibrous silicate minerals (chrysotile, crocidolite, attapulgite)
311Mag: !Mag Properties of single chloride selective channel from sarcoplasmic reticulum.
312Mag: !Mag Single Ca2+ entry and transmitter release systems at the neuromuscular synapse.
313Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium on calcium phosphate formation.
314Mag: !Mag Allosteric transition of erythrocyte alkaline phosphatase from Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) patients and Duchenne muscular dystrophy carriers (Homo sapiens).
315Mag: !Mag Activation of a Ca2+-Mg2+-dependent endonuclease as an early event in castration-induced prostatic cell death.
316Mag: !Mag Differences in magnesium and calcium effects on N-methyl-D-aspartate- and quisqualate-induced decreases in extracellular sodium concentration in rat hippocampal slices.
317Mag: !Mag Electrical tolerance of the Chara corallina plasmalemma.
318Mag: !Mag Pump currents generated by renal Na+K+-ATPase on black lipid membranes.
319Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase. Stimulation and inhibition by substituted and unsubstituted amines.
320Mag: !Mag A comparison between the empirical behaviour of the Na,K-ATPase and the predictions of the Albers-Post model.
321Mag: !Mag Complex time dependence of phosphoenzyme formation and decomposition in electroplax Na,K-ATPase.
322Mag: !Mag The catalytic subunits cooperate in (Na+ + K+)-ATPase: demonstration with MgPO4 and MgATP complex analogues.
323Mag: !Mag Purification of an Mg2+-dependent protein phosphatase.
324Mag: !Mag Protein phosphatase-2C from rabbit skeletal muscle and liver: an Mg2+-dependent enzyme.
325Mag: !Mag The effects of pyrophosphate on myosin heads and on fiber stiffness.
326Mag: !Mag Integral complexes of cytochrome c oxidase contain three coppers.
327Mag: !Mag (Na+ + K+)- and Na+-stimulated Mg2+-dependent ATPase activities in kidney of sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax L.).
328Mag: !Mag Electrophysiological evidence for oxytocin receptors on neurones located in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve in the rat brainstem.
329Mag: !Mag Adenosine antagonists combined with 4-aminopyridine cause partial recovery of synaptic transmission in low Ca media.
330Mag: !Mag Interference of WR-2721 with magnesium metabolism: mechanism of action.
331Mag: !Mag Effect of sodium bicarbonate and magnesium oxide in an alfalfa-based total mixed ration fed to early lactating dairy cattle.
332Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial inclusions in renal epithelial cells of magnesium-deficient rats.
333Mag: !Mag Solubilization and reconstitution of renal brush border Na+-H+ exchanger.
334Mag: !Mag Investigation of the biochemical state of paramagnetic ions in vivo using the magnetic field dependence of 1/T1 of tissue protons (NMRD profile): applications to contrast agents for magnetic resonance imaging.
335Mag: !Mag Effects of thiazide on erythrocyte sodium and potassium concentrations and Na+K+ATPase in hypertensive patients.
336Mag: !Mag Spontaneous rhythmic depolarization in the principal cells of the lateral geniculate body in vitro: the role of NMDA receptors
337Mag: !Mag Actin assembly by lithium ions.
338Mag: !Mag Properties and regulation of Mg2+-dependent chloroplast inorganic pyrophosphatase from Sorghum vulgare leaves.
339Mag: !Mag Calcium regulation of pigment transport in vitro.
340Mag: !Mag Neuromuscular transmission studies in preeclamptic women receiving magnesium sulfate.
341Mag: !Mag Improved immediate function of renal allografts with Belzer perfusate.
342Mag: !Mag The role of magnesium in nucleic-acid and protein metabolism.
343Mag: !Mag Properties of chymotrypsin bound covalently to dextran.
344Mag: !Mag Kinetic properties of poly (2'-O-methylcytidylic acid)-directed reverse transcriptase reaction.
345Mag: !Mag Structural properties of the proton translocating complex of the clathrin-coated vesicle.
346Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium fluxes across the plasma membrane of the toad rod outer segment.
347Mag: !Mag The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex.
348Mag: !Mag Binding of calcium to the proteolipid phosphorin.
349Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia following chemotherapy of disseminated testicular tumors
350Mag: !Mag Ethanol effect on the ionic transfer through isolated human amnion. I. Preventive and antagonistic actions of some nutrients and of their synthetic congeners.
351Mag: !Mag Calcium dependent gating of the L-glutamate activated, excitatory synaptic channel on crayfish muscle.
352Mag: !Mag Ca2+ Mg2+ ATPase in the distal tubule.
353Mag: !Mag Purified ryanodine receptor of skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum forms Ca2+-activated oligomeric Ca2+ channels in planar bilayers.
354Mag: !Mag Prevention of the recurrence of urinary lithiasis: mineral waters with high or low calcium content?
355Mag: !Mag Iodide-induced inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity in horse and dog thyroid.
356Mag: !Mag Effect of phospholipid, detergent and protein-protein interaction on stability and phosphoenzyme isomerization of soluble sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca-ATPase.
357Mag: !Mag Complexes of DNA hairpins and a single-stranded oligonucleotide detected by affinity chromatography and mung bean nuclease cleavage.
358Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial ATP synthase: dramatic Mg2+-induced alterations in the structure and function of the F1-ATPase moiety.
359Mag: !Mag Epileptiform activity induced by alkalosis in rat neocortical slices: block by antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate.
360Mag: !Mag Chlorpromazine, but not chlorpromazine sulphoxide, stimulates transmitter release from motor nerve terminals.
361Mag: !Mag Receptor-linked ionic channels mediate N-methyl-D-aspartate neurotoxicity in rat cerebellar slices.
362Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of p93fes- and p60src-related tyrosine protein kinase activities in differentiated HL-60 leukemia cells.
363Mag: !Mag Purification, properties, and genetic location of Escherichia coli cytidine 5'-monophosphate N-acetylneuraminic acid synthetase.
364Mag: !Mag Mg2+ dependence of guanine nucleotide binding to tubulin.
365Mag: !Mag In vitro and in vivo antiaggregant effects of magnesium halogenates.
366Mag: !Mag Decrease in total and free magnesium concentration following traumatic brain injury in rats.
367Mag: !Mag Extracellular ATP elevates intracellular free calcium in rat parotid acinar cells.
368Mag: !Mag Trace elements (copper, zinc, magnesium) in portal and biliary liver cirrhosis
369Mag: !Mag Taurine and GABA release from mouse cerebral cortex slices: potassium stimulation releases more taurine than GABA from developing brain.
370Mag: !Mag A new drug against hip dysplasia?
371Mag: !Mag Hydrodynamic properties of adenosine Ri receptors solubilized from rat cerebral-cortical membranes.
372Mag: !Mag Mechanism of action of Escherichia coli endonuclease III.
373Mag: !Mag Heavy metal and trace element deviations. A comparison of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and coronary heart disease
374Mag: !Mag Inactivation of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase, but not of glutamine synthetase, by S-sulfocysteine and S-sulfohomocysteine.
375Mag: !Mag Guanine-nucleotide and hormone regulation of polyphosphoinositide phospholipase C activity of rat liver plasma membranes. Bivalent-cation and phospholipid requirements.
376Mag: !Mag Ribonucleotide reductase induced by varicella zoster virus. Characterization, and potentiation of acyclovir by its inhibition.
377Mag: !Mag The effect of sodium aurothiomalate (myochrysin) on the distribution of calcium, magnesium, copper, zinc and iron in the rat.
378Mag: !Mag p-Chloromercuribenzoate-induced dissociation of cytoskeletal proteins in red blood cells of rats.
379Mag: !Mag Mg2+-induced changes of lipid order and conformation of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase.
380Mag: !Mag Conformational states of (K+ + H+)-ATPase studied using tryptic digestion as a tool.
381Mag: !Mag ATPase activity of the microvillar 110 kDa polypeptide-calmodulin complex is activated in Mg2+ and inhibited in K+-EDTA by F-actin.
382Mag: !Mag Altered Gs and adenylate cyclase activity in human GH-secreting pituitary adenomas.
383Mag: !Mag Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-induced calcium release from canine aortic sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.
384Mag: !Mag Involvement of tyrosine protein kinase in the initiation of flagellar movement in rainbow trout spermatozoa.
385Mag: !Mag Correlation of agonist-induced phosphorylation of chick heart muscarinic receptors with receptor desensitization.
386Mag: !Mag Bovine gut-associated lymphoid tissue--morphologic and functional studies. I. Isolation and characterization of leukocytes from the epithelium and lamina propria of bovine small intestine.
387Mag: !Mag Decline of blocking effect of cobalt ions on transmission from photoreceptors to horizontal cells during its prolonged application.
388Mag: !Mag Analysis of the CCRMP Oka-2 rare-earth reference mineral of the britholite-apatite series by electrothermal atomic-absorption and inductively-coupled plasma atomic-emission spectrometry.
389Mag: !Mag 3pnp 1S autoionization states of the magnesium atom.
390Mag: !Mag Electrolyte shifts between brain and plasma in hypoglycemic coma.
391Mag: !Mag Effect of heavy chain phosphorylation on the polymerization and structure of Dictyostelium myosin filaments.
392Mag: !Mag Translocation of acyl-CoA oxidase into peroxisomes requires ATP hydrolysis but not a membrane potential.
393Mag: !Mag The effect of oral magnesium-containing bowel preparation agents on mucosal coating by barium sulphate suspensions.
394Mag: !Mag Fluid and electrolyte disorders in cardiovascular patients.
395Mag: !Mag Renal magnesium wasting in a patient with short bowel syndrome with magnesium deficiency: effect of 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 treatment.
396Mag: !Mag Deoxygenation inhibits the volume-stimulated, Cl(-)-dependent K+ efflux in SS and young AA cells: a cytosolic Mg2+ modulation.
397Mag: !Mag Inhibition of K transport by divalent cations in sickle erythrocytes.
398Mag: !Mag Strontium supports capacitation and the acrosome reaction in mouse sperm and rapidly activates mouse eggs.
399Mag: !Mag Changes of elemental concentrations around/on the rat sperm plasma membrane during maturation in the male genital tract.
400Mag: !Mag Heat capacity and entropy changes of the two major isotypes of bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) parvalbumins induced by calcium binding.
401Mag: !Mag Shape changes and deformability in human erythrocyte membranes.
402Mag: !Mag Nutritive utilization of Ca and Mg in Mg-deficient rats: a recovery study.
403Mag: !Mag Effects of supplement sulfate (Dynamate) and thiamin-HCl on passage of thiamin to the duodenum and site of digestion in steers.
404Mag: !Mag Serum Mg levels in workers using vibrating tools
405Mag: !Mag Alcoholic dementia with hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia and hypoparathyroidism
406Mag: !Mag Fusion of mitochondria.
407Mag: !Mag Neurological manifestations of hypomagnesemia. Report of 8 cases
408Mag: !Mag Effect of Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent deoxyribonuclease on DNA synthesis in cell nuclei from embryos of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus intermedius
409Mag: !Mag Utilization of magnesium and other macrominerals in sheep supplemented with different readily-fermentable carbohydrates.
410Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium and potassium on microbial fermentation in a continuous culture fermentation system with different levels of monensin or lasalocid.
411Mag: !Mag Clinical clues to magnesium deficiency.
412Mag: !Mag Stopped-flow kinetic studies of Ca(II) and Mg(II) dissociation in cod parvalbumin and bovine alpha-lactalbumin.
413Mag: !Mag Effect of beverages containing lactate of fermented grains on metabolism in the human
414Mag: !Mag Trace elements in hair of epileptic and normal subjects.
415Mag: !Mag Cytosolic pH during a rest-to-work transition in red muscle: application of enzyme equilibria.
416Mag: !Mag Antihypertensive therapy--effects on magnesium metabolism.
417Mag: !Mag Isolated autosomal recessive renal magnesium loss in two sisters.
418Mag: !Mag Secretory ameloblasts and calcium distribution during normal and experimentally altered mineralization.
419Mag: !Mag Modulation of fast neutron pulses for dose reduction during in vivo activation analysis: application to the measurement of magnesium in a bone phantom.
420Mag: !Mag Effect of zinc on lysis of sheep erythrocytes by guinea pig C4-deficient serum.
421Mag: !Mag Influence of 70 percent pancreatic resection on serum and bone calcium in the rat--a preliminary report.
422Mag: !Mag Comment: Clinical significance of magnesium.
423Mag: !Mag Cerebrospinal fluid levels of magnesium in patients with preeclampsia after treatment with intravenous magnesium sulfate: a preliminary report.
424Mag: !Mag Two cases of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation with psychoneurological symptoms possibly due to hypomagnesemia caused by cyclosporin A
425Mag: !Mag Renal tubular function in the gravid rat.
426Mag: !Mag Therapeutic potential of choline magnesium trisalicylate as an alternative to aspirin for patients with bleeding tendencies.
427Mag: !Mag Interactions of calcium, phosphorus, magnesium and vitamin D that influence their status in domestic meat animals.
428Mag: !Mag Struvite precipitation by Trypanosoma cruzi.
429Mag: !Mag Captopril in the treatment of congestive heart failure.
430Mag: !Mag Human aldehyde dehydrogenase: metabolism of putrescine and histamine.
431Mag: !Mag The Escherichia coli cell division proteins FtsY, FtsE and FtsX are inner membrane-associated.
432Mag: !Mag Effect of cyclosporin on blood pressure and renin-aldosterone axis in rats.
433Mag: !Mag Tiletamine is a potent inhibitor of N-methyl-aspartate-induced depolarizations in rat hippocampus and striatum.
434Mag: !Mag The effects of excitatory amino acids on intracellular calcium in single mouse striatal neurons in vitro.
435Mag: !Mag Tonic contraction of canine gastric muscle during long-lasting calcium removal and its dependence on magnesium.
436Mag: !Mag Content of trace elements in solutions for parenteral nutrition and blood derivatives
437Mag: !Mag Inflammation-mediated osteopenia (IMO) during acute inflammation in rats is due to a transient inhibition of bone formation.
438Mag: !Mag Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase phosphorylation of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase in vitro.
439Mag: !Mag Effects of inorganic ions on rabbit ciliary process adenylate cyclase.
440Mag: !Mag Ixodes dammini: salivary anti-complement activity.
441Mag: !Mag Effects of industrial organic solvents on human erythrocyte membrane adenosine triphosphatase activities in vitro.
442Mag: !Mag The modulation of excitatory amino acid responses by serotonin in the cat neocortex in vitro.
443Mag: !Mag The effects of noradrenaline on neurones in the rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, in vitro.
444Mag: !Mag Interaction of L-glutamate and magnesium with phencyclidine recognition sites in rat brain: evidence for multiple affinity states of the phencyclidine/N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex.
445Mag: !Mag Simultaneous determination of magnesium and potassium in lymphocytes, erythrocytes and thrombocytes.
446Mag: !Mag Differences in plasma and tissue aluminum concentrations due to different aluminum-containing drugs in patients with renal insufficiency and with normal renal function.
447Mag: !Mag Free radicals generated by xanthine oxidase-hypoxanthine damage adenylate cyclase and ATPase in gerbil cerebral cortex.
448Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium ions on the inhibition of the mitochondrial ATPase (ATP-synthetase) complex by azide
449Mag: !Mag Effects of hypophysectomy and subsequent hormonal replacement therapy on hormonal and osmoregulatory status of coho salmon, Oncorhynchus kisutch.
450Mag: !Mag Decatenation of kinetoplast DNA by an ATP-dependent DNA topoisomerase from the kinetoplast hemoflagellate Leishmania donovani.
451Mag: !Mag Possible cooperativity in crossbridge detachment in muscle fibers having magnesium pyrophosphate at the active site.
452Mag: !Mag Soluble cAMP-independent protein kinase from human spleen.
453Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary magnesium on sodium-potassium pump action in the heart of rats.
454Mag: !Mag The mechanism of the inactivation of the inward-rectifying K current during hyperpolarizing steps in guinea-pig ventricular myocytes.
455Mag: !Mag Non cytotoxic guinea-pig mesenteric mast cell stimulation by protamine.
456Mag: !Mag Permeation and block of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor channels by divalent cations in mouse cultured central neurones.
457Mag: !Mag Activation of specific glutamate receptor subtypes increases C-fos proto-oncogene expression in primary cultures of neonatal rat cerebellar granule cells.
458Mag: !Mag A close ultrastructural relationship between sulfated proteoglycans and AA amyloid fibrils.
459Mag: !Mag Spermidine and spermine stimulate the transport of the precursor of ornithine carbamoyltransferase into rat liver mitochondria.
460Mag: !Mag Extracellular Ca2+ induces a rapid increase in cytoplasmic free Ca2+ in pancreatic beta-cells.
461Mag: !Mag Effects of cholesterol on the divalent cation-mediated interactions of vesicles containing amino and choline phospholipids.
462Mag: !Mag Proteinase-induced formation of focal tight junctions in HT 29 adenocarcinoma cells does not require extracellular calcium.
463Mag: !Mag Kinetic effects of ATP, divalent metal ions and pH on chicken liver mevalonate 5-diphosphate decarboxylase.
464Mag: !Mag Inositol polyphosphate 1-phosphatase from calf brain. Purification and inhibition by Li+, Ca2+, and Mn2+.
465Mag: !Mag Evidence for N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor-mediated modulation of the commissural input to central vestibular neurons of the frog.
466Mag: !Mag Guanine nucleotide modulation of muscarinic cholinergic receptor binding in postmortem human brain--a preliminary study in Alzheimer's disease.
467Mag: !Mag The resting release of acetylcholine by a retinal neuron.
468Mag: !Mag Raised extracellular potassium relieves the blockade by magnesium of NMDA-induced cerebellar cyclic GMP production.
469Mag: !Mag Comparative effects of dietary fish oil and carbohydrate on plasma lipids and hepatic activities of phosphatidate phosphohydrolase, diacylglycerol acyltransferase and neutral lipase activities in the rat.
470Mag: !Mag Rat brain N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes.
471Mag: !Mag Ligand-induced conformational changes in the Escherichia coli F1 adenosine triphosphatase probed by trypsin digestion.
472Mag: !Mag Inhibition of the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase by dicyclohexylcarbodiimide.
473Mag: !Mag Footprinting DNA-protein complexes in situ following gel retardation assays using 1,10-phenanthroline-copper ion: Escherichia coli RNA polymerase-lac promoter complexes.
474Mag: !Mag Botulinum ADP-ribosyltransferase C3 but not botulinum neurotoxins C1 and D ADP-ribosylates low molecular mass GTP-binding proteins.
475Mag: !Mag Further observations on the effect of calcium ionophores on ascites tumor cells.
476Mag: !Mag Subcellular calcium and magnesium mobilization in rat liver stimulated in vivo with vasopressin and glucagon.
477Mag: !Mag Initial-rate studies of a thermophilic glucokinase from Bacillus stearothermophilus.
478Mag: !Mag Interaction of polylysine with bovine factor Xa: effect of divalent cations.
479Mag: !Mag Lysyl-tRNA synthetase from Escherichia coli K12. Chromatographic heterogeneity and the lysU-gene product.
480Mag: !Mag Actin-activation of unphosphorylated gizzard myosin.
481Mag: !Mag The kinetic mechanism of yeast inorganic pyrophosphatase.
482Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of the Escherichia coli mutH gene product.
483Mag: !Mag Forskolin-resistant Y1 mutants harbor defects associated with the guanyl nucleotide-binding regulatory protein, Gs.
484Mag: !Mag Characterization of Na+/Mg2+ antiport by simultaneous 28Mg2+ influx.
485Mag: !Mag Reaction of 5'-p-fluorosulfonylbenzoyladenosine with the catalytic and AMP allosteric sites of microsomal HMG-CoA reductase kinase.
486Mag: !Mag Genetic variability in response to dietary calcium.
487Mag: !Mag Cholecystokinin potentiates dopamine inhibition of mesencephalic dopamine neurons in vitro.
488Mag: !Mag Interrelationships of tubulin-GDP and tubulin-GTP in microtubule assembly.
489Mag: !Mag The calcium-binding property of equine lysozyme.
490Mag: !Mag Influence of Mg2+ and Ca2+ bound to 1,5-IAEDANS-labeled phosphorylated and dephosphorylated heavy meromyosin complexed with F-actin on polarized fluorescence of the fluorophore.
491Mag: !Mag A fast passive Ca2+ efflux mediated by the (Ca2+ + Mg2+)-ATPase in reconstituted vesicles.
492Mag: !Mag MgO:LiNbO(3) single-crystal fiber with magnesium-ion in-diffused cladding.
493Mag: !Mag Determination of the kerma factors in tissue-equivalent plastic, C, Mg, and Fe for 14.7-MeV neutrons.
494Mag: !Mag Effect of water restriction and dietary potassium on nutrient metabolism in lambs.
495Mag: !Mag Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: concepts in pathogenesis and etiology.
496Mag: !Mag Magnesium-induced catharsis in chicks.
497Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary boron on mineral, estrogen, and testosterone metabolism in postmenopausal women.
498Mag: !Mag Improved methods for the isolation of individual and clustered mitotic chromosomes.
499Mag: !Mag Decreased serum selenium and magnesium levels in drunkenness arrestees.
500Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte electrolyte abnormalities.
501Mag: !Mag Treatment of magnesium deficiency.
502Mag: !Mag Characterization of human erythrocyte aldehyde dehydrogenase.
503Mag: !Mag Stabilizing influence of calcium and magnesium ions on the decameric structure of chiton hemocyanins.
504Mag: !Mag Unusual intestinal talcosis.
505Mag: !Mag Defecation dynamics and behavior profiles in encopretic children.
506Mag: !Mag Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy: the use of chemical treatments for improved stone comminution.
507Mag: !Mag Angiotensin binding sites in bovine and human retinal blood vessels.
508Mag: !Mag Inhibition of intercellular communication by nickel(II): antagonistic effect of magnesium.
509Mag: !Mag Correlations between active zone ultrastructure and synaptic function studied with freeze-fracture of physiologically identified neuromuscular junctions.
510Mag: !Mag Alleviation of cyclosporine nephrotoxicity with verapamil and ATP-MgCl2. Mitochondrial respiratory and calcium studies.
511Mag: !Mag The tumor promoter tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate elicits the redistribution of heavy metals in subcellular fractions of rabbit thymocytes as measured by plasma emission spectroscopy.
512Mag: !Mag Calcium and calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation of kappa-casein by a bovine mammary casein kinase.
513Mag: !Mag Chromatin higher-order structure studied by neutron scattering and scanning transmission electron microscopy.
514Mag: !Mag Intracellular pH in human and experimental hypertension.
515Mag: !Mag Biochemical study of whole saliva from children with chronic renal failure.
516Mag: !Mag Main properties of duck hepatitis B virus DNA polymerase: comparison with the human and woodchuck hepatitis B virus DNA polymerases.
517Mag: !Mag Clinical studies on recurrence of urolithiasis. (2) Hypercalciuria and recurrence of urolithiasis
518Mag: !Mag Modulatory action of purinergic drugs on high potassium-induced epileptiform bursting in rat hippocampal slices.
519Mag: !Mag Metal concentrations in human pancreatic juice.
520Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium oxide and vitamin B6 for the prevention of oxalate urolithiasis
521Mag: !Mag Colorimetric determination of a polymeric quaternary ammonium antimicrobial preservative in an ophthalmic solution.
522Mag: !Mag Determination of aspirin and salicylic acid by reverse-phase liquid chromatography.
523Mag: !Mag Effect of thiol reagents on the activity of NADP-dependent malate dehydrogenase isolated from bovine adrenal cortex cytoplasm
524Mag: !Mag Image processing in computerized tomography in staghorn calculi of the kidney pelvis
525Mag: !Mag A correlative study on hippocampal cation shifts and amino acids and clinico-pathological data in Alzheimer's disease.
526Mag: !Mag Reduced glomerular filtration rate and hypercalciuria in primary struvite nephrolithiasis.
527Mag: !Mag Regulation of the elemental composition of the epididymal fluids in the tammar, Macropus eugenii.
528Mag: !Mag Serum calcium and magnesium in diabetes control.
529Mag: !Mag An oscillatory mode for microtubule assembly.
530Mag: !Mag Microtubule assembly kinetics. Changes with solution conditions.
531Mag: !Mag Low blood mononuclear cell magnesium content and hypocalcemia in normomagnesemic patients.
532Mag: !Mag Quantitative energy dispersive X-ray microanalysis of eight elements in pancreatic endocrine and exocrine cells after cryo-fixation.
533Mag: !Mag Electrolyte profiles in a hypertensive population: The Newfoundland Study.
534Mag: !Mag Studies of three major proteases associated with guinea pig sperm acrosomes.
535Mag: !Mag Reconstruction of the diet of the Middle Woodland Amerindian population at Abbott Farm by bone trace-element analysis.
536Mag: !Mag Prophylactic treatment of acute gastroduodenal stress ulceration. Low-dose antacid treatment without and with additional ranitidine.
537Mag: !Mag Spheroplast induction in clinical isolates of Serratia marcescens in the presence of Ca2+ or Mg2+.
538Mag: !Mag Relationship between nutrition and reproduction in beef cattle.
539Mag: !Mag Impaired insulin-mediated erythrocyte magnesium accumulation in essential hypertension.
540Mag: !Mag Assessment of magnesium status.
541Mag: !Mag Urolithogenesis of mixed foreign body stones.
542Mag: !Mag Magnesium levels in cardiac arrest victims: relationship between magnesium levels and successful resuscitation.
543Mag: !Mag Fixation, processing, and immunochemical reagent effects on preservation of T-lymphocyte surface membrane antigens in paraffin-embedded tissue.
544Mag: !Mag Cationic interactions with Na+-H+ exchange and passive Na+ flux in cardiac sarcolemmal vesicles.
545Mag: !Mag Preparation and characterization of the major isotype of parvalbumin from skeletal muscle of the toad (Bufo bufo japonicus).
546Mag: !Mag An enzyme immunoassay for phospholamban.
547Mag: !Mag Stimulation of Ca2+ efflux from sarcoplasmic reticulum by preincubation with ATP and inorganic phosphate.
548Mag: !Mag Experimental studies with palygorskite dusts.
549Mag: !Mag Noncompetitive blockade of vasopressin-1 receptors in rat tail artery.
550Mag: !Mag Effect of Mg2+ ions on the in vitro translation of red clover mottle virus M RNA.
551Mag: !Mag Differential effects of serotonin on the spontaneous discharge and on the excitatory amino acid-induced responses of deep cerebellar nuclei neurons in rat cerebellar slices.
552Mag: !Mag Comparison of various anesthetic regimens in the domestic fowl.
553Mag: !Mag Chick brain glutamine synthetase and Mn2+-Mg2+ interactions.
554Mag: !Mag Membrane properties and adrenergic responses in locus coeruleus neurons of young rats.
555Mag: !Mag Absorption studies of the H2-blocker nizatidine.
556Mag: !Mag Neuromuscular interaction of magnesium with succinylcholine-vecuronium sequence in the eclamptic parturient.
557Mag: !Mag 3Hnorepinephrine release from hippocampal slices is an in vitro biochemical tool for investigating the pharmacological properties of excitatory amino acid receptors.
558Mag: !Mag Effect of combined therapy in patients with urolithiasis of lower urinary pH.
559Mag: !Mag High molecular weight forms of GTP-binding regulatory proteins from the bovine cerebellum
560Mag: !Mag Effects of fluoride and caffeine on the metabolism and motility of ejaculated bovine spermatozoa.
561Mag: !Mag Regulation of Na+, K+-ATPase by the endogenous sodium transport inhibitor from hypothalamus.
562Mag: !Mag Catalytic properties of inositol trisphosphate kinase: activation by Ca2+ and calmodulin.
563Mag: !Mag Expression of H1 outer-membrane protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in relation to sensitivity to EDTA and polymyxin B.
564Mag: !Mag Extracellular potassium changes in the rat neurohypophysis during activation of the magnocellular neurosecretory system.
565Mag: !Mag A microcalorimetric study of the sodium-potassium-pump and thermogenesis in human skeletal muscle.
566Mag: !Mag GRF elevates cytosolic free calcium concentration in rat anterior pituitary cells.
567Mag: !Mag Problems with PEG-based precipitation methods in the determination of HDL2- and HDL3-cholesterol.
568Mag: !Mag Myocardial magnesium content, histology, and antiarrhythmic response to magnesium infusion.
569Mag: !Mag Activation of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate kinase in rat liver plasma membranes by polyamines.
570Mag: !Mag Electrolytes and dietary fat in hypertensive cardiovascular disease.
571Mag: !Mag Current aspects of the therapy of uremic hyperphosphatemia
572Mag: !Mag Effect of ribosome-inactivating proteins on ribosomes from Tetrahymena pyriformis and Acanthamoeba castellanii.
573Mag: !Mag Affinity labeling of phosphoglycerate kinase by 5'-p-(fluorosulfonyl)benzoyl-1,N6-ethenoadenosine.
574Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent calcium occlusion in the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase. Its enhancement by phosphorylation of the enzyme.
575Mag: !Mag Nucleotide binding sites and chemical modification of the chromaffin granule proton ATPase.
576Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of CDP-diacylglycerol synthase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
577Mag: !Mag Identification of inositol hexaphosphate in 31P-NMR spectra of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. Relevance to intracellular pH determination.
578Mag: !Mag Kinetics of the inactivation of the protein-lipid complex, firefly luciferase, by sodium deoxycholate and its reactivation by phosphatidylcholine.
579Mag: !Mag Triacylglycerol lipase activity in the rabbit renal medulla.
580Mag: !Mag Effectiveness of magnesium supplementation by the oral administration of magnesium oxide
581Mag: !Mag Native starch in tablet formulations: properties on compaction.
582Mag: !Mag Functional reconstitution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in artificial lipid bilayers.
583Mag: !Mag Pb2+ and imidazole-activated phosphorylation by ATP of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase.
584Mag: !Mag Theoretical computation of coherent scattering intensities, partial structure factors, and diffusion coefficients of magnesium-bismuth melt.
585Mag: !Mag Assay of sodium-lithium countertransport rate by direct measurement of erythrocyte lithium concentrations.
586Mag: !Mag Marmoset red blood cell receptor for membrane-associated complement components is not related to human CR1: partial characterization of the C3-binding proteins responsible for the spontaneous rosette formation between marmoset red blood cells and human leukocytes.
587Mag: !Mag Acetyl phosphate as a substrate for the calcium ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
588Mag: !Mag The regulatory and basal phosphorylation sites of hormone-sensitive lipase are dephosphorylated by protein phosphatase-1, 2A and 2C but not by protein phosphatase-2B.
589Mag: !Mag The ATP,Mg-dependent protein phosphatase. Regulation by inhibitor-1 or modulator protein and stabilizing role of Mg2+ ions.
590Mag: !Mag Use of GTP to distinguish calcium transporting ATPase activity from other calcium dependent nucleotide phosphatases in human placental basal plasma membrane.
591Mag: !Mag Excitatory action of N-acetylaspartylglutamate on Purkinje cells in guinea pig cerebellar slices: an intrasomatic study.
592Mag: !Mag In situ detection of alkaline nuclease activity in cells infected with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1).
593Mag: !Mag Sodium binding to and protonation of ATP: a multinuclear magnetic double resonance study at 8.46 tesla.
594Mag: !Mag Mechanism of substrate inactivation of Escherichia coli S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase.
595Mag: !Mag Role of the divalent cation in topoisomerase II mediated reactions.
596Mag: !Mag The electrophysiological effects of nicotine in the rat cerebellum: evidence for direct postsynaptic actions.
597Mag: !Mag Anion dependence of Ca2+ transport and (Ca2+ + K+)-stimulated Mg2+-dependent transport ATPase in rat pancreatic endoplasmic reticulum.
598Mag: !Mag Thiol/disulfide exchange in the thioredoxin-catalyzed reductive activation of spinach chloroplast fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase. Kinetics and thermodynamics.
599Mag: !Mag 19F nuclear magnetic resonance as a probe of anticodon structure in 5-fluorouracil-substituted Escherichia coli transfer RNA.
600Mag: !Mag Is activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor gated channels sufficient to induce long term potentiation?
601Mag: !Mag Factors affecting the reaggregation of rat brain microsomes solubilized with octyl glucoside and their relationship with the base-exchange activity of reaggregates.
602Mag: !Mag Reconstitution of the purified (Na+ + Mg2+)-ATPase from Acholeplasma laidlawii B membranes into lipid vesicles and a characterization of the resulting proteoliposomes.
603Mag: !Mag A comparison of two digestion procedures for the determination of selenium in biological material.
604Mag: !Mag The vitamin and mineral intake of a free-living young elderly Australian population in relation to total diet and supplementation practices.
605Mag: !Mag Long-term use of magnesium hydroxide as a phosphate binder in patients on hemodialysis.
606Mag: !Mag The composition of four-hour urine samples from patients with calcium oxalate stone disease.
607Mag: !Mag Renal effects of platelet-activating factor in the rat.
608Mag: !Mag Magnesium, right or wrong?
609Mag: !Mag A new tetracycline antibiotic from a Dactylosporangium species. Fermentation, isolation and structure elucidation.
610Mag: !Mag Metabolic changes during volleyball matches.
611Mag: !Mag L-proline depolarizes rat spinal motoneurones by an excitatory amino acid antagonist-sensitive mechanism.
612Mag: !Mag Kinetics of charge transfer at the lipid bilayer-water interface on the nanosecond time scale.
613Mag: !Mag Serum concentrations of salicylate and naproxen during concurrent therapy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
614Mag: !Mag Magnesium and zinc status during the menstrual cycle.
615Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium chloride on cardiovascular hemodynamics in the neurally intact dog.
616Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia and increased sympathetic nervous system activity in the alcohol withdrawal syndrome.
617Mag: !Mag Calcium does not interfere with measurement of magnesium in the Dupont "aca-III".
618Mag: !Mag Optimized kinetic method for automated determination of beta-hydroxybutyrate.
619Mag: !Mag Diuretic-associated hypomagnesemia in the elderly.
620Mag: !Mag Glomerular filtration, renal blood flow, and solute excretion in conscious aging rats.
621Mag: !Mag Effects of a magnesium-free dialysate on magnesium metabolism during continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
622Mag: !Mag The effect of hypermagnesaemia on serum immunoreactive calcitonin levels in normal human subjects.
623Mag: !Mag Effect of cisplatin on calcium uptake by rat kidney cortical mitochondria.
624Mag: !Mag Calcium-induced ventricular contraction during cardioplegic arrest.
625Mag: !Mag Formation of encrustations on indwelling urinary catheters in the elderly: a comparison of different types of catheter materials in "blockers" and "nonblockers".
626Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium salt anions on potassium balance in normal and magnesium-depleted rats.
627Mag: !Mag Food, supplements, and fortified foods: scientific evaluations in regard to toxicology and nutrient bioavailability.
628Mag: !Mag Evaluation of magnesium before and after jejuno-ileal versus gastric bypass surgery for morbid obesity.
629Mag: !Mag Autonomic dysfunction in severe tetanus: magnesium sulfate as an adjunct to deep sedation.
630Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium transport by in situ mitochondria: electron probe analysis of vascular smooth muscle.
631Mag: !Mag Pre-eclampsia, magnesium sulfate, and blood pressure evaluation during labor: a preliminary consideration.
632Mag: !Mag Prognosis of hypertension first documented during labor.
633Mag: !Mag Accidental epidural magnesium sulfate injection.
634Mag: !Mag The relation of urinary cations to blood pressure in boys aged seven to eight years.
635Mag: !Mag Ca2+/calmodulin distinguishes between guanyl-5'-yl-imidodiphosphate- and opiate-mediated inhibition of rat striatal adenylate cyclase.
636Mag: !Mag Evaluation of prenatal vitamin-mineral supplements.
637Mag: !Mag Extrahepatic sulfation of phenols. Bovine lung and intestinal phenol sulfotransferases.
638Mag: !Mag Tamoxifen prevents the skeletal effects of ovarian hormone deficiency in rats.
639Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on the normal electrocardiogram
640Mag: !Mag The relationship of hematology and serum chemistry parameters to treatment for respiratory disease and weight gain in Ontario feedlot calves.
641Mag: !Mag Fasting plasma magnesium concentration and its relation to control in diabetic Nigerians.
642Mag: !Mag Tetany despite normocalcaemia and normomagnesaemia following parathyroidectomy.
643Mag: !Mag Effect of Mg deficiency on blood pressure in rats treated with cadmium.
644Mag: !Mag General characteristics of the superprecipitation reaction of rat crude uterine myosin B: effects of L-methionine and/or transmethylation blockers on the reaction.
645Mag: !Mag Magnesium salts in the treatment of ventricular tachycardia
646Mag: !Mag Prolonged diuretic administration and myocardial tolerance to ischaemia.
647Mag: !Mag Calcium binding and fluorescence measurements of dansylaziridine-labelled troponin C in reconstituted thin filaments.
648Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of actin from cultured BHK cells.
649Mag: !Mag Relaxation of chemically skinned guinea pig taenia coli smooth muscle from rigor by photolytic release of adenosine-5'-triphosphate.
650Mag: !Mag Copper and zinc: release from the intact and reinnervated kidney and effect on membrane transport
651Mag: !Mag Hemodynamic indicators in patients with duodenal ulcer after pharmacological tests
652Mag: !Mag Variations of zinc, calcium and magnesium in normal subjects and in patients with neoplasias.
653Mag: !Mag The effect of diet, intraruminal pH and osmolarity on sodium, chloride and magnesium absorption from the temporarily isolated and washed reticulo-rumen of sheep.
654Mag: !Mag Disorders of potassium homeostasis in critically ill patients.
655Mag: !Mag DNA bound RNA polymerase activity of the yeast nuclei.
656Mag: !Mag The importance of magnesium in orthopedics. IV. The role of magnesium deficiency in the pathogenesis of osteoarticular diseases
657Mag: !Mag Clinical evaluation of myocardial preservation with modified young-GIK cardioplegia in infant under 6 years of age
658Mag: !Mag Calcium differentially alters behavioral and electrophysiological responses to ethanol in selectively bred mouse lines.
659Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and renal magnesium wasting in renal transplant recipients receiving cyclosporine.
660Mag: !Mag Biochemical abnormalities in patients with multiple chemical sensitivities.
661Mag: !Mag Effects of a single moderate dose of alcohol on blood pressure, heart rate and associated metabolic and endocrine changes.
662Mag: !Mag Involvement of a low-molecular-weight substance in in vitro activation of the molybdoenzyme respiratory nitrate reductase from a chlB mutant of Escherichia coli.
663Mag: !Mag Phase diagrams for DNA crystallization systems.
664Mag: !Mag Humoral magnesium changes during shock and their bearing on the irreversible development of the shock process
665Mag: !Mag Crystals and calcification patterns in two lymph node calcifications.
666Mag: !Mag Blue-green algae toxicosis in five dairy cows.
667Mag: !Mag Hypocalcemic crisis in alcoholic fatty liver: transient hypoparathyroidism due to magnesium deficiency.
668Mag: !Mag The ribosomal E site at low Mg2+: coordinate inactivation of ribosomal functions at Mg2+ concentrations below 10 mM and its prevention by polyamines.
669Mag: !Mag Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II in squid synaptosomes.
670Mag: !Mag Effects of nitrates and calcium channel blockers on Ca2+-ATPase in the microsomal fraction of porcine coronary artery smooth muscle cells.
671Mag: !Mag High affinity Ca2+ -Mg2+ ATPase in the distal tubule of the mouse kidney.
672Mag: !Mag The roles of magnesium ions in the reaction catalysed by phosphofructokinase from Trypanosoma brucei.
673Mag: !Mag Stabilization of phosphofructokinase during air-drying with sugars and sugar/transition metal mixtures.
674Mag: !Mag Localization of adenosine triphosphatase activity of the endothelia in chronic relapsing experimental allergic encephalomyelitis.
675Mag: !Mag Delirium tremens. Update on an old disorder.
676Mag: !Mag Properties of the membrane-bound 5'-nucleotidase and utilization of extracellular ATP in Vibrio parahaemolyticus.
677Mag: !Mag Identification of the phosphomonoesterases that hydrolyze lysopolyphosphoinositides in rat brain and liver.
678Mag: !Mag Cytochrome aa3 from the aerobic photoheterotroph Erythrobacter longus: purification, and enzymatic and molecular features.
679Mag: !Mag Properties of phosphatidylinositol kinase of human platelets.
680Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of two isozymes of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase by inorganic phosphate.
681Mag: !Mag Pleural carcinogenic potency of mineral fibers (asbestos, attapulgite) and their cytotoxicity on cultured cells.
682Mag: !Mag Beta-adrenergic receptor desensitization of wild-type but not cyc lymphoma cells unmasked by submillimolar Mg2+.
683Mag: !Mag Laxatives after hemorrhoidectomy.
684Mag: !Mag The effects of magnesium upon adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channels in a rat insulin-secreting cell line.
685Mag: !Mag The effect of ions on sodium-calcium exchange in salamander rods.
686Mag: !Mag Atrial natriuretic factor stimulates luteal guanylate cyclase.
687Mag: !Mag Odontogenic tumor with combined characteristics of adenomatoid odontogenic and calcifying epithelial odontogenic tumors.
688Mag: !Mag ATP-sensitive K+ channels in rat ventricular myocytes are blocked and inactivated by internal divalent cations.
689Mag: !Mag Ca2+ channels in the apical membrane of the toad urinary bladder.
690Mag: !Mag Neurobiology. Taking apart NMDA receptors.
691Mag: !Mag Alterations in tissue Mg++, Na+ and spinal cord edema following impact trauma in rats.
692Mag: !Mag Bovine mitochondrial ribosomes: effect of cations and heterologous dissociation factors on subunit interactions.
693Mag: !Mag Reaction mechanism for automodification of poly(ADP-ribose) synthetase.
694Mag: !Mag Guanine nucleotide and pyrophosphate activate exogenous phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate hydrolysis in rat liver plasma membranes.
695Mag: !Mag Divalent cations reduce depolarization of primary afferent terminations by GABA.
696Mag: !Mag Antibacterial activity of sucralfate in human gastric juice.
697Mag: !Mag Subunit interaction elicited by partial inactivation with L-methionine sulfoximine and ATP differently affects the biosynthetic and gamma-glutamyltransferase reactions catalyzed by yeast glutamine synthetase.
698Mag: !Mag Methylene blue photosensitised strand cleavage of DNA: effects of dye binding and oxygen.
699Mag: !Mag 19F nuclear magnetic resonance measurement of the distance between the E-site GTP and the high-affinity Mg2+ in tubulin.
700Mag: !Mag Prohead and DNA-gp3-dependent ATPase activity of the DNA packaging protein gp16 of bacteriophage phi 29.
701Mag: !Mag Magnesium, calcium, sodium and potassium status in normotensive and hypertensive Johannesburg residents.
702Mag: !Mag Oxygen Isotopes in Refractory Stratospheric Dust Particles: Proof of Extraterrestrial Origin.
703Mag: !Mag The binding of adenosine(5')tetraphospho(5')adenosine to calf thymus histones measured by non-equilibrium dialysis.
704Mag: !Mag Changes in magnesium, zinc and calcium in men and women after an acute myocardial infarction.
705Mag: !Mag 10-Formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase. Evidence for a conformational change in the enzyme upon binding of tetrahydropteroylpolyglutamates.
706Mag: !Mag Priming of neutrophils and macrophages for enhanced release of superoxide anion by the calcium ionophore ionomycin. Implications for regulation of the respiratory burst.
707Mag: !Mag Effects of gentamicin on sphingomyelinase activity in cultured human renal proximal tubular cells.
708Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of prostaglandin E1/prostacyclin receptor of human blood platelets.
709Mag: !Mag Differential effects of chymotrypsin on magnesium, sodium, and guanine nucleotide regulation of alpha 2-adrenoreceptors of human platelets.
710Mag: !Mag Enzymatic conversion of glutamate to delta-aminolevulinic acid in soluble extracts of Euglena gracilis.
711Mag: !Mag On an Mg2+-dependent interaction of actin with glyceraldehyde-phosphate dehydrogenase. The fundamental role of KCl in the organization of F-actin.
712Mag: !Mag Feline struvite urolithiasis: fasting reduced the effectiveness of a urinary acidifier (ammonium chloride) and increased the intake of a low magnesium diet.
713Mag: !Mag Diabetes mellitus and low environmental magnesium levels.
714Mag: !Mag Circular dichroism of poly(dG-dC) modified by the carcinogens N-methyl-4-aminoazobenzene or 4-aminobiphenyl.
715Mag: !Mag Modulation of monomer-polymer equilibrium of phosphorylated smooth muscle myosin: effects on actin activation.
716Mag: !Mag Glutamate-induced ionic currents in cultured neurons from the rat superior colliculus.
717Mag: !Mag Quinolinate is a weak excitant of cortical neurons in cell culture.
718Mag: !Mag Feline struvite urolithiasis: factors affecting urine pH may be more important than magnesium levels in food.
719Mag: !Mag Na+/Ca2+ antiport in cultured arterial smooth muscle cells. Inhibition by magnesium and other divalent cations.
720Mag: !Mag Effects of local anesthetics on the passive permeability of sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles to Ca2+ and Mg2+.
721Mag: !Mag The evaporation path of seawater and the coprecipitation of Br- and K+ with halite.
722Mag: !Mag Magnesium reabsorption in the juxtamedullary loop of Henle: effect of magnesium deprivation.
723Mag: !Mag Pathways for Ca2+ efflux in heart and liver mitochondria.
724Mag: !Mag Urolithiasis in pediatrics: analysis of 34 patients
725Mag: !Mag Membrane properties of rabbit basilar arteries and their responses to transmural stimulation.
726Mag: !Mag Regenerating retinal fibers of the goldfish make temporary and unspecific but functional synapses before forming the final retinotopic projection.
727Mag: !Mag Intracellular free calcium concentration in rat anterior pituitary cells as indicated by fura-2: effect of arginine-vasopressin.
728Mag: !Mag Interaction of polyamines with chromatin and DNA: formation of compact structures
729Mag: !Mag Effects of oral laxatives on colonic motor complexes in dogs.
730Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium level and arterial calcification in end-stage renal disease.
731Mag: !Mag Lasalocid and dietary sodium and potassium effects on mineral metabolism, ruminal volatile fatty acids and performance of finishing steers.
732Mag: !Mag Macromineral absorption in sheep fed tetany-prone and non-tetany-prone hays.
733Mag: !Mag Why is Mg2+ necessary for specific cleavage of the terminal phosphoryl group of ATP?
734Mag: !Mag Role of scanning electron microscopy and x-ray microanalysis in the identification of urinary crystals.
735Mag: !Mag The role of magnesium in neonatal calcium homeostasis: effects of magnesium infusion on calciotropic hormones and calcium.
736Mag: !Mag Effect of cimetidine on tissue distribution of some trace elements and minerals in the rat.
737Mag: !Mag Effect of addition of magnesium to potassium-containing fluorocarbon cardioplegic preparations. An experimental study.
738Mag: !Mag Hair minerals and diet of Prader-Willi syndrome youth.
739Mag: !Mag Determinants of Legionella pneumophila contamination of water distribution systems: 15-hospital prospective study.
740Mag: !Mag The value of serum magnesium determination in hypertensive patients receiving diuretics.
741Mag: !Mag Free radicals and cardioplegia: allopurinol and oxypurinol reduce myocardial injury following ischemic arrest.
742Mag: !Mag Dependence of tonic tension on extracellular calcium in rat extraocular muscle.
743Mag: !Mag Acute pancreatitis and primary hyperparathyroidism in pregnancy: treatment of hypercalcemia with magnesium sulfate.
744Mag: !Mag Cerebral vasoconstriction in toxemia.
745Mag: !Mag Fluoride concentrations in a collection of urinary calculi.
746Mag: !Mag Picrotoxin but not bicuculline antagonizes 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced inhibition of cerebellar Purkinje neurons.
747Mag: !Mag Comparison of noninvasive breath hydrogen test for gastric acid secretion to standard intubation test in infants and young children.
748Mag: !Mag Comparison of noninvasive breath hydrogen test for gastric acid secretion to standard intubation test in adults.
749Mag: !Mag A simple method for determining physiologically active calcium and magnesium concentrations in critically ill patients.
750Mag: !Mag A commercial electrochemical method evaluated for measurement of iron status.
751Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural localization of intracellular calcium stores by a new cytochemical method.
752Mag: !Mag Normal serum concentrations of magnesium and calcium in mothers and their newborn infants
753Mag: !Mag Serum biochemical and haematological parameters in the Cape vulture Gyps coprotheres.
754Mag: !Mag Blood chemical parameters in the warthog Phacochoerus aethiopicus.
755Mag: !Mag Blood chemical and electrolyte concentrations in the mountain reedbuck Redunca fulvorufula.
756Mag: !Mag Effects of certain anaesthetics on plasma metabolite concentrations in the baboon (Papio ursinus).
757Mag: !Mag Serum levels and urinary excretion of magnesium in pregnancy. Effect of milk intake
758Mag: !Mag The experimental study of the coronary reperfusion in the acute myocardial ischemia: the feasibility of the myocardial salvage.
759Mag: !Mag MgADP- increases maximum tension and Ca2+ sensitivity in skinned rabbit soleus fibers.
760Mag: !Mag Effect of food and various antacids on the absorption of tenoxicam.
761Mag: !Mag Torsade de pointes during administration of pentamidine isethionate.
762Mag: !Mag Electron microprobe and microradiographic studies of carious enamel lesions covered with dental calculus.
763Mag: !Mag Gastric prostaglandin E2 release induced by aluminium hydroxide and aluminium hydroxide-containing antacids in rats. Effect of low doses and citric acid.
764Mag: !Mag Periodontally diseased vs. normal roots as evaluated by scanning electron microscopy and electron probe analysis.
765Mag: !Mag Some properties of a system for sodium-dependent outward movement of magnesium from metabolizing human red blood cells.
766Mag: !Mag Clinical studies on the recurrence of urolithiasis: (1). Influence of diet on urinary excretion of the stone forming constituents
767Mag: !Mag Kinetics of the conformational change of skeletal troponin C induced by Ca2+-Mg2+ exchange at the high-affinity Ca2+-binding sites.
768Mag: !Mag Studies on histamine containing cells in the spleen of the magnesium-deficient rats
769Mag: !Mag Voltage-dependent calcium release in guinea-pig cardiac ventricular muscle as antagonized by magnesium and calcium.
770Mag: !Mag Electroanalytic determination of cations in hemodialysis solutions
771Mag: !Mag Non-pharmacological treatment of hypertension.
772Mag: !Mag Magnesium and cardiac arrhythmias. Revived interest for an old substance
773Mag: !Mag On the pathogenesis of toxic shock syndrome.
774Mag: !Mag The relationship between disorders of K+ and Mg+ homeostasis.
775Mag: !Mag Antimicrobial activity of tertiary amine covalently bonded to a polystyrene fiber.
776Mag: !Mag The effect of estrogen on luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone binding sites in hypothalamic membranes.
777Mag: !Mag Determination of water and electrolytes in muscle biopsies in the nutritional assessment of clinical disorders.
778Mag: !Mag Magnesium: the forgotten cation.
779Mag: !Mag Increased sensitivity to erythromycin in Escherichia coli associated with the presence of the ColV,I-K94 virulence plasmid.
780Mag: !Mag Nonpharmacologic therapy of hypertension.
781Mag: !Mag Cations and hypertension: sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium.
782Mag: !Mag Activation of the classical and alternative pathways of complement by Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum and Treponema vincentii.
783Mag: !Mag A randomized clinical trial comparing ranitidine and antacids in critically ill patients.
784Mag: !Mag Evaluation of systemic magnesium reserves in patients with calcium-induced kidney calculi
785Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and heart complications in diabetes mellitus.
786Mag: !Mag Comparison of active and inactive forms of the E. coli 30S ribosomal subunits.
787Mag: !Mag DNA-dependent RNA polymerase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
788Mag: !Mag The renal handling of sodium and water is not affected by the standard-dose cisplatin treatment for testicular cancer.
789Mag: !Mag Uptake and expression of bacterial and cyanobacterial genes by isolated cucumber etioplasts.
790Mag: !Mag N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-induced, inherent oscillatory activity in neurons active during fictive locomotion in the lamprey.
791Mag: !Mag A modified adenosine polyphosphatase histochemical method to demonstrate Langerhans cells in fragile epidermis.
792Mag: !Mag Alterations in Ca2+/Mg2+ ATPase activity upon treatment of heart sarcolemma with phospholipases.
793Mag: !Mag Solubilization of a divalent cation dependent ATPase from dog heart sarcolemma.
794Mag: !Mag Identification of a vanadate-sensitive, membrane-bound ATPase in the archaebacterium Methanococcus voltae.
795Mag: !Mag Magnesium and myocardial necrosis
796Mag: !Mag Interaction between extracellular magnesium and the passage of calcium through the sarcolemma during depolarization of isolated feline coronary and femoral arteries.
797Mag: !Mag Regulation of ciliary adenylate cyclase by Ca2+ in Paramecium.
798Mag: !Mag Anesthesia for preterm delivery, breech presentation, and multiple gestation.
799Mag: !Mag The plasma membrane ATPase of the thermoacidophilic archaebacterium Sulfolobus acidocaldarius. Purification and immunological relationships to F1-ATPases.
800Mag: !Mag Postejaculatory zinc redistribution and sperm senescence.
801Mag: !Mag Ca/Mg-dependent endonuclease as a probe for detecting chromatin changes in lymphocytes in chronic lymphoid leukemia
802Mag: !Mag Influence of specific growth rate and nutrient-limitation upon the sensitivity of Escherichia coli towards polymyxin B.
803Mag: !Mag Functional and physical characteristics of rat Leydig cell populations isolated by metrizamide and Percoll gradient centrifugation.
804Mag: !Mag Milk-alkali syndrome
805Mag: !Mag Effect of glycosaminoglycans on calcium pyrophosphate crystal formation in collagen gels.
806Mag: !Mag Specific effect of guar gum or gum arabic on adaptation of cecal digestion to high fiber diets in the rat.
807Mag: !Mag Non-specific RNA degradation in the presence of magnesium ions
808Mag: !Mag Membrane ATPases and acid tolerance of Actinomyces viscosus and Lactobacillus casei.
809Mag: !Mag Is verapamil a better magnesium agonist rather than a calcium antagonist? A hypothesis?
810Mag: !Mag Technique and staining optimization leucoconcentration.
811Mag: !Mag Specific, selective, and complete staining of neurons of the myenteric plexus, using cuprolinic blue.
812Mag: !Mag An Arg-Gly-Asp-directed receptor on the surface of human melanoma cells exists in an divalent cation-dependent functional complex with the disialoganglioside GD2.
813Mag: !Mag Activation and inhibition of the calcium gate of sarcoplasmic reticulum by high-affinity ryanodine binding.
814Mag: !Mag Regulation of the activity of adenylate cyclase in the superior cervical ganglion of the guinea pig: role of the Mg++ ions and guanine nucleotides
815Mag: !Mag The primary structure of iron superoxide dismutase from Escherichia coli.
816Mag: !Mag The binding of Ca2+ to Ca2+-transporting microsomes derived from bovine uterine sarcoplasmic reticulum.
817Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium in the aetiology of ovine urolithiasis in fattening store lambs and intensively fattened lambs.
818Mag: !Mag Reversibility of the low-salt transition of chromatin core particles.
819Mag: !Mag Protein kinase activity can be separated from the purified activated rat liver glucocorticoid receptor.
820Mag: !Mag Nuclear overhauser effect studies on the conformation of magnesium adenosine 5'-triphosphate bound to rabbit muscle creatine kinase.
821Mag: !Mag The acceleration of Na+,K+-ATPase activity by ATP and ATP analogues.
822Mag: !Mag Effect of metal bound to the substrate site on calcium release from the phosphoenzyme intermediate of sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase.
823Mag: !Mag In Practice quiz: sweet-itch.
824Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations on the ultrasonic absorption coefficient of negatively charged liposomes (LUV) near their phase transition temperature.
825Mag: !Mag Molecular size of the nuclear thyroid hormone receptor.
826Mag: !Mag The experimental basis of some recent hypotheses on the mechanism of the polymerization of actin: a reappraisal.
827Mag: !Mag Characterization of methylphosphonate as a 31P NMR pH indicator.
828Mag: !Mag Ionic regulation of adenylate cyclase from the cilia of Paramecium tetraurelia.
829Mag: !Mag Guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) reduces ADP-ribosylation of the inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein of adenylyl cyclase (Ni) by pertussis toxin without causing dissociation of the subunits of Ni. Evidence of existence of heterotrimeric pt+ and pt- conformations of Ni.
830Mag: !Mag Proximity and ligand-induced movement of interdomain residues in myosin subfragment 1 containing trapped MgADP and MgPPi probed by multifunctional cross-linking.
831Mag: !Mag Inhibition by amine bases or by sodium ions and protection by divalent cations in the hydrolysis of phosphoenzyme of (Na,K)-ATPase.
832Mag: !Mag Colorectal polyps and diet: a case-control study in Marseilles.
833Mag: !Mag The concentrations of free Mg2+ and free Zn2+ in equine blood plasma.
834Mag: !Mag Rapid release of 42K or 86Rb from two distinct transport sites on the Na,K-pump in the presence of Pi or vanadate.
835Mag: !Mag Rapid release of 42K and 86Rb from an occluded state of the Na,K-pump in the presence of ATP or ADP.
836Mag: !Mag Intracellular magnesium of mononuclear cells from venous blood of clinically healthy subjects.
837Mag: !Mag Reversible activation of NADPH oxidase in membranes of HL-60 human leukemic cells.
838Mag: !Mag Site-specific phosphorylation induces disassembly of vimentin filaments in vitro.
839Mag: !Mag Micromolar concentrations of Zn2+ antagonize NMDA and GABA responses of hippocampal neurons.
840Mag: !Mag A small catalytic oligoribonucleotide.
841Mag: !Mag Neurotoxicity of quinolinate in the rat nucleus basalis magnocellularis.
842Mag: !Mag ADP, chloride ion, and metal ion binding to bovine brain glutamine synthetase.
843Mag: !Mag IL-3A virus infection of a Chlorella-like green alga induces a DNA restriction endonuclease with novel sequence specificity.
844Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency. Diagnosis and occurrence of different disease conditions
845Mag: !Mag In Practice quiz: sweet-itch.
846Mag: !Mag Ca2+-dependent ATP hydrolysis of the porcine intestinal brush-border membranes.
847Mag: !Mag Ordered assemblies of myosin minifilaments.
848Mag: !Mag Structure of a polysaccharide containing galactose and galacturonic acid from Rhizobium meliloti. Characterization and partial purification of a 2-O-methyltransferase.
849Mag: !Mag Inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced hippocampal 3Hnorepinephrine release by phencyclidine is dependent on potassium concentration.
850Mag: !Mag Mechanism of ribosomal translocation. tRNA binds transiently to an exit site before leaving the ribosome during translocation.
851Mag: !Mag Seizure-like discharges induced by lowering Mg2+o in the human epileptogenic neocortex maintained in vitro.
852Mag: !Mag Potassium-evoked release of endogenous primary amine-containing compounds from the trout saccular macula and saccular nerve in vitro.
853Mag: !Mag Modulation of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate hydrolysis in rat aorta by guanine nucleotides, calcium and magnesium.
854Mag: !Mag Leaf Magnesium Alters Photosynthetic Response to Low Water Potentials in Sunflower.
855Mag: !Mag Magnesium does not limit ewe milk production--a reply.
856Mag: !Mag The ability of biochemical and haematological tests to predict recovery in periparturient recumbent cows.
857Mag: !Mag Effect of different concentrations of fluorine, calcium and magnesium in drinking water on the incidence of diseases of the teeth and periodontal tissues
858Mag: !Mag Inhibition of secretory granule discharge during exocytosis in sea urchin eggs by polymer solutions.
859Mag: !Mag Pathogenesis of chest wall abnormalities--electron microscopy studies and trace element analysis of rib cartilage
860Mag: !Mag Osteoarthritic cartilage contains increased calcium, magnesium and phosphorus.
861Mag: !Mag Relationships between calcium metabolic indices and blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension as compared with a healthy population.
862Mag: !Mag Lead, magnesium, selenium and zinc in human seminal fluid: comparison with semen parameters and fertility.
863Mag: !Mag Kinetics of hexokinase D ('glucokinase') with inosine triphosphate as phosphate donor. Loss of kinetic co-operativity with respect to glucose.
864Mag: !Mag Lattice structure antacids and antacid mixtures
865Mag: !Mag Self-rating of pain in nonulcer dyspepsia. A methodological study comparing a new fixed-point scale and the visual analogue scale.
866Mag: !Mag Elution and rebinding of gonadotropins to receptors in corpora lutea: comparisons among treatments and species.
867Mag: !Mag Diets realistic for westernized people significantly effect lipoproteins, calcium, zinc, vitamins C, E, B6 and haematology in vervet monkeys.
868Mag: !Mag The effects of Ipomoea carnea on goats and sheep.
869Mag: !Mag Influence of chronic dietary acid on renal tubular handling of magnesium.
870Mag: !Mag Amino acid absorption and endogenous amino acids in the lower ileum and excreta of chicks.
871Mag: !Mag Histopathological observation of stress myopathy in M. longissimus in the pig and relationships with meat quality, fattening and slaughter traits.
872Mag: !Mag Late postpartum eclampsia.
873Mag: !Mag Mg inhibits voltage and tension oscillation but potentiates twitch in depolarized myocardium.
874Mag: !Mag Profound hypotension complicating magnesium therapy.
875Mag: !Mag Urinary digoxin-like immunoreactive substance in pregnancy. Relation to urinary electrolytes.
876Mag: !Mag Effects of increased dietary calcium intake upon the calcium and bone mineral status of lactating adolescent and adult women.
877Mag: !Mag Environmental factors affecting toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1) synthesis.
878Mag: !Mag Mineral content of market samples of fluid whole milk.
879Mag: !Mag Acquired magnesium deficiency and myocardial tolerance to ischemia.
880Mag: !Mag Disturbances of magnesium metabolism in the spontaneously hypertensive rat.
881Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium in women during pregnancy, while taking contraceptives, and after menopause.
882Mag: !Mag Glycolytic flux in Zymomonas mobilis: enzyme and metabolite levels during batch fermentation.
883Mag: !Mag Kinetics and inhibition studies of catechol O-methyltransferase from the yeast Candida tropicalis.
884Mag: !Mag A method for simultaneously estimating plasma, erythrocyte, and leukocyte sodium, potassium, and magnesium: reference values and considerations from biological variation data.
885Mag: !Mag Aspects of juvenile rickets/osteopenia in black children
886Mag: !Mag Dietary magnesium intake influences exercise capacity and hematologic parameters in rats.
887Mag: !Mag Outpatient irrigation of the renal collecting system with 10 per cent hemiacidrin: cumulative experience of 365 days in 13 patients.
888Mag: !Mag Venereal trichomoniasis: role of men.
889Mag: !Mag Reperfusion with ATP-MgCl2 following prolonged ischemia improves myocardial performance.
890Mag: !Mag Possible physico-chemical processes in human dentin caries.
891Mag: !Mag Synchronous oscillations in microtubule polymerization.
892Mag: !Mag Effects of extracellular calcium and magnesium on cytosolic calcium concentration in Fura-2-loaded bovine parathyroid cells.
893Mag: !Mag Montmorillonite as a drug carrier: surface deposition of papaverine on the papaverine-veegum complex.
894Mag: !Mag Effects of sinomenine on slow response action potential in guinea pig papillary muscle
895Mag: !Mag Plasmid transformation of Azotobacter vinelandii OP.
896Mag: !Mag Minerals in plasma and urine and gustatory function tests for salt in a group of healthy young men.
897Mag: !Mag 15 beta-Methyl-5 alpha,14 beta-cholest-7-ene-3 beta,15 alpha-diol. Synthesis, structure, and inhibition of sterol synthesis in animal cells.
898Mag: !Mag The pharmacokinetics of magnesium sulfate in pregnant women with threatened abortion and fetal retardation
899Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia causing myopathy and hypocalcaemia in an alcoholic.
900Mag: !Mag Magnesium metabolism
901Mag: !Mag Factors affecting the production of amphotericin A.
902Mag: !Mag Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.
903Mag: !Mag Dependence of intracellular effects of GTP gamma S and inositoltrisphosphate on cell membrane potential and on external Ca ions.
904Mag: !Mag Torsades de pointes: atypical rhythm, atypical treatment.
905Mag: !Mag Escherichia coli contains a soluble ATP-dependent protease (Ti) distinct from protease La.
906Mag: !Mag Relationship between pigment production and haemolysin formation by Lancefield group B streptococci.
907Mag: !Mag Magnesium and hypertension.
908Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on nickel-induced genotoxicity and cell transformation.
909Mag: !Mag Electrophysiological effects of intravenous magnesium sulfate in man
910Mag: !Mag Prostaglandin synthesis in stomach and duodenal mucosa of the human: effect of aspirin with and without antacid
911Mag: !Mag Mineral balance in adult men: effect of four refined fibers.
912Mag: !Mag Down-regulation of rat kidney calcitonin receptors by salmon calcitonin infusion evidenced by autoradiography.
913Mag: !Mag Method for exchange of the lipid environment of the membrane-bound (Mg2+ + Na+)-ATPase of Acholeplasma laidlawii B.
914Mag: !Mag A model for the uptake and release of Ca2+ by sarcoplasmic reticulum.
915Mag: !Mag Effects of Mg2+, anions and cations on the Ca2+ + Mg2+-activated ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
916Mag: !Mag A kinetic model for Ca2+ efflux mediated by the Ca2+ + Mg2+-activated ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
917Mag: !Mag The expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor-mediated component during epileptiform synaptic activity in hippocampus.
918Mag: !Mag Effects of ketamine and (+)cyclazocine on 4-aminopyridine and "magnesium free" epileptogenic activity in hippocampal slices of rats.
919Mag: !Mag Assessment of corticotropin-releasing factor, vasopressin and somatostatin secretion by fetal hypothalamic neurons in culture.
920Mag: !Mag Presynaptic effects of 4-aminopyridine and changes following a single giant impulse at the Torpedo nerve-electroplaque junction.
921Mag: !Mag The effect of cultural conditions on the activity of LY146032 against staphylococci and streptococci.
922Mag: !Mag The effects of quinine on the calcium and magnesium content of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and the temperature-dependence of quinine contractures.
923Mag: !Mag Effect of chronic diuretics on epinephrine-induced ventricular arrhythmias: a comparison of hydrochlorothiazide and amiloride in the rat.
924Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of inositol-1,4-bisphosphate 4-phosphohydrolase from rat brain.
925Mag: !Mag Physiological correlation between nucleoside-diphosphate kinases and the 21-kDa guanine-nucleotide binding proteins copurified with the enzymes from the cell membrane fractions of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.
926Mag: !Mag Chemiosmotic lysis and insulin secretion: studies of isolated granules, intact and permeabilised rat islets of Langerhans.
927Mag: !Mag Effects of proteolysis on the adenosinetriphosphatase activities of thymus myosin.
928Mag: !Mag Alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone secretion from permeabilized intermediate lobe cells of rat pituitary gland. The role of guanine nucleotides.
929Mag: !Mag Role of Mg2+ in the ribozyme system.
930Mag: !Mag Amine N-sulfotransferase.
931Mag: !Mag DNA gyrase-catalyzed decatenation of multiply linked DNA dimers.
932Mag: !Mag The role of sulfur-containing amino acids in superoxide production and modification of low density lipoprotein by arterial smooth muscle cells.
933Mag: !Mag (2')3',5'-Bisphosphate nucleotidase.
934Mag: !Mag Magnesium ion effects on microtubule nucleation in vitro.
935Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterisation of the guanine nucleotide exchange factor from rat liver.
936Mag: !Mag Characterization of the ascorbic acid transport by 3T6 fibroblasts.
937Mag: !Mag Na+ currents generated by the purified (Na+ + K+)-ATPase on planar lipid membranes.
938Mag: !Mag Effects of acetaldehyde on polymerization of microtubule proteins.
939Mag: !Mag S4-alpha mRNA translation repression complex. I. Thermodynamics of formation.
940Mag: !Mag Vitamin B1 and magnesium in the erythrocytes of patients in a long-term dialysis program
941Mag: !Mag Effect of the configuration interaction on the theoretical oscillator strengths of the magnesium atom.
942Mag: !Mag Protein synthesis in rabbit reticulocytes: Mg2+-inhibition of ternary complex (Met-tRNA(f).eIF-2.GTP) formation by reticulocyte eIF-2.
943Mag: !Mag An activated S6 kinase in regenerating rat liver.
944Mag: !Mag Post hoc, ergo propter hoc.
945Mag: !Mag Inhibition of phosphatidylinositol kinase in vascular smooth muscle membranes by adenosine and related compounds.
946Mag: !Mag A protein phosphatase associated with rat heavy gastric membranes enriched with (H+-K+)-ATPase influences membrane K+ transport activity.
947Mag: !Mag A rapid assay for measuring the activity and the Mg2+ and Ca2+ requirements of phosphatidate phosphohydrolase in cytosolic and microsomal fractions of rat liver.
948Mag: !Mag Calcium-promoted DNA cleavage by eukaryotic topoisomerase II: trapping the covalent enzyme-DNA complex in an active form.
949Mag: !Mag The metabolism of lyso-platelet-activating factor (1-O-alkyl-2-lyso-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine) by a calcium-dependent lysophospholipase D in rabbit kidney medulla.
950Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium depletion on metabolism of 25-hydroxyvitamin D in rats.
951Mag: !Mag Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra of lipoteichoic acid.
952Mag: !Mag Characterization of an autophosphorylation-dependent multifunctional protein kinase from liver.
953Mag: !Mag The GTP-binding protein of rod outer segments. II. An essential role for Mg2+ in signal amplification.
954Mag: !Mag Identification of a new GTP-binding protein. A Mr = 43,000 substrate for pertussis toxin.
955Mag: !Mag Properties of the exonuclease activity that degrades H4 histone mRNA.
956Mag: !Mag Vaccinia virus encapsidates a novel topoisomerase with the properties of a eucaryotic type I enzyme.
957Mag: !Mag The distribution of Escherichia coli recA protein bound to duplex DNA with single-stranded ends.
958Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase.
959Mag: !Mag Modulation of the hydrolysis rate of the ADP-insensitive phosphoenzyme of the sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase by H+ and Mg2+.
960Mag: !Mag Self-cleavage of virusoid RNA is performed by the proposed 55-nucleotide active site.
961Mag: !Mag Direct-current bias stable Ti:LiNbO(3) TE-TM mode converters produced by magnesium postdiffusion.
962Mag: !Mag Effects of Calcium, Magnesium, pH, and Extent of Growth on the Morphology of Methanosarcina mazei S-6.
963Mag: !Mag Induction and Characterization of Artificial Diploids from the Haploid Yeast Torulaspora delbrueckii.
964Mag: !Mag Zymomonas mobilis Mutants with an Increased Rate of Alcohol Production.
965Mag: !Mag Morphological, morphometrical and metal analysis studies of oral aluminum neurotoxicity
966Mag: !Mag Relationship between the ratio of alkaline phosphatase activity determined with PNPP or PP as substrates and alkaline phosphatase isozymes
967Mag: !Mag Fractionation of the Providencia stuartii cell envelope.
968Mag: !Mag Interaction of natural and synthetic polynucleotides with liposomes in the presence of divalent cations
969Mag: !Mag Properties of highly viscous gels formed by neurofilaments in vitro. A possible consequence of a specific inter-filament cross-bridging.
970Mag: !Mag Resorption of oxalic acid in calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis
971Mag: !Mag Dietary calcium and phosphorus and seizure susceptibility of magnesium deficient rats.
972Mag: !Mag Kinetics of dissociation of parvalbumin complexes with calcium and magnesium ions
973Mag: !Mag Difference of responses to a cardioplegic solution between the immature and the mature myocardium
974Mag: !Mag Neonatal hyperexcitability in relation to plasma ionized calcium, magnesium, phosphate and glucose.
975Mag: !Mag Properties of the adenylate cyclase system in the muscle tissue of the mollusk Anodonta cygnea
976Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium and magnesium intakes and feeding level during the dry period on bone resorption in dairy cows at parturition.
977Mag: !Mag Comparison between hypothalamic thermoresponsive neurons from duck and rat slices.
978Mag: !Mag Hypertension in pregnancy. II.
979Mag: !Mag Gastrointestinal pH measurement in rats: influence of the microbial flora, diet and fasting.
980Mag: !Mag Urogenital sinus calculi in a sand tiger shark (Odontaspis taurus).
981Mag: !Mag Multiresidue method for determining substituted urea herbicides in foods by liquid chromatography.
982Mag: !Mag Intracellular ion content of skeletal muscle measured by instrumental neutron activation analysis.
983Mag: !Mag A magnesium load test in the diagnosis of magnesium deficiency.
984Mag: !Mag Effects of neutralizing agents on esophageal burns caused by disc batteries.
985Mag: !Mag Regulation of extracellular matrix assembly: in vitro reconstitution of a partial fertilization envelope from isolated components.
986Mag: !Mag Activation of 5-HT 3 receptor subtypes causes rapid excitation of rabbit parasympathetic neurones.
987Mag: !Mag Hypercalcemia of malignancy.
988Mag: !Mag The effect of oxytocin infusion on the pharmacokinetics of intramuscular magnesium sulfate therapy.
989Mag: !Mag Decreased maternal serum magnesium concentration and adverse fetal outcome in insulin-dependent diabetic women.
990Mag: !Mag Serum potassium, calcium and magnesium after resuscitation from ventricular fibrillation: a canine study.
991Mag: !Mag Correlation between calcium and magnesium in plasma or serum?
992Mag: !Mag Critical evaluation of a commercial enzyme kit (Sigma) for determining oxalate concentrations in urine.
993Mag: !Mag Nickel--magnesium interactions in carcinogenesis: dose effects and involvement of natural killer cells.
994Mag: !Mag Calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, and calcitonin concentrations in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of children.
995Mag: !Mag Role of divalent cations, pH, cytoskeleton components and surface charge on the adhesion of Trichomonas vaginalis to a polystyrene substrate.
996Mag: !Mag The changes in plasma diffusible levels and renal tubular handling of magnesium during pregnancy: a longitudinal study.
997Mag: !Mag Clinical treatment of renal lithiasis
998Mag: !Mag Endothelium-dependent relaxation in coronary arteries requires magnesium ions.
999Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium deficiency on histological and ultrastructural changes in the exocrine part of the pancreas in rats.
1000Mag: !Mag Acute effects of neurogenic stress on urinary electrolyte excretion.
1001Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia.
1002Mag: !Mag Preoperative isolation of a reversible protein-protein crosslink generated in 50 S subunits of Escherichia coli ribosomes and identification of its components.
1003Mag: !Mag Optimized medium for clonal growth of human microvascular endothelial cells with minimal serum.
1004Mag: !Mag Hepatotoxicity associated with choline magnesium trisalicylate: case report and review of salicylate-induced hepatotoxicity.
1005Mag: !Mag Phylogeny of C4b-C3b cleaving activity: similar fragmentation patterns of human C4b and C3b produced by lower animals.
1006Mag: !Mag Adenosine diphosphate ribosylation of G proteins by pertussis and cholera toxin in isolated membranes. Different requirements for and effects of guanine nucleotides and Mg2+.
1007Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia of hereditary renal origin.
1008Mag: !Mag Determination of the extracellular space with nonradioactive Co3+EDTA and simultaneous estimation of Na, K, Ca, and Mg contents in isolated guinea-pig heart preparations by atomic absorption spectrometry.
1009Mag: !Mag Effects of EDTA on the membrane glycoproteins IIb-IIIa complex--analysis using flow cytometry.
1010Mag: !Mag Histochemical and elemental localization of calcium in the granular cell subapical granules of the amphibian urinary bladder epithelium.
1011Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia: a multifactorial complication of treatment of patients with severe burn trauma.
1012Mag: !Mag DNA replication-blocking properties of adducts formed by aflatoxin B1-2,3-dichloride and aflatoxin B1-2,3-oxide.
1013Mag: !Mag Calcium-independent contraction in lysed cell models of teleost retinal cones: activation by unregulated myosin light chain kinase or high magnesium and loss of cAMP inhibition.
1014Mag: !Mag Effects of phencyclidine, SKF 10,047 and related psychotomimetic agents on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor mediated synaptic responses in rat hippocampal slices.
1015Mag: !Mag A comparison of excitatory amino acid antagonists acting at primary afferent C fibres and motoneurones of the isolated spinal cord of the rat.
1016Mag: !Mag Phencyclidine is a negative allosteric modulator of signal transduction at two subclasses of excitatory amino acid receptors.
1017Mag: !Mag Ionic mechanisms implicated in the stimulation of cerebellar cyclic GMP levels by N-methyl-D-aspartate.
1018Mag: !Mag Identification and characteristics of a novel mitochondrial ATPase in rat liver.
1019Mag: !Mag Plasma concentrations of magnesium, lead, lithium, copper, and zinc in mentally retarded persons.
1020Mag: !Mag The 110-kD protein-calmodulin complex of the intestinal microvillus is an actin-activated MgATPase.
1021Mag: !Mag Hepatic microsomal adenosine triphosphatase and mitochondrial function. Response to cold and warm ischemia.
1022Mag: !Mag Ability of yeast mitochondria to transport magnesium ions
1023Mag: !Mag Facilitated induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation in slices perfused with low concentrations of magnesium.
1024Mag: !Mag Characterization of an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor component of synaptic transmission in rat hippocampal slices.
1025Mag: !Mag Agonist binding at alpha 2-adrenoceptors of human platelets using 3H-UK-14,304: regulation by Gpp(NH)p and cations.
1026Mag: !Mag Tight agonist binding may prevent the correct interpretation of agonist competition binding curves for alpha 2-adrenergic receptors.
1027Mag: !Mag The pulsed dye laser for fragmenting urinary calculi.
1028Mag: !Mag Cyanide-induced chronic partial asphyxia in vitro: neurochemical abnormalities and reversal by magnesium.
1029Mag: !Mag Dietary food fiber supplements in the treatment of absorptive calciuria
1030Mag: !Mag Effect of methylcellulose on antacid properties of magnesium trisilicate tablets.
1031Mag: !Mag Determination of intraerythrocytic Na+, K+, Ca++, Mg++ and cell-membrane Na+-K+-ATPase activities: its diagnostic value in digoxin poisoning
1032Mag: !Mag Biological activity of mu opioid receptor.
1033Mag: !Mag Slow depolarizing potentials recorded from glial cells in the rat superficial dorsal horn.
1034Mag: !Mag Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases in cultured normal and RCS rat pigment epithelium: kinetics of cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP hydrolysis.
1035Mag: !Mag Carminative property of peppermint in magnesium trisilicate mixture, BP.
1036Mag: !Mag Simplified method for determining polychlorinated biphenyls, phthalates, and hexachlorocyclohexanes in air.
1037Mag: !Mag Gramicidin-mediated currents at very low permeant ion concentrations.
1038Mag: !Mag Rectification of muscarinic K+ current by magnesium ion in guinea pig atrial cells.
1039Mag: !Mag Calcium dependence of vasoactive intestinal peptide-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in rat hippocampal slices.
1040Mag: !Mag Substrate activity of synthetic formyl phosphate in the reaction catalyzed by formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase.
1041Mag: !Mag Cationic metals promote sequence-directed DNA bending.
1042Mag: !Mag Appearance and maturation of mucosal secretion in the collecting ducts of the chicken metanephros: histochemical study
1043Mag: !Mag Electrical pump currents generated by the Ca2+-ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles adsorbed on black lipid membranes.
1044Mag: !Mag Treatment of duodenal ulcer with rosaprostol in patients resistant to treatment with anti-H2
1045Mag: !Mag Chemical mechanism of the adenosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate dependent protein kinase from pH studies.
1046Mag: !Mag Improvement in the basic technology of electrofusion for generation of antibody-producing hybridomas.
1047Mag: !Mag Hypokalemic respiratory arrest in diabetic ketoacidosis.
1048Mag: !Mag Divalent cations directly affect the conductance of excised patches of rod photoreceptor membrane.
1049Mag: !Mag Transfer RNA(5-methylaminomethyl-2-thiouridine)-methyltransferase from Escherichia coli K-12 has two enzymatic activities.
1050Mag: !Mag Preparation and characterization of nucleotide-free and metal ion-free p21 "apoprotein".
1051Mag: !Mag Reconstitution of the rat liver vasopressin receptor coupled to guanine nucleotide-binding proteins.
1052Mag: !Mag High extracellular Ca2+ and Mg2+ stimulate accumulation of inositol phosphates in bovine parathyroid cells.
1053Mag: !Mag Stimulation of partially purified adenylate cyclase from bull sperm by bicarbonate.
1054Mag: !Mag Inadequate supplies of potassium and magnesium in relief food--implications and countermeasures.
1055Mag: !Mag Polyamines and acetylpolyamines increase the stability and alter the conformation of nucleosome core particles.
1056Mag: !Mag Is the binding of magnesium (II) to calmodulin significant? An investigation by magnesium-25 nuclear magnetic resonance.
1057Mag: !Mag Ionization of isocitrate bound to pig heart NADP+-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase: 13C NMR study of substrate binding.
1058Mag: !Mag Responses of ventromedial hypothalamic neurons in vitro to norepinephrine: dependence on dose and receptor type.
1059Mag: !Mag Double-electron-capture cross section for I+ in a magnesium-vapor target.
1060Mag: !Mag Is microtubule assembly a biphasic process? A fluorimetric study using 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole as a probe.
1061Mag: !Mag A new ribonuclease from cobra venom (Naja naja) showing specificity towards cytidylic acid.
1062Mag: !Mag The effects of Mg2+ and adenine nucleotides on the sensitivity of the heart mitochondrial Na+-Ca2+ carrier to extramitochondrial Ca2+. A study using arsenazo III-loaded mitochondria.
1063Mag: !Mag Abortive and productive elongation catalysed by purified spinach chloroplast RNA polymerase.
1064Mag: !Mag Calmodulin and calmodulin-binding proteins in the renal brush border.
1065Mag: !Mag Effects of Ca2+, Mg2+ and calmodulin on the formation and decomposition of the phosphorylated intermediate of the erythrocyte Ca2+-stimulated ATPase.
1066Mag: !Mag Conversion of ATP-actin to ADP-actin reverses the affinity of monomeric actin for Ca2+ vs Mg2+.
1067Mag: !Mag 1,2-Dimethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, an orally active chelator for treatment of iron overload.
1068Mag: !Mag A distinctive phospholipid-stimulated protein kinase of normal and malignant murine hemopoietic cells.
1069Mag: !Mag The factor IX phospholipid-binding site is required for calcium-dependent activation of factor IX by factor XIa.
1070Mag: !Mag Polyphosphoinositide labeling in rat liver plasma membranes is reduced by preincubation with cholera toxin.
1071Mag: !Mag Ca2+-activated ATPase in microsomes from human liver.
1072Mag: !Mag Escherichia coli tryptophan synthase: synthesis of catalytically competent alpha subunit in a cell-free system containing preacylated tRNAs.
1073Mag: !Mag Nucleotide-induced change of the interaction between the 20- and 26-kilodalton heavy-chain segments of myosin adenosinetriphosphatase revealed by chemical cross-linking via the reactive thiol SH2.
1074Mag: !Mag Substance-P depresses neuronal activity in the rat olfactory bulb in vitro and in vivo: possible mediation via gamma-aminobutyric acid release.
1075Mag: !Mag Polargraphic adsorptive waves of alkaline-earth metal complexes with thymolphthalexone.
1076Mag: !Mag Determination of calcium and magnesium in limestone and dolomite by enthalpimetric flow-injection analysis.
1077Mag: !Mag Magnesium does not limit ewe milk production.
1078Mag: !Mag The preservation of urine samples for determination of renal stone risk factors.
1079Mag: !Mag Purinergic inhibition in the small intestinal myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig.
1080Mag: !Mag Synaptic activation of slow depolarization in rat supraoptic nucleus neurones in vitro.
1081Mag: !Mag Synergism of organic zinc salts and sulfhydryl compounds (thiols) in the protection of mice against acute ethanol toxicity, and protective effects of various metal salts.
1082Mag: !Mag Redistribution of minerals and trace elements in chronic inflammation--a study on isolated blood cells from patients with ankylosing spondylitis.
1083Mag: !Mag The effect of extracellular Ca and Mg on mitochondrial ultrastructure in isolated intact neurons.
1084Mag: !Mag Effect of the administration of magnesium sulfate on the ventricular electrical stability of the isolated rabbit heart
1085Mag: !Mag Plasma thyrocalcitonin and parathyroid hormone concentrations in early neonatal hypocalcaemia.
1086Mag: !Mag Asymptomatic hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia with renal cation loss (Gitelman syndrome)
1087Mag: !Mag Lithium and viruses.
1088Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium aspartate, xylazine and morphine on the immobilization-induced increase in the levels of prolactin in turkey plasma.
1089Mag: !Mag The antibiotic W341C, its ion transport properties and inhibitory effects on mitochondrial substrate oxidation.
1090Mag: !Mag The physiological effects of participating in a triathalon.
1091Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium content of skeletal muscle. Studies in subjects undergoing diagnostic testing for malignant hyperthermia.
1092Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency produces endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation in canine coronary arteries.
1093Mag: !Mag Responses to excess dietary magnesium as affected by experimental Eimeria acervulina infection or by dietary ammonium chloride ingestion in the chick.
1094Mag: !Mag Inhibition of corpora allata by larval brain extract in the cockroach diploptera punctata.
1095Mag: !Mag Quasielastic light scattering studies of tubulin aggregation.
1096Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of aldehyde dehydrogenase from human brain.
1097Mag: !Mag NaCl and Ca delivery at the bend of rat deep nephrons decreases during antidiuresis.
1098Mag: !Mag Pulmonary lesion induced by stress in magnesium-deficient rats. A light- and electron-microscopic study.
1099Mag: !Mag Long-term marginal zinc deprivation in rhesus monkeys. I. Effects on adult female breeders before conception.
1100Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium and mononuclear blood cell magnesium.
1101Mag: !Mag Transmembrane cation movements during infection of Lactobacillus lactis by bacteriophage LL-H.
1102Mag: !Mag The relationship between cations and blood pressure in the People's Republic of China.
1103Mag: !Mag Magnesium-dependent attachment and neurite outgrowth by PC12 cells on collagen and laminin substrata.
1104Mag: !Mag Zinc, iron, manganese, and magnesium accumulation in crayfish populations near copper-nickel smelters at Sudbury, Ontario, Canada.
1105Mag: !Mag Comparison of Mg2+ and Mn2+ as metal cofactors for histamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase in guinea pig gastric mucosa.
1106Mag: !Mag Binding of amino beta-lactam antibiotics to soluble protein from rat intestinal mucosa--II. Mutual inhibition of binding among amino beta-lactam antibiotics and binding characteristics.
1107Mag: !Mag Sorbitol--a safe and effective cathartic.
1108Mag: !Mag Verapamil reverses calcium cardiotoxicity.
1109Mag: !Mag Measurement of cardiac output during pregnancy: validation of Doppler technique and clinical observations in preeclampsia.
1110Mag: !Mag Trypanosoma lewisi: restriction of alternative complement pathway C3/C5 convertase activity.
1111Mag: !Mag Lamicel versus laminaria for cervical dilation before early second-trimester abortion: a randomized clinical trial.
1112Mag: !Mag Effect of calcium on adenylate cyclase of rat anterior pituitary gland.
1113Mag: !Mag Neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve are excited by oxytocin in the rat but not in the guinea pig.
1114Mag: !Mag Effect of acute hypervitaminosis A on serum concentrations of Na, K, Mg, Fe, Zn and Cu in rats
1115Mag: !Mag The calcium-buffering phase of bone mineral: some clues to its form and formation.
1116Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate does not inhibit the increase in ocular tonus induced by succinylcholine
1117Mag: !Mag The significance of magnesium in orthopedics. III. Disorders of metabolism and their clinical significance
1118Mag: !Mag Evaluation of an oral solution to accelerate alcoholism detoxification.
1119Mag: !Mag Clinical and biochemical effects of nutritional supplementation on the premenstrual syndrome.
1120Mag: !Mag Magnesium infusion reduces the incidence of arrhythmias in acute myocardial infarction. A double-blind placebo-controlled study.
1121Mag: !Mag Nonisotonicity of simian eccrine primary sweat induced in vitro.
1122Mag: !Mag The Dictyostelium discoideum 30,000-dalton protein is an actin filament-bundling protein that is selectively present in filopodia.
1123Mag: !Mag Ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase. I. Structural, immunochemical and catalytic properties.
1124Mag: !Mag ADP-ribosylation of specific membrane proteins in pheochromocytoma and primary-cultured brain cells by botulinum neurotoxins type C and D.
1125Mag: !Mag Acid-base and electrolyte balance in dairy heifers fed forage and concentrate rations: effects of sodium bicarbonate.
1126Mag: !Mag Assessment of a general therapeutic protocol for the treatment of acute T-2 toxicosis in swine.
1127Mag: !Mag Angiotensin-converting enzyme activity in hypertensive subjects after magnesium sulfate therapy.
1128Mag: !Mag On the dephosphorylation of the ATP,Mg-dependent protein phosphatase modulator.
1129Mag: !Mag Crocidolite-induced lipid peroxidation in rat lung microsomes. I. Role of different ions.
1130Mag: !Mag Oxytocin and vasopressin: distinct receptors in myometrium.
1131Mag: !Mag The hepatic glucagon receptor: a comparative study of the regulatory and structural properties.
1132Mag: !Mag The effect of monovalent and divalent cations on the ATP-dependent Ca2+-binding and phosphorylation during the reaction cycle of the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-transport ATPase.
1133Mag: !Mag Effects of heavy metal cations and other sulfhydryl reagents on brain dopamine D1 receptors: evidence for involvement of a thiol group in the conformation of the active site.
1134Mag: !Mag Guanylate cyclase from human blood platelets
1135Mag: !Mag Blockade of excitatory amino acid receptors protects anoxic hippocampal slices.
1136Mag: !Mag On the mechanism of the reconstitution of F1-depleted ATPase complex with purified F1: possible conformational effects.
1137Mag: !Mag Evaluation of sorghum starch as a tablet disintegrant and binder.
1138Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium chloride on the contractile response of uterus to several agonists in Ca-free solution.
1139Mag: !Mag Changes in the inhibitory processes of platelet activation in the SHR rat
1140Mag: !Mag Dietary magnesium effect on swine coronary atherosclerosis induced by hypervitaminosis D.
1141Mag: !Mag Purification and partial characterization of adenosine diphosphatase activity in bovine aorta microsomes.
1142Mag: !Mag Potassium currents evoked by brief depolarizations in bull-frog sympathetic ganglion cells.
1143Mag: !Mag Voltage-dependent magnesium block of adenosine-triphosphate-sensitive potassium channel in guinea-pig ventricular cells.
1144Mag: !Mag Myocardial protection: left ventricular ultrastructure after different forms of cardiac arrest.
1145Mag: !Mag Monovalent and divalent cation permeation in acetylcholine receptor channels. Ion transport related to structure.
1146Mag: !Mag Non-competitive effects of disopyramide at the neuromuscular junction: evidence for endplate ion channel block.
1147Mag: !Mag A cause of alkalosis in children under hemodialysis: combined administration of magnesium hydroxide and polystyrene sodium sulfonate
1148Mag: !Mag Modulation of Ca2+- and voltage-activated K+ channels by internal Mg2+ in salivary acinar cells.
1149Mag: !Mag Conformational changes of F-actin in myosin-free ghost single fibre induced by either phosphorylated or dephosphorylated heavy meromyosin.
1150Mag: !Mag Pharmacologic properties of a phosphate ester of dopamine.
1151Mag: !Mag The kinetics of calcium binding to fura-2 and indo-1.
1152Mag: !Mag Complete purification and general characterization of FAD synthetase from rat liver.
1153Mag: !Mag Co-purification and characterization of ATP-sulfurylase and adenosine-5'-phosphosulfate kinase from rat chondrosarcoma.
1154Mag: !Mag Adenylyl cyclase in yeast. Hydrodynamic properties and activation by trypsin.
1155Mag: !Mag Identification and characterization of a phosphorylation-activated, cyclic AMP and Ca2+-independent protein kinase in the brain.
1156Mag: !Mag Kinetics of smooth and skeletal muscle activation by laser pulse photolysis of caged inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate.
1157Mag: !Mag Kinetic reaction mechanism for magnesium binding to membrane-bound and soluble catechol O-methyltransferase.
1158Mag: !Mag Processivity of the DNA polymerase alpha-primase complex from calf thymus.
1159Mag: !Mag The effect of fatty acid chain length on the rate of arylester hydrolysis by various albumins.
1160Mag: !Mag Physiology and biophysics of chloride and cation cotransport across cell membranes.
1161Mag: !Mag The hydrolytic cycle of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase in the absence of calcium.
1162Mag: !Mag Guanine nucleotide and NaF stimulation of phospholipase C activity in rat cerebral-cortical membranes. Studies on substrate specificity.
1163Mag: !Mag Influence of Ca2+ and Mg2+ on the turnover of the phosphomonoester group of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate in human erythrocyte membranes.
1164Mag: !Mag Cation dependence of the phosphorylation of specific residues in red cell membrane protein band 3.
1165Mag: !Mag The B-Z conformational transition and aggregation of polyd(G-C) induced by moderate concentrations of Mg(CIO4)2.
1166Mag: !Mag The binding of Mg(II) and Ni(II) to synthetic polynucleotides.
1167Mag: !Mag Value of magnesium chloride in supraventricular paroxysmal tachycardia and tachycardia caused by auricular fibrillation
1168Mag: !Mag Seizure-like events in brain slices: suppression by interictal activity.
1169Mag: !Mag Characteristics of the redox-linked proton ejection in beef-heart cytochrome c oxidase reconstituted in liposomes.
1170Mag: !Mag Bacteriorhodopsin Is a Powerful Light-Driven Proton Pump.
1171Mag: !Mag Kinetics of growth and phosphate uptake in pure culture studies of Acinetobacter species.
1172Mag: !Mag Neurological consequences of magnesium deficiency: correlations with epilepsy.
1173Mag: !Mag The management of severe preeclampsia with intravenous magnesium sulphate, hydralazine and central venous catheterization.
1174Mag: !Mag Effect of antacid suspension on the pharmacokinetics of ibuprofen.
1175Mag: !Mag When the problem involves magnesium, calcium, or phosphate continuing education credit
1176Mag: !Mag Critical early metabolic changes associated with myocardial recovery or failure after total ischaemia in the rat heart.
1177Mag: !Mag Metabolism and nutrition of young children in a children's home
1178Mag: !Mag Pseudoidiopathic hypoparathyroidism: report of a case and review of the literature in Japan.
1179Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency: basic concepts and clinical realities
1180Mag: !Mag Effect of agents altering blood coagulation on the transmural potential, electrolyte composition and tonus of the vascular wall
1181Mag: !Mag Is disordered folate metabolism the basis for the genetic predisposition to neural tube defects?
1182Mag: !Mag Antacid-induced osteomalacia.
1183Mag: !Mag Response of isolated nuclei to phospholipid vesicles: effect of phosphatidylserine on alpha and beta DNA polymerase activity.
1184Mag: !Mag Contribution of tap water to mineral intakes of Canadian preschool children.
1185Mag: !Mag Complement-induced equine neutrophil adhesiveness and aggregation.
1186Mag: !Mag Sex specific factors in recurrent idiopathic calcium urolithiasis
1187Mag: !Mag Short-term effects of ether, equithesin and droperidol/fentanyl on catecholamine and indolamine metabolism in the brain of the rat.
1188Mag: !Mag Trace element status of PKU children ingesting an elemental diet.
1189Mag: !Mag Primary hypomagnesaemia. A case report and literature review.
1190Mag: !Mag Postoperative water and electrolyte changes in skeletal muscle: a clinical study with three different intravenous infusions.
1191Mag: !Mag Modulation of transcription in rat liver by benzoapyrene.
1192Mag: !Mag Comparison of basal and noradrenaline stimulated methylation of chloroform-extractable products in synaptosomal preparations from the rat brain.
1193Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of pentalenene synthase.
1194Mag: !Mag K-Cl transport systems in rabbit renal basolateral membrane vesicles.
1195Mag: !Mag Effects of Ca2+, Mg2+, and myosin phosphorylation on skinned smooth muscle fibers.
1196Mag: !Mag Effects of soy formulas on mineral metabolism in term infants.
1197Mag: !Mag Magnesium.
1198Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium sulfate in alcohol withdrawal.
1199Mag: !Mag In vivo 31P NMR studies of the hepatic response to L-ethionine in anesthetized rats.
1200Mag: !Mag Specific binding of a novel compound, N-2-(methylamino)ethyl-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (H-8) to the active site of cAMP-dependent protein kinase.
1201Mag: !Mag Do calcium and calmodulin trigger maturation in amphibian oocytes?
1202Mag: !Mag Magnesium and creatine kinase in myocardial infarction: new data.
1203Mag: !Mag Metastable aqueous foams and flame atomic absorption spectrometry.
1204Mag: !Mag Avoiding serum matrix effect in calmagite compleximetric measurements of magnesium.
1205Mag: !Mag Renal obstruction from persistent struvite stone matrix: a complication of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy.
1206Mag: !Mag Effect of differences in antibody and complement requirements on phagocytic uptake and intracellular killing of "c" protein-positive and -negative strains of type II group B streptococci.
1207Mag: !Mag Plasma concentrations of calcium, magnesium, zinc and copper in patients with marginal periodontitis
1208Mag: !Mag Calmodulin antagonists inhibit latch bridges in detergent skinned swine carotid media.
1209Mag: !Mag Physiology of magnesium
1210Mag: !Mag Autophosphorylation of lactate dehydrogenase.
1211Mag: !Mag Long-term vasectomy effects on testis and accessory sex organ function in langur monkey.
1212Mag: !Mag Studies of the process of renaturation and assembly of Escherichia coli succinyl-CoA synthetase from its alpha and beta subunits.
1213Mag: !Mag Nonpharmacologic treatment of hypertension: does it work?
1214Mag: !Mag Renal magnesium wasting in two families with autosomal dominant inheritance.
1215Mag: !Mag Influence of magnesium on glucose tolerance. Acute hypermagnesaemia reduces the glucose tolerance independently on hormonal indicators.
1216Mag: !Mag The effects of calcium on potassium transport in ferret red cells.
1217Mag: !Mag Protein synthesis in mitochondria from yeast strains carrying nam and mim suppressor genes.
1218Mag: !Mag Intracellular free magnesium in excitable cells: its measurement and its biologic significance.
1219Mag: !Mag Maintenance of vitamin and trace element status in intravenous nutrition using a complete nutritive mixture.
1220Mag: !Mag Elevation in cytosolic free calcium concentration early in myocardial ischemia in perfused rat heart.
1221Mag: !Mag Effects of iron-, manganese-, or magnesium-deficiency on the growth and morphology of Euglena gracilis.
1222Mag: !Mag Effect of pre-treatment with lysine acetyl salicylate on suxamethonium-induced myalgia.
1223Mag: !Mag The nature and the occurrence of birefringent material in different organs in fatal drug addiction.
1224Mag: !Mag Phytates and the inhibitory effect of bran on iron absorption in man.
1225Mag: !Mag Potentiation of aminoglycoside-induced neuromuscular blockade by protons in vitro and in vivo.
1226Mag: !Mag Lipid modulation of the activity and temperature dependence of the purified (Na+ + Mg2+)-ATPase from Acholeplasma laidlawii B membranes.
1227Mag: !Mag Radiation modification of the ATPase properties of submitochondrial particles
1228Mag: !Mag Pressure effects on the interactions of the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium transport enzyme with calcium and para-nitrophenyl phosphate.
1229Mag: !Mag Potential health risks from the use of fibrous mineral absorption granulates.
1230Mag: !Mag Stromal serine protein kinase activity in spinach chloroplasts.
1231Mag: !Mag In vitro endothelialization of small-caliber vascular grafts.
1232Mag: !Mag Adenine nucleotides regulate the functional transition in mitochondrial H+-ATPase and the kinetic behaviour of its ATP-synthetase form.
1233Mag: !Mag Interaction of phosphonates related to glutathione with the rat kidney gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase.
1234Mag: !Mag Pretreatment of human platelet membranes with trypsin abolishes GTP but not Na+ effects on alpha 2-adrenoreceptor-agonist interactions.
1235Mag: !Mag The oxidation of acrolein by rat liver aldehyde dehydrogenases. Relation to allyl alcohol hepatotoxicity.
1236Mag: !Mag A study of the post-tetanic twitch depression at the prostatic end of the rat vas deferens.
1237Mag: !Mag Zinc selectively blocks the action of N-methyl-D-aspartate on cortical neurons.
1238Mag: !Mag Characterization of phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C from human platelets.
1239Mag: !Mag An approach to dissolving kidney calculi by ion exchange reaction in aqueous media.
1240Mag: !Mag Persistent calcium-sensitive potassium current and the resting properties of guinea-pig myenteric neurones.
1241Mag: !Mag Anomalous binding characteristics of human thyroxine binding globulin due to a dilution-dependent separation artefact.
1242Mag: !Mag Localization of proteoglycan within the extracellular matrix sheath of cone photoreceptors.
1243Mag: !Mag Changes in blood coagulation, thrombocyte function and vascular prostacyclin synthesis caused by magnesium sulfate
1244Mag: !Mag Beta-oxidation of very-long-chain fatty acids and their coenzyme A derivatives by human skin fibroblasts.
1245Mag: !Mag A proton magnetic resonance study of the effects of polyamine and divalent metal ions on diadenosine 5',5'''-P1,P4-tetraphosphate base stacking.
1246Mag: !Mag Effects of reduced magnesium on hippocampal synchrony.
1247Mag: !Mag Probable Ca2+-mediated inactivation of Ca2+ currents in mammalian brain neurons.
1248Mag: !Mag Overview of preclinical studies with ciprofloxacin.
1249Mag: !Mag Post-antibiotic suppressive effect of ciprofloxacin against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria.
1250Mag: !Mag Drug interactions of ciprofloxacin with other non-antibiotic agents.
1251Mag: !Mag A one-to-one Mg2+:Mn2+ exchange in rat erythrocytes.
1252Mag: !Mag Activation of neutrophil NADPH oxidase in a cell-free system. Partial purification of components and characterization of the activation process.
1253Mag: !Mag Thrombin- and nucleotide-activated phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate phospholipase C in human platelet membranes.
1254Mag: !Mag Neurological complications following liver transplantation.
1255Mag: !Mag All foot and mouth disease virus serotypes initiate protein synthesis at two separate AUGs.
1256Mag: !Mag Self-cleavage of plus and minus RNAs of a virusoid and a structural model for the active sites.
1257Mag: !Mag The alpha subunit of the GTP binding protein Gk opens atrial potassium channels.
1258Mag: !Mag Characterization of CrATP-induced calcium occlusion in membrane-bound and soluble monomeric sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase.
1259Mag: !Mag Intracellular free magnesium in synaptosomes measured with entrapped eriochrome blue.
1260Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies of recA protein binding to a fluorescent single-stranded polynucleotide.
1261Mag: !Mag Structure of the oxalate-ATP complex with pyruvate kinase: ATP as a bridging ligand for the two divalent cations.
1262Mag: !Mag Diet and blood pressure. A review
1263Mag: !Mag Calcitonin and glucagon secretion in active nephrolithiasis
1264Mag: !Mag Acylation of disc membrane rhodopsin may be nonenzymatic.
1265Mag: !Mag Rapid mobilization of cellular Ca2+ in bovine parathyroid cells evoked by extracellular divalent cations. Evidence for a cell surface calcium receptor.
1266Mag: !Mag Tight binding of divalent cations to monomeric actin. Binding kinetics support a simplified model.
1267Mag: !Mag The stimulation by salts of hexose phosphate uptake by Escherichia coli.
1268Mag: !Mag Cytochrome c oxidase is a three-copper, two-heme-A protein.
1269Mag: !Mag Comparative studies of hexosaminidase P in the serum of pregnant females and hexosaminidase I2 in the serum of children with leukemia
1270Mag: !Mag Cerebral metabolism in brain tumor of mice studied by in vivo 31P-NMR spectroscopy.
1271Mag: !Mag Relative affinity of Ca(II) and Mg(II) ions for human and bovine prothrombin and fragment 1.
1272Mag: !Mag Promotion of tubulin assembly by aluminum ion in vitro.
1273Mag: !Mag Evidence for a magnesium-insensitive membrane resistance increase during NMDA-induced depolarizations in rat neocortical neurons in vitro.
1274Mag: !Mag Spontaneous neural activity of a mechanoreceptive system is undiminished by replacement of external calcium with equimolar magnesium in the presence of EGTA.
1275Mag: !Mag Effects of levonorgestrel on enzymes responsible for synthesis of triacylglycerols in rat liver.
1276Mag: !Mag Studies on the mechanism of decreased NMR-measured free magnesium in stored erythrocytes.
1277Mag: !Mag Magnesium supplementation of lactating ewes and lamb growth.
1278Mag: !Mag Preventing hypokalemia
1279Mag: !Mag Time-of-flight spectroscopy of positronium emission from quartz and magnesium oxide.
1280Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium determined by use of methylthymol blue.
1281Mag: !Mag Indirect vs direct measurement of magnesium and zinc in erythrocytes.
1282Mag: !Mag Prevalence of magnesium and potassium deficiencies in the elderly.
1283Mag: !Mag Demonstration of carcinine synthetase, a new enzyme catalysing the metabolism of histamine in the central nervous system of Carcinus maenas
1284Mag: !Mag Rapid release of 3Hdopamine from median eminence and striatal synaptosomes.
1285Mag: !Mag Observations on the use of a cation exchange resin for the preparation of metal-depleted media for lymphocyte culture.
1286Mag: !Mag Pathogenic interferences between Candida infections and several endocrine diseases
1287Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and metabolism of lipids in rats fed cholesterol-free and cholesterol-containing diet.
1288Mag: !Mag Induction of autolysis in Streptococcus faecium.
1289Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte magnesium in patients with chronic cor pulmonale
1290Mag: !Mag Seasonal and chronic allergic conjunctivitis in adults with children. Multicenter evaluation of the collyrium N-acetylaspartylglutamic acid (NAAGA) in ophthalmologic and allergy practices
1291Mag: !Mag Intensity and anisotropy decays of the Wye base of yeast tRNA(Phe) as measured by frequency-domain fluorometry.
1292Mag: !Mag Influence of injury and nutrition on muscle water and electrolytes: effect of severe injury, burns and sepsis.
1293Mag: !Mag Improved myocardial protection by pharmacological pretreatment in extended global ischemia based on Mg-lidocaine-induced cardioplegia
1294Mag: !Mag Feasibility of a program of moderate restriction of sodium using salt with low contents of sodium and dietetic prescriptions
1295Mag: !Mag Protective effects of magnesium sulfate against reperfusion-induced arrhythmia in isolated and perfused rat hearts
1296Mag: !Mag Use of mineral water of the chloride-sulfate-potassium-magnesium-sodium type in chronic gastroduodenitis
1297Mag: !Mag The use of continuous assays to characterize the oxidative cyclase that synthesizes the chlorophyll isocyclic ring.
1298Mag: !Mag Polysomnographic research in sleep disorders associated with magnesium deficiency.
1299Mag: !Mag A strategy for reaching therapeutic salicylate levels in patients with rheumatoid arthritis using standardized dosing regimens.
1300Mag: !Mag Resonance Raman spectra of chlorophylls dissolved in liquid crystal matrices. I. The interaction between chlorophylls and a liquid crystalline MBBA + EBBA mixture.
1301Mag: !Mag Reduction of histamine-induced bronchoconstriction by magnesium in asthmatic subjects.
1302Mag: !Mag The effect of potassium and the transmural potential difference on magnesium transport across an isolated preparation of sheep rumen epithelium.
1303Mag: !Mag Mode of action of lithium on the catalytic unit of adenylate cyclase from rat brain.
1304Mag: !Mag DNA-free liposome-assisted transfection of Streptococcus faecium SF 77R protoplasts.
1305Mag: !Mag 31P NMR measurements of intracellular pH in erythrocytes: direct comparison with measurements using freeze-thaw and investigation into the influence of ionic strength and Mg2+.
1306Mag: !Mag Mineral utilization by rats fed various commercially available calcium supplements or milk.
1307Mag: !Mag Comparison of the feedback effect of magnesium and calcium on parathyroid hormone secretion in man.
1308Mag: !Mag Serum and monocyte magnesium levels in two groups of patients at term.
1309Mag: !Mag Preliminary report: natriuretic effect of calcium supplementation in hypertensive women over forty.
1310Mag: !Mag Acute extracellular magnesium deficiency and myocardial tolerance to ischemia.
1311Mag: !Mag Blood mononuclear cell magnesium in normal pregnancy and preeclampsia.
1312Mag: !Mag Status of the mononuclear blood cell magnesium assay.
1313Mag: !Mag Effect of neomycin on post-tetanic twitch tension of the mouse diaphragm preparation.
1314Mag: !Mag The combined toxicity of Aristolochia bracteata and Cadaba rotundifolia to goats.
1315Mag: !Mag Dietary management in urolithiasis in the dog.
1316Mag: !Mag Neonatal reference values for ionized calcium, phosphate and magnesium. Selection of reference population by optimality criteria.
1317Mag: !Mag Salt consumption and the effect of salt on mineral metabolism in horses.
1318Mag: !Mag Effect of maternal magnesium sulfate treatment on fetal heart rate variability.
1319Mag: !Mag Influence of veratridine on 3H-L-quinuclidinyl benzilate (3HQNB) binding in mouse hindbrain.
1320Mag: !Mag Chronic erosive gastritis: a clinical study.
1321Mag: !Mag The unbreakable stone?
1322Mag: !Mag Irradiation damage in chromatin isolated from V-79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts.
1323Mag: !Mag Nickel uptake in Bradyrhizobium japonicum.
1324Mag: !Mag Control of membrane permeability in animal cells by divalent cations.
1325Mag: !Mag Enteroliths in horses.
1326Mag: !Mag Reduced glomerular angiotensin II receptor density in diabetes mellitus in the rat: time course and mechanism.
1327Mag: !Mag Magnesium in the prevention of lethal arrhythmias in acute myocardial infarction.
1328Mag: !Mag Influence of focal growth conditions on the pathogenesis of toxic shock syndrome.
1329Mag: !Mag Assessment of the biological effectiveness of nasal synthetic salmon calcitonin (SSCT) by comparison with intramuscular (i.m.) or placebo injection in normal subjects.
1330Mag: !Mag Simple defluoridation procedures for Kenyan borehole water.
1331Mag: !Mag The effects of ovariectomy and 17 beta-estradiol on cortical bone histomorphometry in growing rats.
1332Mag: !Mag Seizures and blindness following intravenous pulse methylprednisolone in a renal transplant patient.
1333Mag: !Mag Mg2+-Ca2+ interaction in contractility of vascular smooth muscle: Mg2+ versus organic calcium channel blockers on myogenic tone and agonist-induced responsiveness of blood vessels.
1334Mag: !Mag Influence of specific growth rate and nutrient limitation upon the sensitivity of Escherichia coli towards chlorhexidine diacetate.
1335Mag: !Mag Peripheral and cerebrovascular actions of ethanol, acetaldehyde, and acetate: relationship to divalent cations.
1336Mag: !Mag Hypophosphatemia and hypomagnesemia result in cardiovascular dysfunction: theoretical basis for alcohol-induced cellular injury.
1337Mag: !Mag Systemic and renal hemodynamic consequences of manipulation of serum calcium and/or parathyroid hormone in the intact conscious mongrel dog.
1338Mag: !Mag Microincineration and elemental X-ray microanalysis of single Bacillus cereus T spores.
1339Mag: !Mag Divergent effects of cations on follicle-stimulating hormone- and forskolin-activated adenylyl cyclase in granulosa cells.
1340Mag: !Mag Cationic modulation of follicle-stimulating hormone binding to granulosa cell receptor.
1341Mag: !Mag Parenteral nutrition in newborn infants; administration of calcium, phosphate and magnesium. The Parenteral Nutrition Working Group of the Perinatology Section
1342Mag: !Mag Synthesis and characterization of 19F NMR chelators for measurement of cytosolic free Ca.
1343Mag: !Mag Arachidonoyl-coenzyme A synthetase and nonspecific acyl-coenzyme A synthetase activities in purified rat brain microvessels.
1344Mag: !Mag Interaction of magnesium ion, oxygen tension, and temperature in the production of toxic-shock-syndrome toxin-1 by Staphylococcus aureus.
1345Mag: !Mag Hydrolysis and synthesis of thiamin triphosphate in bacteria.
1346Mag: !Mag Calmodulin-drug interaction. A fluorescence and flow dialysis study.
1347Mag: !Mag Carbamate kinase of Lactobacillus buchneri NCDO110. II. Kinetic studies and reaction mechanism.
1348Mag: !Mag Characterization of the binding of a morphine (mu) receptor-specific ligand: Tyr-Pro-NMePhe-D-Pro-NH2, 3H-PL17.
1349Mag: !Mag Magnesium deprivation inhibits the expression of differentiation-related phenotypes in human promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cells.
1350Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary supplements of sodium or potassium bicarbonate on short-term macromineral balance in swine.
1351Mag: !Mag The lung biological activity of American attapulgite.
1352Mag: !Mag Sister chromatid exchanges in rat pleural mesothelial cells treated with crocidolite, attapulgite, or benzo 3-4 pyrene.
1353Mag: !Mag Does exogenous magnesium suppress myocardial irritability and tachyarrhythmias in the nondigitalized patient?
1354Mag: !Mag Effect of vanadate on amino acid transport in rat jejunum.
1355Mag: !Mag Specific magnesium-dependent diadenosine 5',5'''-P1,P3-triphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase in Escherichia coli.
1356Mag: !Mag Characterization of Kunjin virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase: reinitiation of synthesis in vitro.
1357Mag: !Mag Chemical modification of sarcoplasmic reticulum with methylbenzimidate. Stimulation of Ca2+ efflux.
1358Mag: !Mag Sepiolite asbestos from Franklin, New Jersey: a case study in medical geology.
1359Mag: !Mag Fructose 2-phosphate, an intermediate of the dephosphorylation of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate with a purified yeast enzyme.
1360Mag: !Mag Glutamate-evoked release of endogenous brain dopamine: inhibition by an excitatory amino acid antagonist and an enkephalin analogue.
1361Mag: !Mag Binding of Mg2+ to the beta subunit or F1 of H+-ATPase from Escherichia coli.
1362Mag: !Mag Acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase of Bradyrhizobium japonicum bacteroids: purification and properties.
1363Mag: !Mag Recording of mouse ventral tegmental area dopamine-containing neurons.
1364Mag: !Mag Role of a Ca2+-Mg2+ ATPase on the mast cell surface in calcium transport and histamine secretion.
1365Mag: !Mag The effect of lanthanum, quercetin and dinitrophenol on calcium-evoked electrical responses in hamster eggs.
1366Mag: !Mag Inward rectification of a potassium channel in cardiac ventricular cells depends on internal magnesium ions.
1367Mag: !Mag Evidence that prostacyclin mediates the vascular action of magnesium in humans.
1368Mag: !Mag An N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent excitatory action of partial reduction of extracellular Mg2+ in CA1-region of rat hippocampal slices.
1369Mag: !Mag Biphasic effect of quinolinate on frog spinal, but not rat cortical, neurones: N-methyl-D-aspartate-like depolarisation and a novel type of hyperpolarisation.
1370Mag: !Mag Paramagnetic enhancement in the magnetic susceptibility of ultrafine magnesium particles.
1371Mag: !Mag Decreased intracellular free magnesium in erythrocytes of spontaneously hypertensive rats.
1372Mag: !Mag Fluorescein mercuric acetate specifically displaces zinc from cytochrome oxidase.
1373Mag: !Mag Properties of a GTP sensitive microdomain in rough microsomes.
1374Mag: !Mag Binding and activation of rod outer segment phosphodiesterase and guanosine triphosphate binding protein by disc membranes: influence of reassociation method and divalent cations.
1375Mag: !Mag Mg(II) binding by bovine prothrombin fragment 1 via equilibrium dialysis and the relative roles of Mg(II) and Ca(II) in blood coagulation.
1376Mag: !Mag Phosphorylase kinase conformers. Detection by proteases.
1377Mag: !Mag The binding of myosin heads on heavy meromyosin and assembled myosin to actin in the presence of nucleotides. Measurements by the proteolytic rates method.
1378Mag: !Mag The binding of myosin subfragment 1 to actin can be measured by proteolytic rates method.
1379Mag: !Mag NADPH oxidase of human neutrophils. Subcellular localization and characterization of an arachidonate-activatable superoxide-generating system.
1380Mag: !Mag Characteristics of Mg2+-dependent, ATP-activated Ca2+ transport in synaptic and microsomal membranes and in permeabilized synaptosomes.
1381Mag: !Mag Control of cytosolic free calcium by intracellular organelles in bovine adrenal glomerulosa cells. Effects of sodium and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate.
1382Mag: !Mag Two distinct DNA ligases from Drosophila melanogaster embryos.
1383Mag: !Mag Mode of inhibition of sodium azide on H+-ATPase of Escherichia coli.
1384Mag: !Mag Effects of organic solvents and orthophosphate on the ATPase activity of F1 ATPase.
1385Mag: !Mag The presence of the 30 nm filament structure of chromatins in intact chicken erythrocytes observed by 31P NMR.
1386Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium and potassium levels in hypertensive patients after a therapeutic switch from hydrochlorothiazide plus a potassium supplement to maxzide.
1387Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency: pathogenesis, prevalence, and clinical implications.
1388Mag: !Mag Effects of low potassium or magnesium concentrations on isolated cardiac tissue.
1389Mag: !Mag Potassium/magnesium depletion in patients with cardiovascular disease.
1390Mag: !Mag Potassium/magnesium depletion: is your patient at risk of sudden death? Proceedings of a symposium. September 14, 1986, Washington, D.C.
1391Mag: !Mag Cardiovascular therapeutics in the 1980s: "an ounce of prevention ...".
1392Mag: !Mag Diuretics and potassium/magnesium depletion. Directions for treatment.
1393Mag: !Mag Cisplatin nephrotoxicity.
1394Mag: !Mag Magnesium depletion, diuretics, and arrhythmias.
1395Mag: !Mag Calcium in rat peripheral nerve during chronic alterations in plasma calcium.
1396Mag: !Mag Dissociation of the ribulosebisphosphate-carboxylase large-subunit binding protein into dissimilar subunits.
1397Mag: !Mag RNA-dependent DNA polymerase activity in Paramecium tetraurelia: what for?
1398Mag: !Mag Phosphatidylcholine breakdown in rat liver plasma membranes. Roles of guanine nucleotides and P2-purinergic agonists.
1399Mag: !Mag Insulin-like effect of dichloroacetic acid on hexose transport in Swiss 3T3 cells.
1400Mag: !Mag Activation of adenylate cyclase in human platelet membranes by guanosine 5'-beta gamma-imidotriphosphate is inhibited by cyclic-AMP-dependent phosphorylation. Slow activation occurs in the absence of ATP.
1401Mag: !Mag Adenine nucleotide binding sites on beef heart F1-ATPase. Asymmetry and subunit location.
1402Mag: !Mag Affinity chromatography on 2',5'-ADP-Sepharose 4B for purification of malic enzyme from crustacean muscle.
1403Mag: !Mag Apparent stimulation of calf thymus DNA polymerase alpha by ATP.
1404Mag: !Mag Comparative study on the stimulation of superoxide production in guinea-pig eosinophils by the calcium ionophore A23187.
1405Mag: !Mag 7-Mercaptoheptanoylthreonine phosphate functions as component B in ATP-independent methane formation from methyl-CoM with reduced cobalamin as electron donor.
1406Mag: !Mag Action and location of neuropeptide tyrosine (Y) on hippocampal neurons of the rat in slice preparations.
1407Mag: !Mag The mechanisms of ATP hydrolysis accompanying the polymerization of Mg-actin and Ca-actin.
1408Mag: !Mag ATP-Mn2+ stimulates the generation of a putative mediator of insulin action.
1409Mag: !Mag Alteration of receptor/G-protein interaction by putative endogenous protein kinase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum membranes.
1410Mag: !Mag The interrelationship between cAMP-dependent alpha and beta subunit phosphorylation in the regulation of phosphorylase kinase activity. Studies using subunit specific phosphatases.
1411Mag: !Mag Extracellular ATP4- promotes cation fluxes in the J774 mouse macrophage cell line.
1412Mag: !Mag Study of the nucleotide binding site of the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe plasma membrane H+-ATPase using formycin triphosphate-terbium complex.
1413Mag: !Mag Rapid calcium release from cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles is dependent on Ca2+ and is modulated by Mg2+, adenine nucleotide, and calmodulin.
1414Mag: !Mag Recurrent ventricular fibrillation treated with magnesium
1415Mag: !Mag Isolation of Ca/Mg-dependent endonuclease of cell nuclei as the basic component in the chromatin nuclease complex of human lymphocytes
1416Mag: !Mag Cortical blindness and late postpartum eclampsia.
1417Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium and potassium in acute myocardial infarction. Influence on ventricular arrhythmias.
1418Mag: !Mag Neurologic dysfunction in postpartum patients caused by hypomagnesemia.
1419Mag: !Mag Clinical and chemical effects of lithium discontinuation.
1420Mag: !Mag Intraluminal calcium modulates lipid dynamics of rat intestinal brush-border membranes.
1421Mag: !Mag Pyridoxal phosphate concentrations determined postmortem as an indication of antemortem vitamin B-6 status.
1422Mag: !Mag Severe renal osteodystrophy without elevated serum immunoreactive parathyroid hormone concentrations in hypomagnesemia due to renal magnesium wasting.
1423Mag: !Mag Efficacy of combined administration of magnesium sulfate and ritodrine in the treatment of premature labor.
1424Mag: !Mag Enhanced myocardial protection with high-energy phosphates in St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solution. Synergism of adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate.
1425Mag: !Mag Polyamines stimulate mitochondrial calcium transport in rat brain.
1426Mag: !Mag Serum calcium and phosphate disturbances during rehydration in acute dehydrating gastroenteritis.
1427Mag: !Mag Endogenous bursting by rat supraoptic neuroendocrine cells is calcium dependent.
1428Mag: !Mag Neuropsychiatric disorders in primary hyperparathyroidism.
1429Mag: !Mag The clinical study of 794 patients with an upper urinary tract stone analyzed by infrared spectroscopy
1430Mag: !Mag Influence of a high calcium diet on the development of hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rat.
1431Mag: !Mag Ca, Mg, Na, K and P content of 3 sections of the brain, the myocardium, musculus gracilis, liver, kidneys, lungs and spleen of calves and young cattle
1432Mag: !Mag Colistin (polymyxin E)--induced cell leakage in Mycobacterium aurum.
1433Mag: !Mag Purification and various properties of creatine kinase MM isoenzyme from the human heart muscle
1434Mag: !Mag In vitro determination of acid consuming capacity of artificial gastric juice with magnesium aluminium trisilicate dihydrate suspensions.
1435Mag: !Mag The use of phase diagrams in the crystallization of oligonucleotide duplexes. I. A model of crystallization of the (pGpT)n.(pApC)n + spermine system
1436Mag: !Mag Inactivation of horse liver mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase by disulfiram. Evidence that disulfiram is not an active-site-directed reagent.
1437Mag: !Mag Role of stored Ca in contractions of rat uterus induced by acetylcholine: effects of preincubation with Mg-free solution.
1438Mag: !Mag Determination of analytical parameters in drinking water by flow injection analysis. Part 2. Simultaneous determination of calcium and magnesium.
1439Mag: !Mag Effect of added dietary cobalt on metabolism and distribution of radioactive selenium and stable minerals.
1440Mag: !Mag Exercise-induced changes in urinary water and mineral output during the menstrual cycle.
1441Mag: !Mag Effect of 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 on the calcium and magnesium metabolism of lactating cows.
1442Mag: !Mag A reflex behavior mediated by monosynaptic connections between hair afferents and motoneurons in the larval tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta.
1443Mag: !Mag Influence of dietary magnesium on fluoride bioavailability in the rat.
1444Mag: !Mag Coprecipitation modulates the solubility of minerals in bovine milk.
1445Mag: !Mag Effects of potassium on macromineral absorption in sheep fed wheat straw-based diets.
1446Mag: !Mag Effect of pH and ions on the electronic structure of saccharin.
1447Mag: !Mag Hygienic evaluation of the use of growth-stimulating additives during the feeding of domesticated animals
1448Mag: !Mag Respiration-dependent uptake and extrusion of Mg2+ by isolated heart mitochondria.
1449Mag: !Mag Chemical analysis of bovine and porcine vitreous humors: correlation of normal values with serum chemical values and changes with time and temperature.
1450Mag: !Mag Urinary mucoprotein in pediatric urolithiasis.
1451Mag: !Mag Ionic mechanisms regulating thyroidal secretion: effects of ouabain and medium sodium concentration on radioiodine release from cultured porcine thyroid cells.
1452Mag: !Mag Plasma ultrafiltrable magnesium in insulin dependent diabetics.
1453Mag: !Mag Clinical significance of magnesium: a review.
1454Mag: !Mag Intraabdominal granuloma reaction in rats after introduction of maize-starch powder.
1455Mag: !Mag Breastfeeding the low birth weight preterm infant.
1456Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate and ritodrine hydrochloride: a randomized comparison.
1457Mag: !Mag Uterine hyperstimulation resulting from intravaginal prostaglandin E2. A case report.
1458Mag: !Mag Serum levels of magnesium in hepatic cirrhosis
1459Mag: !Mag Improved ischemic island skin flap survival with continuous intraarterial infusion of adenosine triphosphate--magnesium chloride and superoxide dismutase: a rat model.
1460Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium on the formation of toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (TSST-1) by Staphylococcus aureus
1461Mag: !Mag Vitamin D requirement in infants receiving parenteral nutrition.
1462Mag: !Mag Interdependence of the level of total proteins, magnesium and beta-carotene in the plasma of dairy cows
1463Mag: !Mag Stimulatory and inhibitory regulation of myocardial adenylate cyclase by 5'-guanylyl-imidodiphosphate.
1464Mag: !Mag Glucocorticoid-mediated activation of muscle branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase in vivo.
1465Mag: !Mag Comparison of sodium citrate with magnesium trisilicate as pre-anaesthetic antacid in emergency caesarean sections.
1466Mag: !Mag The activity of adenosine desaminase, 5'-nucleotidase, and magnesium-, sodium, potassium- and calcium-ATPase in supernatants and homogenates of different tissues and that of adenosine desaminase in the serum of cattle
1467Mag: !Mag Interaction of sodium and potassium ions with Na+, K+-ATPase. III. Cooperative effect of ATP and Na+ on complete release of K+ from E2K.
1468Mag: !Mag Compartmentalization of cyclic AMP elevation in neurons of Aplysia californica.
1469Mag: !Mag Variations in the sensitivity of the neuromuscular junctions of the frog to the blocking action of hyperkalemic solutions
1470Mag: !Mag Purification and various properties of exonuclease from bacteriophage T4
1471Mag: !Mag Structural organization of chromatin as a factor determining the rate of its endonucleolysis in irradiated and nonirradiated thymocytes
1472Mag: !Mag Pharmacology of retinotectal transmission in the goldfish: effects of nicotinic ligands, strychnine, and kynurenic acid.
1473Mag: !Mag Low extracellular magnesium induces epileptiform activity and spreading depression in rat hippocampal slices.
1474Mag: !Mag Correction of hypokalemia in Bartter's syndrome by enalapril.
1475Mag: !Mag Common structural domains in the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca-ATPase and the transverse tubule Mg-ATPase.
1476Mag: !Mag Pharmacologic effects on labor: effects of drugs on dystocia, labor, and uterine activity.
1477Mag: !Mag Magnesium ions inhibit the stimulation of inositol phospholipid hydrolysis by endogenous excitatory amino acids in primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells.
1478Mag: !Mag On the role, inactivation and origin of endogenous adenosine at the frog neuromuscular junction.
1479Mag: !Mag Effects of a calcium entry promoting 1,4,5,7-tetrahydro-furo3,4-b pyridine derivative on Na+-, Ca2+- and Mg2+-dependent bioelectrical activity of Purkinje fibres and papillary muscles.
1480Mag: !Mag Cation transport and content in serum-stimulated CHO-773 cells. III. The intracellular content of sodium, calcium and magnesium
1481Mag: !Mag Visualization of a developing vasculature.
1482Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium deficiency on dermal mast cells in rats
1483Mag: !Mag Ca2+-activated ryanodine binding: mechanisms of sensitivity and intensity modulation by Mg2+, caffeine, and adenine nucleotides.
1484Mag: !Mag Bronchodilating effect of intravenous magnesium sulfate in bronchial asthma.
1485Mag: !Mag A developmentally regulated activity that unwinds RNA duplexes.
1486Mag: !Mag Isolation of apical plasma membrane in rabbit gallbladder epithelium by Percoll density gradient centrifugation.
1487Mag: !Mag Microcalorimetric investigation of the interactions in the ternary complex calmodulin-calcium-melittin.
1488Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a protein tyrosine kinase from bovine spleen.
1489Mag: !Mag HPr/HPr-P phosphoryl exchange reaction catalyzed by the mannitol specific enzyme II of the bacterial phosphotransferase system.
1490Mag: !Mag Degradation in vitro of bacteriophage lambda N protein by Lon protease from Escherichia coli.
1491Mag: !Mag The effects of ryanodine on passive calcium fluxes across sarcoplasmic reticulum membranes.
1492Mag: !Mag Higher order folding of chromatin is induced in different ways by monovalent and by bivalent cations.
1493Mag: !Mag Effect of spermine on the translocation of Mg2+-dependent phosphatidate phosphohydrolase.
1494Mag: !Mag The effects of cyanide on intracellular ionic exchange in ferret and rat ventricular myocardium.
1495Mag: !Mag Tocolysis in diabetic patients with magnesium sulfate
1496Mag: !Mag Regulation of Dictyostelium discoideum adenylate cyclase by manganese and adenosine analogs.
1497Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 and a guanine nucleotide exchange factor from rat liver.
1498Mag: !Mag Transfer of recA protein from one polynucleotide to another. Effect of ATP and determination of the processivity of ATP hydrolysis during transfer.
1499Mag: !Mag Transfer of recA protein from one polynucleotide to another. Kinetic evidence for a ternary intermediate during the transfer reaction.
1500Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of the potent endonuclease in extracts of bovine heart mitochondria.
1501Mag: !Mag Low-temperature fluorescence emission changes in thylakoids induced by acetyl glyceryl ether phosphorylcholine (AGEPC).
1502Mag: !Mag Method for determination of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, chloride, and phosphate in the rat choroid plexus by flame atomic absorption and visible spectroscopy.
1503Mag: !Mag 19F nuclear magnetic resonance as a probe of structural transitions and cooperative interactions in heavy meromyosin.
1504Mag: !Mag Synthesis of 25-hydroxy-26,27-3Hvitamin D2, 1,25-dihydroxy-26,27-3Hvitamin D2 and their (24R)-epimers.
1505Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency: causes and effects.
1506Mag: !Mag Actions of antisecretory agents on proton transport in hog gastric microsomes.
1507Mag: !Mag Phosphorylated fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase dephosphorylating protein phosphatase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
1508Mag: !Mag The effect of Mg2+ on the Ca2+ dependence of ATPase and tension development of fast skeletal muscle. The role of the Ca2+-specific sites of troponin C.
1509Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of poly (ADP-ribose) synthetase from human placenta.
1510Mag: !Mag Biosynthesis of lipase in the scutellum of maize kernel.
1511Mag: !Mag Photoreductive path of carbon fixation in green plant photosynthesis. Reaction pathway of six-carbon ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylation adduct intermediate.
1512Mag: !Mag Amidohydrolysis of N-methylhydantoin coupled with ATP hydrolysis.
1513Mag: !Mag Self-cleaving transcripts of satellite DNA from the newt.
1514Mag: !Mag WR-2721 inhibits parathyroid adenylate cyclase.
1515Mag: !Mag Levels of magnesium and zinc in the blood in patients treated for epileptic seizures
1516Mag: !Mag Activation of alkaline phosphatase with Mg2+ and Zn2+ in rat hepatoma cells. Accumulation of apoenzyme.
1517Mag: !Mag Alternative complement pathway activation fragment Ba binds to C3b. Evidence that formation of the factor B-C3b complex involves two discrete points of contact.
1518Mag: !Mag An in vitro study of the translational attenuation model of ermC regulation.
1519Mag: !Mag Regulation of neutrophil NADPH oxidase activation in a cell-free system by guanine nucleotides and fluoride. Evidence for participation of a pertussis and cholera toxin-insensitive G protein.
1520Mag: !Mag Ca2+-mediated association of human serum amyloid P component with heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate.
1521Mag: !Mag Identification of a guanosine triphosphate-binding site on guinea pig liver transglutaminase. Role of GTP and calcium ions in modulating activity.
1522Mag: !Mag Glutamate activates multiple single channel conductances in hippocampal neurons.
1523Mag: !Mag The characterization of 3Hsulpiride binding sites in rat striatal membranes.
1524Mag: !Mag Negative inotropic effect of extracellular calcium buffering in cardiac muscle.
1525Mag: !Mag Maternal hypothermia: an unusual complication of magnesium sulfate therapy.
1526Mag: !Mag Tocolysis with oral magnesium.
1527Mag: !Mag Rapid death resulting from mesoridazine overdose.
1528Mag: !Mag Influence of magnesium on blood pressure and the effect of nifedipine in rats.
1529Mag: !Mag Trace metals and immune function in the elderly.
1530Mag: !Mag Vasoactive intestinal peptide: a direct renal natriuretic substance.
1531Mag: !Mag Accumulation of protoporphyrin-IX by the chlorophyll-less y-y mutant of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.
1532Mag: !Mag Influence of transmembrane potential differences of renal tubular epithelial cell on ANG II binding.
1533Mag: !Mag Relationship of magnesium intake and other dietary factors to blood pressure: the Honolulu heart study.
1534Mag: !Mag Employed problem drinkers: a nutritional risk group?
1535Mag: !Mag Diminished hepatic growth hormone receptor binding in sex-linked dwarf broiler and leghorn chickens.
1536Mag: !Mag The St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solution. A comparison of the efficacy of two formulations.
1537Mag: !Mag Myocardial protection in the neonatal heart. A comparison of topical hypothermia and crystalloid and blood cardioplegic solutions.
1538Mag: !Mag Calcium accumulation and neuronal damage in the rat hippocampus following cerebral ischemia.
1539Mag: !Mag Excessive intracellular zinc accumulation in cardiac and skeletal muscles of dystrophic hamsters.
1540Mag: !Mag Characterization of adenosine receptors in the PC12 pheochromocytoma cell line using radioligand binding: evidence for A-2 selectivity.
1541Mag: !Mag Magnesium, essential fatty acids and cardiovascular diseases.
1542Mag: !Mag Electroretinographic examination and definition of serum zinc levels in patients with chronic pancreatitis.
1543Mag: !Mag The relationship between sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium in the urine and blood pressure
1544Mag: !Mag Effects of malate, succinate and bicarbonate salts in preventing experimental oxalate urolithiasis in rats
1545Mag: !Mag Facilitation of actin polymerization by interfilamentous factors.
1546Mag: !Mag Mechanism of the tissue manganese-lowering effect of corn, soybean meal, fish meal, wheat bran, and rice bran.
1547Mag: !Mag Activation and inhibition of ATP synthesis in cell envelope vesicles of Halobacterium halobium.
1548Mag: !Mag Presence and regulation of ATP:citrate lyase from the citric acid producing fungus Aspergillus niger.
1549Mag: !Mag Determination of magnesium binding to macromolecules.
1550Mag: !Mag Tissue electrolyte changes induced by high doses of diuretics in rats.
1551Mag: !Mag Electrolyte concentration in the plasma and tissue cells of patients with ventricular arrhythmias in the acute period of myocardial infarction
1552Mag: !Mag Effect of the synthetic enkephalin dalargin on metabolic indices in myocardial infarct patients
1553Mag: !Mag Potentiation of the hypotensive effect of labetalol in hypertensive patients treated to maintain sodium balance in the body
1554Mag: !Mag Potassium carbonate as a potassium source and dietary buffer for lactating Holstein cows during hot weather.
1555Mag: !Mag In-vitro activity of two new quinolone antimicrobial agents, S-25930 and S-25932 compared with that of other agents.
1556Mag: !Mag The importance of magnesium in orthopedics. II. Regulation of metabolism
1557Mag: !Mag Magnesium homeostasis during high-intensity anaerobic exercise in men.
1558Mag: !Mag The cortical thick ascending limb and early distal convoluted tubule in the urinary concentrating mechanism.
1559Mag: !Mag Acute changes in plasma renin activity, plasma aldosterone concentration and plasma electrolyte concentrations following furosemide administration in patients with congestive heart failure--interrelationships and diuretic response.
1560Mag: !Mag Procaine versus magnesium in cardioplegia solution. A prospective study.
1561Mag: !Mag A controlled study of concurrent therapy with a nonacetylated salicylate and naproxen in rheumatoid arthritis.
1562Mag: !Mag Endocrine manifestations of critical illness in the child.
1563Mag: !Mag Glucose homeostasis in magnesium-deficient rats.
1564Mag: !Mag Preservation of 32 human kidneys by simple cold storage for more than 48 hours.
1565Mag: !Mag Comparison of effects of ATP-MgCl2 and adenosine-MgCl2 on renal function following ischemia.
1566Mag: !Mag The stimulatory effect of some physiological and pharmacological substances on human sperm motility: comparative study with a trans-membrane migration method.
1567Mag: !Mag Effects of diacylglycerol and phorbol ester on acetylcholine release and action at the neuromuscular junction in mice.
1568Mag: !Mag Changes in serum magnesium concentration after strenuous exercise.
1569Mag: !Mag The ionic basis of the anti-ischemic and anti-arrhythmic properties of magnesium in the heart.
1570Mag: !Mag The synergistic effect of superoxide dismutase and adenosine triphosphate-MgCl2 on acute hepatic ischemia.
1571Mag: !Mag Free oxygen radicals decrease electrical resistance of microvascular endothelium in brain.
1572Mag: !Mag Estimation of apparent quadrupolar coupling constants for complexes of magnesium ions with mono- and dicarboxylic acid ligands. Applications to magnesium ion: protein interactions.
1573Mag: !Mag Identification of the calmodulin-binding components in canine cardiac sarcolemma.
1574Mag: !Mag Regulation of Bacillus subtilis macrofiber twist development by ions: effects of magnesium and ammonium.
1575Mag: !Mag Effects of lithium in vitro and ex vivo on components of the adenylate cyclase system in membranes from the cerebral cortex of the rat.
1576Mag: !Mag The plasma membrane ATPase of Neurospora: a proton-pumping electroenzyme.
1577Mag: !Mag Relation between Mg2+ activation and AMP inhibition of fructose-1,6-diphosphatase from rabbit skeletal muscles
1578Mag: !Mag Differential ontogeny of divalent cation effects on rat brain delta-, mu-, and kappa-opioid receptor binding.
1579Mag: !Mag Calcium phosphate in catheter encrustation.
1580Mag: !Mag Effects of extracellular cations on translation in poliovirus-infected cells.
1581Mag: !Mag gamma-Carboxyglutamic acid, a component in human pediatric bladder stones containing calcium salts.
1582Mag: !Mag Replacing the acetyl linkage in aspirin with choline and magnesium moieties reduces the occurrence of gastric mucosal injury.
1583Mag: !Mag Chinese traditional medicine niter, epsomsalts and Glauber's salt
1584Mag: !Mag Electrocardiographic, biochemical, and morphologic abnormalities in dystrophic hamsters with cardiomyopathy.
1585Mag: !Mag Inhibition by phencyclidine of excitatory amino acid-stimulated release of neurotransmitter in the nucleus accumbens.
1586Mag: !Mag Phencyclidine selectively inhibits N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced hippocampal 3Hnorepinephrine release.
1587Mag: !Mag Altered renin and aldosterone excretion in patients treated for metastatic germ cell tumours.
1588Mag: !Mag Intracellular pH measurement during cardiac arrest in ventricular myocardium by Bretschneider's cardioplegic solution HTK and St. Thomas Hospital solution with and without procaine.
1589Mag: !Mag Dual effects of ATP on K+ currents of mouse pancreatic beta-cells.
1590Mag: !Mag Sodium permeability of frog skeletal muscle in absence and presence of veratridine.
1591Mag: !Mag Mechanisms subserving hormone action in the ovary: role of calcium ions as assessed by steady state calcium exchange in cultured swine granulosa cells.
1592Mag: !Mag Neurological consequences of hypomagnesaemia.
1593Mag: !Mag Investigating hypomagnesaemia.
1594Mag: !Mag Increased adenylate cyclase activity in rat thyroid epithelial cells expressing viral ras genes.
1595Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium on vascular smooth muscle contraction.
1596Mag: !Mag Independent bindings of Mn2+ and Mg2+ to the active site of B. cereus glutamine synthetase.
1597Mag: !Mag Effect of zinc ions on tRNA structure. I. Reversed-phase chromatography.
1598Mag: !Mag Dietary potassium and stroke-associated mortality. A 12-year prospective population study.
1599Mag: !Mag Activation of actin-cardiac myosin subfragment 1 MgATPase rate by Ca2+ shows cooperativity intrinsic to the thin filament.
1600Mag: !Mag Structure of secondary cleavage sites of E. coli RNAaseIII in A3t RNA from bacteriophage T7.
1601Mag: !Mag Hypertension in the elderly.
1602Mag: !Mag The biosynthesis of gram-negative endotoxin. A novel kinase in Escherichia coli membranes that incorporates the 4'-phosphate of lipid A.
1603Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a myosin heavy chain kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum.
1604Mag: !Mag Lysosomal cystine transport. Effect of intralysosomal pH and membrane potential.
1605Mag: !Mag Cations in essential hypertension.
1606Mag: !Mag The beta gamma subunits of GTP-binding proteins activate the muscarinic K+ channel in heart.
1607Mag: !Mag Effect of Ca2+ and Mg2+ on the uptake of Fe3+ by mouse intestinal mucosa.
1608Mag: !Mag Influence of cation size and charge on the extrusion of a salt-dependent cruciform.
1609Mag: !Mag UDPgalactose:glucosylceramide beta 1----4-galactosyltransferase activity in human proximal tubular cells from normal and familial hypercholesterolemic homozygotes.
1610Mag: !Mag Nucleoside-triphosphatase and hydrolysis of thiamin triphosphate in Escherichia coli.
1611Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of an aldohexose 1-P phosphatase from pig skeletal muscle.
1612Mag: !Mag Stabilization of phosphofructokinase with sugars during freeze-drying: characterization of enhanced protection in the presence of divalent cations.
1613Mag: !Mag The binding of Ca2+, Mg2+ and Cd2+ to tryptic fragments of skeletal muscle troponin C. Cadmium-113 and proton NMR studies.
1614Mag: !Mag Purification and kinetic properties of pyruvate kinase isoenzymes of Salmonella typhimurium.
1615Mag: !Mag Effects of Mg2+ and the beta gamma-subunit complex on the interactions of guanine nucleotides with G proteins.
1616Mag: !Mag The effect of activating ligands on the intrinsic fluorescence of guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins.
1617Mag: !Mag Interaction of acetyl phosphate and carbamyl phosphate with plant phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase.
1618Mag: !Mag Effects of Ca2+ and Mg2+ on the activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphate phosphatase within toluene-permeabilized mitochondria.
1619Mag: !Mag The effect of GTP and Mg2+ on the GTPase activity and the fluorescent properties of Go.
1620Mag: !Mag Binding of ADP and orthophosphate during the ATPase reaction of nitrogenase.
1621Mag: !Mag Electrophysiological and pharmacological actions of N-acetylaspartylglutamate intracellularly studied in cultured chick cerebellar neurons.
1622Mag: !Mag Inhibition of evoked acetylcholine release: two different mechanisms in the Torpedo electric organ.
1623Mag: !Mag Temperature and salt dependence of the gel migration anomaly of curved DNA fragments.
1624Mag: !Mag Acute pesticide poisoning in England and Wales.
1625Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium in the physiopathology and treatment of calcium renal lithiasis
1626Mag: !Mag Magnesium kinetics in the plasma following intravenous administration
1627Mag: !Mag Divalent cation effects on the binding of human anti-phospholipid antibodies.
1628Mag: !Mag Ohmic conductance through the inwardly rectifying K channel and blocking by internal Mg2+.
1629Mag: !Mag Amiloride and magnesium. Severe interaction between amiloride and over-the-counter drugs containing magnesium
1630Mag: !Mag Effects of the Escherichia coli SSB protein on the binding of Escherichia coli RecA protein to single-stranded DNA. Demonstration of competitive binding and the lack of a specific protein-protein interaction.
1631Mag: !Mag Regulation of ligand-receptor dynamics by guanine nucleotides. Real-time analysis of interconverting states for the neutrophil formyl peptide receptor.
1632Mag: !Mag Effects of Escherichia coli SSB protein on the single-stranded DNA-dependent ATPase activity of Escherichia coli RecA protein. Evidence that SSB protein facilitates the binding of RecA protein to regions of secondary structure within single-stranded DNA.
1633Mag: !Mag Clathrin light chains are calcium-binding proteins.
1634Mag: !Mag Phosphorus-31 nuclear-magnetic-resonance study of phosphorylated metabolites compartmentation, intracellular pH and phosphorylation state during normoxia, hypoxia and ethanol perfusion, in the perfused rat liver.
1635Mag: !Mag Protein synthesis in Drosophila melanogaster embryos. Purification and characterization of polypeptide chain-initiation factor 2.
1636Mag: !Mag Characterisation of the metal-ion-GDP complex at the active sites of transforming and nontransforming p21 proteins by observation of the 17O-Mn superhyperfine coupling and by kinetic methods.
1637Mag: !Mag Temperature and pH stability of duck hepatitis virus.
1638Mag: !Mag Histochemical studies of uric acid in some insects. I. Storage in the fat body of Periplaneta americana and the action of the symbiotic bacteria.
1639Mag: !Mag Survival of spotted salamander eggs in temporary woodland ponds of coastal Maryland.
1640Mag: !Mag Distribution of fission products in dust samples from the region of Thessaloniki, Greece, after the Chernobyl nuclear accident.
1641Mag: !Mag Paleobiology of distinctive benthic microfossils from the upper Proterozoic Limestone-Dolomite "Series," central East Greenland.
1642Mag: !Mag The locations and amounts of endogenous ions and elements in the cap and elongating zone of horizontally oriented roots of Zea mays L.:  an electron-probe EDS study.
1643Mag: !Mag Spermine stimulation of a nuclear NII kinase from pea plumules and its role in the phosphorylation of a nuclear polypeptide.
1644Mag: !Mag Calcium, vitamin D and parathyroid hormone relationships in pregnant Caucasian and Asian women and their neonates.
1645Mag: !Mag Effects of aging, chronic disease, and multiple supplements on magnesium requirements.
1646Mag: !Mag Tissue minerals of magnesium-deficient rats with thiamine deficiency and excess.
1647Mag: !Mag Magnesium and obesity: effects of treatment on magnesium and other parameters.
1648Mag: !Mag Prevention of stress-induced damage in experimental animals and livestock by monomagnesium-L-aspartate hydrochloride.
1649Mag: !Mag Magnesium intake during pregnancy.
1650Mag: !Mag Effects of drugs on magnesium requirements.
1651Mag: !Mag Routine serum magnesium determination--a continuing unrecognized need.
1652Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary calcium and age on parathyroid hormone, calcitonin and serum and milk minerals in the periparturient dairy cow.
1653Mag: !Mag In vitro accuracy and precision studies comparing direct and delayed analysis of the ethanol content of vapor.
1654Mag: !Mag Brain cortex tissue Ca, Mg, Fe, Na, and K following resuscitation from cardiac arrest in dogs.
1655Mag: !Mag 31P nuclear magnetic resonance measurements of intracellular pH in giant barnacle muscle.
1656Mag: !Mag Effects of manganese, calcium, magnesium, and zinc on nickel-induced suppression of murine natural killer cell activity.
1657Mag: !Mag Effects of methylcobalamin on vitamin B1- and B-deficient encephalopathy in rats.
1658Mag: !Mag Rapid filtration measurements of Ca2+ release from cisternal sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.
1659Mag: !Mag Dietary magnesium and urolithiasis in growing calves.
1660Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium in health and disease.
1661Mag: !Mag A test of the validity of the lithium-marker technique for monitoring dietary sources of salt in man.
1662Mag: !Mag Effects of acute hypermagnesaemia on intracellular calcium concentration and adrenergic activity.
1663Mag: !Mag Se, Zn, Mg, Ca, K, cholesterol, and creatine kinase concentrations in men during the 12 days after an acute myocardial infarction.
1664Mag: !Mag Plasma lipids and hypertension: response to calcium supplementation.
1665Mag: !Mag Macro- and trace-mineral intakes of exclusively breast-fed infants.
1666Mag: !Mag Correction of a glutathione deficiency in the aging mosquito increases its longevity.
1667Mag: !Mag Thermic effects of tocolytic agents: decreased temperature with magnesium sulfate.
1668Mag: !Mag Decreased amniotic fluid magnesium concentration in diabetic pregnancy.
1669Mag: !Mag Renal excretion of divalent ions in response to chronic acidosis: evidence that systemic pH is not the controlling variable.
1670Mag: !Mag Nutritional absorption in short bowel syndrome. Evaluation of fluid, calorie, and divalent cation requirements.
1671Mag: !Mag Magnesium-containing preparations in the complex treatment of rickets
1672Mag: !Mag Macro- and microelements in the cataractous eye lens.
1673Mag: !Mag Magnesium prevents acute hypercalcemic hypertension.
1674Mag: !Mag Chick oviduct progesterone receptor phosphorylation: characterization of a copurified kinase and phosphorylation in primary cultures.
1675Mag: !Mag Characterization of RNA polymerase associated with rice ragged stunt virus.
1676Mag: !Mag Renal excretion of calcium, oxalate and magnesium between 3 and 16 years: the value of overnight urine. The Cimitile Study.
1677Mag: !Mag Effect of inhibitors on the crystal growth of calcium oxalate.
1678Mag: !Mag Infectious nephrolithiasis: results of treatment with methenamine mandelate.
1679Mag: !Mag Low-dose propionhydroxamic acid therapy in infection-induced stones.
1680Mag: !Mag Physicochemical changes of urine environment on propionhydroxamic acid therapy.
1681Mag: !Mag Propionhydroxamic acid in the management of struvite urinary stones.
1682Mag: !Mag Long-term urinary acidification in phosphatic urolithiasis.
1683Mag: !Mag The effect of fenquizone on the urinary inhibitors of calcium oxalate urolithiasis.
1684Mag: !Mag Magnesium excretion in recurrent calcium urolithiasis. Evaluation of 46 hypercalciuric patients.
1685Mag: !Mag Evidence for a reduced urinary magnesium/creatinine ratio in patients with calcium urolithiasis.
1686Mag: !Mag Evaluation of the K2 asbestos screening test kit.
1687Mag: !Mag Possibilities of the protection of continuously irradiated rats and mice with potassium and magnesium aspartates correction of aspirates.
1688Mag: !Mag Non-Ca2+-activated contraction in smooth muscle.
1689Mag: !Mag Extreme hypermagnesemia due to ingestion of Dead Sea water.
1690Mag: !Mag Optimal isolation conditions for rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) hepatic ribosomes.
1691Mag: !Mag Adenosine triphosphate levels in human spermatozoa.
1692Mag: !Mag Importance of magnesium in preventing late pregnancy toxicoses (pre-eclampsia) (preliminary report)
1693Mag: !Mag Changes in the serum levels of selenium, zinc, copper, iron and magnesium during pregnancy
1694Mag: !Mag Clinico-biochemical and hematological studies in acute monensin poisoning in swine
1695Mag: !Mag Calcium oxalate precipitation in urine following T.U.R. with glycine as irrigation fluid.
1696Mag: !Mag Combined effects of pregnancy and Lewis lung carcinoma bearing upon essential metal tissue content in inbred mice.
1697Mag: !Mag Amiloride-sensitive net Mg2+ efflux from isolated perfused rat hearts.
1698Mag: !Mag Excretion, serum, bone and kidney levels of F in rats after a high single dose of F and Mg + F.
1699Mag: !Mag Variable response of serum magnesium and total cholesterol to different magnesium intakes and exercise levels in rats.
1700Mag: !Mag Magnesium attenuates methacholine-induced bronchoconstriction in asthmatics.
1701Mag: !Mag Alterations of electrolytes in serum and erythrocytes after myocardial infarction.
1702Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium on transient depolarizations and triggered activity induced by ouabain in guinea pig ventricular muscle.
1703Mag: !Mag ATP-metabolizing enzymes in suspensions of isolated coupled rat brain mitochondria
1704Mag: !Mag Hemodynamic and biochemical changes in severe induced subtotal ischemia of the leg. Studies with a pig model.
1705Mag: !Mag Antagonistic effects of perilymphatic calcium and magnesium on the activity of single cochlear afferent neurons.
1706Mag: !Mag Struvite crystal formation by Corynebacterium group D2 in human urine and its prevention by acetohydroxamic acid.
1707Mag: !Mag Concentration of selenium, zinc, copper, iron and magnesium in the umbilical cord serum of healthy term newborn infants
1708Mag: !Mag Amino acid composition of the blood in patients with diffuse toxic goiter during conservative therapy
1709Mag: !Mag Psychosocial stress, dietary calcium and hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rat.
1710Mag: !Mag Endocrine factors of blood pressure regulation in different age groups.
1711Mag: !Mag Circannual variations in blood pressure, urinary catecholamine excretion, plasma aldosterone, and serum sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium in children 11 +/- 1.5 years of age.
1712Mag: !Mag Effect of chronic administration of ammonium sulfate on phosphatic stone recurrence.
1713Mag: !Mag Medical treatment to prevent recurrent calcium urolithiasis. A guide to critical appraisal.
1714Mag: !Mag Evaluation of factors involved in calcium stone formation.
1715Mag: !Mag Values reported for the three inorganic elements in 'lymphocytes'.
1716Mag: !Mag Systemic and regional hemodynamic effect of acute magnesium administration in the normotensive and hypertensive state.
1717Mag: !Mag Catecholamines release mediators in the opossum oesophageal circular smooth muscle.
1718Mag: !Mag Mechanism of inhibition of bovine pineal gland hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase (EC 2.1.1.4) by divalent cations.
1719Mag: !Mag Comparison of the binding properties of A1 adenosine receptors in brain membranes of two congeneric marine fishes living at different depths.
1720Mag: !Mag Analysis of the levels of various elements in the hair as a test in the evaluation of changes in the natural environment
1721Mag: !Mag Acid and alkaline phosphatases activities in vascular smooth muscle: species differences and subcellular distribution.
1722Mag: !Mag Reversible activation/inactivation of the deacylation/acylation cycle in rat liver microsomes.
1723Mag: !Mag Paraquat poisoning.
1724Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural and ionic studies in global ischemic dog brain.
1725Mag: !Mag Clinico-experimental research on acute isoproturon poisoning in sheep
1726Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium in the growth of calcium oxalate monohydrate and calcium oxalate dihydrate crystals.
1727Mag: !Mag Therapeutic efficacy of superactive charcoal in rats exposed to oral lethal doses of T-2 toxin.
1728Mag: !Mag Urinary excretion of magnesium in recurrent calcic nephrolithiasis. Evaluation on different dietary regimens
1729Mag: !Mag Action of bivalent cations on the alkaline phosphatase activity of intestinal microvilli. Influence of pH and substrate
1730Mag: !Mag Aldehyde dehydrogenase: a multi-functional enzyme.
1731Mag: !Mag Magnesium hydroxide treatment of hyperphosphatemia in chronic hemodialysis patients with an aluminum overload
1732Mag: !Mag Influence of hydrocortisone acetate on the magnesium metabolism during pregnancy in rats.
1733Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium transport and influence of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. In vivo perfusion study at the colon of the rat.
1734Mag: !Mag Renal tubular function in familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia.
1735Mag: !Mag Pathophysiological aspects of calcium metabolism in spasmophilia.
1736Mag: !Mag Treatment of duodenal ulcer with the Bulgarian preparation gastralgin
1737Mag: !Mag A randomized study of two preparations for large bowel radiology.
1738Mag: !Mag Behavior of serum magnesium concentrations in children with juvenile chronic arthritis
1739Mag: !Mag Aminoglycoside-induced blockade of reflex activity in the isolated spinal cord from the neonatal rat.
1740Mag: !Mag Magnesium, calcium and PTH relationships in dialysis patients after magnesium repletion.
1741Mag: !Mag Cation effects on taurine release from brain slices: comparison to GABA.
1742Mag: !Mag Effect of various cations on the activity of pineal gland N-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.5) and hydroxyindole-O-methyl transferase (EC 2.1.1.4) in vitro.
1743Mag: !Mag Genetic factors regulating zinc concentrations in mice spleen and liver: relationship with the H-2 complex.
1744Mag: !Mag Therapeutic drug monitoring of magnesium sulfate in the treatment of pregnancy-induced hypertension
1745Mag: !Mag A coupling mechanism to inter-relate regulatory with haem-haem interactions of haemoglobin.
1746Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency--causes, clinical aspects and therapy
1747Mag: !Mag Stone formation in human kidney.
1748Mag: !Mag Chemical factors governing the state of saturation towards brushite and whewellite in urine of calcium stone formers.
1749Mag: !Mag Nutrition-induced changes in the content of trace elements in hair
1750Mag: !Mag Electrolytes in the blood and hair of infarct patients
1751Mag: !Mag Possibilities in diagnosis and therapy using tissue and mineral analysis of hair
1752Mag: !Mag Methods for washing hair
1753Mag: !Mag Chemical and physical properties of European human hair and determination of their metal content
1754Mag: !Mag Adsorption of antihypertensives by suspensoids. Part I. The adsorption of propranolol hydrochloride by attapulgite, charcoal, kaolin and magnesium trisilicate.
1755Mag: !Mag Response to influenza vaccine in uremic patients: relation to erythrocyte magnesium and the value of a second injection
1756Mag: !Mag Physical and microchemical alterations of chrysotile and amosite asbestos in the hamster lung.
1757Mag: !Mag Caffeine-induced calcium release from sarcoplasmic reticulum of a skeletal muscle.
1758Mag: !Mag The effects of mechanical stability on the macromolecules of the connective tissue matrices produced during fracture healing. II. The glycosaminoglycans.
1759Mag: !Mag Essential metal balance and retention during the second half of pregnancy in the rat.
1760Mag: !Mag Physical investigations of the hemocyanin of the chiton, Cryptochiton stelleri (Middendorff).
1761Mag: !Mag Essential metal status of rat lactating dams.
1762Mag: !Mag Caffeine-induced contraction in vascular smooth muscle.
1763Mag: !Mag Modified substitution of intracellular cations
1764Mag: !Mag The pathogenetic role of metals in motor neuron disease--the participation of aluminum.
1765Mag: !Mag Effect of Mn2+ and Mg2+ ions on DNA conformation
1766Mag: !Mag Magnesium and potassium status in healthy subjects as assessed by analysis of magnesium and potassium in skeletal muscle biopsies and magnesium in mononuclear cells.
1767Mag: !Mag Relation of soil and plant magnesium to nutrition of animals and man.
1768Mag: !Mag Magnesium and the cardiovascular system.
1769Mag: !Mag Effect of calcitonin on the magnesium-induced bone resorption in the mouse.
1770Mag: !Mag Correction of subnormal fertility with copper and magnesium supplementation.
1771Mag: !Mag Performance of lactating dairy cows fed silage from corn of varying maturities.
1772Mag: !Mag Adaptation of renal function to hypotonic medium in the winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus).
1773Mag: !Mag Specific and efficient synaptic interactions mediated by potassium ions.
1774Mag: !Mag The superstructure of chromatin and its condensation mechanism. III: Effect of monovalent and divalent cations X-ray solution scattering and hydrodynamic studies.
1775Mag: !Mag Cystine calculi. In vitro solubility and chemical structure
1776Mag: !Mag Absence of age differences in protein synthesis by rat brain, measured with an initiating cell-free system.
1777Mag: !Mag Acute toxicity of sterigmatocystin to chicks.
1778Mag: !Mag Magnesium-deficiency syndrome
1779Mag: !Mag Muscarinic receptor regulation of cardiac adenylate cyclase activity.
1780Mag: !Mag Age-related characteristics of the effect of adrenomimetics and adrenoblockaders on the calcium and magnesium content of the rat myocardium
1781Mag: !Mag The influence of magnesium ion and ascorbic acid on the erythrocytic schizogony of Plasmodium vivax.
1782Mag: !Mag Repetitive electromyographic activity, spasmorhythmia and spasmophilia.
1783Mag: !Mag Measurement of magnesium in human tissues and fluids: a historical perspective.
1784Mag: !Mag Insulin and plasma magnesium in normal and obese subjects.
1785Mag: !Mag Antacid treatment of duodenal ulcer.
1786Mag: !Mag Characteristics of the endoglucanase encoded by a cel gene from Bacteroides succinogenes expressed in Escherichia coli.
1787Mag: !Mag Treatment of paraquat poisoning in man: methods to prevent absorption.
1788Mag: !Mag Adrenergic control of plasma magnesium in man.
1789Mag: !Mag Adjunctive magnesium sulfate infusion does not alter metabolic changes associated with ritodrine tocolysis.
1790Mag: !Mag Effect of chlorhexidine on Madin Darby canine kidney cells.
1791Mag: !Mag Effect of nickel(II) on DNA-protein binding, thymidine incorporation, and sedimentation pattern of chromatin fractions from intact mammalian cells.
1792Mag: !Mag Nutritional evaluation of pigeon pea meal.
1793Mag: !Mag Effect of hysterectomy in swine on health status and various indicators of peripheral blood. III. Serum electrolyte levels
1794Mag: !Mag Resolution of oliguria in a pre-eclamptic after treatment with magnesium sulfate.
1795Mag: !Mag Long-term survival rates after prolonged aortic cross-clamping with St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegia.
1796Mag: !Mag Differential effect of MDP treatment on magnesium in rat tissues.
1797Mag: !Mag Cation dependence of posttetanic potentiation of neuromuscular transmission.
1798Mag: !Mag Instrumental neutron activation analysis in the study of the elemental composition of urinary calculi.
1799Mag: !Mag Effect of different combinations of calcium, magnesium and phosphate on the inorganic composition of rat molars in vitro.
1800Mag: !Mag The interaction of mofebutazone with furosemide.
1801Mag: !Mag Lower esophageal sphincter pressure and gastroesophageal pressure gradients in excessively obese patients.
1802Mag: !Mag Light and transmission electron microscopy of the effects of calcium, magnesium and phosphate on dentine and enamel formed by rat molars in vitro.
1803Mag: !Mag Arterial disease in chronic renal failure--an experimental study in the rabbit.
1804Mag: !Mag An animal model of cisplatin-induced magnesium deficiency.
1805Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium sulfate in unstable angina pectoris
1806Mag: !Mag Food intake and struvite crystalluria in ferrets.
1807Mag: !Mag Correlation of biochemical and morphological findings in rats fed on low and high calcium diets.
1808Mag: !Mag Dynamic aspects of mineral metabolism in dry cows, puerperants and calves
1809Mag: !Mag The mechanical response of the isolated longitudinal muscle of pregnant rat myometrium to adenosine triphosphate in the Ca-free solution containing various polyvalent cations.
1810Mag: !Mag Protein phosphorylation and tyrosine kinase activity in medullary thyroid carcinomas of the rat.
1811Mag: !Mag Depolarizing action of dopamine on the endings of the primary afferent fibers of an isolated segment of the spinal cord in rat pups
1812Mag: !Mag Depolarizing action of dopamine on the motor neurons of an isolated segment of the spinal cord in rat pups
1813Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, and toxic-shock syndrome. A case report.
1814Mag: !Mag Cardiovascular effects of magnesium sulphate in the baboon.
1815Mag: !Mag Greenland, a soft-water area with a low incidence of ischemic heart death.
1816Mag: !Mag Tissue magnesium content in diabetic rats.
1817Mag: !Mag Mg2+-F-interaction during hydroxyapatite formation.
1818Mag: !Mag Pitfalls in a study of magnesium replenishment.
1819Mag: !Mag Does hypermagnesemia suppress parathyroid activity and therefore play a role in amelioration of uremic toxicity?
1820Mag: !Mag Analysis of the organization of background activity of the septal neurons of the guinea pig in vitro
1821Mag: !Mag Calcium deficiency during lactation and in the first two weeks after weaning: decreased ash and increased magnesium in bone of rat pups.
1822Mag: !Mag Zinc and its status in some dermatologic diseases--a statistical assessment
1823Mag: !Mag Renal wasting of magnesium and phosphate.
1824Mag: !Mag Effect of phosphorus excess on magnesium metabolism in growing pigs
1825Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium sulfate on thrombus formation following partial arterial constriction: implications for coronary vasospasm.
1826Mag: !Mag Lack of effect of piretanide (a potassium-stable diuretic) on serum magnesium.
1827Mag: !Mag Arrhythmias, electrolytes, and ACE inhibitor therapy in the elderly.
1828Mag: !Mag Adsorption of bile acids by sucralfate, antacids, and cholestyramine in vitro.
1829Mag: !Mag Kinetics of in vitro multiplication of Yersinia enterocolitica serotypes O:3, O:5, O:8 and O:9
1830Mag: !Mag Presence of covalently bound energy-rich phosphates in human tracheal smooth muscle myosin.
1831Mag: !Mag Radiological investigation of alterations in the rat femur after long-term immobilization.
1832Mag: !Mag Preliminary evaluation of the effect of natural water containing magnesium and calcium on changes in selected indicators of lipid metabolism in the serum of normo- and hyperlipemic persons
1833Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a lectin from Phaseolus acutifolius var. latifolius.
1834Mag: !Mag Thiophosphorylation of skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum in porcine malignant hyperpyrexia.
1835Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalysis of the rat bone.
1836Mag: !Mag Calcium overload-induced myocardial damage caused by isoproterenol and by adriamycin: possible role of taurine in its prevention.
1837Mag: !Mag Comparative in vitro research on 2 new antacid combinations--Ulsan and Ulsan D
1838Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary calcium and magnesium on experimental renal tubular deposition of calcium oxalate crystal induced by ethylene glycol administration and its prevention with phytin and citrate.
1839Mag: !Mag Absorption of magnesium from orally administered magnesium sulfate in man.
1840Mag: !Mag Magnesuria induced by thiazides and the influence of triamterene.
1841Mag: !Mag The role of GTP in the regulation of two forms of AMP deaminase from chicken kidney.
1842Mag: !Mag Properties of a ribonuclease from Aedes aegypti larvae.
1843Mag: !Mag Effects of ethanol on adenylate cyclase system in the human platelet.
1844Mag: !Mag Effects of chemical and radiographic factors on the treatment of renal lithiasis using extracorporeal external shock-wave lithotripsy
1845Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium movements in cells and the role of inositol trisphosphate in muscle.
1846Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial transport of K+ and Mg2+.
1847Mag: !Mag Implications of intermolecularly catalyzed reactions by the Tetrahymena ribozyme.
1848Mag: !Mag Extracellular production of cloned alpha-amylase by Escherichia coli.
1849Mag: !Mag Vitamin D metabolism in preterm infants.
1850Mag: !Mag Blood pressure and plasma renin activity after magnesium supplementation in the spontaneously hypertensive rat: a study during developing and established hypertension.
1851Mag: !Mag Tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthetic pathway and deficiency.
1852Mag: !Mag Computerized laser Doppler interferometric scanning of the vibrating tympanic membrane.
1853Mag: !Mag Some hormones, minerals and vitamin D in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
1854Mag: !Mag Reference values of chemical constituents and plasma enzymes in minipigs
1855Mag: !Mag Renal-metabolic consequences of antihypertensive therapy with diltiazem versus hydrochlorothiazide.
1856Mag: !Mag Renal handling of calcium and magnesium in idiopathic stone disease.
1857Mag: !Mag Computerized in vivo research from the growth of urease-producing bacteria in the presence of antibiotics combined with propionhydroxamic acid.
1858Mag: !Mag Attapulgite.
1859Mag: !Mag Does sodium play an adverse role in hypertension?
1860Mag: !Mag Pathogenesis of hyperoxalurias and calcium oxalate calculi in intestinal diseases
1861Mag: !Mag Serum factors which alter cell membranes.
1862Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium status in pregnant women. A comparison between treatment with calcium and vitamin C in pregnant women with leg cramps.
1863Mag: !Mag Zinc and the central nervous system.
1864Mag: !Mag Magnesium and pregnancy.
1865Mag: !Mag Magnesium as a regulatory cation: criteria and evaluation.
1866Mag: !Mag Assessment of potential therapies for acute T-2 toxicosis in the rat.
1867Mag: !Mag Salt effects on the bacteriophage T7-II structure and activity changes.
1868Mag: !Mag Salt effects on bacteriophage T7-I.
1869Mag: !Mag Ventricular dysrhythmias in middle-aged hypertensive men treated either with a diuretic agent or a beta-blocker.
1870Mag: !Mag Tetany in children treated with cisplatinum.
1871Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium ion in the pathogenesis of toxic shock syndrome.
1872Mag: !Mag Osmotic diuresis.
1873Mag: !Mag Bivalent cation and ATP requirements of endonucleases from rat liver nuclei.
1874Mag: !Mag Duodenal ulcer and risk factors: influence of the treatment with misoprostol
1875Mag: !Mag Metabolism of magnesium and zinc in patients treated with antiepileptic drugs and with magnesium lactate.
1876Mag: !Mag Stimulatory effect of phosphate on colicin V synthesis/secretion by strains of Escherichia coli.
1877Mag: !Mag Constipation in elderly long-stay patients: its treatment by magnesium hydroxide and bulk-laxative.
1878Mag: !Mag Effect of sodium valproate and magnesium on the secretion of various pituitary hormones
1879Mag: !Mag Effect of culturing conditions on the production of exotoxin A by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
1880Mag: !Mag The carry-over effect on the bowel habit in elderly long-term patients of long-term bulk-forming products containing stimulant laxative.
1881Mag: !Mag Second trimester abortion by rivanol with or without cervical dilatators. A randomized comparison.
1882Mag: !Mag The effects of zero magnesium dialysate and magnesium supplements on ionised calcium concentration in patients on regular dialysis treatment.
1883Mag: !Mag Subcellular localization of enzymes in Streptomyces aureofaciens and its alteration by benzyl thiocyanate. II. Anhydrotetracycline oxygenase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase.
1884Mag: !Mag EGTA.
1885Mag: !Mag Hemocyanin of the chiton, Stenoplax conspicua (Dall).
1886Mag: !Mag Biochemical properties and binding parameters of the pancreatic estradiol binder.
1887Mag: !Mag Guanine nucleotide regulatory proteins as transducers of receptor-stimulated neutrophil activation.
1888Mag: !Mag Successful orthotopic heart-lung transplantation in the baboon after five hours of cold ischemia with cardioplegia and Collins' solution.
1889Mag: !Mag Specific change of histamine metabolism in acute magnesium-deficient young rats.
1890Mag: !Mag High volume cardioplegia.
1891Mag: !Mag Influence of a deficient supply of magnesium during the dry period on the rate of calcium mobilisation by dairy cows at parturition.
1892Mag: !Mag Multiple hormonal control of the thick ascending limb functions.
1893Mag: !Mag LFA-1 and other accessory molecules functioning in adhesions of T and B lymphocytes.
1894Mag: !Mag Calcium participation in thyroid function in fowl (Gallus domesticus).
1895Mag: !Mag Some properties of erythrocyte Na+-K+-ATPase in essential hypertension.
1896Mag: !Mag Peculiarities of the endocrine time structure in noninsulin-dependent adult-onset (type II) diabetes mellitus.
1897Mag: !Mag Biochemical characterization of mutants in cyclic nucleotide metabolism showing rhythmic conidiation in Neurospora.
1898Mag: !Mag Phosphatidylinositol kinases from rabbit reticulocytes.
1899Mag: !Mag Complement-mediated hemolysis of horse erythrocytes treated with equine infectious anemia virus.
1900Mag: !Mag Properties of poliovirus associated protein kinase.
1901Mag: !Mag Are changes in intracellular free calcium necessary for regulating secretion in parathyroid cells?
1902Mag: !Mag Evaluation of a new therapy (beidellian montmorillonite--guar gum) in the treatment of constipation
1903Mag: !Mag Effects of lithium on calmodulin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in cortical membranes from rat brain.
1904Mag: !Mag Requirements for accurate and efficient mRNA 3' end cleavage and polyadenylation of a simian virus 40 early pre-RNA in vitro.
1905Mag: !Mag DNA mismatch repair detected in human cell extracts.
1906Mag: !Mag Dietary fibre and mineral metabolism.
1907Mag: !Mag Diurnal variation of cation pump enzyme activity in pineal and seven other rat brain regions.
1908Mag: !Mag Photoexcitation of electron orbits in the magnesium atom and (Na+-K+) ATPase functioning
1909Mag: !Mag Biocompatibility and degradability of sepiolite-collagen complex.
1910Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium depletion on 3H-ouabain binding site concentration in rat skeletal muscle.
1911Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium and other divalent cations in ATP-utilizing enzymes.
1912Mag: !Mag Mineral balances of men and women consuming high fiber diets with complex or simple carbohydrate.
1913Mag: !Mag Alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-linked guanine nucleotide-binding protein in muscle and kidney epithelial cells.
1914Mag: !Mag Rabbit myometrial adrenergic sensitivity is increased by estrogen but is independent of changes in alpha adrenoceptor concentration.
1915Mag: !Mag Corticotropin-releasing factor receptors in the rat central nervous system: characterization and regional distribution.
1916Mag: !Mag A randomized study of oral nutritional support versus ad lib nutritional intake during chemotherapy for advanced colorectal and non-small-cell lung cancer.
1917Mag: !Mag High sodium diet and Na+-stimulated ATPase activities in basolateral plasma membranes from rat kidney proximal tubular cells.
1918Mag: !Mag Reconstitution of pyrroloquinoline quinone-dependent D-glucose oxidase respiratory chain of Escherichia coli with cytochrome o oxidase.
1919Mag: !Mag Negative modulation of Escherichia coli NAD kinase by NADPH and NADH.
1920Mag: !Mag Divalent cation-dependent and independent surface expression of thrombospondin on thrombin-stimulated human platelets.
1921Mag: !Mag State of electrolytes, osmotic balance and the activity of ATPase in the lenses of selenite--induced cataracts.
1922Mag: !Mag Systemic and local factors in controlling of bone metabolism.
1923Mag: !Mag Metabolism of magnesium and zinc in skeletal system.
1924Mag: !Mag Renal colic: behavior of urinary parameters in the assessment of lithogenic risk
1925Mag: !Mag Na+-like effect of monovalent cations in the stimulation of sea bass gill Mg2+-dependent Na+-stimulated ATPase.
1926Mag: !Mag Modulation of actomyosin ATPase by thin filament-associated proteins.
1927Mag: !Mag Sepiolite.
1928Mag: !Mag Ionic and substrate requirements of the high affinity calcium pumping ATPase in endoplasmic reticulum of pancreas.
1929Mag: !Mag Hydrodynamic studies on the quaternary structure of reacting yeast phosphofructokinase.
1930Mag: !Mag Cytochemical method for demonstrating magnesium-activated adenosine triphosphatase in haemic cells.
1931Mag: !Mag Characterization of Mg2+-ATPase from slow-twitch muscle membranes.
1932Mag: !Mag Mineral homeostasis in neonates of streptozotocin-induced noninsulin-dependent diabetic rats and in their mothers during pregnancy and lactation.
1933Mag: !Mag Adhesion and spreading of fibroblasts on sepiolite-collagen complexes.
1934Mag: !Mag Outgrowth of fibroblasts on sepiolite-collagen complex.
1935Mag: !Mag ATP-dependent calcium transport across basal plasma membranes of human placental trophoblast.
1936Mag: !Mag Electron microscopic cytochemical localization of Ca-ATPase in toad urinary bladder.
1937Mag: !Mag At what point is premature labor to be arrested?
1938Mag: !Mag Blood serum chemistry measurements of normal and acutely stressed channel catfish.
1939Mag: !Mag The mouse neocortical slice: preparation and responses to excitatory amino acids.
1940Mag: !Mag Comparative studies of elemental composition on ejaculated fowl, bull, rat, dog and boar spermatozoa by electron probe X-ray microanalysis.
1941Mag: !Mag Effects of kainic acid on synaptic transmission in electroreceptors (the ampullae of Lorenzini) of skates.
1942Mag: !Mag Effects of lysine and glutamic acid or corrected Mg++ on the conformations of C3 and B, and the activation of the alternative complement pathway.
1943Mag: !Mag Magnesium depletion in patients on long-term chlorthalidone therapy for essential hypertension.
1944Mag: !Mag Development of changes in cation content of muscles from the 129 ReJ dystrophic mouse.
1945Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium dependence of spontaneous and evoked afferent neural activity in the lateral-line organ of Xenopus laevis.
1946Mag: !Mag Do antacids with high acid-binding capacity modify mineral metabolism?
1947Mag: !Mag Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release in skinned single smooth muscle cells isolated from guinea-pig taenia caeci.
1948Mag: !Mag Inhibition of trout (Salmo gairdneri R.) PBG-synthase by some metal ions (Mg2+, Pb2+, Zn2+).
1949Mag: !Mag Comparison of the ability of seven gonadotropin preparations from different mammalian sources to interact with the adenylyl cyclase system in corpora lutea from rabbits and rats.
1950Mag: !Mag Insulin metabolism and its effect on blood electrolytes and glucose in the turkey hen.
1951Mag: !Mag Properties of digitonin-solubilized calmodulin-dependent guanylate cyclase from the plasma membranes of Tetrahymena pyriformis NT-1 cells.
1952Mag: !Mag Effect of inhibition of lens membrane Na+-K+ ATPase by ouabain pre-treatment--an in vitro study.
1953Mag: !Mag Circadian rhythm in the membrane of circulating human blood cells: microviscosity and number of benzodiazepine binding sites. A search for regulation by plasma ions, nucleosides, proteins or hormones.
1954Mag: !Mag Biological modifications induced by 3 low molecular weight heparins, PK 10169, Kabi 2165 and CY 216, compared to unfractionated heparin injected subcutaneously in healthy subjects in general surgery and in aged subjects in internal medicine
1955Mag: !Mag Electron microprobe X-ray analysis of polyphosphate granules in Plesiomonas shigelloides.
1956Mag: !Mag Combined action of enalapril or timolol with hydrochlorothiazide plus amiloride in hypertension.
1957Mag: !Mag The effects of varying the electrolyte concentration and valency, the dielectric constant and the addition of hydroxypropylmethylcellulose on the adsorption of propranolol hydrochloride on to magnesium trisilicate.
1958Mag: !Mag Glycyrrhizic acid and its hydrolysate as mineralocorticoid agonist.
1959Mag: !Mag Subcellular localization of enzymes in Streptomyces aureofaciens and its alteration by benzyl thiocyanate. I. Phosphatases and ATP-glucokinase.
1960Mag: !Mag Flagellar movement of intact and demembranated, reactivated ram spermatozoa.
1961Mag: !Mag Immunotoxicology: environmental contamination by polybrominated biphenyls and immune dysfunction among residents of the State of Michigan.
1962Mag: !Mag The characteristics of pyrophosphate: D-fructose-6-phosphate 1-phosphotransferases from Sansevieria trifasciata leaves and Phaseolus coccineus stems.
1963Mag: !Mag Cytotoxicity of respirable dusts from industrial minerals: comparison of two naturally occurring and two man-made silicates.
1964Mag: !Mag Hormonal regulation of magnesium uptake: differential coupling of membrane receptors to magnesium uptake.
1965Mag: !Mag Determination of major, minor and trace elements in urinary stones by neutron activation analysis.
1966Mag: !Mag Physico-chemical properties of murine hepatitis virus, strain A 59. Brief report.
1967Mag: !Mag Wheat fiber, phytates and iron absorption.
1968Mag: !Mag Effect of acidosis and alkalosis on divalent ion transport across the proximal straight tubule of the rabbit.
1969Mag: !Mag The effects of the main body cations on the peptidase(s) activity against pyroGlu6125I-Tyr8SP6-11 in the nuclear and synaptosomal fraction of the cortex and hippocampus of rat brain.
1970Mag: !Mag Influence of phosphatidylserine on endogeneous RNA synthesis in isolated rat liver nuclei.
1971Mag: !Mag Effect of nicorandil on the cytosolic free calcium concentration and microsomal (Ca2+ + Mg2+)-ATPase activity of vascular smooth muscle cells.
1972Mag: !Mag Interaction of diazoxide, tolbutamide and ATP4- on nucleotide-dependent K+ channels in an insulin-secreting cell line.
1973Mag: !Mag New aspects of excitation-contraction coupling in cardiac muscle: two types of Ca++ entry promotion with and without involvement of cyclic AMP and Mg++ ions.
1974Mag: !Mag Evaluation of sudden cardiac death risk factors after myocardial infarction. III. Changes in biochemical and humoral homeostasis and cardiac rhythm disorders
1975Mag: !Mag Particles with retrovirus appearance and reverse transcriptase activity in cell cultures derived from lymph node biopsies in Hodgkin's disease
1976Mag: !Mag Calcium and barium permeable channels from Aplysia nervous system reconstituted in lipid bilayers.
1977Mag: !Mag Dependence of junctional conductance on proton, calcium and magnesium ions in cardiac paired cells of guinea-pig.
1978Mag: !Mag Infection of feline lymphoid cells with feline leukemia virus in culture.
1979Mag: !Mag Glycoprotein-concanavalin A interaction: role of protein conformation in the specific interaction of glycoprotein with concanavalin A.
1980Mag: !Mag Role of endothelium in magnesium-induced relaxation of rat aorta.
1981Mag: !Mag Direct inhibition of epithelial Na+ channels by a pH-dependent interaction with calcium, and by other divalent ions.
1982Mag: !Mag Partial characterization of two (Ca+2 + Mg+2)-dependent ATPase activities from bovine brain synaptic membrane homogenates.
1983Mag: !Mag Sulfated glycosaminoglycans: a common constituent of all amyloids?
1984Mag: !Mag Subcellular concentrations of calcium, zinc, and magnesium in benign nodular hyperplasia of the human prostate: X-ray microanalysis of freeze-dried cryosections.
1985Mag: !Mag Relationships between the prevalence of multiple sclerosis and some physical and chemical properties of soil.
1986Mag: !Mag Inhibition of the thermally driven B to Z transition by intercalating drugs.
1987Mag: !Mag Relative spectral response as a function of sequential ligand binding.
1988Mag: !Mag Substrate specificity of alkaline phosphatase from human polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
1989Mag: !Mag Intestinal basolateral membrane Ca-ATPase activity with properties distinct from those of the Ca-pump.
1990Mag: !Mag Protein conformational effects in hydrophobic interaction chromatography. Retention characterization and the role of mobile phase additives and stationary phase hydrophobicity.
1991Mag: !Mag A protein associated with small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles recognizes the 3' splice site of premessenger RNA.
1992Mag: !Mag Phosphorus-calcium metabolism, osteopenia and diabetes mellitus
1993Mag: !Mag Pig platelet tropomyosin: interactions with the other thin-filament proteins.
1994Mag: !Mag The acidosis of cholera. Contributions of hyperproteinemia, lactic acidemia, and hyperphosphatemia to an increased serum anion gap.
1995Mag: !Mag GDP state of tubulin: stabilization of double rings.
1996Mag: !Mag The role of sphingomyelin synthetase and sphingomyelinase in 1,2-dimethylhydrazine-induced lipid alterations of rat colonic plasma membranes.
1997Mag: !Mag The reaction of Mg2+ with the Ca2+-ATPase from human red cell membranes and its modification by Ca2+.
1998Mag: !Mag Functional characterization of junctional terminal cisternae from mammalian fast skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum.
1999Mag: !Mag Effect of cadmium on essential metal concentrations in testis, liver and kidney of five inbred strains of mice.
2000Mag: !Mag In vitro competition between adenosine(5')tetraphospho(5')adenosine and deoxyribonucleic acid in the reaction with diamminedichloroplatinum(II).
2001Mag: !Mag Interactions between spermine and Mg2+ on mitochondrial Ca2+ transport.
2002Mag: !Mag Interaction of vasopressin with human blood platelets: dependency on Mg2+.
2003Mag: !Mag Hexokinase PII from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is regulated by changes in the cytosolic Mg2+-free ATP concentration.
2004Mag: !Mag Magaldrate compared to ranitidine. The healing rate of stomach ulcer using magaldrate (100 mmol/d) versus ranitidine (300 mg/d)
2005Mag: !Mag Disorders of magnesium/calcium metabolism related to cisplatin therapy
2006Mag: !Mag Mseleni joint disease. Part II. Low serum calcium and magnesium levels in women.
2007Mag: !Mag Vegetarian diet in mild hypertension: a randomised controlled trial.
2008Mag: !Mag Sulfhydryl oxidation induces rapid calcium release from sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.
2009Mag: !Mag The kinetics of cytochalasin D binding to monomeric actin.
2010Mag: !Mag Control of mitochondrial content of adenine nucleotides by submicromolar calcium concentrations and its relationship to hormonal effects.
2011Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of FAD synthetase from Brevibacterium ammoniagenes.
2012Mag: !Mag Actin polymerization. The mechanism of action of cytochalasin D.
2013Mag: !Mag Measurement of cytoplasmic, free magnesium concentration with entrapped eriochrome blue in nerve endings isolated from the guinea pig brain.
2014Mag: !Mag Inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation by Ca2+ or Sr2+: a competition with Mg2+ for the formation of adenine nucleotide complexes.
2015Mag: !Mag A protein kinase copurified with chick oviduct progesterone receptor.
2016Mag: !Mag Magnesium requirements for guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) induced assembly of microtubule protein and tubulin.
2017Mag: !Mag Mineral Nutrient Requirements of a Loblolly Pine (Pinus taeda) Cell Suspension Culture : Evaluation of a Medium Formulated from Seed Composition Data.
2018Mag: !Mag Electron-impact excitation of ions in the magnesium sequence. II. S V, Ar VII, Ca IX, Cr XIII, and Ni XVII.
2019Mag: !Mag Theoretical study of the 1P doubly excited autoionization state of the magnesium atom.
2020Mag: !Mag Effect of the configuration interaction on the (3snl) 1L bound states of the magnesium atom.
2021Mag: !Mag Rapid atomic spectrometric determination of sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium in powdered milk by direct dispersion.
2022Mag: !Mag Magnesium-deficient hairless rat: spleen cells mitogenic responses and variations in hormonal status.
2023Mag: !Mag Correlations among Mg, Ca and P contents of digesta in the gastro-intestinal tract of rats.
2024Mag: !Mag Effect of calcium antagonism on intracellular concentrations and transmembrane fluxes of cations in erythrocytes of men at rest and during exercise.
2025Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary monensin and potassium on apparent absorption of magnesium and other macroelements in sheep.
2026Mag: !Mag Synthesis of a gamma-carboxyglutamic acid containing heptapeptide corresponding to bovine prothrombin residues 17-23.
2027Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of rat lens methionine adenosyltransferase.
2028Mag: !Mag Essential metals in tissues and tumor of inbred C57BL/6 mice during the infective cycle of Lewis lung carcinoma.
2029Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and vitamin D metabolism
2030Mag: !Mag The trace element content of hospital meals and potential low intake by elderly patients.
2031Mag: !Mag Retention of aluminium in the tissues of rats after the discontinuation of oral exposure to aluminium.
2032Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesemia and progression of renal failure.
2033Mag: !Mag Rice-bran treatment for calcium stone formers with idiopathic hypercalciuria.
2034Mag: !Mag A fatal variant of human ornithine carbamoyltransferase is stimulated by Mg2+.
2035Mag: !Mag Instrumental neutron-activation analysis of canine urinary calculi for some selected elements.
2036Mag: !Mag Serum, lymphocyte, and erythrocyte potassium, magnesium, and calcium concentrations and their relation to tachyarrhythmias in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
2037Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium acetate on the toxicity of nickelous acetate in rats.
2038Mag: !Mag 6-Mercaptopurine-induced alterations in mineral metabolism and teratogenesis in the rat.
2039Mag: !Mag Undernutrition in lepromatous leprosy, Part II. Altered levels of serum elements. Their association with the disease and not with food deprivation.
2040Mag: !Mag Corticofugal influences of S1 cortex on ventrobasal thalamic neurons in the awake rat.
2041Mag: !Mag Predisposing factors and prevention of renal calculi.
2042Mag: !Mag Intracellular acid-base and electrolyte metabolism in skeletal muscle of patients with chronic obstructive lung disease and acute respiratory failure.
2043Mag: !Mag Effects of Ca2+/Mg2+ removal on aiNa, aiK, and tension in cardiac Purkinje fibers.
2044Mag: !Mag Use of ritodrine, terbutaline, and magnesium sulfate in preterm labor.
2045Mag: !Mag Nutritional survey of highly trained women runners.
2046Mag: !Mag Oral calcium and blood pressure: a controlled intervention trial.
2047Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium citrate on the adsorptive capacity of activated charcoal for sodium salicylate.
2048Mag: !Mag Trace elements in bilharzial hepatic fibrosis and encephalopathy.
2049Mag: !Mag Food procurement and the nutritional adequacy of diets in low-income families.
2050Mag: !Mag Estradiol activates methylating enzyme(s) involved in the conversion of phosphatidylethanolamine to phosphatidylcholine in rat pituitary membranes.
2051Mag: !Mag Expression of fibrinogen receptors during activation and subsequent desensitization of human platelets by epinephrine.
2052Mag: !Mag Resistance to calcitriol therapy in postsurgical hypoparathyroidism.
2053Mag: !Mag Blood pressure and urinary cations in urban Bantu of Zaire.
2054Mag: !Mag Morphology of urinary stone particles resulting from ESWL treatment.
2055Mag: !Mag Ca2+ and Mg2+ protection against thermal denaturation of pancreatic elastase.
2056Mag: !Mag Protection against ill effects of aspirin on chromosomes in allium root tips by ascorbic acid or magnesium ions--pilot study.
2057Mag: !Mag Activities of NAD-and NADP-specific isocitrate dehydrogenases in kidney mitochondria of rachitic rat.
2058Mag: !Mag Serological diagnosis of hydatid disease by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using partially purified hydatid cyst fluid antigens.
2059Mag: !Mag A case of torsade de pointes caused by hypomagnesemia
2060Mag: !Mag Torsade de pointes caused by tricyclic antidepressive agents. Description of a clinical case
2061Mag: !Mag Amiloride with or without salbutamol versus placebo: effects on lipoproteins in hypertensive patients treated with timolol-hydrochlorothiazide.
2062Mag: !Mag Effects of altered dietary calcium intake in experimental hypertension: role of intracellular free magnesium.
2063Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in alcoholism.
2064Mag: !Mag Comparative study on myocardial damage in irradiated for a long time and nonirradiated rats after administration of FCOL
2065Mag: !Mag Safe, rapid administration of cisplatin in the outpatient clinic.
2066Mag: !Mag Magnesium transport in Salmonella typhimurium: characterization of magnesium influx and cloning of a transport gene.
2067Mag: !Mag Repair response of Escherichia coli to hydrogen peroxide DNA damage.
2068Mag: !Mag Bone maturation and quality of bone material in rats flown on the space shuttle 'Spacelab-3 Mission'.
2069Mag: !Mag Relationships between blood pressure and urinary sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium in Bantu of Zaire.
2070Mag: !Mag Comparison of crystallographic properties of Mg, Fe, Na, CO3, F and Cl-containing apatites.
2071Mag: !Mag Effect of a sport drink mixture with and without addition of fluoride and magnesium on plaque formation, dental caries and general health of rats.
2072Mag: !Mag Cytoplasmic organization during pattern formation in the alga Micrasterias.
2073Mag: !Mag Tetrodotoxin-sensitive and -insensitive relaxations in the rat oesophageal tunica muscularis mucosae.
2074Mag: !Mag A calorimetric study of Ca2+ binding by the parvalbumin of the toad (Bufo): distinguishable binding sites in the molecule.
2075Mag: !Mag N-methylaspartate receptors mediate epileptiform activity evoked in some, but not all, conditions in rat neocortical slices.
2076Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary phosphorus and roughage levels on calcium, magnesium and potassium utilization by sheep.
2077Mag: !Mag Influence of cations on enamel phosphatase activity.
2078Mag: !Mag Myosin specific phosphatases isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum.
2079Mag: !Mag Ca2+-sensitive cross-bridge dissociation in the presence of magnesium pyrophosphate in skinned rabbit psoas fibers.
2080Mag: !Mag Identification of uroliths by infrared spectroscopy.
2081Mag: !Mag Blockade of electrical activity promotes the death of mammalian retinal ganglion cells in culture.
2082Mag: !Mag Suppression of the membrane defect by divalent cations in the Drosophila mutant shibire.
2083Mag: !Mag Gastric (H+,K+)-ATPase.
2084Mag: !Mag End-organ resistance to PTH infusion in hypercalcaemic and normocalcaemic patients with solid tumours.
2085Mag: !Mag Human effects of veterinary biological products.
2086Mag: !Mag Conformational analysis of hairpin oligodeoxyribonucleotides by a single-strand-specific nuclease.
2087Mag: !Mag A possible role for Mg2+ ions in the induction of meiotic maturation of Xenopus oocyte.
2088Mag: !Mag Thiophosphorylation of hog gastric (H+ + K+)-ATPase membranes by endogenous protein kinases.
2089Mag: !Mag ATPase activity of biotin carboxylase provides evidence for initial activation of HCO3- by ATP in the carboxylation of biotin.
2090Mag: !Mag Stimulant-like effects of magnesium on aggression in mice.
2091Mag: !Mag Cerebral cation shifts and amino acids in Huntington's disease.
2092Mag: !Mag Different properties of two voltage-dependent inward currents of the ciliate Stylonychia mytilus.
2093Mag: !Mag Effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid and (-)-baclofen on calcium and potassium currents in cat dorsal root ganglion neurones in vitro.
2094Mag: !Mag Effects of extracellular calcium and magnesium on bile-salt-stimulated amylase release from rat pancreatic acini.
2095Mag: !Mag Cerebral resuscitation after cardiac arrest using hetastarch hemodilution, hyperbaric oxygenation and magnesium ion.
2096Mag: !Mag High-density lipoprotein cholesterol assay by magnesium dextransulphate precipitation.
2097Mag: !Mag Influence of Mg++ on the effect of diltiazem to increase dihydropyridine binding to receptors on Ca++-channels in chick cardiac and skeletal muscle membranes.
2098Mag: !Mag Functional purification and enzymic characterization of the RNA-dependent DNA polymerase of human immunodeficiency virus.
2099Mag: !Mag Isolated hypomagnesaemia presenting as focal seizures in diabetes mellitus.
2100Mag: !Mag Exchange of H1 histone depends on aggregation of chromatin, not simply on ionic strength.
2101Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of the DNA invertase gin encoded by bacteriophage Mu.
2102Mag: !Mag Modifications of 60 S ribosomal subunits induced by the ricin A chain.
2103Mag: !Mag A study of the allosteric kinetics of Phycomyces pyruvate kinase as judged by the effect of L-alanine and fructose 1,6-bisphosphate.
2104Mag: !Mag Magnesium-free medium activates seizure-like events in the rat hippocampal slice.
2105Mag: !Mag Rat liver glucocorticoid receptor isolated by affinity chromatography is not a Mg2+- or Ca2+-dependent protein kinase.
2106Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium ion on the structure of the 5S RNA from Escherichia coli. An imino proton magnetic resonance study of the helix I, IV, and V regions of the molecule.
2107Mag: !Mag Rapid filtration study of the phosphorylation-dependent dissociation of calcium from transport sites of purified sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase and ATP modulation of the catalytic cycle.
2108Mag: !Mag Relationship of the physical and enzymatic properties of Escherichia coli recA protein to its strand exchange activity.
2109Mag: !Mag Localisation of light chain and actin binding sites on myosin.
2110Mag: !Mag Allosteric character of the inhibition of rat-muscle hexokinase B by glucose 6-phosphate.
2111Mag: !Mag Effects of ATP-MgCl2 and adenosine-MgCl2 administration on intracellular ATP levels in the kidney.
2112Mag: !Mag (Na+ + K+)-ATPase in artificial lipid vesicles: influence of the concentration of mono- and divalent cations on the pumping rate.
2113Mag: !Mag Oxidation of thiols in the Ca2+-ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum microsomes.
2114Mag: !Mag The long-term effect of cisplatin on renal function.
2115Mag: !Mag Specificity of protein phosphatases in the dephosphorylation of protein kinase C.
2116Mag: !Mag sn-1,2-Diacylglycerol kinase of Escherichia coli. Structural and kinetic analysis of the lipid cofactor dependence.
2117Mag: !Mag Kinetics of mitochondrial calcium transport. II. A kinetic description of the sodium-dependent calcium efflux mechanism of liver mitochondria and inhibition by ruthenium red and by tetraphenylphosphonium.
2118Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium and sodium ions on the outer membrane permeability of cephalosporins in Escherichia coli.
2119Mag: !Mag Characterization of Ca2+- or Mg2+-ATPase of the excitable ciliary membrane from Paramecium tetraurelia: comparison with a soluble Ca2+-dependent ATPase.
2120Mag: !Mag A cell-cycle-dependent DNA polymerase activity that replicates intact DNA in chromatin.
2121Mag: !Mag 31P NMR spectroscopy, chemical analysis, and free Mg2+ of rabbit bladder and uterine smooth muscle.
2122Mag: !Mag Proton and phosphorus-31 NMR study of the dependence of diadenosine tetraphosphate conformation on metal ions.
2123Mag: !Mag Divalent cation induced fusion and lipid lateral segregation in phosphatidylcholine-phosphatidic acid vesicles.
2124Mag: !Mag Interaction of fluorescently labeled myosin subfragment 1 with nucleotides and actin.
2125Mag: !Mag Magnesium inhibits basal release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor in canine coronary arteries.
2126Mag: !Mag Assessment of a ternary model for the binding of agonists to neurohumoral receptors.
2127Mag: !Mag Application of modified normal pulse polarography and its differential mode to alkaline-earth metal ions in acid solutions.
2128Mag: !Mag The in vitro synthesis of velvet tobacco mottle virus-specific double-stranded RNA by a soluble fraction in extracts from infected Nicotiana clevelandii leaves.
2129Mag: !Mag Diacylglycerol Acyltransferase in Maturing Oil Seeds of Maize and Other Species.
2130Mag: !Mag Biological variability and accuracy in determining macro- and microelements in fish
2131Mag: !Mag Elemental concentrations in isolated rat thymocytes prepared for cryofixation in the presence of different media.
2132Mag: !Mag Modulation of branched-chain 2-oxoacid dehydrogenase activity by adenine nucleotides in isolated rat liver mitochondria.
2133Mag: !Mag Effect of sodium salicylate on renal handling of calcium, phosphate and magnesium
2134Mag: !Mag Patterns of redistribution of calcium and magnesium in the tissues of lactating white mice
2135Mag: !Mag Characteristics of histamine-sensitive adenyl cyclase from cells of the gastric mucosa of the rat
2136Mag: !Mag Serum electrolytes and parathyroid hormone concentrations in acute myocardial infarction.
2137Mag: !Mag Exchanges of magnesium and phosphorus at different sites in the ruminant stomach.
2138Mag: !Mag Activation of the chromatin degradation process by a protein factor from the cytoplasm of the thymocytes of irradiated animals
2139Mag: !Mag Bioelectrical activity of the heart and blood electrolytes in virtually healthy subjects during 120-day head-down tilt hypokinesia
2140Mag: !Mag Effects of flow rate, duration of stimulation and mineralocorticoids on the electrolyte concentrations of mandibular saliva from the red kangaroo (Macropus rufus).
2141Mag: !Mag Magnesium and the premenstrual syndrome.
2142Mag: !Mag Composition of the fetal and maternal guinea pig throughout gestation.
2143Mag: !Mag Lactation in the horse: the mineral composition of mare milk.
2144Mag: !Mag Interactive roles of monovalent and divalent cations in pathogenesis of hypertension caused by alcohol.
2145Mag: !Mag Biochemical risk factors in patients with renal staghorn stone disease.
2146Mag: !Mag Clinical experience with low dosage of propionohydroxamic acid (PHA) in infected renal stones.
2147Mag: !Mag Enhancement of human sperm motility and velocity in vitro: effects of calcium and creatine phosphate.
2148Mag: !Mag Separation of viroid RNAs by cellulose chromatography indicating conformational distinctions.
2149Mag: !Mag Action of cholecystokinin octapeptide and CCK-related peptides on neurons in inferior mesenteric ganglion of guinea pig.
2150Mag: !Mag Relationship of tri-O-cresyl phosphate-induced delayed neurotoxicity to enhancement of in vitro phosphorylation of hen brain and spinal cord proteins.
2151Mag: !Mag Subcellular location and properties of bactericidal factors from human neutrophils.
2152Mag: !Mag Systemic and renal vascular responses to dietary calcium and vitamin D.
2153Mag: !Mag Some functional effects of suppressing bioelectric activity in fetal mouse spinal cord-dorsal root ganglion explants.
2154Mag: !Mag Clinical manifestations of hypomagnesemia.
2155Mag: !Mag Recent developments in the etiology and treatment of hypertension: dietary calcium, fat, and magnesium.
2156Mag: !Mag Effect of amniotic fluid bacteria on the course of labor in nulliparous women at term.
2157Mag: !Mag Prolonged low-intensity exercise raises the serum parathyroid hormone levels.
2158Mag: !Mag Kidney function in rats with corticomedullary nephrocalcinosis: effects of alterations in dietary calcium and magnesium.
2159Mag: !Mag Relationship between magnesium, cancer and carcinogenic or anticancer metals.
2160Mag: !Mag Long-term low-dose antacid versus cimetidine therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer recurrence.
2161Mag: !Mag The status of magnesium in rabbits with experimentally-induced diabetes mellitus.
2162Mag: !Mag Magnesium limitation and its role in apparent toxicity of ethanol during yeast fermentation.
2163Mag: !Mag Nephrotoxicity induced by cancer chemotherapy with special emphasis on cisplatin toxicity.
2164Mag: !Mag Effects of nucleotides on ATP-dependent protein translocation into Escherichia coli membrane vesicles.
2165Mag: !Mag Magnesium-dependent plaque formation by bacteriophage P1cinC(-) on Escherichia coli C and Shigella sonnei.
2166Mag: !Mag Infection stones. Evaluation and management.
2167Mag: !Mag The in vitro effects of Salmonella enteriditis on urinary stone formation.
2168Mag: !Mag Calcium metabolism in essential hypertension: relationship to altered renin system activity.
2169Mag: !Mag Activation of the contractile apparatus of skinned fibres of frog by the divalent cations barium, cadmium and nickel.
2170Mag: !Mag Cooperative interaction between Ca2+ and beta,gamma-methylene adenosine triphosphate in their binding to fragmented sarcoplasmic reticulum from bullfrog skeletal muscle.
2171Mag: !Mag Identification of two forms of glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium.
2172Mag: !Mag Quantitative analysis of the effect of ATP-MgCl2 and adenosine-MgCl2 on the extent of necrosis in rat liver after ischemia.
2173Mag: !Mag Evidence for an ordered reaction mechanism for bile salt: 3'phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate: sulfotransferase from rhesus monkey liver that catalyzes the sulfation of the hepatotoxin glycolithocholate.
2174Mag: !Mag Magnesium in tooth enamel and synthetic apatites.
2175Mag: !Mag Digestion of repair sites in rat liver DNA by endogenous nucleases.
2176Mag: !Mag The effects of Mg2+ ions or EDTA on nuclear integrity and apparent subcellular distribution of unoccupied oestrogen receptors in breast cancer cells.
2177Mag: !Mag Aluminum in parenteral nutrition solution--sources and possible alternatives.
2178Mag: !Mag Ranitidine, cimetidine and magnesium silicate in the prevention of aspiration pneumonia
2179Mag: !Mag Translocation of Mg2+-dependent phosphatidate phosphohydrolase between cytosol and endoplasmic reticulum in a permanent cell line from human lung.
2180Mag: !Mag Acceleration of the rate of fluorescence decrease by high concentrations of ATP under the condition of accumulation of ADP-sensitive phosphoenzyme in Na+,K+-ATPase.
2181Mag: !Mag Effects of the intravenous administration of magnesium sulfate on corrected serum calcium level and nephrogenous cyclic AMP excretion in normal human subjects.
2182Mag: !Mag Effect of fu-ning in treating skeletal fluorosis
2183Mag: !Mag Phospholipid base exchange in human leukocyte membranes: quantitation and correlation with other phospholipid biosynthetic pathways.
2184Mag: !Mag Potassium activation and its relationship to a highly reactive cysteine residue in fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase.
2185Mag: !Mag Increased plasma renin and aldosterone in patients treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy for metastatic germ-cell tumors.
2186Mag: !Mag On the role of magnesium in the reaction of the pyruvate kinase from Salmonella typhimurium.
2187Mag: !Mag Sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca-ATPase: distinction of phosphoenzymes formed from MgATP and CaATP as substrates and interconversion of the phosphoenzymes by Mg2+ and Ca2+.
2188Mag: !Mag Thermotropic phase transitions in the plasma membrane of ram spermatozoa.
2189Mag: !Mag ORD--NIOSH prevention strategy and selected research.
2190Mag: !Mag Cryoprotection of phosphofructokinase with organic solutes: characterization of enhanced protection in the presence of divalent cations.
2191Mag: !Mag Sodium/calcium exchange and calcium buffering in mammalian ventricular muscle.
2192Mag: !Mag Passive transport of Ca2+ in vesiculated preparations of myocardial sarcolemma
2193Mag: !Mag Control of thallium and sodium fluxes in isolated adult rat heart cells by anthopleurin-A, verapamil and magnesium.
2194Mag: !Mag Role of intracellular Mg2+ in the activation of muscarinic K+ channel in cardiac atrial cell membrane.
2195Mag: !Mag Single channel measurements of the calcium release channel from skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum. Activation by Ca2+ and ATP and modulation by Mg2+.
2196Mag: !Mag Influence of altering cellular magnesium content on vascular smooth muscle contractility.
2197Mag: !Mag Refractory Minerals in Interplanetary Dust.
2198Mag: !Mag Dependence of urine composition on the age and sex of healthy subjects.
2199Mag: !Mag Design of an indicator of intracellular free Na+ concentration using 19F-NMR.
2200Mag: !Mag The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone complex.
2201Mag: !Mag Failure to determine HDL2 cholesterol with dextran sulphate following isolation of HDL with phosphotungstate and magnesium chloride.
2202Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of an N-acetylgalactosamine specific lectin from Salvia sclarea seeds.
2203Mag: !Mag Fibronectin-binding properties of the purified platelet glycoprotein IIb-IIIa complex.
2204Mag: !Mag A filamentous form of Drosophila casein kinase II.
2205Mag: !Mag Two monoclonal antibodies against Escherichia coli ribosomal protein L2 distinguish different locations for their respective epitopes in intact ribosomes.
2206Mag: !Mag Drug information. Bones, liver and muscles contain the element magnesium
2207Mag: !Mag Effect of temperature on the mechanism of actin polymerization.
2208Mag: !Mag Anticodon loop of tRNAPhe: structure, dynamics, and Mg2+ binding.
2209Mag: !Mag Regulation of rabbit liver fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase by metals, nucleotides, and fructose 2,6-bisphosphate as determined from fluorescence studies.
2210Mag: !Mag An examination of the ability of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate to induce calcium release and tension development in skinned skeletal muscle fibres of frog and crustacea.
2211Mag: !Mag Guanine nucleotide-binding protein in sea urchin eggs serving as the specific substrate of islet-activating protein, pertussis toxin.
2212Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of the modulator protein of the ATP, Mg-dependent protein phosphatase by casein kinase TS. Reversal by PCS phosphatases and control by distinct phosphorylation site(s).
2213Mag: !Mag Severe hypermagnesaemia due to magnesium sulphate enemas in patients with hepatic coma.
2214Mag: !Mag Peroral calcium administration test with free diet in idiopathic calcium nephrolithiasis--possibilities and limits
2215Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium concentration in myocardial infarct
2216Mag: !Mag A cyclic nucleotide and calcium-independent protein kinase of chick brain: activation by a heat-stable protein.
2217Mag: !Mag Analysis of plasma lipoproteins by ultracentrifugation in a new fixed angle rotor: evaluation of a phosphotungstic acid/MgCl2 precipitation and a quantitative lipoprotein electrophoresis assay.
2218Mag: !Mag Binding of 3Hforskolin to human platelet membranes. Regulation by guanyl-5'-yl imidodiphosphate, NaF, and prostaglandins E1 and D2.
2219Mag: !Mag Adipose-tissue Mg2+-dependent phosphatidate phosphohydrolase. Control of activity and subcellular distribution in vitro and in vivo.
2220Mag: !Mag Identification and characterization of Mg2+-dependent phosphotyrosyl protein phosphatase from rat liver cytosol.
2221Mag: !Mag Pyrophosphate-caused inhibition of the aminoacylation of tRNA by the leucyl-tRNA synthetase from Neurospora crassa.
2222Mag: !Mag The effect of kainic, quinolinic and beta-kainic acids on the release of endogenous amino acids from rat brain slices.
2223Mag: !Mag Regulation of inter- and intramolecular ligation with T4 DNA ligase in the presence of polyethylene glycol.
2224Mag: !Mag Calcium-proton and calcium-magnesium antagonisms in calmodulin: microcalorimetric and potentiometric analyses.
2225Mag: !Mag Interaction of vinblastine with calf brain tubulin: effects of magnesium ions.
2226Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of a new Mr 18,000 protein with calcium vector properties in amphioxus muscle and identification of its endogenous target protein.
2227Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase from the parasitic helminth Ascaris suum.
2228Mag: !Mag Low Mr tropomyosin isoforms from chicken brain and intestinal epithelium have distinct actin-binding properties.
2229Mag: !Mag An insulin-stimulated ribosomal protein S6 kinase in 3T3-L1 cells.
2230Mag: !Mag ATP-independent renaturation of complementary DNA strands by the mutant recA1 protein from Escherichia coli.
2231Mag: !Mag Study of actin filament ends in the human red cell membrane.
2232Mag: !Mag Polymerase activity in lymphocyte culture supernatants from patients with Kawasaki disease.
2233Mag: !Mag Does magnesium stimulate adrenocortical secretion?
2234Mag: !Mag The Role of Glycerol and Inorganic Ions in Osmoregulatory Responses of the Euryhaline Flagellate Chlamydomonas pulsatilla Wollenweber.
2235Mag: !Mag Charge transfer leading to multiple ionization of neon, sodium, and magnesium.
2236Mag: !Mag Receptor binding in the rat liver nuclear matrix.
2237Mag: !Mag An intermediate state of G-actin between native and denatured: polymerization rate decreases but extent of polymerization remains unchanged.
2238Mag: !Mag Renal osteodystrophy
2239Mag: !Mag Interrelationships between the concentration of magnesium, calcium, and strontium in the hair of Japanese school children.
2240Mag: !Mag Chemical qualities of water that contribute to human health in a positive way.
2241Mag: !Mag Trace metals in scalp hair of children and adults in three Alberta Indian villages.
2242Mag: !Mag Magnesium and calcium metabolism in peptic ulcer patients
2243Mag: !Mag Malignant melanoma cell lines selected in vitro for increased homotypic adhesion properties have increased experimental metastatic potential.
2244Mag: !Mag The importance of magnesium in orthopedics. Part 1. Introduction, metabolism
2245Mag: !Mag The effect of drinking water temperature in winter on water, magnesium and calcium metabolisms in ewes.
2246Mag: !Mag Reassembling scattered and mixed human bones by trace element ratios.
2247Mag: !Mag The trace element and macronutrient content of meals-on-wheels.
2248Mag: !Mag Vitamin D and mineral metabolism in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy.
2249Mag: !Mag Inhibitors of urinary stone formation in 40 recurrent stone formers.
2250Mag: !Mag Manganese-deoxyribonucleic acid binding modes. Nuclear magnetic relaxation dispersion results.
2251Mag: !Mag Factors affecting sensitivity of Staphylococcus aureus 196E to polyphosphates.
2252Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia following high-dose intracavitary cisplatin with systemically administered sodium thiosulfate.
2253Mag: !Mag Calcium dependence of histamine-induced increases in capillary permeability in isolated perfused rat hindquarters.
2254Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of chromaffin cell proteins in response to stimulation.
2255Mag: !Mag Plasma catecholamines in acute magnesium deficiency in weanling rats.
2256Mag: !Mag Interaction of fibronectin with polymorphonuclear leukocytes normally and in anaphylaxis
2257Mag: !Mag 25-Hydroxyvitamin D3-23-hydroxylase, a renal enzyme in several animal species.
2258Mag: !Mag A male specific hepatic estrogen binding protein: characteristics and binding properties.
2259Mag: !Mag Solubility of palmitoyl-coenzyme A in acyltransferase assay buffers containing magnesium ions.
2260Mag: !Mag Formation of enzyme-bound carbanion intermediate in the isocitrate lyase-catalyzed reaction: enzymatic reaction of tetranitromethane with substrates and its dependence on effector, pH, and metal ions.
2261Mag: !Mag K+-H+ exchange and volume homeostasis in brown adipose tissue mitochondria.
2262Mag: !Mag Growth, bone maturation, and biochemical changes in Brazilian children from two different socioeconomic groups.
2263Mag: !Mag Efficacy of magnesium sulfate in the treatment of torsade de pointes.
2264Mag: !Mag Metabolism of some essential minerals in ponies fed high levels of aluminum.
2265Mag: !Mag Genetic factors regulating magnesium concentrations in plasma and erythrocytes.
2266Mag: !Mag Early neonatal hypocalcemia in extremely preterm infants. High incidence, early onset, and refractoriness to supraphysiologic doses of calcitriol.
2267Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesemia and perforated viscus.
2268Mag: !Mag Cathartic-induced magnesium toxicity during overdose management.
2269Mag: !Mag Clastogenicity in vitro of the Na, K, Ca and Mg salts of saccharin; and of magnesium chloride; consideration of significance.
2270Mag: !Mag Significance of serum magnesium in pulmonary tuberculosis.
2271Mag: !Mag A peptide (a magnesium salt of N-acetyl (alpha, beta)-aspartyl-glutamic acid). Demonstration of the protection against local cellular destruction induced by in situ complement activation
2272Mag: !Mag Feedback of the magnesium ion on the parathyroid hormone: differences in the action of magnesium sulfate and pyrrolidone carboxylate
2273Mag: !Mag Multiple sclerosis: decreased relapse rate through dietary supplementation with calcium, magnesium and vitamin D.
2274Mag: !Mag Magnesium in cardiac energy metabolism.
2275Mag: !Mag Electrolytes and spontaneous genetic hypertension in rats.
2276Mag: !Mag A chemically defined medium induces resistance to lipopolysaccharide antibody in Haemophilus influenzae type b.
2277Mag: !Mag The influence of 1 alpha,25- and 24(R),25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 on bone constituents during early mineralization in the rat.
2278Mag: !Mag An improved method of isolating Pneumocystis carinii from infected rat lungs.
2279Mag: !Mag Chemical modification of calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum of mechanically skinned skeletal bullfrog muscle fibers.
2280Mag: !Mag The role of orthophosphate in crossbridge kinetics in chemically skinned rabbit psoas fibres as detected with sinusoidal and step length alterations.
2281Mag: !Mag The myosin filament. XII. Effect of MgATP on assembly.
2282Mag: !Mag Change in the composition of molar dentin in rats kept on normal and protein-poor feed, following administration of selenium
2283Mag: !Mag Ionic regulation of sea urchin sperm motility, metabolism and fertilizing capacity.
2284Mag: !Mag Matrix proteins of the teeth of the sea urchin Lytechinus variegatus.
2285Mag: !Mag Adipocyte glycogen synthase and pyruvate dehydrogenase in obese and type II diabetic subjects.
2286Mag: !Mag Potentiation by 4-aminopyridine of quantal acetylcholine release at the Torpedo nerve-electroplaque junction.
2287Mag: !Mag Heart sarcolemmal (Na+ + K+)-ATPase has an essential amino group in the potassium binding site on the enzyme molecule.
2288Mag: !Mag Digitalis-like biological activity in rat cerebellum.
2289Mag: !Mag The biological performance of calcium phosphate ceramics in an infected implantation site. III: Biological performance of beta-whitlockite in the noninfected and infected rat middle ear.
2290Mag: !Mag Stiffness of skinned rabbit psoas fibers in MgATP and MgPPi solution.
2291Mag: !Mag Digestion in horses after resection or ischemic insult of the large colon.
2292Mag: !Mag Effect of sulfur fertilization on chemical composition, ensiling characteristics and utilization of corn silage by lambs.
2293Mag: !Mag Platelet-activating factor binding to human platelet membranes.
2294Mag: !Mag Breast tumors: evaluation with P-31 MR spectroscopy.
2295Mag: !Mag Guanyl nucleotide regulation of human chorionic gonadotropin binding to rat luteal tissue.
2296Mag: !Mag Binding studies with rat myometrial and mammary gland membranes on effects of manganese on relative affinities of receptors for oxytocin analogs.
2297Mag: !Mag Pitfalls in the assay of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase activity in microsacs from Torpedo marmorata.
2298Mag: !Mag Renal, hemodynamic, and hormonal responses to atrial natriuretic peptide infusions in normal man, and effect of sodium intake.
2299Mag: !Mag Differences in synaptic efficacy at neuromuscular junctions in frog twitch muscles.
2300Mag: !Mag Guanine nucleotides regulate both agonist and antagonist binding to cod brain alpha 1-adrenoceptors.
2301Mag: !Mag Quantal release of acetylcholine evoked by focal depolarization at the Torpedo nerve-electroplaque junction.
2302Mag: !Mag Particle-induced coronary vasoconstriction in the rat heart: pharmacological investigation of underlying mechanisms.
2303Mag: !Mag The salivary flow rate and composition of whole and parotid resting and stimulated saliva in young and old healthy subjects.
2304Mag: !Mag Actions of acetylcholine and nicotine on rat locus coeruleus neurons in vitro.
2305Mag: !Mag Divalent cation regulation of the surface orientation of platelet membrane glycoprotein IIb. Correlation with fibrinogen binding function and definition of a novel variant of Glanzmann's thrombasthenia.
2306Mag: !Mag Identification of an enzymatic activity that hydrolyzes protein-bound ADP-ribose in skeletal muscle.
2307Mag: !Mag Pathogenesis and clinical aspects of struvite urinary calculi
2308Mag: !Mag Template-free ribosomal synthesis of polypeptides from aminoacyl-tRNA. Polyphenylalanine synthesis from phenylalanyl-tRNALys.
2309Mag: !Mag Studies on inorganic pyrophosphatase using imidodiphosphate as a substrate.
2310Mag: !Mag Does intrinsic fluorescence reflect conformational changes in the Ca2+-ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum?
2311Mag: !Mag A multinuclear NMR study of the interactions of cations with proteoglycans, heparin, and Ficoll.
2312Mag: !Mag 4-Aminopyridine-mediated increase in long-term potentiation in CA1 of the rat hippocampus.
2313Mag: !Mag Site-specific recombination and topoisomerization by Tn21 resolvase: role of metal ions.
2314Mag: !Mag Regulation of magnesium but not calcium transport by phorbol ester.
2315Mag: !Mag Electrical potential accelerates the E1P(Na)----E2P conformational transition of (Na,K)-ATPase in reconstituted vesicles.
2316Mag: !Mag Adenine nucleotide-binding sites on beef heart F1-ATPase. Conditions that affect occupancy of catalytic and noncatalytic sites.
2317Mag: !Mag Selective preconcentration of polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons and polychlorinated biphenyls by in situ metal hydroxide precipitation.
2318Mag: !Mag Specific neuronal staining by in vitro uptake of lucifer yellow.
2319Mag: !Mag Fluorine-19 nuclear magnetic resonance studies of the structure of 5-fluorouracil-substituted Escherichia coli transfer RNA.
2320Mag: !Mag Carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase: an example of effects on enzyme properties of shifting an equilibrium between active monomer and active oligomer.
2321Mag: !Mag Euglena gracilis chromatin: comparison of effects of zinc, iron, magnesium, or manganese deficiency and cold shock.
2322Mag: !Mag Clinical pathology of myodegeneration (pancreas disease) in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar).
2323Mag: !Mag Measurement of magnesium in serum and urine with a random access analyzer by use of a modified xylidyl blue-1 procedure.
2324Mag: !Mag Muscarinic receptor subtypes in bovine adrenal medulla.
2325Mag: !Mag An auxiliary protein for DNA polymerase-delta from fetal calf thymus.
2326Mag: !Mag Kinetics of inhibition and binding of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide to the 82,000-dalton mitochondrial K+/H+ antiporter.
2327Mag: !Mag Removal of ferredoxin:NADP+ oxidoreductase from thylakoid membranes, rebinding to depleted membranes, and identification of the binding site.
2328Mag: !Mag Mitogenic agents induce redistribution of transferrin receptors from internal pools to the cell surface.
2329Mag: !Mag Effect of proteases and phospholipases on 3Hyohimbine binding to human platelet membranes.
2330Mag: !Mag Characterization of the plasma membrane bound GTPase from rabbit neutrophils. I. Evidence for an Ni-like protein coupled to the formyl peptide, C5a, and leukotriene B4 chemotaxis receptors.
2331Mag: !Mag Three partial reactions of ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase require both large and small subunits.
2332Mag: !Mag Enhancement of adenylate cyclase activity in S49 lymphoma cells by phorbol esters. Withdrawal of GTP-dependent inhibition.
2333Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium supplementation on blood pressure and electrolyte concentrations in hypertensive patients receiving long term diuretic treatment.
2334Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of multiple forms of Mg2+-dependent phosphatidate phosphohydrolase from rat adipose cytosol.
2335Mag: !Mag DNA binding properties of a 110 kDa nucleolar protein.
2336Mag: !Mag Presence of a low-affinity nucleotide binding site on the (K+ + H+)-ATPase phosphoenzyme.
2337Mag: !Mag N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors coexist with kainate and quisqualate receptors on single isolated catfish horizontal cells.
2338Mag: !Mag Regeneration of Magnesium-2,4-Divinylpheoporphyrin a(5) (Divinyl Protochlorophyllide) in Isolated Developing Chloroplasts.
2339Mag: !Mag The Two-Isozyme System of 3-Deoxy-d-arabino-Heptulosonate 7-Phosphate Synthase in Nicotiana silvestris and Other Higher Plants.
2340Mag: !Mag Magnesium and Manganese Content of Halophilic Bacteria.
2341Mag: !Mag Foliar mineral composition, fertilization and dieback of Norway spruce in the Belgian Ardennes.
2342Mag: !Mag Experimental and clinical studies on calcium lithiasis. II. Prevention of recurrent calcium stones with thiazides and allopurinol
2343Mag: !Mag Mineral composition of the milk of mothers of premature infants during early lactation
2344Mag: !Mag The origin of (+)-tubocurarine resistance in dystrophic mice.
2345Mag: !Mag Effects of monovalent and divalent salts on the phospholipid and fatty acid compositions of a halotolerant Planococcus sp.
2346Mag: !Mag Protective effect of taurine against isoprenaline-induced myocardial damage.
2347Mag: !Mag Biliary and urinary excretion of metals in humans.
2348Mag: !Mag Effects of gallium chloride oral administration on transplanted C3HBA mammary adenocarcinoma: Ga, Mg, Ca and Fe concentration and anatomopathological characteristics.
2349Mag: !Mag A geochemical basis for endomyocardial fibrosis.
2350Mag: !Mag Preparation of a cell-free extract from rat brain which can initiate protein synthesis in vitro.
2351Mag: !Mag Ca2+ transport capacity of sarcolemmal Na+-Ca2+ exchange. Extrapolation of vesicle data to in vivo conditions.
2352Mag: !Mag The effects of high Mg2+-to-Ca2+ ratios on frequency potentiation in hippocampal slices of young and aged rats.
2353Mag: !Mag Excretion of deoxynivalenol and its metabolite in milk, urine, and feces of lactating dairy cows.
2354Mag: !Mag Biosynthesis of valanimycin.
2355Mag: !Mag Adaptation of a quantitative programme for the X-ray analysis of solubilized tissue as microdroplets in the transmission electron microscope: application to the moult cycle of the shrimp Crangon crangon (L).
2356Mag: !Mag The hysteretic effect of Gpp(NH)p on adenylate cyclase is not altered by Mg2+ in adipocyte membranes of ob/ob mice.
2357Mag: !Mag Extended sensitivity for the calcium selective electrode.
2358Mag: !Mag The ability of antacids and cholestyramine to bind bile acids: effect of pH.
2359Mag: !Mag Intracellular sodium, potassium and magnesium concentration, ouabain-sensitive 86rubidium-uptake and sodium-efflux and Na+, K+-cotransport activity in erythrocytes of normal male subjects studied on two occasions.
2360Mag: !Mag Combined therapy with magnesium sulfate and terbutaline for preterm labor tocolysis
2361Mag: !Mag Kinetics of human spermatozoa long-chain fatty acid: CoASH ligase.
2362Mag: !Mag A multi-centre study on within-person variability in the urinary excretion of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium and creatinine in 8 European centres.
2363Mag: !Mag A method for the identification of apolipoprotein E isoforms employing chemical precipitation and flat bed isoelectric focusing in agarose.
2364Mag: !Mag Effect of procaine on the pH of buffered and unbuffered cardioplegic solutions.
2365Mag: !Mag Effect of iron fortification of infant formula on trace mineral absorption.
2366Mag: !Mag Effect of pH on the microhardness of renal calculi.
2367Mag: !Mag A method for isolating large numbers of viable disaggregated cells from various human tissues for cell culture establishment.
2368Mag: !Mag Photoinitiated ion movements in bilayer membranes containing magnesium octaethylporphyrin.
2369Mag: !Mag Renal tubular function in cyclosporine-treated patients.
2370Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium hydroxide and low magnesium dialysate does not permit reduction of aluminum hydroxide during continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
2371Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and renal magnesium wasting in patients treated with cisplatin.
2372Mag: !Mag Kenny syndrome: evidence for idiopathic hypoparathyroidism in two patients and for abnormal parathyroid hormone in one.
2373Mag: !Mag Experience with adolescents with phenylketonuria returned to phenylalanine-restricted diets.
2374Mag: !Mag A comparative study of adenylate cyclase activity and progesterone synthesis in ovine corpora lutea stimulated by different chemical derivatives or natural analogs of ovine LH.
2375Mag: !Mag A comparative study of seminal trace elements in fertile and infertile men.
2376Mag: !Mag Routine measurement of calcium, magnesium, copper, zinc, and iron in urine and serum by inductively coupled plasma emission spectroscopy.
2377Mag: !Mag New approaches to the management of acute puerperal uterine inversion.
2378Mag: !Mag The effects of urease in undiluted human urine.
2379Mag: !Mag Effects of intraruminal sodium chloride infusion on rumen and renal nitrogen and electrolyte dynamics in sheep.
2380Mag: !Mag The effects of a high-animal- and a high-vegetable-protein diet on mineral balance and bowel function of young men.
2381Mag: !Mag Dinitrophenyl glutathione efflux from human erythrocytes is primary active ATP-dependent transport.
2382Mag: !Mag Serum levels of copper, zinc and magnesium in parturients and newborn infants in term and prolonged pregnancies
2383Mag: !Mag Treadmilling or fragmentation? A proposed repair mechanism for actin filaments.
2384Mag: !Mag Insulin induces opposite changes in plasma and erythrocyte magnesium concentrations in normal man.
2385Mag: !Mag Further characterization of a steroid receptor-active protease from the mature rabbit epididymis.
2386Mag: !Mag Electron probe analysis, X-ray mapping, and electron energy-loss spectroscopy of calcium, magnesium, and monovalent ions in log-phase and in dividing Escherichia coli B cells.
2387Mag: !Mag Regulation of staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 and total exoprotein production by magnesium ion.
2388Mag: !Mag Metal: ATP characteristics of insulin- and epidermal growth factor-stimulated phosphorylation in detergent extracts of rat liver plasma membranes.
2389Mag: !Mag In vitro killing of spores and hyphae of Aspergillus fumigatus and Rhizopus oryzae by rabbit neutrophil cationic peptides and bronchoalveolar macrophages.
2390Mag: !Mag Requirement of the nickel tetrapyrrole F430 for in vitro methanogenesis: reconstitution of methylreductase component C from its dissociated subunits.
2391Mag: !Mag Granular cell reaction to surgical glove powder.
2392Mag: !Mag Vasomotor responses of isolated human coronary arteries to magnesium, nitroglycerin and verapamil: a comparison with coronary arteries from cat and rat.
2393Mag: !Mag Diabetic ocular lesions and hypomagnesemia
2394Mag: !Mag Synergistic interactions between piracetam and dihydroergocristine in some animal models of cerebral hypoxia and ischaemia.
2395Mag: !Mag Action of colistin (polymyxin E) on the lytic cycle of the mycobacteriophage D29 in Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
2396Mag: !Mag Trifluoperazine inhibits thyrotropin-releasing hormone-stimulated TSH secretion.
2397Mag: !Mag Effects of cimetidine on jejunostomy effluents in patients with severe short-bowel syndrome.
2398Mag: !Mag Experimental analysis of the adhesion reaction between isolated Chlamydomonas flagella.
2399Mag: !Mag Maturation of mammalian bone minerals. A new method for determining bone metabolism
2400Mag: !Mag In vitro transcription of human influenza and parainfluenza viruses and its regulation
2401Mag: !Mag Calcium and long-term transmission damage following anoxia in dentate gyrus and CA1 regions of the rat hippocampal slice.
2402Mag: !Mag Increase in the number of presynaptic large intramembrane particles during synaptic transmission at the Torpedo nerve-electroplaque junction.
2403Mag: !Mag Prostacyclin stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity in human thyroid membranes.
2404Mag: !Mag ATP sulfurylase-dependent assays for inorganic pyrophosphate: applications to determining the equilibrium constant and reverse direction kinetics of the pyrophosphatase reaction, magnesium binding to orthophosphate, and unknown concentrations of pyrophosphate.
2405Mag: !Mag Inorganic pyrophosphatase activity in a plaque calcifying microorganism: Bacterionema matruchotii.
2406Mag: !Mag Determination of trace elements in foods by HCl-HNO3 leaching and flame atomic absorption spectroscopy.
2407Mag: !Mag Nutritional risk of high-carbohydrate, guar gum dietary supplementation in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
2408Mag: !Mag Calcium-induced long-term potentiation in the hippocampal slice: characterization of the time course and conditions.
2409Mag: !Mag Role of plasma gelsolin and the vitamin D-binding protein in clearing actin from the circulation.
2410Mag: !Mag An electron spin resonance study of free radicals from catechol estrogens.
2411Mag: !Mag Sodium-potassium, magnesium, and calcium ATPase activities in erythrocyte membranes from manic-depressive patients responding to lithium.
2412Mag: !Mag Characterization of phosphoproteins and protein kinase activity of virions, noninfectious enveloped particles, and dense bodies of human cytomegalovirus.
2413Mag: !Mag Ectonucleotidase activities associated with cholinergic synaptosomes isolated from Torpedo electric organ.
2414Mag: !Mag Cell-free desensitization of opioid inhibition of adenylate cyclase in neuroblastoma X glioma NG108-15 hybrid cell membranes.
2415Mag: !Mag Specific binding of calcium to soluble chromatin.
2416Mag: !Mag Characterization of human erythrocyte cytoskeletal ATPase.
2417Mag: !Mag Effect of prostaglandins E2 and F2 alpha on membrane calcium binding, Ca2+/Mg2+-ATPase activity and membrane fluidity in rat myometrial plasma membranes.
2418Mag: !Mag Insulin reversal of biochemical changes in hearts from diabetic rats.
2419Mag: !Mag Characterization and purification of the membrane-bound ATPase of the archaebacterium Methanosarcina barkeri.
2420Mag: !Mag The dopamine D1 receptor: partial purification of a digitonin-solubilized receptor-guanine nucleotide binding complex.
2421Mag: !Mag Ecto-ATPase of mammalian synaptosomes: identification and enzymic characterization.
2422Mag: !Mag ADP binding to TF1 and its subunits induces ultraviolet spectral changes.
2423Mag: !Mag Metabolism of N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide by rat liver microsomes.
2424Mag: !Mag Characterization of the inhibition of excitatory amino acid-induced neurotransmitter release in the rat striatum by phencyclidine-like drugs.
2425Mag: !Mag Tyrosine hydroxylase activation in mesocortical 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine neurons following footshock.
2426Mag: !Mag Pyridine metabolism of the human erythrocyte
2427Mag: !Mag Dual effect of phorbol ester on serosal mast cell exocytosis: interactions between ionic gradients and protein kinase C.
2428Mag: !Mag Intracellular free magnesium in frog skeletal muscle fibres measured with ion-selective micro-electrodes.
2429Mag: !Mag Isolation and regeneration of the protoplasts of the streptomycete producers of actinomycins C and X
2430Mag: !Mag Blockade of current through single calcium channels by Cd2+, Mg2+, and Ca2+. Voltage and concentration dependence of calcium entry into the pore.
2431Mag: !Mag Allosteric effects of Mg2+ on the gating of Ca2+-activated K+ channels from mammalian skeletal muscle.
2432Mag: !Mag Expression of reverse transcriptase activity of human T-lymphotropic virus type III (HTLV-III/LAV) in Escherichia coli.
2433Mag: !Mag Eruption of the Nevado del Ruiz Volcano, Colombia, on 13 November 1985: Gas Flux and Fluid Geochemistry.
2434Mag: !Mag Epileptiform activity in combined slices of the hippocampus, subiculum and entorhinal cortex during perfusion with low magnesium medium.
2435Mag: !Mag Restrained refinement of the monoclinic form of yeast phenylalanine transfer RNA. Temperature factors and dynamics, coordinated waters, and base-pair propeller twist angles.
2436Mag: !Mag Nonlinear increase of elongation rate of actin filaments with actin monomer concentration.
2437Mag: !Mag The effect of Mg2+ on the guanine nucleotide exchange rate of p21N-ras.
2438Mag: !Mag The effects of metal ions and temperature on the interaction of cobra venom factor and human complement factor B.
2439Mag: !Mag Isolation of D-myo-inositol 1:2-cyclic phosphate 2-inositolphosphohydrolase from human placenta.
2440Mag: !Mag NMR studies of pig gastric microsomal H+,K+-ATPase and phospholipid dynamics. Effects of ethanol perturbation.
2441Mag: !Mag Acid-base effects of "non-systemic" antacids.
2442Mag: !Mag Divalent cation modulation of the ionic permeability of the synaptosomal plasma membrane.
2443Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium on fictive locomotion induced by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the lamprey spinal cord in vitro.
2444Mag: !Mag Directional Compton profiles and autocorrelation function of magnesium oxide.
2445Mag: !Mag Fluorescence measurements of the binding of cations to high-affinity and low-affinity sites on ATP-G-actin.
2446Mag: !Mag Chemical modification of bovine prothrombin fragment 1 in the presence of Tb3+ ions.
2447Mag: !Mag Purification and initial characterization of a protein from skeletal muscle that caps the barbed ends of actin filaments.
2448Mag: !Mag Effects of trifluoperazine on calcium binding by calmodulin. Heat capacity and entropy changes.
2449Mag: !Mag Effects of Mn2+ on the exchange reaction of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase in the presence of high concentrations of Mg2+.
2450Mag: !Mag The role of magnesium and potassium ions in the molecular mechanism of ribosome assembly: hydrodynamic, conformational, and thermal stability studies of 16 S RNA from Escherichia coli ribosomes.
2451Mag: !Mag Use of toluene-permeabilized mitochondria to study the regulation of adipose tissue pyruvate dehydrogenase in situ. Further evidence that insulin acts through stimulation of pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphate phosphatase.
2452Mag: !Mag Sensitivity of pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphate phosphatase to magnesium ions. Similar effects of spermine and insulin.
2453Mag: !Mag Errors in measurements of CO2 with the use of drying agents.
2454Mag: !Mag Calcium or magnesium concentration affects the severity of organophosphate-induced neuromuscular block.
2455Mag: !Mag Regulation of liver glycogen synthase phosphatase activity by ATP-Mg.
2456Mag: !Mag Uncoupling of the DNA breaking and rejoining steps of Escherichia coli type I DNA topoisomerase. Demonstration of an active covalent protein-DNA complex.
2457Mag: !Mag Case-control study on colorectal cancer and diet in Marseilles.
2458Mag: !Mag Magnesium and manganese ions modulate Ca2+ uptake and its energetic coupling in sarcoplasmic reticulum.
2459Mag: !Mag The effects of Mg2+ at the high-affinity and low-affinity sites on the polymerization of actin and associated ATP hydrolysis.
2460Mag: !Mag Synthesis of ATP by soluble mitochondrial F1 ATPase and F1-inhibitor-protein complex in the presence of organic solvents.
2461Mag: !Mag Salt taste responses in the frog glossopharyngeal nerve: different receptor sites for Mg2+ and Na+.
2462Mag: !Mag Investigation of the regiospecificity and stereospecificity of proton transfer in the yeast inorganic pyrophosphatase catalyzed reaction.
2463Mag: !Mag Consequences of the interaction of calcium with dioleoylphosphatidate-containing model membranes: changes in membrane permeability.
2464Mag: !Mag Depolymerization of solubilized gastric (H+ + K+)-ATPase by n-octylglucoside or cholate.
2465Mag: !Mag Muscle contraction. Through thick and thin.
2466Mag: !Mag Interplay between calcium and activated cGMP phosphodiesterase from retinal rod outer segments.
2467Mag: !Mag Metal ion-induced activation of molecular oxygen in pigmented polymers.
2468Mag: !Mag A high affinity calcium-stimulated ATPase in synaptic plasma membranes detectable in the presence and absence of exogenous magnesium.
2469Mag: !Mag Physicochemical studies of the folding of the 100 A nucleosome filament into the 300 A filament. Cation dependence.
2470Mag: !Mag Direct evidence for ATP modulation of sugar transport in human erythrocyte ghosts.
2471Mag: !Mag Reaction intermediate partitioning by ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylases with differing substrate specificities.
2472Mag: !Mag Nonessentiality of histidine 291 of Rhodospirillum rubrum ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase as determined by site-directed mutagenesis.
2473Mag: !Mag Observations on serum iron, zinc, copper and magnesium in intravenously fed patients with chronic sepsis.
2474Mag: !Mag Maize Leaf Adenylate Kinase : Purification and Partial Characterization.
2475Mag: !Mag A comparative study of diagnostic tests for the assessment of herd magnesium status in cattle.
2476Mag: !Mag Binding and structural characteristics of a soluble lactogen-binding protein from rabbit mammary-gland cytosol.
2477Mag: !Mag Investigation of the forms of pig duodenal Ca2+-binding protein produced by limited tryptic hydrolysis.
2478Mag: !Mag A comparison between effects of pyruvate and herb medicines in preventing experimental oxalate urolithiasis in rats.
2479Mag: !Mag Evaluation of the effects of vincristine, adriamycin and cyclophosphamide on urinary excretion of magnesium in healthy rats
2480Mag: !Mag Arginyl-tRNA synthetase from Mycobacterium smegmatis SN2: purification and kinetic mechanism.
2481Mag: !Mag In vitro release of triiodothyronine and thyroxine from thyroid glands of the domestic fowl (Gallus domesticus).
2482Mag: !Mag Long-term effect of magnesium pyridoxal 5-phosphate glutamate in rabbits developing hypercholesterolemia.
2483Mag: !Mag Preparation, characterization, and controlled release from coprecipitates of fluorescein and magnesium hydroxide.
2484Mag: !Mag Disturbances of renal and erythrocyte calcium handling in rats of the Milan hypertensive strain.
2485Mag: !Mag Effects of pH, temperature and Ca2+ content on the conformation of alpha-lactalbumin in a medium modelling physiological conditions.
2486Mag: !Mag Calmodulin regulation of adenylate cyclase activity in human platelet membranes.
2487Mag: !Mag Evidence that cholesteryl ester hydrolase and triglyceride lipase are different enzymes in rat liver.
2488Mag: !Mag Cyclic changes in plasma calcium and the calcium homeostatic endocrine system of the postparturient dairy cow.
2489Mag: !Mag Metabolic alkalosis and hypermagnesemia following "non-absorbable" antacid therapy.
2490Mag: !Mag Bladder stone disease in children in Afghanistan.
2491Mag: !Mag Does sucrose damage kidneys?
2492Mag: !Mag Influence of para-substituents on the oxidative metabolism of o-nitrophenols by Pseudomonas putida B2.
2493Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulphate injection in the management of early ischaemic contracture of the myocardium.
2494Mag: !Mag Intracellular free Mg2+ in Balanus photoreceptor measured with eriochrome blue.
2495Mag: !Mag Intestinal water and electrolyte flux of glucose-polymer electrolyte solutions.
2496Mag: !Mag Myocardial ischemia revisited. The osmolar load, membrane damage, and reperfusion.
2497Mag: !Mag Modulatory synaptic actions of an identified histaminergic neuron on the serotonergic metacerebral cell of Aplysia.
2498Mag: !Mag Limited effect of magnesium sulphate on torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia.
2499Mag: !Mag Activity of maize leaf phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase in relation to tautomerization and nonenzymatic decarboxylation of oxaloacetate.
2500Mag: !Mag Digital hydrofluoric acid burns: treatment with intraarterial calcium infusion.
2501Mag: !Mag Sensitivity to non-acetylated salicylates in a patient with asthma, nasal polyps, and rheumatoid arthritis.
2502Mag: !Mag Evaluation by computerized axial tomography of eclamptic women with seizures refractory to magnesium sulfate therapy.
2503Mag: !Mag Role of cadmium and magnesium in pathogenesis of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
2504Mag: !Mag Megavitamins and hyperactivity.
2505Mag: !Mag The acetylation of alpha-tubulin and its relationship to the assembly and disassembly of microtubules.
2506Mag: !Mag Hyperreactivity of platelets from spontaneously hypertensive rats. Role of external magnesium.
2507Mag: !Mag Blood pressure and urinary sodium and potassium excretion in cadmium-treated male rats.
2508Mag: !Mag The effects of natural exposure to high levels of zinc and cadmium in the immature pony as a function of age.
2509Mag: !Mag Benign hypercalcemia and "benign hypocalcemia" in the same family.
2510Mag: !Mag Polycythemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia in infants of diabetic mothers.
2511Mag: !Mag Glucose polymer increases jejunal calcium, magnesium, and zinc absorption in humans.
2512Mag: !Mag Is antioxidant deficiency related to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease?
2513Mag: !Mag Behavior of serum magnesium in chronic sclerogenetic hepatopathies
2514Mag: !Mag Enzymuria in streptozotocin-diabetic rats.
2515Mag: !Mag Immunostimulant properties of aspartic acid
2516Mag: !Mag Essential hypertension: new insights and controversies in treatment with diuretics.
2517Mag: !Mag Diet-mediated alteration of chromatin structure.
2518Mag: !Mag Ion-selective membrane electrodes for clinical use.
2519Mag: !Mag Vitamin D supplementation during pregnancy: effect on neonatal calcium homeostasis.
2520Mag: !Mag Determination of calcium, magnesium, iron and copper in serum by flame atomic absorption spectrophotometry
2521Mag: !Mag Effect of putrescine on the respiration of Trypanosoma brucei brucei.
2522Mag: !Mag Seizures as a manifestation of systemic disease.
2523Mag: !Mag C3 activation by a new factor B-dependent enzyme detected in culture supernatant from guinea-pig peritoneal macrophages.
2524Mag: !Mag Serotherapy of primary rat mammary carcinoma: inhibition by ethylenedinitrilotetraacetic acid but not by ethylenebis(oxyethylenenitrilo)tetraacetic acid.
2525Mag: !Mag DNA helicase activity of SV40 large tumor antigen.
2526Mag: !Mag Novel interactions of cations with dihydropyridine calcium antagonist binding sites in brain.
2527Mag: !Mag Acid tolerance, proton permeabilities, and membrane ATPases of oral streptococci.
2528Mag: !Mag Purification, subunit composition and regulatory properties of the ATP X Mg2+-dependent form of type I phosphoprotein phosphatase from bovine heart.
2529Mag: !Mag Growth hormone maintains its own receptors in rat adipocytes.
2530Mag: !Mag Red cell metabolism in hereditary pyrimidine 5'-nucleotidase deficiency: effect of magnesium.
2531Mag: !Mag Identification and characterization of the phosphatidylinositol kinase in membranes of murine T lymphocytes.
2532Mag: !Mag The effect of clodronate (dichloromethylene diphosphonate) on the mineral concentration of dental enamel and bone of the miniature swine.
2533Mag: !Mag Isolation and partial characterization of a 110-kD dimer actin-binding protein.
2534Mag: !Mag Oosporogenesis by Lagenidium giganteum: induction and maturation are regulated by calcium and calmodulin.
2535Mag: !Mag Relationship between dystonia and serum calcium levels.
2536Mag: !Mag Intravenous infusion of magnesium sulphate after acute myocardial infarction: effects on arrhythmias and mortality.
2537Mag: !Mag Effects of Bay K 8644 on cat adrenal catecholamine secretory responses to A23187 or ouabain.
2538Mag: !Mag Hypokalemia in thiazide-treated systemic hypertension.
2539Mag: !Mag In vitro translation of cucumoviral satellites. II. CARNA 5 from cucumber mosaic virus strain S and SP6 transcripts of cloned (S)CARNA 5 cDNA produce electrophoretically comigrating protein products.
2540Mag: !Mag Ca2+ binding to chromaffin vesicle matrix proteins: effect of pH, Mg2+, and ionic strength.
2541Mag: !Mag Lanthanide-binding properties of rat oncomodulin.
2542Mag: !Mag Eukaryotic topoisomerase II. Characterization of enzyme turnover.
2543Mag: !Mag Factors influencing calcium release from the ADP-sensitive phosphoenzyme intermediate of the sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase.
2544Mag: !Mag Characterization of the nucleotide requirement for elimination of the rate-limiting step in 5 S RNA gene transcription.
2545Mag: !Mag An electrodynamic (moving field) theory of muscular contraction.
2546Mag: !Mag Routine plasma magnesium estimation: a useful test?
2547Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium, cadmium and zinc in the pathogenesis of primary arterial hypertension
2548Mag: !Mag Frequency-dependent involvement of NMDA receptors in the hippocampus: a novel synaptic mechanism.
2549Mag: !Mag Chromium-associated 32P-labeling of proteins.
2550Mag: !Mag Dimethylsulfoxide, retinoic acid and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate induce a selective decrease in the phosphorylation of P150, a surface membrane phosphoprotein of HL60 cells resistant to adriamycin.
2551Mag: !Mag Characterization of nucleoside-diphosphate kinase-associated guanine nucleotide-binding proteins from HeLa S3 cells.
2552Mag: !Mag NAD-dependent methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase-methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase from ascites tumor cells. Purification and properties.
2553Mag: !Mag Effect of polyamines on in vitro reconstitution of ribosomal subunits.
2554Mag: !Mag Binding of nucleotides to nucleoside diphosphate kinase monitored by rose Bengal.
2555Mag: !Mag Mechanism of guanine nucleotide regulatory protein-mediated inhibition of adenylate cyclase. Studies with isolated subunits of transducin in a reconstituted system.
2556Mag: !Mag Membrane damage by hemolytic viruses, toxins, complement, and other cytotoxic agents. A common mechanism blocked by divalent cations.
2557Mag: !Mag Measurement of total HDL, HDL2 and HDL3 by dextran sulfate-MgCl2 precipitation technique in human serum.
2558Mag: !Mag Demonstration of two distinct calcium pumps in human platelet membrane vesicles.
2559Mag: !Mag Resolution and characterization of a major protein of the sea urchin hyaline layer.
2560Mag: !Mag Cytosolic Ca2+ and the regulation of secretion in parathyroid cells.
2561Mag: !Mag Binding of ATP to nucleoside-diphosphate kinase: a kinetic study.
2562Mag: !Mag Calcium-ryanodine receptor complex. Solubilization and partial characterization from skeletal muscle junctional sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.
2563Mag: !Mag Subunit structure and properties of the glycogen-bound phosphoprotein phosphatase from skeletal muscle.
2564Mag: !Mag Effect of routine doses of antacid on renal acidification.
2565Mag: !Mag Site-directed mutagenesis of the regulatory light-chain Ca2+/Mg2+ binding site and its role in hybrid myosins.
2566Mag: !Mag Enzymatic activity of the conserved core of a group I self-splicing intron.
2567Mag: !Mag Cisplatin nephrotoxicity: symptomatic hypomagnesemia and renal failure.
2568Mag: !Mag Acute renal failure due to cisplatin.
2569Mag: !Mag Non-synaptic depolarizing potentials in rat supraoptic neurones recorded in vitro.
2570Mag: !Mag Are Merkel cell-neurite reciprocal synapses involved in the initiation of tactile responses in salamander skin?
2571Mag: !Mag Peripheral plasma levels of certain mineral elements in primitive African goats.
2572Mag: !Mag In vitro transcription and delimitation of promoter elements of the murine dihydrofolate reductase gene.
2573Mag: !Mag Increased calcium tolerance in patients with tetania latenta.
2574Mag: !Mag Evidence against in vitro modulation of rat liver cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase activity by phosphorylation-dephosphorylation: comparison with hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA reductase.
2575Mag: !Mag Relation of the lipid level of the blood plasma to the nature of the nutrition of the population
2576Mag: !Mag Effect of C3 depletion on the genesis of thrombocytopenia induced in rats by Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae.
2577Mag: !Mag Efficacy, toxicity and metabolism of imidocarb dipropionate in the treatment of Babesia ovis infection in sheep.
2578Mag: !Mag Experimental stimulation of eosinophil production in the domestic fowl (Gallus gallus domesticus).
2579Mag: !Mag Free intracellular magnesium concentration in ferret ventricular muscle measured with ion selective micro-electrodes.
2580Mag: !Mag Effect of intraruminal sodium and potassium concentrations and of the transmural potential difference on magnesium absorption from the temporarily isolated rumen of sheep.
2581Mag: !Mag Transitory pseudohypoparathyroidism in the newborn infant
2582Mag: !Mag Catalysis of the dephosphorylation of an ATP-molybdate complex by calcium and magnesium ions.
2583Mag: !Mag Role of the condition of serum water in regulating its osmolality in the suslik during spontaneous arousal
2584Mag: !Mag Relationship between the vitamin D content of maternal milk and the vitamin D status of nursing women and breast-fed infants.
2585Mag: !Mag Mechanism of chronic hypercalciuria with furosemide: increased calcium absorption.
2586Mag: !Mag Factors influencing the in vitro activity of two new aryl-fluoroquinolone antimicrobial agents, difloxacin (A-56619) and A-56620.
2587Mag: !Mag Pathology of vitamin D deficiency in growing turkeys.
2588Mag: !Mag Effects of a new anti-allergic agent: the magnesium salt of N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamic acid on experimental allergic inflammation of the rabbit eye.
2589Mag: !Mag Role of assay conditions in determining agonist potency at D2 dopamine receptors in striatal homogenates.
2590Mag: !Mag Food and water intake and urine composition in cats: influence of continuous versus periodic feeding.
2591Mag: !Mag Characteristics of fluoroprobes for measuring intracellular pH.
2592Mag: !Mag Pressure injection of calcium both excites and adapts Limulus ventral photoreceptors.
2593Mag: !Mag Cationic concentrations and transmembrane fluxes in erythrocytes of humans during exercise.
2594Mag: !Mag Generalized steatitis associated with selenium deficiency and normal vitamin E status in a foal.
2595Mag: !Mag Effect of cations on leukotriene release: requirements for the metabolism of peptido-leukotrienes (leukotrienes C4, D4) by human polymorphonuclear granulocytes.
2596Mag: !Mag The activation of C5 in the fluid phase and in the absence of C3 through the classical pathway of the complement system.
2597Mag: !Mag Effect of purgatives on antidotal efficacy of oral activated charcoal.
2598Mag: !Mag Surgical treatment of ingrowing toenails.
2599Mag: !Mag Absorption of magnesium in the intestines after administration of a single dose of MgO to healthy volunteers
2600Mag: !Mag Assessment of human liver metabolism by phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy.
2601Mag: !Mag Terpene cyclase catalysis in organic solvent/minimal water media: demonstration and optimization of (+)-alpha-pinene cyclase activity.
2602Mag: !Mag Thermodynamic analysis of the effect of concentrated salts on protein interaction with hydrophobic and polysaccharide columns.
2603Mag: !Mag Bone mineral, serum calcium, and dietary intakes of mother/daughter pairs.
2604Mag: !Mag Small bowel obstruction from an antacid bezoar: a ranitidine-antacid interaction?
2605Mag: !Mag Antacid and formula effects on gastric acidity in infants with gastroesophageal reflux.
2606Mag: !Mag Activity of purified NAD-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase at modulator and substrate concentrations approximating conditions in mitochondria.
2607Mag: !Mag Age-related differences in the bone mineralization pattern of rats following exercise.
2608Mag: !Mag Mineral content of foods and total diets: the Selected Minerals in Foods Survey, 1982 to 1984.
2609Mag: !Mag Minerals and mineral interactions in human beings.
2610Mag: !Mag High molecular weight kininogen binds to unstimulated platelets.
2611Mag: !Mag Stepwise regression equations relating plasma or erythrocyte magnesium and other variables in insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetics.
2612Mag: !Mag Monoamine oxidase activity in the term human placenta.
2613Mag: !Mag Sustained postischemic cardiodepression following magnesium-diltiazem cardioplegia.
2614Mag: !Mag Chronological variation in the chemical composition of upper urinary tract calculi.
2615Mag: !Mag Urothelial injury to the rabbit bladder from various alkaline and acidic solutions used to dissolve kidney stones.
2616Mag: !Mag Calcium oxalate precipitation in a flow system: an attempt to simulate the early stages of stone formation in the renal tubules.
2617Mag: !Mag Human retinas synthesize and release acetylcholine.
2618Mag: !Mag Role of sarcolemmal-bound calcium in regulation of myocardial contractile force.
2619Mag: !Mag Effect of repetitive brief episodes of ischemia on cell volume, electrolytes and ultrastructure.
2620Mag: !Mag The nutrient intakes of pregnant and lactating mothers of good socio-economic status in Cambridge, UK: some implications for recommended daily allowances of minor nutrients.
2621Mag: !Mag Hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count syndrome: nursing care of the critically ill obstetric patient.
2622Mag: !Mag The effect of citric acid on growth of proteolytic strains of Clostridium botulinum.
2623Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium supplementation in testicular cancer patients receiving cis-platin: a randomised trial.
2624Mag: !Mag Antacid vs sucralfate in preventing acute gastrointestinal tract bleeding in abdominal aortic surgery. A randomized trial in 50 patients.
2625Mag: !Mag Intracellular cations and diuretic therapy following acute myocardial infarction.
2626Mag: !Mag Serum levels of vitamin D metabolites, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium and alkaline phosphatase in Finnish women throughout pregnancy and in cord serum at delivery.
2627Mag: !Mag Coexistence of periodontal disease and peptic ulcer in construction workers
2628Mag: !Mag Energy expenditure for the consumption of mineral components from the environment by microorganisms
2629Mag: !Mag Inorganic phosphate regulates the contraction-relaxation cycle in skinned muscles of the rabbit mesenteric artery.
2630Mag: !Mag Evaluation of chloral hydrate and magnesium sulphate sedation in buffalo calves (Bubalus bubalis).
2631Mag: !Mag Content of mineral substances in the internal organs of rats on intravenous feeding
2632Mag: !Mag Semi-synthesis of A23187 (calcimycin) analogs. IV. Cation carrier properties in mitochondria of analogs with modified benzoxazole rings. Antimicrobial activity.
2633Mag: !Mag Semi-synthesis of A23187 (calcimycin) analogs. III. Modification of benzoxazole ring substituents, ionophorous properties in an organic phase.
2634Mag: !Mag Lysosomes and pancreatic islet function: intracellular insulin degradation and lysosomal transformations.
2635Mag: !Mag Differential effects of follicle-stimulating and luteinizing hormones on testosterone production by mouse testes.
2636Mag: !Mag Structure, partial elemental composition, and size of Thiopedia rosea cells and platelets.
2637Mag: !Mag Physicochemical roles of soluble metal cations in the outer membrane of Escherichia coli K-12.
2638Mag: !Mag Modulation of the sensitivity of chromatin to exogenous nucleases: implications for the apparent increased sensitivity of transcriptionally active genes.
2639Mag: !Mag Role of the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase in the activation process.
2640Mag: !Mag Chemical modification of rabbit skeletal muscle phosphorylase kinase with phenylglyoxal.
2641Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural study comparing the efficacy of five different methods of intraoperative myocardial protection in the human heart.
2642Mag: !Mag Effect of verapamil on prostaglandin E2 synthesis by hydronephrotic rabbit cortical interstitial cells in primary culture.
2643Mag: !Mag Catalytic properties of a purified phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate kinase from rat brain.
2644Mag: !Mag Magnesium metabolism in open-heart surgery.
2645Mag: !Mag Alteration of prostanoid metabolism in rats with magnesium deficiency.
2646Mag: !Mag Potassium ion channel blockade restores conduction in heat-injured nerve and spinal nerve roots.
2647Mag: !Mag Orthophosphate-pyrophosphate exchange catalyzed by soluble and membrane-bound inorganic pyrophosphatases. Role of H+ gradient.
2648Mag: !Mag Mn2+-dependent endonuclease activity of chromatin
2649Mag: !Mag NAD+-kinase from Neurospora crassa: isolation and properties
2650Mag: !Mag Healing of benign gastric ulcer with low-dose antacids and fiber diet.
2651Mag: !Mag Patients with a high jejunostomy do not need a special diet.
2652Mag: !Mag A model for the phosphorylation of the Ca2+ + Mg2+-activated ATPase by phosphate.
2653Mag: !Mag Polymerization of actin in the absence and presence of cytochalasin B: problems of determining "critical concentration".
2654Mag: !Mag A new histochemical method for magnesium actomyosin adenosine triphosphatase at physiological pH.
2655Mag: !Mag High-affinity, calcium-stimulated ATPase in brush border membranes of the human term placenta.
2656Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium and magnesium on transmitter release at Ia synapses of rat spinal motoneurones in vitro.
2657Mag: !Mag Different ionic requirements for somatostatin receptor subpopulations in the brain.
2658Mag: !Mag Brittle fracture propensity measurements on 'tablet-sized' cylindrical compacts.
2659Mag: !Mag Cholinergic-monoaminergic interaction in the pathophysiology of the affective disorders?
2660Mag: !Mag Effects of forskolin on electrical behaviour of myenteric neurones in guinea-pig small intestine.
2661Mag: !Mag The anion selectivity of the gamma-aminobutyric acid controlled chloride channel in the perfused spinal ganglion cell of frog.
2662Mag: !Mag Is the correlation between sodium-lithium countertransport and sodium-potassium cotransport an artifact of methodology?
2663Mag: !Mag Eosin, a fluorescent marker for the high-affinity ATP site of (K+ + H+)-ATPase.
2664Mag: !Mag alpha-DNA. I. Synthesis, characterization by high field 1H-NMR, and base-pairing properties of the unnatural hexadeoxyribonucleotide alpha-d(CpCpTpTpCpC) with its complement beta-d(GpGpApApGpG).
2665Mag: !Mag Oxygenation properties of hemoglobin from the earthworm, Lumbricus terrestris. Effects of pH, salts, and temperature.
2666Mag: !Mag Ions binding to S100 proteins. I. Calcium- and zinc-binding properties of bovine brain S100 alpha alpha, S100a (alpha beta), and S100b (beta beta) protein: Zn2+ regulates Ca2+ binding on S100b protein.
2667Mag: !Mag Characterization of metal ion-binding sites in bacteriorhodopsin.
2668Mag: !Mag Two guanine nucleotide-binding proteins in rat brain serving as the specific substrate of islet-activating protein, pertussis toxin. Interaction of the alpha-subunits with beta gamma-subunits in development of their biological activities.
2669Mag: !Mag A case of paroxysmal tachycardia of the torsade de pointes type: the role of magnesium in the etiology and treatment
2670Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol by transverse tubule vesicles and its possible role in excitation-contraction coupling.
2671Mag: !Mag Magnesium metabolism and its disorders
2672Mag: !Mag Plasma dopamine concentrations in various types of hypertension
2673Mag: !Mag Magnesium ion dependent equilibria, kinetics, and thermodynamic parameters of Artemia ribosome dissociation and subunit association.
2674Mag: !Mag Eclamptic fits: etiologic mechanisms, clinical aspects and therapy
2675Mag: !Mag Identification and assignment of base pairs in the "tuned helix" of intact and ribonuclease T1 cleavage fragments of wheat germ ribosomal 5S RNA via 500-MHz proton homonuclear Overhauser enhancements.
2676Mag: !Mag Substrate specificity of iodothyronine 5'-deiodinase in rat liver homogenates and its requirements of divalent cations in vitro.
2677Mag: !Mag Differential features of ribosomes and of poly(U)-programmed cell-free systems derived from sulphur-dependent archaebacterial species.
2678Mag: !Mag Chromium(III)ATP inactivating (Na+ + K+)-ATPase supports Na+-Na+ and Rb+-Rb+ exchanges in everted red blood cells but not Na+,K+ transport.
2679Mag: !Mag Adenosine 5'-diphosphate-dependent subunit dissociation of bovine dopamine beta-hydroxylase.
2680Mag: !Mag Cystine transport in purified rat liver lysosomes.
2681Mag: !Mag Effects of short-chain alcohols and norepinephrine on brain (Na+,K+)ATPase activity.
2682Mag: !Mag Substitution of aluminium salts by magnesium salts in control of dialysis hyperphosphataemia.
2683Mag: !Mag The Ba2+ sensitivity of the Na+-induced Ca2+ efflux in heart mitochondria: the site of inhibitory action.
2684Mag: !Mag t-Butylhydroperoxide-induced Ca2+ efflux from liver mitochondria in the presence of physiological concentrations of Mg2+ and ATP.
2685Mag: !Mag Rat striatal dopamine and tetrahydrobiopterin content following an intrastriatal injection of manganese chloride.
2686Mag: !Mag Complications of thiazide diuretic therapy: an update.
2687Mag: !Mag Impaired clotting ability of milk in dairy cows in the north of Scotland.
2688Mag: !Mag Mnemonic aspects of Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I. Interaction with one template influences the next interaction with another template.
2689Mag: !Mag Different conformations of the 3' termini of initiator and elongator transfer ribonucleic acids. An EPR study.
2690Mag: !Mag Soluble guanylate cyclase from rat lung exists as a heterodimer.
2691Mag: !Mag Characterization and partial purification of cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum phospholamban kinase.
2692Mag: !Mag Bound adenosine 5'-triphosphate formation, bound adenosine 5'-diphosphate and inorganic phosphate retention, and inorganic phosphate oxygen exchange by chloroplast adenosinetriphosphatase in the presence of Ca2+ or Mg2+.
2693Mag: !Mag Human infections by Heterophyes heterophyes and H. dispar imported from Saudi Arabia.
2694Mag: !Mag Two cases of natural human infection by Echinostoma hortense
2695Mag: !Mag Two cases of human infection by Echinostoma cinetorchis
2696Mag: !Mag Electron-impact ionization in the magnesium-isoelectronic sequence.
2697Mag: !Mag Effect of the composition of reversion medium on change of Staphylococcus aureus lysostaphin protoplasts to coccal forms and L-forms.
2698Mag: !Mag Trace minerals and magnesium in atherosclerosis and hypertension.
2699Mag: !Mag Encrustation and stone formation in double J ureteral stent: report of two cases
2700Mag: !Mag Vegetarian approach to hypertension.
2701Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemic hypocalcemia independent of parathyroid hormone.
2702Mag: !Mag NADP-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase from the citric acid-accumulating fungus Aspergillus niger.
2703Mag: !Mag Acylation of 1-alkenyl-glycerophosphocholine and 1-acyl-glycerophosphocholine in guinea pig heart.
2704Mag: !Mag The catabolism of plasmenylcholine in the guinea pig heart.
2705Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of benzoyl-L-tyrosine ethyl ester hydrolase from the yolk sac membrane of chicken egg.
2706Mag: !Mag Aggregation of smooth muscle membranes and its use in the preparation of plasma membrane enriched fraction from gastric fundus smooth muscle.
2707Mag: !Mag Magnesium in the blood in cardiac surgery patients
2708Mag: !Mag Characterization and composition of uroliths from domestic fowl.
2709Mag: !Mag Optimal calcium concentration in the initial reperfusate for post-ischemic myocardial performance (calcium concentration during reperfusion).
2710Mag: !Mag Drug-excipient interactions resulting from powder mixing. IV: Role of lubricants and their effect on in vitro dissolution.
2711Mag: !Mag Drug-excipient interactions resulting from powder mixing. III: Solid state properties and their effect on drug dissolution.
2712Mag: !Mag Inorganic elements in adult Ternidens deminutus (Nematoda: Strongylidae: Oesophagostominae) from humans and baboons.
2713Mag: !Mag A kinetic comparison between Mg-actin and Ca-actin.
2714Mag: !Mag Effects of high temperature on cooperative phenomena observed in membrane potential of parathyroid cells
2715Mag: !Mag Preservation of taenia coli by freezing and storage at -196 degrees C.
2716Mag: !Mag Selective medium for isolation of Fusarium species and dematiaceous hyphomycetes from cereals.
2717Mag: !Mag Large-scale procedure for the purification of fibronectin domains.
2718Mag: !Mag Formulation and stability of diazepam suspension compounded from tablets.
2719Mag: !Mag Simultaneous measurement by means of ion-specific electrodes of free intracellular ionized calcium and magnesium in rabbit skeletal muscle.
2720Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium, fluoride and magnesium supplementations on tissue mineralization in calcium- and magnesium-deficient rats.
2721Mag: !Mag On the toxic effects of tetraethyl lead and its derivatives on the chrysophyte Poterioochromonas malhamensis. VII. Protective action of thiol compounds, vitamins, trace elements, and other agents.
2722Mag: !Mag Obstetric management of the very low birth weight fetus.
2723Mag: !Mag Management of preterm labor and delivery.
2724Mag: !Mag Calcium-sensitive cellular and subcellular transport of sodium, potassium, magnesium, and calcium in sodium-loaded vascular smooth muscle. Electron probe analysis.
2725Mag: !Mag High affinity Ca-binding to smooth muscle plasma membrane: inhibition by cations.
2726Mag: !Mag Ca content of human erythrocytes. What is the true value?
2727Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of protein tyrosine kinases from normal tissues.
2728Mag: !Mag Effect of intracerebroventricular calcitonin on renal hydromineral excretion in sheep.
2729Mag: !Mag Determination of stone-forming risk by measuring crystal formation in whole urine with gel model.
2730Mag: !Mag Application of factor VII-Sepharose affinity chromatography in the purification of human tissue factor apoprotein.
2731Mag: !Mag Calcium-regulating hormones and minerals from birth to 18 months of age: a cross-sectional study. II. Effects of sex, race, age, season, and diet on serum minerals, parathyroid hormone, and calcitonin.
2732Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium sulfate on cardiac conduction and refractoriness in humans.
2733Mag: !Mag Susceptibility of Campylobacter jejuni to strain-specific bactericidal activity in sera of infected patients.
2734Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium and magnesium ions on the toxicity of cadmium to the egg of the teleost, Oryzias latipes.
2735Mag: !Mag Treatment of eclampsia.
2736Mag: !Mag Clinical significance of QT interval
2737Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of RNA polymerase of phage KB1.
2738Mag: !Mag Use of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to study the effects of ethanol consumption on liver metabolism and pathology.
2739Mag: !Mag Influence of calcium and other divalent cations on protein turnover in rat skeletal muscle.
2740Mag: !Mag Changes in sialyltransferase activity during murine T cell differentiation.
2741Mag: !Mag Width and lattice spacing in radially compressed frog skinned muscle fibres at various pH values, magnesium ion concentrations and ionic strengths.
2742Mag: !Mag Composition of cardioplegic solutions used in nine medical centers.
2743Mag: !Mag Antagonistic effect of magnesium chloride on the nickel chloride-induced inhibition of DNA replication in Chinese hamster ovary cells.
2744Mag: !Mag Intensity changes of base and backbone Raman modes in the B to Z transition of poly(dG-dm5C).
2745Mag: !Mag Dietary magnesium and mineralocorticoid DOCA-salt hypertension in the rat. Effect on the metabolism of sodium and magnesium
2746Mag: !Mag Treatment of torsade des pointes by intravenous magnesium
2747Mag: !Mag Calcium binding to calmodulin. Cooperativity of the calcium-binding sites.
2748Mag: !Mag DNA-dependent RNA polymerases of the three orders of methanogens.
2749Mag: !Mag Antibacterial activity in human amniotic fluid: dependence on divalent cations.
2750Mag: !Mag Magnesium in the blood and urine of cows during various stages of the reproductive interval being fed summer and winter feed rations
2751Mag: !Mag Regulation of rat heart membrane adenylate cyclase by magnesium and manganese.
2752Mag: !Mag Sodium valproate, but not ethosuximide, produces use- and voltage-dependent limitation of high frequency repetitive firing of action potentials of mouse central neurons in cell culture.
2753Mag: !Mag Effects of mono and divalent cations on total and partial reactions catalysed by pig kidney Na,K-ATPase.
2754Mag: !Mag Cleavage of the repeats in the liver DNA of rats during initial chromatin endonucleolysis
2755Mag: !Mag Evaluation of free and bound fractions resulting from the interaction of prolactin with its specific receptors
2756Mag: !Mag Effects of sodium bicarbonate, magnesium oxide, and a commercial buffer mixture in early lactation cows fed hay crop silage.
2757Mag: !Mag Activation of magnesium-dependent, neutral sphingomyelinase by phosphatidylserine.
2758Mag: !Mag Characterization of ouabain-sensitive phosphatase activity in the absence of potassium ion in purified pig kidney Na,K-ATPase.
2759Mag: !Mag Changes in blood chemical components during experimentally induced Theileria annulata infections in cattle.
2760Mag: !Mag Rapid pH changes associated with synaptic transmission in isolated slices of the mammalian hippocampus
2761Mag: !Mag Recovery of viruses from water by a modified flocculation procedure for second-step concentration.
2762Mag: !Mag Use of sodium bicarbonate vials or syringes to buffer cardioplegic solutions.
2763Mag: !Mag Effect of doxycycline on oxygen-dependent killing mechanisms of human neutrophils.
2764Mag: !Mag Characteristics of aggregated immunoglobulin G as an immunologic phagocytic stimulus for granule enzyme release from human neutrophils.
2765Mag: !Mag "Allosteric regulation" of calcium-uptake in rat liver mitochondria.
2766Mag: !Mag Correlation of energy-dependent cell cohesion with social motility in Myxococcus xanthus.
2767Mag: !Mag Myosin in adult and neonatal human erythrocyte membranes.
2768Mag: !Mag Sodium regulation of agonist and antagonist binding to beta-adrenoceptors in intact and Ns-deficient membranes.
2769Mag: !Mag Effects of osmolality and ionic strength on secretion from adrenal chromaffin cells permeabilized with digitonin.
2770Mag: !Mag Influence of calcic and magnesic sulphurous thermal water on the metabolism of lipoproteins in the rat
2771Mag: !Mag Some differences in ionic and pharmacological blocking actions on the currents through Ca2+ channels in a molluscan neuron.
2772Mag: !Mag Gentamicin interaction with Pseudomonas aeruginosa cell envelope.
2773Mag: !Mag Modifiers of calcium oxalate crystallization found in urine. I. Studies with a continuous crystallizer using an artificial urine.
2774Mag: !Mag Cell-free synthesis of delta-(L-alpha-aminoadipyl)-L-cysteine, the first intermediate of penicillin and cephalosporin biosynthesis.
2775Mag: !Mag Forskolin stabilizes a functionally coupled state between activated guanine nucleotide-binding stimulatory regulatory protein, Ns, and catalytic protein of adenylate cyclase system in rat erythrocytes.
2776Mag: !Mag Metabolism of S-adenosyl-L-methionine in intact human erythrocytes.
2777Mag: !Mag Tyrosine transport into isolated rat brain synaptosomes. Ionic dependence and kinetic studies.
2778Mag: !Mag Cation-stimulated ATPase activity in purified plasma membranes from tobacco hornworm midgut.
2779Mag: !Mag Inhibition of Ca2+-dependent K+ channels by lead in one-step inside-out vesicles from human red cell membranes.
2780Mag: !Mag Helix-destabilization of deoxyribonucleic acid and polyd(A-T).d(A-T) by bovine seminal ribonuclease.
2781Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of pig brain diacylglycerol kinase by endogenous protein kinase.
2782Mag: !Mag Evidence that (a) serine specific protein kinase(s) different from protein kinase C is responsible for the insulin-stimulated actin phosphorylation by placental membrane.
2783Mag: !Mag Chromatin structure. Nuclease digestion profiles reflect intermediate stages in the folding of the 30-nm fiber rather than the existence of subunit beads.
2784Mag: !Mag Peptidoglycan synthetic activities in membranes of Escherichia coli caused by overproduction of penicillin-binding protein 2 and rodA protein.
2785Mag: !Mag An endonuclease from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii that cleaves the sequence TATA.
2786Mag: !Mag Phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase of Escherichia coli. Properties of the purified enzyme and primary structure of the prs gene.
2787Mag: !Mag Amphotericin B, aminoglycosides, and hypomagnesaemic tetany.
2788Mag: !Mag Identification of a calcium-independent phospholipase A2 in rat lung cytosol and differentiation from acetylhydrolase for 1-alkyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (PAF-acether).
2789Mag: !Mag A comparison of the reversibility of phosphoethanolamine transferase and phosphocholine transferase in rat brain microsomes.
2790Mag: !Mag Binding of Escherichia coli ribosomal protein S8 to 16S rRNA: kinetic and thermodynamic characterization.
2791Mag: !Mag Leucocyte suppression in treatment of 72 patients with paraquat poisoning.
2792Mag: !Mag Conservative management of severe pre-eclampsia at less than 36 weeks gestation
2793Mag: !Mag Self-association of 1,N6-ethenoadenosine 5'-triphosphate (epsilon-ATP) and promotion by metal ions.
2794Mag: !Mag Structural requirements for porphyrin inhibition of the hemin-controlled protein kinase and maintenance of protein synthesis in reticulocytes.
2795Mag: !Mag Nutritional aspects in relation to the feline urological syndrome (FUS)
2796Mag: !Mag Pressure dependence of equilibria and kinetics of Escherichia coli ribosomal subunit association.
2797Mag: !Mag Production of pea lectin in Escherichia coli.
2798Mag: !Mag Functional interaction of purified muscarinic receptors with purified inhibitory guanine nucleotide regulatory proteins reconstituted in phospholipid vesicles.
2799Mag: !Mag Matrix magnesium and the permeability of heart mitochondria to potassium ion.
2800Mag: !Mag sn-1,2-Diacylglycerol kinase of Escherichia coli. Mixed micellar analysis of the phospholipid cofactor requirement and divalent cation dependence.
2801Mag: !Mag Structure-function investigations of the membrane (Na+ + Mg2+)-ATPase from Acholeplasma laidlawii B: studies of reactive amino acid residues using group-specific reagents.
2802Mag: !Mag Ryanodine activation and inhibition of the Ca2+ release channel of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
2803Mag: !Mag Characterization and properties of Mg2+ uptake and release from guinea pig cerebral cortex synaptosomes.
2804Mag: !Mag Morphine increases locus coeruleus noradrenergic neuronal activity in vitro.
2805Mag: !Mag Self-cleavage of plus and minus RNA transcripts of avocado sunblotch viroid.
2806Mag: !Mag Activation of chicken liver fructose- 1,6-bisphosphatase by oxidized glutathione.
2807Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemic tetany associated with prolonged treatment with aminoglycosides.
2808Mag: !Mag Enhanced Ethylene and Ethane Production with Free-Radical Cracking Catalysts.
2809Mag: !Mag Histidinoalanine, a naturally occurring cross-link derived from phosphoserine and histidine residues in mineral-binding phosphoproteins.
2810Mag: !Mag Light- and nucleotide-dependent binding of phosphodiesterase to rod disk membranes: correlation with light-scattering changes and vesicle aggregation.
2811Mag: !Mag Role of tropomyosin in smooth muscle contraction: effect of tropomyosin binding to actin on actin activation of myosin ATPase.
2812Mag: !Mag The inositide cycle in bovine photoreceptor membranes.
2813Mag: !Mag Effect of ionic strength on production of cAMP- and Ca2+-independent protein kinase from rat liver plasma membrane.
2814Mag: !Mag Requirement for bivalent cations in the actions of insulin and sodium nitroprusside on metabolism in rat adipocytes.
2815Mag: !Mag Steady state kinetic studies of purified yeast plasma membrane proton-translocating ATPase.
2816Mag: !Mag Characterization of the catalytic and noncatalytic ADP binding sites of the F1-ATPase from the thermophilic bacterium, PS3.
2817Mag: !Mag Magnesium in aqueous humor.
2818Mag: !Mag Questionable significance of the chemical analysis of a single 24-hour urine sample in recurrent calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis
2819Mag: !Mag Separation and identification of the major constituents of cytoplasmic gels from macrophages.
2820Mag: !Mag The relation between surface deposit on stainless steel IUD device and complications
2821Mag: !Mag The emission of atoms and molecules accompanying fracture of single-crystal MgO.
2822Mag: !Mag Magnesium and acute myocardial infarction. Transient hypomagnesemia not induced by renal magnesium loss in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
2823Mag: !Mag Magnesium depletion and thiazide hypokalemia.
2824Mag: !Mag Saline cathartics and the adsorptive capacity of activated charcoal for aspirin.
2825Mag: !Mag Glycosaminoglycans content of stone matrix.
2826Mag: !Mag Bone and mineral metabolism and chronic alcohol abuse.
2827Mag: !Mag The influence of 2 topical digestive agents on the pharmacokinetics of acetylsalicylic acid
2828Mag: !Mag A defined in vitro system for packaging of bacteriophage T3 DNA.
2829Mag: !Mag Circadian rhythms of lithogenic and inhibitory substances in the urine
2830Mag: !Mag Regulation of in vitro metabolism of human spongiosa by parathyroid hormone and calcitonin
2831Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy in myocardial infarction.
2832Mag: !Mag Facilitation of transmitter action on catecholamine output by cardiac glycoside in perfused adrenal gland of guinea-pig.
2833Mag: !Mag Mg, Ca, K and Na contents of erythrocytes of normally developed piglets and piglets with splayleg syndrome of different body weight as well as Mg, Ca, K levels of erythrocytes of gilts and sows
2834Mag: !Mag The metabolic effects of thiazide therapy in the elderly: a population study.
2835Mag: !Mag The Ca++ permeability of the apical membrane in neuromast hair cells.
2836Mag: !Mag Action of hydrochloric acid on aluminum hydroxide-magnesium hydroxide gels and magaldrate: quasi-elastic light scattering studies.
2837Mag: !Mag In vitro activity of CI-934, a new quinolone, compared with that of other quinolones and other antimicrobial agents.
2838Mag: !Mag A versatile transition metal salt reaction for a wide range of common biochemical reagents: an instantaneous and quantifiable color test.
2839Mag: !Mag The potential of monensin for body weight control and ad libitum feeding of broiler breeders from day-old to sexual maturity.
2840Mag: !Mag MgO:Fe as an absolute radiation dosimeter.
2841Mag: !Mag Myocardial recovery during post-ischaemic reperfusion: effects of nifedipine, calcium and magnesium.
2842Mag: !Mag Hepatic and serum levels of zinc, copper, and magnesium in childhood cirrhosis.
2843Mag: !Mag Biochemical investigation of vitreus: applications in forensic medicine, especially in relation to alcohol.
2844Mag: !Mag Swelling heterogeneous matrices: physical properties and mechanisms of release
2845Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations on the spontaneous synchronization in mammalian iris sphincter muscle cells.
2846Mag: !Mag Intracellular effects of myocardial ischaemia and reperfusion: role of calcium and oxygen.
2847Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesemia and progression of renal failure associated with renacidin therapy.
2848Mag: !Mag Limited digestion of calmodulin with trypsin in the presence or absence of various metal ions.
2849Mag: !Mag The role of bivalent cations in the binding of hexokinase II isoenzyme to mitochondrial membranes
2850Mag: !Mag Leucine and isoleucine activate skeletal muscle branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase in vivo.
2851Mag: !Mag Stool chemistries in patients with unexplained diarrhea.
2852Mag: !Mag Magnesium and the production of toxic-shock-syndrome toxin-1 by Staphylococcus aureus.
2853Mag: !Mag Production of toxic-shock-syndrome toxin-1: effect of magnesium ion.
2854Mag: !Mag X-ray diffraction studies of pancreatic calculi associated with nutritional pancreatitis.
2855Mag: !Mag Differentiation of cellular processes involved in the induction and maintenance of stimulated neutrophil adherence.
2856Mag: !Mag Anaesthetic considerations in high-risk pregnancy.
2857Mag: !Mag Secretory NaCl and volume flow in renal tubules.
2858Mag: !Mag Nifedipine as an adjunct to St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegia. A double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial.
2859Mag: !Mag Fetal femur length/abdominal circumference ratio in preterm labor patients with and without successful tocolytic therapy.
2860Mag: !Mag A comparison of the relative effectiveness of three transplant preservation fluids upon the integrity and function of rabbit proximal convoluted tubules perfused in vitro.
2861Mag: !Mag Effect of beta-bungarotoxin on the post-tetanic potentiation of the mouse diaphragm twitch tension.
2862Mag: !Mag Membrane phospholipid asymmetry as a determinant of erythrocyte recognition by macrophages.
2863Mag: !Mag Effect of EGTA on phagocytosis of Salmonella typhimurium by human neutrophils.
2864Mag: !Mag Selectivity to K+ and Na+ of protoplast fractions isolated from different regions of Aspergillus nidulans hyphae.
2865Mag: !Mag Evaluation of the bactericidal activity of beta-lactam antibiotics on slowly growing bacteria cultured in the chemostat.
2866Mag: !Mag Alkaline phosphatase inhibition by levamisole prevents 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3-stimulated bone mineralization in the mouse.
2867Mag: !Mag The high affinity calcium inhibition of parathyroid adenylate cyclase is not calmodulin dependent.
2868Mag: !Mag Long-term effects of combined vitamin B6-magnesium administration in an autistic child.
2869Mag: !Mag NAD kinase from Bacillus licheniformis: inhibition by NADP and other properties.
2870Mag: !Mag Opioid ligand binding sites in the spinal cord of the guinea-pig.
2871Mag: !Mag Calcium and ATPase activity during hepatic intoxication with thioacetamide.
2872Mag: !Mag Various regulatory properties of fructose-1,6-diphosphatase of the rat liver under normal conditions and in experimental autoimmune cardiomyopathy
2873Mag: !Mag Membrane phospholipid synthesis in Escherichia coli: alteration by glycerol and physiological consequences in a pss mutant.
2874Mag: !Mag Changes in endonuclease activity during growth and regression of the Shionogi mammary carcinoma.
2875Mag: !Mag Diet calcium carbonate, phosphorus and acidifying and alkalizing salts as factors influencing silica urolithiasis in rats fed tetraethylorthosilicate.
2876Mag: !Mag Isolation of ntrA-like mutants of Azotobacter vinelandii.
2877Mag: !Mag Nonpharmacological approaches to the control of high blood pressure. Final report of the Subcommittee on Nonpharmacological Therapy of the 1984 Joint National Committee on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure.
2878Mag: !Mag Effects of pyruvate salts, pyruvic acid, and bicarbonate salts in preventing experimental oxalate urolithiasis in rats.
2879Mag: !Mag Characterization of the solubilized A1 adenosine receptor from rat brain membranes.
2880Mag: !Mag Influence of medium and method on the in vitro susceptibility of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and other bacteria to ciprofloxacin and enoxacin.
2881Mag: !Mag The inhibitory Ca2+-regulation of the actin-activated Mg-ATPase activity of myosin from Physarum polycephalum plasmodia.
2882Mag: !Mag Differential effects of pH on calcium activation of myofilaments of adult and perinatal dog hearts. Evidence for developmental differences in thin filament regulation.
2883Mag: !Mag Chemoresponsiveness of intracellular nuclei neurones to L-aspartate, L-glutamate and related derivatives in rat cerebellar slices maintained in vitro.
2884Mag: !Mag Buspirone decreases the activity of 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing dorsal raphe neurons in-vitro.
2885Mag: !Mag Sex difference of pinnal hyperemia in magnesium-deficient rats: effects of castration and administration of sex hormone.
2886Mag: !Mag Characterization of f-Met-Leu-Phe-stimulated fluid pinocytosis in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes by flow cytometry.
2887Mag: !Mag Characteristics of the proton pump in rat renal cortical endocytotic vesicles.
2888Mag: !Mag Regulation of phosphatidylinositol turnover in brain synaptoneurosomes: stimulatory effects of agents that enhance influx of sodium ions.
2889Mag: !Mag Single cyclic GMP-activated channel activity in excised patches of rod outer segment membrane.
2890Mag: !Mag Antagonism to estradiol in the mouse: reduced entry of receptors complexed with 4-hydroxytamoxifen into a Mg2+-soluble chromatin fraction.
2891Mag: !Mag The centriolar rim. The structure that maintains the configuration of centrioles and basal bodies in the absence of their microtubules.
2892Mag: !Mag Electrophysiological parameters of neuromuscular junctions in the rat in relation to light-dark rhythm
2893Mag: !Mag Thiamine-deficient encephalopathy in rats: effects of deficiencies of thiamine and magnesium.
2894Mag: !Mag Characterization of protein tyrosine kinase activity in murine Leydig tumor cells.
2895Mag: !Mag Thiazide treatment of hypertension. Effects of thiazide diuretics on serum potassium, magnesium, and ventricular ectopy.
2896Mag: !Mag Potassium, magnesium, and cardiovascular morbidity. Proceedings of a symposium. November 10, 1985, Washington, D.C.
2897Mag: !Mag Characterization of the intron in the phage T4 thymidylate synthase gene and evidence for its self-excision from the primary transcript.
2898Mag: !Mag A comparison of brush-border membranes prepared from rabbit small intestine by procedures involving Ca2+ and Mg2+ precipitation.
2899Mag: !Mag Cation sites, spermine, and the reaction sequence of the (Na+ + K+)-dependent ATPase.
2900Mag: !Mag Control of phosphorylase kinase in the isolated glycogen particle by Ca2+-Mg2+ synergistic activation and cAMP-dependent phosphorylation.
2901Mag: !Mag A possible role for glucose metabolites in the regulation of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate 5-phosphomonoesterase activity in pancreatic islets.
2902Mag: !Mag Hormone-electrolyte interactions in the pathogenesis of lethal cardiac arrhythmias in patients with congestive heart failure. Basis of a new physiologic approach to control of arrhythmia.
2903Mag: !Mag Effect of beta blockade on ventricular fibrillation- and ventricular tachycardia-induced circulatory arrest in acute myocardial infarction.
2904Mag: !Mag Role of conserved sequence elements 9L and 2 in self-splicing of the Tetrahymena ribosomal RNA precursor.
2905Mag: !Mag Inhibition by divalent cations and sulphydryl reagents of the passive Ca2+ transport in human red blood cells observed in the presence of vanadate.
2906Mag: !Mag On the recognition of helical RNA by cobra venom V1 nuclease.
2907Mag: !Mag Biochemical and physiochemical characterization of chromatin fractions with different degrees of solubility isolated from chicken erythrocyte nuclei.
2908Mag: !Mag Substitution of aluminium salts by magnesium salts in control of dialysis hyperphosphataemia.
2909Mag: !Mag Mobility of cations in magnesium aluminate spinel.
2910Mag: !Mag Characterization of nonheme type bromoperoxidase in Corallina pilulifera.
2911Mag: !Mag The effect of divalent metal ions on the electrophoretic mobility of bovine prothrombin and bovine prothrombin fragment 1.
2912Mag: !Mag The carboxybiotin complex of chicken liver pyruvate carboxylase. A kinetic analysis of the effects of acetyl-CoA, Mg2+ ions and temperature on its stability and on its reaction with 2-oxobutyrate.
2913Mag: !Mag Determination of silicon, calcium, magnesium and phosphorus in urine using inductively-coupled plasma emission spectrometry and a matrix-matching technique.
2914Mag: !Mag Target size of the adenosine Ri receptor.
2915Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium levels in symptomatic atrial fibrillation and their relation to rhythm control by intravenous digoxin.
2916Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of lens intrinsic membrane proteins by protein kinase C.
2917Mag: !Mag Cations decrease specific 3H-spiroperidol binding in human prefrontal cortex.
2918Mag: !Mag Electrophysiology of phagocytic membranes. Role of divalent cations in membrane hyperpolarizations of macrophage polykaryons.
2919Mag: !Mag Calcium binding properties of purified zymogen granule membrane of pig pancreas. Evidence for calcium binding proteins.
2920Mag: !Mag Modulation of salt permeabilities of intestinal brush-border membrane vesicles by micromolar levels of internal calcium.
2921Mag: !Mag The ATP, Mg-dependent phosphatase: role of Mg ions in the expression of the phosphorylase phosphatase activity.
2922Mag: !Mag Demonstration of corticotropin-releasing factor binding sites on human and rat erythrocyte membranes and their modulation by chronic ethanol treatment in rats.
2923Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemic tetany associated with prolonged treatment with aminoglycosides.
2924Mag: !Mag 1H NMR spectroscopic studies of calcium-binding proteins. 3. Solution conformations of rat apo-alpha-parvalbumin and metal-bound rat alpha-parvalbumin.
2925Mag: !Mag Condensation of chromatin: role of multivalent cations.
2926Mag: !Mag Metal ion requirements and other aspects of the reaction catalyzed by M1 RNA, the RNA subunit of ribonuclease P from Escherichia coli.
2927Mag: !Mag Influence of DNA-binding drugs on chromatin condensation.
2928Mag: !Mag Pathogenesis and prevention of grass tetany from the physiologic viewpoint
2929Mag: !Mag Temperature-sensitive high affinity 3Htryptamine binding sites in rat brain.
2930Mag: !Mag Structure and X-ray amino acid sequence of a bacteriochlorophyll a protein from Prosthecochloris aestuarii refined at 1.9 A resolution.
2931Mag: !Mag The Effect of Increased Mineral Levels in the Feed on Leg Weakness and Sudden Death Syndrome in Broiler Chickens.
2932Mag: !Mag Orally active alpha-ketohydroxy pyridine iron chelators intended for clinical use: in vivo studies in rabbits.
2933Mag: !Mag Association constants for the interaction of double-stranded and single-stranded DNA with spermine, spermidine, putrescine, diaminopropane, N1- and N8-acetylspermidine, and magnesium: determination from analysis of the broadening of thermal denaturation curves.
2934Mag: !Mag Blood, urine, and ruminal fluid changes associated with metabolic alkalosis induced by duodenal obstruction.
2935Mag: !Mag Renal proximal tubule of flounder II. Transepithelial Mg secretion.
2936Mag: !Mag Reoxygenation injury in isolated hepatocytes: effect of extracellular ATP on cation homeostasis.
2937Mag: !Mag Electrolyte handling by the superficial nephron of the rabbit.
2938Mag: !Mag Intestinal calcium transport in the spontaneously hypertensive rat: response to calcium depletion.
2939Mag: !Mag Profound hypotension complicating magnesium therapy.
2940Mag: !Mag Changes in specific nutrients in breast milk during extended lactation.
2941Mag: !Mag Clarification of magnesium dosage.
2942Mag: !Mag Identification of urinary stone and sediment crystals by scanning electron microscopy and x-ray microanalysis.
2943Mag: !Mag Combined percutaneous and extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for staghorn calculi: an alternative to anatrophic nephrolithotomy.
2944Mag: !Mag Decline in serum calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus values with oral glucose in normal neonates: studies of serum parathyroid hormone and calcitonin.
2945Mag: !Mag Beverages in the diets of American teenagers.
2946Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in IDDM related to level of glycosylated hemoglobin.
2947Mag: !Mag Magnesium, surfactants, and centrifugal analyzers.
2948Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of an abnormal alpha slow-moving high-density lipoprotein subfraction in serum from children with long-standing cholestasis.
2949Mag: !Mag Protection against experimental ischemic spinal cord injury.
2950Mag: !Mag Management and pregnancy outcome in eclampsia at Harare Maternity Hospital.
2951Mag: !Mag Magnesium utilization during gestation in the rat and effect of hydrocortisone on it.
2952Mag: !Mag A clinical survey of urinary calculi analyzed by infrared spectroscopy
2953Mag: !Mag Role of aluminium and magnesium effects on initiation and promotion of renal osteodystrophy in patients with chronic renal failure
2954Mag: !Mag Medium-dose antacids versus cimetidine in the short-term treatment of duodenal ulcer.
2955Mag: !Mag Clinical observation of urolithiasis in Mie University Hospital
2956Mag: !Mag Prophylactic effect of anti-ulcerative drugs on acute upper gastrointestinal lesions (AUGL) associated with cerebro-vascular disease (OVD) and head trauma
2957Mag: !Mag Replenishment of Young-GIK cardioplegia under the re-aortic cross clamp
2958Mag: !Mag Regulation of membrane histamine H1-receptor binding sites by guanine nucleotides, mono- and divalent cations.
2959Mag: !Mag The effect of sodium lauryl sulphate on the viscosity of vehicles for vaginal contraceptives with sodium carboxymethylcellulose and Veegum HV.
2960Mag: !Mag Determination of the viscosity of vehicles for vaginal contraceptives with sodium carboxymethylcellulose and Veegum HV.
2961Mag: !Mag Effect of serum magnesium and feed intake on serum growth hormone concentrations.
2962Mag: !Mag Ouabain binding and inotropy in acute potassium depletion in guinea pigs.
2963Mag: !Mag Leucoquinizarin as an analytical spectrophotometric and fluorimetric reagent: application to the determination of magnesium in pharmaceutical preparations.
2964Mag: !Mag Effects of glucagon and PTH on the loop of Henle of rat juxtamedullary nephrons.
2965Mag: !Mag Suppression of platelet aggregation and the secretory reaction of thrombocytes with anti-arrhythmia preparations
2966Mag: !Mag Scintigraphic assessment of neorectal motor function.
2967Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of pyruvate kinase from Bacillus stearothermophilus.
2968Mag: !Mag Nitrogen repression of gilvocarcin V production in Streptomyces arenae 2064.
2969Mag: !Mag Effect of various cations on the secretory and acid-forming function of the stomach
2970Mag: !Mag Studies on L-arginase in developing rat small intestine, brain, and kidney. I. Ontogenic evolution of arginase isoenzymes.
2971Mag: !Mag The use of antacids as a prophylaxis against Mendelson's syndrome in the United Kingdom. A survey.
2972Mag: !Mag Mechanisms of action of inhibitors of prolactin secretion in GH3 pituitary cells. I. Ca2+-dependent inhibition of amino acid incorporation.
2973Mag: !Mag Alteration of cytosine-guanine interactions due to N7 metal cation binding: a structure-activity relationship for cisplatin analogues.
2974Mag: !Mag Pediatric reference values for calcium, magnesium and inorganic phosphorus in serum obtained from Bhattacharya plots for data from unselected patients.
2975Mag: !Mag Cation dependence of guinea pig epidermal cell spreading.
2976Mag: !Mag Essential element nutritional status in cystic fibrosis.
2977Mag: !Mag Comparison of tablet and liquid antacid in the treatment of duodenal ulcer.
2978Mag: !Mag Metabolic changes due to experimentally induced rupture of the bovine urinary bladder.
2979Mag: !Mag Restriction of the alternative pathway of human complement by intact Trypanosoma brucei subsp. gambiense.
2980Mag: !Mag A case of soft vesical calculi
2981Mag: !Mag In vitro and in vivo study of stone formation by Corynebacterium group D2 (Corynebacterium urealyticum).
2982Mag: !Mag Succinylcholine pretreatment with magnesium sulfate.
2983Mag: !Mag Effects of polyamines on proline endopeptidase activity in rat brain.
2984Mag: !Mag Evidence that obesity does not influence the vitamin D-endocrine system in blacks.
2985Mag: !Mag Influence of partial activation on force-velocity properties of frog skinned muscle fibers in millimolar magnesium ion.
2986Mag: !Mag Epidermal growth factor causes hypocalcemia in sheep.
2987Mag: !Mag Properties of neurofilament protein kinase.
2988Mag: !Mag Sensitivities of rat kidney thick ascending limbs and collecting ducts to vasopressin in vivo.
2989Mag: !Mag Solubilization and characterization of a low-affinity histamine-binding site on human blood mononuclear cells.
2990Mag: !Mag Conversion of glucose in lactase-hydrolyzed whey permeate to fructose with immobilized glucose isomerase.
2991Mag: !Mag Calcium influence on neuronal sensitivity to ethanol in selectively bred mouse lines.
2992Mag: !Mag Characterization of increased Ca2+ efflux by quercetin from the sarcoplasmic reticulum in frog skinned skeletal muscle fibres.
2993Mag: !Mag Antacid does not reduce the bioavailability of oral contraceptive steroids in women.
2994Mag: !Mag In vitro activity of Ro 23-6240, a new fluorinated 4-quinolone.
2995Mag: !Mag Mechanism of phorbol ester activation of calcium-activated, phospholipid-dependent protein kinase.
2996Mag: !Mag Modifications of the adenylate cyclase complex during differentiation of cultured myoblasts.
2997Mag: !Mag Nuclear endogenous Ca2+-dependent endodeoxyribonuclease in differentiating chick embryonic lens fibers.
2998Mag: !Mag Experimental data on the antiulcerous action of a new pharmacological combination.
2999Mag: !Mag The effect of sodium bicarbonate versus aluminum-magnesium hydroxide on postprandial gastric acid in duodenal ulcer patients.
3000Mag: !Mag Influence of excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists and of baclofen on synaptic transmission in the optic nerve to the suprachiasmatic nucleus in slices of rat hypothalamus.
3001Mag: !Mag Nutrient intake, blood pressure, serum and urinary prostaglandins and serum thromboxane B2 in a controlled trial with a lacto-ovo-vegetarian diet.
3002Mag: !Mag Actin-attached and detached crossbridges in myofibrils: segregation into two populations according to their sensitivity to proteolytic digestion of myosin heavy chain.
3003Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a phosphoprotein phosphatase that dephosphorylates myosin and the isolated light chain from chicken gizzard smooth muscle.
3004Mag: !Mag Stimulated inositol phospholipid breakdown and myoblast fusion.
3005Mag: !Mag Dinucleosome as a product of initial chromatin cleavage by endogenous nucleases
3006Mag: !Mag Protein rotational mobility in thylakoid membranes of different polypeptide composition in the wild type and mutant strains of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.
3007Mag: !Mag Na+-K+-ATPase in vascular smooth muscle.
3008Mag: !Mag The relation of angiotensin-converting enzyme to the pregnancy-induced hypertension-preeclampsia syndrome.
3009Mag: !Mag Binding of calmodulin to the neuronal cytoskeletal protein kinase type II cooperatively stimulates autophosphorylation.
3010Mag: !Mag The active site structure of Na+/K+-transporting ATPase: location of the 5'-(p-fluorosulfonyl)benzoyladenosine binding site and soluble peptides released by trypsin.
3011Mag: !Mag Relationship of superoxide production to cytoplasmic free calcium in human monocytes.
3012Mag: !Mag Comparative pathological aspects of chronic olivine and silica inhalation in mice.
3013Mag: !Mag A kinetic colorimetric procedure for quantifying magnesium in serum.
3014Mag: !Mag Distinct subtypes of the opioid receptor with allosteric interactions in brain membranes.
3015Mag: !Mag Deactivation of the respiratory burst in activated macrophages: evidence for alteration of signal transduction.
3016Mag: !Mag Study of the rhythm of spasms in an athletic cohort. Its relation to muscle pathology
3017Mag: !Mag The dynamics of bone mineral in some vertebrates.
3018Mag: !Mag The ATPase kinetics of insect fibrillar flight muscle myosin subfragment-1.
3019Mag: !Mag In-vitro activity of newer quinolones against aerobic bacteria.
3020Mag: !Mag Nucleotide trapping at the ATPase site of myosin subfragment 1 by a new interthiol crosslinking.
3021Mag: !Mag Basic cardiac electrophysiology and mechanisms of antiarrhythmic agents.
3022Mag: !Mag Mg2+ is bound to glutamine synthetase extracted from bovine or ovine brain in the presence of L-methionine-S-sulfoximine phosphate.
3023Mag: !Mag Localization of the gene encoding 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A synthase to human chromosome 5.
3024Mag: !Mag Characterization of opioid receptor subtypes in solution.
3025Mag: !Mag Release of Ca2+ ions from the sarcoplasmic reticulum of skeletal muscles after treatment with caffeine
3026Mag: !Mag Potassium conductance of the squid giant axon is modulated by ATP.
3027Mag: !Mag Staining of eosinophils with nitroblue tetrazolium in patients with chronic granulomatous disease.
3028Mag: !Mag Halothane inhibits the cholinergic-receptor-mediated influx of calcium in primary culture of bovine adrenal medulla cells.
3029Mag: !Mag 3H-5-hydroxytryptamine accumulation by rat brain synaptic vesicles in a membrane-impermeant medium, and selective reduction by 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine.
3030Mag: !Mag Interaction of nutrients with antacids: a complication during enteral tube feeding.
3031Mag: !Mag A Carbonate-Rich, Hydrated, Interplanetary Dust Particle: Possible Residue from Protostellar Clouds.
3032Mag: !Mag Effect of quinine on mitochondrial K+ and Mg++ flux.
3033Mag: !Mag Regulation of brain type II Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase by autophosphorylation: a Ca2+-triggered molecular switch.
3034Mag: !Mag An Na+-stimulated Mg2+-transport system in human red blood cells.
3035Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of a new aminopeptidase from bovine lens.
3036Mag: !Mag Comparison between calcium transport and adenosine triphosphatase activity in membrane vesicles derived from rabbit kidney proximal tubules.
3037Mag: !Mag Regulation of pigment organelle translocation. II. Participation of a cAMP-dependent protein kinase.
3038Mag: !Mag Bromo-eudistomin D, a novel inducer of calcium release from fragmented sarcoplasmic reticulum that causes contractions of skinned muscle fibers.
3039Mag: !Mag Roentgenostructural phase analysis of urinary calculi. IV. Results of the analysis of calculi containing calcium and magnesium phosphates
3040Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemic tetany associated with prolonged treatment with aminoglycosides.
3041Mag: !Mag The effect of antacids on the absorption of simultaneously ingested iron.
3042Mag: !Mag A Parkinson-like neurologic deficit in primates is caused by a novel 4-substituted piperidine.
3043Mag: !Mag Spontaneous paroxysmal activity induced by zero magnesium and bicuculline: suppression by NMDA antagonists and GABA mimetics.
3044Mag: !Mag Characterization of the hepatic prolactin receptors induced by chronic iron deficiency and neuroleptics.
3045Mag: !Mag Magnesium uptake by pancreatic islet cells is modulated by stimulators and inhibitors of the B-cell function.
3046Mag: !Mag Target size analysis of opioid receptors. No difference between receptor types, but discrimination between two receptor states.
3047Mag: !Mag Characterisation of phosphate binding to mitochondrial and bacterial membrane-bound ATP synthase by studies of inhibition with 4-chloro-7-nitrobenzofurazan.
3048Mag: !Mag The complete amino acid sequence of a bacteriochlorophyll a-protein from Prosthecochloris aestuarii.
3049Mag: !Mag Analysis of Hill slopes predicted by the four-ligand exponential model for a regulatory enzyme.
3050Mag: !Mag The regulatory properties of yeast pyruvate kinase. Effects of NH4+ and K+ concentrations.
3051Mag: !Mag The regulatory properties of yeast pyruvate kinase. Effect of pH.
3052Mag: !Mag The regulatory properties of yeast pyruvate kinase. Effect of fructose 1,6-bisphosphate.
3053Mag: !Mag Hypocalcemia or hypoalbuminaemia?
3054Mag: !Mag Characterization of affinity-purified insulin receptor/kinase. Effects of dithiothreitol on receptor/kinase function.
3055Mag: !Mag Carbodiimide inactivation of Na,K-ATPase. A consequence of internal cross-linking and not carboxyl group modification.
3056Mag: !Mag High affinity binding of divalent cation to actin monomer is much stronger than previously reported.
3057Mag: !Mag 31P-NMR spectra of the Ha-ras p21.nucleotide complexes.
3058Mag: !Mag The relationship between metal ion content and mitogenicity of PHA-L4 isolectin as determined by agarose electrophoresis.
3059Mag: !Mag Calcium enhances the hemolytic action of bile salts.
3060Mag: !Mag Sodium and buffer cations inhibit dephosphorylation of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase.
3061Mag: !Mag Morphine enhances gastric mucus synthesis in rats.
3062Mag: !Mag Magaldrate (100 mmol/d) versus ranitidine (300 mg/d). Healing rates of stomach ulcer in a German double-blind study
3063Mag: !Mag Total reconstitution of active large ribosomal subunits of the thermoacidophilic archaebacterium Sulfolobus solfataricus.
3064Mag: !Mag Magnesium and cardiovascular diseases
3065Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency. An underdiagnosed condition?
3066Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency. A clinical review
3067Mag: !Mag Magnesium infusion in acute myocardial infarction.
3068Mag: !Mag Guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) as an analog of GTP in protein biosynthesis. The effects of temperature and polycations on the accuracy of initial recognition of aminoacyl-tRNA ternary complexes by ribosomes.
3069Mag: !Mag Reversible change in light scattering following formation of ADP-sensitive phosphoenzyme in Na+,K+-ATPase modified with N-p-(2-benzimidazolyl)phenylmaleimide.
3070Mag: !Mag Phosphatidylinositol synthase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Reconstitution, characterization, and regulation of activity.
3071Mag: !Mag Ca2+ transport in human platelet membranes. Kinetics of active transport and passive release.
3072Mag: !Mag Optimization of protein synthesis in isolated higher plant chloroplasts. Identification of paused translation intermediates.
3073Mag: !Mag Characterization of furosemide-sensitive Mg2+ influx in Yoshida ascites tumor cells.
3074Mag: !Mag Magnesium levels in the serum and urine of patients with myocardial infarction
3075Mag: !Mag Biochemical heterogeneity of reverse transcriptase purified from the AIDS virus, HTLV-III.
3076Mag: !Mag Mechanism and Role of Divalent Cation Binding of Bacteriorhodopsin.
3077Mag: !Mag Magnesium-sugar interaction. Synthesis, spectroscopic and structural characterization of Mg-sugar complexes containing beta-D-fructose.
3078Mag: !Mag The effect of a single dose of magnesium on systolic time intervals
3079Mag: !Mag Localization of acetylcholine receptors and cholinesterase on nerve-contacted and noncontacted muscle cells grown in the presence of agents that block action potentials.
3080Mag: !Mag Verapamil and zero Ca2+ alter responses of cat muscle to halothane and caffeine.
3081Mag: !Mag Unusual complement activation properties of serum immunoglobulins of the pigeon Columba livia.
3082Mag: !Mag Characterization of the adenylate cyclase of the rat corpus luteum during luteolysis induced by a prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue.
3083Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia in digitalized patients.
3084Mag: !Mag Eclampsia. V. The incidence of nonpreventable eclampsia.
3085Mag: !Mag Low blood mononuclear cell magnesium in intensive cardiac care unit patients.
3086Mag: !Mag The effect of cryopreservation on hormone secretion in vitro and morphology of human parathyroid tissue.
3087Mag: !Mag Nutrient retention in preterm infants fed standard infant formulas.
3088Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary anion composition on acid-induced hypercalciuria in the adult rat.
3089Mag: !Mag Vitamin D and bone mineral homeostasis during pregnancy in the diabetic BB rat.
3090Mag: !Mag Effects of acid-base disturbances on renal handling of magnesium in the dog.
3091Mag: !Mag Measurement of serum magnesium--effect of delay in separation from erythrocytes.
3092Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency inhibits biosynthesis of blood glutathione and tumor growth in the rat.
3093Mag: !Mag Long-term use of magnesium sulfate as a tocolytic agent.
3094Mag: !Mag Empiric antacids and reassurance for acute dyspepsia.
3095Mag: !Mag Inflammation-induced remote superactivity of macrophages.
3096Mag: !Mag A study on the cause of urolithiasis of the upper urinary tract--clinical study of risk factors in the formation of stones in the upper urinary tract
3097Mag: !Mag Lithium orotate in the treatment of alcoholism and related conditions.
3098Mag: !Mag Purification of peroxisomal malate synthase from alkane-grown Candida tropicalis and some properties of the purified enzyme.
3099Mag: !Mag Histo-autoradiographic study of the synthesis of gastric mucus in the rat stomach. Chronology of stimulation of mucus synthesis following ingestion of water, food and a combination of montmorillonite beidellite and an antacid
3100Mag: !Mag Intrarenal calcium crystallization. An electron microscopy study
3101Mag: !Mag Classification of staghorn calculus disease of the kidney based on 105 personal cases and a review of the literature
3102Mag: !Mag Parenteral administration of magnesium in spasmophilia
3103Mag: !Mag Vitamin D resistance and magnesium.
3104Mag: !Mag Characterization of choline efflux from the perfused heart at rest and after muscarine receptor activation.
3105Mag: !Mag Effect of ionic strength on chain elongation in ADP-ribosylation of various nucleases.
3106Mag: !Mag Preparation of the cervix: hydrophilic and prostaglandin dilators.
3107Mag: !Mag Effect of penicillamine therapy on the concentration of zinc, copper, iron, calcium and magnesium in the serum and their excretion in urine
3108Mag: !Mag Mineral composition of the protein concentrates made from nontraditional raw plant materials
3109Mag: !Mag A method of determining pyruvate kinase activity
3110Mag: !Mag Effect of induced hypomagnesaemia on the toxicity of imidocarb in calves.
3111Mag: !Mag Macroelements in the circulation of coccidiosis-infected chicks.
3112Mag: !Mag A transplantable rat Leydig cell tumor--3. Isoproterenol and prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) responsive adenylyl cyclase (AC). Regulatory effects of nucleotides and magnesium.
3113Mag: !Mag An investigation of some factors influencing plug formation and fill weight in a dosing disk-type automatic capsule-filling machine.
3114Mag: !Mag Effect of pH on the speciation and solubility of divalent metals in human and bovine milks.
3115Mag: !Mag Effects of aminoglycoside antibiotics on the neuromuscular junction: Part I.
3116Mag: !Mag Beneficial effects of magnesium in global myocardial ischemia.
3117Mag: !Mag Autolytic degradation of RNA; the effect of various factors on the dynamics of the process
3118Mag: !Mag The structure of cat muscle pyruvate kinase.
3119Mag: !Mag Suggested mechanisms for the antimycotic activity of the polyene antibiotics and the N-substituted imidazoles.
3120Mag: !Mag Plasma ionized calcium monitoring during liver transplantation.
3121Mag: !Mag Medical dissolution of canine struvite uroliths.
3122Mag: !Mag Comparison of qualitative and quantitative analyses of canine uroliths.
3123Mag: !Mag Methods of analysis of canine uroliths.
3124Mag: !Mag Canine distal renal tubular acidosis and urolithiasis.
3125Mag: !Mag Serotonin decreases the duration of action potentials recorded from tetraethylammonium-treated bullfrog dorsal root ganglion cells.
3126Mag: !Mag Characteristics of mineralization of rat molar tooth germs in organ culture.
3127Mag: !Mag Partial purification and some kinetic properties of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase from Phycomyces blakesleeanus.
3128Mag: !Mag Antiarrhythmic effects of intravenous magnesium sulfate in torsade de pointes. Apropos of 6 cases
3129Mag: !Mag Studies on T. utilis tRNATyr variants with enzymatically altered D-loop sequences. II. Relationship between the tertiary structure and tyrosine acceptance.
3130Mag: !Mag Changes in the mineral content of bones in fibrous osteodystrophy in standard minks and Arctic foxes
3131Mag: !Mag A comparison of the abilities of CO2/HCO3-., protonophores and changes in solution pH to release Ca2+ from the SR of barnacle myofibrillar bundles.
3132Mag: !Mag Stability of vitamin D2, calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus in parenteral nutrition solution: effect of in-line filter.
3133Mag: !Mag Subcellular fractionation of Trypanosoma cruzi; isolation and characterization of plasma membranes from epimastigotes.
3134Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations and of phospholipase A activity on excretion of cloacin DF13 and lysis of host cells.
3135Mag: !Mag Interaction of polycationic antibiotics with Pseudomonas aeruginosa lipopolysaccharide and lipid A studied by using dansyl-polymyxin.
3136Mag: !Mag Alkaline phosphodiesterase I release from eucaryotic plasma membranes by phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C. I. The release from rat organs.
3137Mag: !Mag Purification of calpain II from rat lens and determination of endogenous substrates.
3138Mag: !Mag Canine uroliths. Analysis of data derived from 813 specimens.
3139Mag: !Mag Influence of effectors of hormone-sensitive adenylate cyclase on the activation system of photostimulated cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase from outer rod segments
3140Mag: !Mag Effects of the inorganic salts sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate, and magnesium sulfate upon the growth and motility of Treponema vincentii.
3141Mag: !Mag Calcium homeostasis during therapeutic plasma exchange.
3142Mag: !Mag Inhibition of Ns-stimulated human platelet adenylate cyclase by forskolin.
3143Mag: !Mag Uncoupling of gamma-aminobutyric acid B receptors from GTP-binding proteins by N-ethylmaleimide: effect of N-ethylmaleimide on purified GTP-binding proteins.
3144Mag: !Mag Effects of temperature and membrane phase transitions on ligand binding to alpha 2-receptors of human platelets.
3145Mag: !Mag Apparently unidirectional polyamine transport by proton motive force in polyamine-deficient Escherichia coli.
3146Mag: !Mag Long-term potentiation and depression in hippocampal slices.
3147Mag: !Mag Characterization of a specific, high affinity 3Harginine8 vasopressin-binding site on liver microsomes from different strains of rat and the role of magnesium.
3148Mag: !Mag Corticotropin-releasing factor binding to the anterior pituitary receptor is modulated by divalent cations and guanyl nucleotides.
3149Mag: !Mag Spontaneous tumor cytolysis mediated by inflammatory neutrophils: dependence upon divalent cations and reduced oxygen intermediates.
3150Mag: !Mag Antidotal effect of 4-aminopyridine on acute poisoning induced by magnesium sulfate
3151Mag: !Mag The neurotoxic actions of quinolinic acid in the central nervous system.
3152Mag: !Mag Effects of certain salts on glucosyltransferase synthesis by Streptococcus mutans strain PS-14.
3153Mag: !Mag Blood levels and renal effects of atrial natriuretic peptide in normal man.
3154Mag: !Mag Methods of euthanasia in poultry and food-producing animals.
3155Mag: !Mag Factors influencing an increase in spontaneous transmitter release by hypoxia at the mouse neuromuscular junction.
3156Mag: !Mag Extrusion cooking of a high-fibre cereal product. 2. Effects on apparent absorption of zinc, iron, calcium, magnesium and phosphorus in humans.
3157Mag: !Mag Dissociation of insulin binding from insulin stimulation of 2-deoxyglucose transport by ruthenium red.
3158Mag: !Mag Effects of elevated calcium on learned helplessness and brain serotonin metabolism in rats.
3159Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and cardiac arrhythmias.
3160Mag: !Mag A Bartter's-like syndrome from capreomycin, and a similar gentamicin tubulopathy.
3161Mag: !Mag Heparin-induced aggregation of lymphoid cells.
3162Mag: !Mag Effects of chelating agents on the Ca2+-stimulated ATPase of rat liver plasma membranes.
3163Mag: !Mag Protein kinase activation of heparin-releasable lipoprotein lipase in rat heart.
3164Mag: !Mag Undesirable feature of safranine as a probe for mitochondrial membrane potential.
3165Mag: !Mag Long-term results with verapamil in essential hypertension and its influence on serum lipids.
3166Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent action potentials and associated inward currents in guinea-pig neocortical neurons in vitro.
3167Mag: !Mag Stimulus-secretion coupling in bovine parathyroid cells. Dissociation between secretion and net changes in cytosolic Ca2+.
3168Mag: !Mag Formation of actin dimers as studied by small angle neutron scattering.
3169Mag: !Mag A requirement for calcium in the transport of cobalamin across the outer membrane of Escherichia coli.
3170Mag: !Mag Regulation of free and bound magnesium in rat hepatocytes and isolated mitochondria.
3171Mag: !Mag Characterization of a cyclic nucleotide- and calcium-independent neurofilament protein kinase activity in axoplasm from the squid giant axon.
3172Mag: !Mag Association of the 3,5,3'-triiodo-L-thyronine nuclear receptor with the nuclear matrix of cultured growth hormone-producing rat pituitary tumor cells (GC cells).
3173Mag: !Mag Mechanism of regulation of cardiac actin-myosin subfragment 1 by troponin-tropomyosin.
3174Mag: !Mag Ca2+-dependent ATPases in the basolateral membrane of rat kidney cortex.
3175Mag: !Mag Magnesium levels in the serum and erythrocytes measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry
3176Mag: !Mag Salt-dependent changes in the DNA binding co-operativity of Escherichia coli single strand binding protein.
3177Mag: !Mag AMP deaminases of rat small intestine.
3178Mag: !Mag Ca2+-induced aortic contraction in normal K+ after exposure to Ca2+- and Mg2+ -free solution.
3179Mag: !Mag (+/-)-cis-2,3-Piperidine dicarboxylic acid is a partial N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist in the in vitro rat cerebellar cGMP model.
3180Mag: !Mag Poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase in vitro.
3181Mag: !Mag Imino proton NMR assignments and ion-binding studies on Escherichia coli tRNA3Gly.
3182Mag: !Mag Anisotropy of Dingle temperatures in magnesium.
3183Mag: !Mag Diuretic therapy, cardiac arrhythmias and potassium and magnesium loss.
3184Mag: !Mag Idiopathic magnesium deficiency in mitral valve prolapse.
3185Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte microtubule assembly in vitro. Tubulin oligomers limit the rate of microtubule self-assembly.
3186Mag: !Mag Role of trace elements in the dynamics of arteriosclerosis
3187Mag: !Mag Proton and potassium fluxes in rat red blood cells incubated with sugar phosphates.
3188Mag: !Mag Hormone-stimulated polyphosphoinositide breakdown in rat liver plasma membranes. Roles of guanine nucleotides and calcium.
3189Mag: !Mag 5-Iodoacetamidofluorescein-labeled (Na,K)-ATPase. Steady-state fluorescence during turnover.
3190Mag: !Mag Properties of the cyanobacterial coupling factor ATPase from Spirulina platensis. II. Activity of the purified and membrane-bound enzymes.
3191Mag: !Mag Synthesis of Todorokite.
3192Mag: !Mag Ca2+-induced structural change in the Ca2+/Mg2+ domain of troponin C detected by crosslinking.
3193Mag: !Mag Increased actin nucleating activity in tumorigenic cells.
3194Mag: !Mag Polyamine-activated protein phosphatase activity in HeLa cell nuclei.
3195Mag: !Mag Phosphatidate phosphatase activity in isolated rod outer segment from bovine retina.
3196Mag: !Mag Studies of endogenous polyphosphoinositide hydrolysis in human platelet membranes. Evidence that polyphosphoinositides remain inaccessible to phosphodiesterase in the native membrane.
3197Mag: !Mag A single tRNA (guanine)-methyltransferase from Tetrahymena with both mono- and di-methylating activity.
3198Mag: !Mag Sweet itch.
3199Mag: !Mag Electrolyte disturbances and cardiac failure with hypomagnesaemia in anorexia nervosa.
3200Mag: !Mag On the mechanism by which dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and quinine inhibit K+ transport in rat liver mitochondria.
3201Mag: !Mag Characterization of the monovalent cation activator binding site of S-adenosylmethionine synthetase by 205Tl NMR of enzyme-bound Tl+.
3202Mag: !Mag Catecholamine-stimulated GTPase cycle. Multiple sites of regulation by beta-adrenergic receptor and Mg2+ studied in reconstituted receptor-Gs vesicles.
3203Mag: !Mag Characterization of beta-Glucosidase Activity in Intertidal Marine Sediments.
3204Mag: !Mag Kinetic Concepts for Measuring Microbial Rate Constants: Effects of Nutrients on Rate Constants.
3205Mag: !Mag Hypothesis: blocking factors and human pregnancy: an alternative explanation for the success of lymphocyte transfusion therapy in abortion-prone women.
3206Mag: !Mag Effect of acute alcoholic intoxication on myocardial electrolyte and water distributions.
3207Mag: !Mag Subcellular membrane properties in vascular and non-vascular smooth muscles of Dahl hypertensive rats.
3208Mag: !Mag Short-term associations between disease and milk yield of dairy cows.
3209Mag: !Mag Magnesium content of laryngeal precancerous conditions and laryngeal cancers
3210Mag: !Mag The phytic acid mineral, trace element, protein and moisture content of UK Asian immigrant foods.
3211Mag: !Mag Physiologic and biochemical changes during a triathlon competition.
3212Mag: !Mag ATP-induced reactivation of ram testicular, cauda epididymal, and ejaculated spermatozoa extracted with Triton X-100.
3213Mag: !Mag Mineral and amino acid composition of beef cattle hooves.
3214Mag: !Mag Evaluation of a role for intracellular Na+, K+, Ca2+, and Mg2+ in hyperthermic cell killing.
3215Mag: !Mag Cardiac actin interactions with doxorubicin in vitro.
3216Mag: !Mag Manganese and manganese-ATP interactions with bovine sperm adenylate cyclase.
3217Mag: !Mag In vitro studies of the mechanism of inhibition of rat liver uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase activity by ferrous iron under anaerobic conditions.
3218Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary alteration of bicarbonate and magnesium on rat bone.
3219Mag: !Mag Cimetidine versus antacids in the prevention of stress erosions in critically ill patients.
3220Mag: !Mag Antagonism by essential divalent metals and amino acids of nickel(II)-DNA binding in vitro.
3221Mag: !Mag Hypertension in the coloured population of the Cape Peninsula.
3222Mag: !Mag Effects of supplementing hypothermic crystalloid cardioplegic solution with catalase, superoxide dismutase, allopurinol, or deferoxamine on functional recovery of globally ischemic and reperfused isolated hearts.
3223Mag: !Mag The inhibitory effect of human urine on urease-induced crystallization in vitro.
3224Mag: !Mag Influence of injected caffeine on the metabolism of calcium and the retention and excretion of sodium, potassium, phosphorus, magnesium, zinc and copper in rats.
3225Mag: !Mag Recovery of monkey brain after prolonged ischemia. I. Electrophysiology and brain electrolytes.
3226Mag: !Mag Bactericidal effect of lactoferrin on Legionella pneumophila.
3227Mag: !Mag TAME stabilizes the cortex and mitotic apparatus of the sea urchin egg during isolation.
3228Mag: !Mag Clustering of serum calcium and magnesium concentrations in siblings.
3229Mag: !Mag Creatine kinase: reassessment of optimal concentrations for adenosine-5'-diphosphate and magnesium.
3230Mag: !Mag Several special questions of idiopathic hypothyroidism: analysis of 34 cases
3231Mag: !Mag The effect of storage on the kinetic properties of sheep hepatic pyruvate kinase.
3232Mag: !Mag Relationship between urinary calcium and calcium intake during calcitriol administration.
3233Mag: !Mag Effects of concomitant drugs on the blood concentration of a histamine H2 antagonist (1st report). Oral administration of ranitidine together with high doses of neutralizing antacid and sucralfate
3234Mag: !Mag Cardioplegic solution: a contamination crisis.
3235Mag: !Mag Seasonal changes in testicular structure and function in the blue fox (Alopex lagopus), as quantified by morphometric analysis and measurement of adenylate cyclase activity.
3236Mag: !Mag A possible role of fish preparation 'Hentak' in urolithiasis in Manipur--an experimental study.
3237Mag: !Mag Value of serologic tumor tests in malignant melanoma of the choroid
3238Mag: !Mag The effects of Mg2+ on certain steps in the mechanisms of the dehydrogenase and esterase reactions catalysed by sheep liver aldehyde dehydrogenase. Support for the view that dehydrogenase and esterase activities occur at the same site on the enzyme.
3239Mag: !Mag The role of aqueous divalent cations on spontaneous synchronization in bovine iris muscles
3240Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium deficiency on ultrastructural changes in coronary arteries of swine.
3241Mag: !Mag Mineral status of beef cattle in Papua New Guinea.
3242Mag: !Mag Correlation between the malate dependent progesterone and citrate biosynthesis in the mitochondrial fraction of human term placenta. The stimulatory effect of ADP and ATP.
3243Mag: !Mag Amiodarone inhibits T4 to T3 conversion and alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase and malic enzyme levels in rat liver.
3244Mag: !Mag Paediatric gastroenterology: lessons of inborn errors.
3245Mag: !Mag Optimization of a vehicle solution for the introduction and removal of glycerol with rabbit kidneys.
3246Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate: rationale for its use in preeclampsia.
3247Mag: !Mag Trace elements in development and disease.
3248Mag: !Mag Roles of urea production, ammonium excretion, and amino acid oxidation in acid-base balance.
3249Mag: !Mag Metabolic consequences of very-low-calorie diet therapy in obese non-insulin-dependent diabetic and nondiabetic subjects.
3250Mag: !Mag Nutritional parameters that alter hepatic drug metabolism, conjugation, and toxicity.
3251Mag: !Mag Effects of vitamin D deprivation and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 treatment on ion release from rat tibiae in vitro.
3252Mag: !Mag Differential effects of manganese and magnesium on two types of slowly adapting cutaneous mechanoreceptor afferent units in frogs.
3253Mag: !Mag Differences in transmitter release and number of nerve terminals per motoneuron between two frog muscles.
3254Mag: !Mag Microcolon of prematurity: a form of functional obstruction.
3255Mag: !Mag Effect of butadione on lipid metabolism in chronic ischemic heart disease patients
3256Mag: !Mag Platelet count in EDTA-dependent pseudothrombocytopenia--application of MgSO4 as an anticoagulant
3257Mag: !Mag Binding of estrogen receptor from N-nitrosomethylurea-induced rat mammary tumors to nuclei.
3258Mag: !Mag The effect of the use of milk-based feed mixtures and whole milk on the development of selected indicators in the blood plasma in calves
3259Mag: !Mag Transport and accumulation of nickel ions in the cyanobacterium Anabaena cylindrica.
3260Mag: !Mag Fluid resuscitation after an otherwise fatal hemorrhage: I. Crystalloid solutions.
3261Mag: !Mag Essential trace metal excretion from rats with lead exposure and during chelation therapy.
3262Mag: !Mag ATP-induced cell contraction with epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica recessive and normal dermal fibroblasts.
3263Mag: !Mag Nature and properties of human platelet vasopressin receptors.
3264Mag: !Mag Infrequently used antidotes: indications and availability.
3265Mag: !Mag Kinetic characterization and partial purification of the membrane-bound inorganic pyrophosphatase from Rhodopseudomonas palustris.
3266Mag: !Mag Neonatal release of gonadotropins is essential for development of ovarian follicle-stimulating hormone receptors.
3267Mag: !Mag In vitro buffering capacity of Alka Seltzer Effervescent. A comparison with magnesium trisilicate mixture B.P. and sodium citrate 0.3 M.
3268Mag: !Mag Mineral intake and blood levels in vegetarians.
3269Mag: !Mag Spontaneous release of transmitter from the growth cones of Xenopus neurons in vitro: the influence of Ca2+ and Mg2+ ions.
3270Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of two DNA ligases from human placenta.
3271Mag: !Mag Effects of ATP and monovalent cations on Mg2+ inhibition of (Na,K)-ATPase.
3272Mag: !Mag Identification and characterization of functional angiotensin II receptors on cultured heart myocytes.
3273Mag: !Mag Comparison of the effect of cell wall and hull fiber from canola and soybean on the bioavailability for rats of minerals, protein and lipid.
3274Mag: !Mag Inorganic pyrophosphatase activity of purified bovine pulp alkaline phosphatase at physiological pH.
3275Mag: !Mag The stimulation by calcium and its inhibition by ADP of cholesterol side-chain cleavage activity in adrenal mitochondria.
3276Mag: !Mag Properties and localization of chitin synthase in Ascaris suum eggs.
3277Mag: !Mag Inhibition of splicing but not cleavage at the 5' splice site by truncating human beta-globin pre-mRNA.
3278Mag: !Mag Mucus colonization as a determinant of pathogenicity in intestinal infection by Campylobacter jejuni: a mouse cecal model.
3279Mag: !Mag Tubulopathy in nephrolithiasis: consequence rather than cause.
3280Mag: !Mag Intravenous magnesium in acute myocardial infarction.
3281Mag: !Mag Hygienic characteristics of exposure of the body to magnesium and aluminum magnide dust and to the aerosol formed during the welding of an aluminum-magnesium alloy
3282Mag: !Mag Characterization and localization of two forms of active Ca2+ transport in vesicles derived from rat submandibular glands.
3283Mag: !Mag Inhibitin: a specific inhibitor of sodium/sodium exchange in erythrocytes.
3284Mag: !Mag Fatty acid acylation of rat brain myelin proteolipid protein in vitro: identification of the lipid donor.
3285Mag: !Mag A self-splicing RNA excises an intron lariat.
3286Mag: !Mag Biochemical and immunological characterization of Suncus murinus mammary tumor virus DNA polymerase.
3287Mag: !Mag External calcium, intrasynaptosomal free calcium and neurotransmitter release.
3288Mag: !Mag Potassium-sparing effect of triamterene in a 3-component combination preparation for the therapy of hypertension
3289Mag: !Mag The metabolic state of the rat liver in vivo measured by 31P-NMR spectroscopy.
3290Mag: !Mag Requirement of Ca2+ for the production and degradation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate in macrophages.
3291Mag: !Mag Effects of an acebutolol-hydrochlorothiazide combination on urinary solute excretion in healthy adults.
3292Mag: !Mag Modulation of activity of human alkaline phosphatases by Mg2+ and thiol compounds.
3293Mag: !Mag Do antacids with high acid binding ability modify mineral homeostasis?
3294Mag: !Mag Kinetic properties of the purified Ca2+-translocating ATPase from human erythrocyte plasma membrane.
3295Mag: !Mag Free protons do not substitute for sodium ions in buffer-mediated phosphorylation of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase.
3296Mag: !Mag Electronic structure and stability of different crystal phases of magnesium oxide.
3297Mag: !Mag Effect of ethylene glycol and Ca2+ on the binding of Mg2+ x adenyl-5'-yl imidodiphosphate to rabbit skeletal myofibrils.
3298Mag: !Mag Calcium binding to the low affinity sites in troponin C induces conformational changes in the high affinity domain. A possible route of information transfer in activation of muscle contraction.
3299Mag: !Mag The purified alpha subunits of Go and Gi from bovine brain require beta gamma for association with phospholipid vesicles.
3300Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of the feline sarcoma virus tyrosine-specific kinase pp85gag-fes.
3301Mag: !Mag 5-Methyltryptamine decreases net accumulation of 32P into the polyphosphoinositides from gamma-32PATP in a cell-free system from blowfly salivary glands. Activation of breakdown of the newly synthesized 32Ppolyphosphoinositides.
3302Mag: !Mag Ionic and GTP regulation of binding of platelet-activating factor to receptors and platelet-activating factor-induced activation of GTPase in rabbit platelet membranes.
3303Mag: !Mag The effect of Mg2+ on hepatic microsomal Ca2+ and Sr2+ transport.
3304Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of the major nucleoside triphosphatase from rat liver nuclear envelopes.
3305Mag: !Mag Streptococcal cytoplasmic pH is regulated by changes in amount and activity of a proton-translocating ATPase.
3306Mag: !Mag Evidence of a role for calmodulin in the regulation of calcium release from skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum.
3307Mag: !Mag Kinetics of rapid Ca2+ release by sarcoplasmic reticulum. Effects of Ca2+, Mg2+, and adenine nucleotides.
3308Mag: !Mag Cyclo (His-Pro), a metabolite of thyrotropin-releasing hormone: specific binding to rat liver membranes.
3309Mag: !Mag Cationic amphiphilic drugs perturb the metabolism of inosititides and phosphatidic acid in photoreceptor membranes.
3310Mag: !Mag Stimulation of pyruvate kinase phosphatase activity by insulin in isolated rat hepatocytes.
3311Mag: !Mag Cisplatin-induced hypomagnesemia
3312Mag: !Mag Tetany caused by hypocalcemia and hypomagnesemia in a 15-year-old boy on long-term hemodialysis
3313Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a protein kinase from Xenopus eggs highly specific for ribosomal protein S6.
3314Mag: !Mag Human placental cytoplasmic 5'-nucleotidase. Kinetic properties and inhibition.
3315Mag: !Mag Cyclic nucleotide-dependent phosphorylation of proteins in rod outer segments in frog retina. Characteristics of the phosphorylated proteins and their dephosphorylation.
3316Mag: !Mag Fibers of RecA protein and complexes of RecA protein and single-stranded phi X174 DNA as visualized by negative-stain electron microscopy.
3317Mag: !Mag The catalytic activity of muscle phosphoglucomutase in the crystalline phase.
3318Mag: !Mag The sodium channel from rat brain. Role of the beta 1 and beta 2 subunits in saxitoxin binding.
3319Mag: !Mag Tetany and myocardial arrhythmia due to hypomagnesaemia. A case report.
3320Mag: !Mag Analysis of oxygen binding to Panulirus japonicus hemocyanin. The effect of divalent cations on the allosteric transition.
3321Mag: !Mag Regulation of the chloroplast H+-ATPase by light. The involvement of Mg2+ ions.
3322Mag: !Mag Cytopathic avian rotavirus isolated from duck faeces in chicken kidney cell cultures.
3323Mag: !Mag Effects of artificial enclosure of young lettuce leaves on tipburn incidence and leaf calcium concentration.
3324Mag: !Mag Enhancement of nitrate uptake and growth of barley seedlings by calcium under saline conditions.
3325Mag: !Mag Characterization of nucleoside triphosphatase activity in isolated pea nuclei and its photoreversible regulation by light.
3326Mag: !Mag Cigarettes as a source of some trace and heavy metals and pesticides in man.
3327Mag: !Mag A case of laryngospasm caused by hypomagnesemia
3328Mag: !Mag Three cases of primary aldosteronism including one case with postoperative ventricular tachycardia
3329Mag: !Mag Dermatosis in magnesium-deficient hairless rats: effects of steroidal and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
3330Mag: !Mag Ensuring quality in the analyses of urinary calculi by a comparison of methods. 3d International Ring Trial
3331Mag: !Mag Micropuncture study of the superficial nephron of Cercopithecus aethiops.
3332Mag: !Mag Neuromyotonic syndrome
3333Mag: !Mag Enhanced sympathetic activity as a mechanism for cardiac glycoside toxicity in hypomagnesemia.
3334Mag: !Mag Presence of newberyite in the right kidney and carbonated apatite in the left kidney in a patient with recurrent urinary infections
3335Mag: !Mag Clinical hypomagnesemia, coronary spasm and cardiac arrhythmia.
3336Mag: !Mag Decreased bone magnesium in beta thalassemia with spinal osteoporosis.
3337Mag: !Mag Magnesium-responsive incomplete distal renal tubular acidosis in patients with liver cirrhosis.
3338Mag: !Mag Tissue magnesium in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
3339Mag: !Mag Vitamin B6 and magnesium.
3340Mag: !Mag Relationship of endogenous magnesium and calcium levels to oxytocin augmentation.
3341Mag: !Mag A sample preparation for quantitative determination of magnesium in individual lymphocytes by electron probe X-ray microanalysis.
3342Mag: !Mag Effect of chronic alcohol ingestion on fecal and urinary excretion of calcium and magnesium in the rat.
3343Mag: !Mag Absorptive hyperoxaluria: a new clinical entity--successful treatment with hydrochlorothiazide.
3344Mag: !Mag Acute effect of salmon calcitonin on renal magnesium transport in the magnesium-loaded rat.
3345Mag: !Mag Assembly of chromatin fibers into metaphase chromosomes analyzed by transmission electron microscopy and scanning electron microscopy.
3346Mag: !Mag Hypocalcaemia in ewes after a drought.
3347Mag: !Mag Adhesion of the clay minerals montmorillonite, kaolinite, and attapulgite reduces respiration of Histoplasma capsulatum.
3348Mag: !Mag The familial magnesium-losing kidney.
3349Mag: !Mag Determination of zinc, copper and magnesium in the umbilical cord blood of hypotrophic newborn infants
3350Mag: !Mag Testing of prototype antiepileptics in hippocampal slices.
3351Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of chloroplast DNA polymerase.
3352Mag: !Mag Effects of altering the ATP/ADP ratio on pump-mediated Na/K and Na/Na exchanges in resealed human red blood cell ghosts.
3353Mag: !Mag Alginate dental impression materials: chemistry, structure, and properties.
3354Mag: !Mag Excitation of lateral horn neurons of the neonatal rat spinal cord by 5-hydroxytryptamine.
3355Mag: !Mag Blood magnesium values in healthy cattle and in cattle affected with anaplasmosis and eperythrozoonosis.
3356Mag: !Mag Effect of carbostimulin on acid-base equilibrium of the blood of racing horses during exertion
3357Mag: !Mag Growth failure and decreased bone mineral of newborn rats with chronic furosemide therapy.
3358Mag: !Mag The interaction of the beta-anomer of doxorubicin with B and Z DNA.
3359Mag: !Mag Effect of bovine growth hormone administration on metabolism of growing Hereford heifers: dietary digestibility, energy and nitrogen balance.
3360Mag: !Mag Regulation of the circadian clock in the Aplysia eye: mimicry of neural action by serotonin.
3361Mag: !Mag The involvement of calcitonin in the reproductive physiology of the rainbow trout.
3362Mag: !Mag Suboptimal nutritional status in obesity (selected nutrients).
3363Mag: !Mag Efficacy of a "standard" seizure workup in the emergency department.
3364Mag: !Mag Passive permeability of human red blood cells to calcium.
3365Mag: !Mag Activation of the alternative complement pathway by Sporothrix schenckii.
3366Mag: !Mag More on the relation between magnesium and calcium in serum and plasma.
3367Mag: !Mag Severe preeclampsia: hemodynamic effects of lumbar epidural anesthesia.
3368Mag: !Mag Surface glycosyltransferase activities during development of neuronal cell cultures.
3369Mag: !Mag Cimetidine blocks antacid-induced hypergastrinemia.
3370Mag: !Mag Cardiac and peripheral vascular actions by Ca++ and Mg++.
3371Mag: !Mag Relationship between calcium and blood pressure.
3372Mag: !Mag A critical evaluation of the urinary inhibiting activity in idiopathic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis.
3373Mag: !Mag Fluoride, magnesium and dental caries. Current aspects.
3374Mag: !Mag Calcium, phosphorus and magnesium levels in the soil, grass and the body of bulls after irrigation of the soil with sewage water
3375Mag: !Mag Additive effects of glucagon and vasopressin on renal Mg reabsorption and urine concentrating ability in the rat.
3376Mag: !Mag Total nitrogen and electrolyte levels in colostrum and transition human milk.
3377Mag: !Mag Phosphatidylethanolamine methyltransferase activity in chick liver microsomes.
3378Mag: !Mag Current progress toward the prevention of the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome.
3379Mag: !Mag The use of magnesium sulfate for tocolysis in preterm labor complicated by twin gestation and betamimetic-induced pulmonary edema.
3380Mag: !Mag Ammonium urate urinary stones.
3381Mag: !Mag Uremic acidosis and intracellular buffering.
3382Mag: !Mag Methods for the estimation of serum magnesium in clinical laboratories.
3383Mag: !Mag Measurement and control of intracellular magnesium ion concentration in guinea pig and ferret ventricular myocardium.
3384Mag: !Mag Comparison of two methods for determination of magnesium concentration of mononuclear blood cells.
3385Mag: !Mag Chronic renal failure and magnesium metabolism.
3386Mag: !Mag TmMg and renal Mg threshold in normal man and in certain pathophysiologic conditions.
3387Mag: !Mag Gastrointestinal obstruction associated with multiple-dose activated charcoal.
3388Mag: !Mag Muscle magnesium content and cardiac arrhythmias during treatment of congestive heart failure due to chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy.
3389Mag: !Mag Continuing eco-pathological survey: 6. Influence of zootechnical and space-time factors on some biochemical variables in the dairy cow
3390Mag: !Mag An epidemiological and genetic study on registered diseases in Finnish Ayrshire cattle. III. Metabolic diseases.
3391Mag: !Mag Peroral glucose tolerance test. Relation to skeletal muscle electrolytes.
3392Mag: !Mag Regulation of the calcium signal by calmodulin.
3393Mag: !Mag The physics and chemistry of the calcium-binding proteins.
3394Mag: !Mag Transfer of magnesium across the perfused choroid plexus of sheep.
3395Mag: !Mag Cardiac arrhythmias in hypertensive outpatients on various diuretics. Correlation between incidence and serum potassium and magnesium levels.
3396Mag: !Mag Hematologic and biochemical changes in the blood of boars undergoing potentiated anesthesia with droperidol, fentanyl and thiopental
3397Mag: !Mag Selective actions of calcium antagonistic drugs on the haemodynamics and regional organ blood flow in rats.
3398Mag: !Mag Effect of stress on calcium homeostasis in sheep.
3399Mag: !Mag A comparison of the pharmacokinetics and diuretic effects of two loop diuretics, torasemide and furosemide, in normal volunteers.
3400Mag: !Mag Diuretic activity, safety and pharmacokinetics of torasemide during chronic treatment in normal subjects.
3401Mag: !Mag An estimate of the ion-activity product of magnesium ammonium phosphate in urine.
3402Mag: !Mag Regulated self-assembly of myosin minifilaments: the effect of Mg2+ and phosphorylation of myosin light chains
3403Mag: !Mag Plasma and erythrocyte copper, zinc, manganese and magnesium concentrations in Wilson's disease.
3404Mag: !Mag Epididymal sperm cAMP-dependent and cAMP-independent protein kinase activity and phosphorylation in the rat.
3405Mag: !Mag Plasma levels of zinc, copper, magnesium and calcium during early weeks of gestation.
3406Mag: !Mag Abnormal calcium, magnesium and zinc stores in peripheral blood cells from patients with inflammatory connective tissue disease.
3407Mag: !Mag Levels of trace elements during and after cardiopulmonary bypass operations.
3408Mag: !Mag Changed distribution of zinc and copper in body fluids in patients undergoing open-heart surgery.
3409Mag: !Mag Alteration of trace elements in plasma of patients with traumatic bone injury.
3410Mag: !Mag Concentrations of trace elements in the plasma after total hepatectomy in the rat.
3411Mag: !Mag Plasma levels of zinc, copper, magnesium and calcium in rats after partial hepatectomy.
3412Mag: !Mag Changes in the plasma levels of copper, zinc, calcium, magnesium and selenium in thioacetamide induced liver cirrhosis.
3413Mag: !Mag Concentrations of trace elements in the plasma after devascularisation of the liver in the rat.
3414Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium levels in the United States, 1971-1974.
3415Mag: !Mag S.E.M. study of urease-induced crystalluria in the presence of hydroxamic derivatives.
3416Mag: !Mag Effect of antacid on levodopa therapy.
3417Mag: !Mag Drug metaphylaxis of urolithiasis
3418Mag: !Mag Effect of the preparation Trimag on cerebral bioelectrical activity
3419Mag: !Mag A highly sensitive method for the histochemical demonstration of copper in normal rat tissues.
3420Mag: !Mag Comparison of the diuretic effects of single dose frusemide/triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide/amiloride in healthy adults.
3421Mag: !Mag Effects of spironolactone on serum and muscle electrolytes in patients on long-term diuretic therapy for congestive heart failure and/or arterial hypertension.
3422Mag: !Mag Measurement of glycinamide ribonucleotide synthetase activity in intact human fibroblasts and Chinese hamster ovary cells.
3423Mag: !Mag Fluorescence proper of phospholipase A2 and orientotoxin from the venom of the giant hornet in the presence of ionic modulators of their membrane activity
3424Mag: !Mag Disorders of divalent ions and vitamin D metabolism in chronic alcoholism.
3425Mag: !Mag Oral intake of phosphorus can determine the serum concentration of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D by determining its production rate in humans.
3426Mag: !Mag Evidence against the role of calcium deficiency in genetic hypertension.
3427Mag: !Mag Estimation of minerals and trace elements provided by beverages for the adult in France.
3428Mag: !Mag The effect of short chain fatty acid administration on hepatic glucose, phosphate, magnesium and calcium metabolism.
3429Mag: !Mag Ca++-dependent and Ca++-independent effects of Mg++ on canine right atria.
3430Mag: !Mag Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and occupational heavy metal exposure: a case-control study.
3431Mag: !Mag Pulmonary calcifications in children on dialysis.
3432Mag: !Mag Silicon metabolism. II. Renal handling in chronic renal failure patients.
3433Mag: !Mag Detection of drug-induced nephrotoxicity
3434Mag: !Mag N1-monoacetylation abolishes the inhibitory effect of spermine and spermidine in the reticulocyte lysate translation system.
3435Mag: !Mag Influence of magnesium on the absorption and excretion of calcium and oxalate ions.
3436Mag: !Mag Alkaline phosphatase of chick kidney.
3437Mag: !Mag Modulation of the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase by calmodulin, S-100 protein, parvalbumin and troponin.
3438Mag: !Mag Simultaneous action of two effectors and of acetylation on bovine kidney alkaline phosphatase
3439Mag: !Mag Prehemolytic erythrocyte deformability changes caused by trichothecene T-2 toxin: an ektacytometer study.
3440Mag: !Mag Changes in urinary composition of calcium oxalate stone formers.
3441Mag: !Mag Inhibition of esophageal carcinogenesis in corn-fed rats by riboflavin, nicotinic acid, selenium, molybdenum, zinc, and magnesium.
3442Mag: !Mag Effects of low fat diets varying in P/S ratio on nutrient intakes, fecal excretion, blood chemistry profiles, and fatty acids of adult men.
3443Mag: !Mag Viscosimetric studies of the effect of magnesium ions on DNA in the presence of H1 histone and bovine serum albumin.
3444Mag: !Mag Potassium loss, ventricular irritability, and the risk of sudden death in hypertensive patients.
3445Mag: !Mag Guidelines for rational diuretic use in the elderly.
3446Mag: !Mag Magnesium and potassium. Inter-relationships in cardiac disorders.
3447Mag: !Mag Diuretics and intracellular cations.
3448Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and diabetic retinopathy
3449Mag: !Mag Effect of an acute injection of nickel upon essential metal homeostasis in the rat. Influence of sex and pregnancy.
3450Mag: !Mag Sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium tissue levels in the rat during pregnancy.
3451Mag: !Mag Dependence between the magnesium and calcium content of the spermatozoa of rams and their motility
3452Mag: !Mag A case-control study of dietary intake of renal stone patients. II. Urine biochemistry and stone analysis.
3453Mag: !Mag The etiology of urolithiasis in Udaipur (western part of India).
3454Mag: !Mag Long-term morphological and biochemical observations in cisplatin-induced hypomagnesemia in rats.
3455Mag: !Mag Content of magnesium in drinking water and deaths from ischaemic heart disease in white South Africans.
3456Mag: !Mag Prompt termination and/or prevention of cold-pressor-stimulus-induced vasoconstriction of different vascular beds by magnesium sulfate in patients with Prinzmetal's angina.
3457Mag: !Mag Ventricular arrhythmias in acute myocardial infarction and the changes in serum magnesium levels
3458Mag: !Mag Association of DNA with the nuclear lamina in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.
3459Mag: !Mag Seminal acid phosphatase in relation to fertility.
3460Mag: !Mag Properties of an LH-stimulable adenylate cyclase in plasma membranes of interstitial cells from rat testis.
3461Mag: !Mag Urinary magnesium in response to an oral calcium load.
3462Mag: !Mag Magnesium status in patients with acute myocardial infarction: a pilot study.
3463Mag: !Mag Effects of infusion of the beta-adrenoceptor agonist terbutaline on serum magnesium in pregnant women.
3464Mag: !Mag Serum, red blood cell and whole blood magnesium in patients with uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction.
3465Mag: !Mag Rheographic indications for reduced cerebral vasoconstriction after oral magnesium medication in tetanic patients, a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
3466Mag: !Mag Nutritional status of an institutionalised elderly group in Segovia (Spain).
3467Mag: !Mag Determination of selenium and arsenic in animal tissues with platform furnace atomic absorption spectrometry and deuterium background correction.
3468Mag: !Mag Effect of metal ions on aflatoxin production by Aspergillus parasiticus.
3469Mag: !Mag Effect of antihypertensive drugs on catechol-O-methyltransferase and monoamine oxidase activity in human term placental explants.
3470Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesium in the elderly.
3471Mag: !Mag Screening of chelating agents for chemolysis.
3472Mag: !Mag Net transfer of essential metals from mother to fetus in the second half of pregnancy in the rat.
3473Mag: !Mag The influence of the rumen fermoregulator monensin, on selected parameters of the metabolism of fattening bulls
3474Mag: !Mag Muscle water and electrolytes in patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
3475Mag: !Mag Topical digestive drugs with a clay base. Influence on the absorption of cimetidine
3476Mag: !Mag Extraction and quantitative precipitation of nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles.
3477Mag: !Mag Silicon metabolism. I. Some aspects of renal silicon handling in normal man.
3478Mag: !Mag Stability of the hexagonal lattice structure formed by an R-form lipopolysaccharide of Klebsiella: study of long-range stability.
3479Mag: !Mag Stability of the hexagonal lattice structure formed by an R-form lipopolysaccharide of Klebsiella: decrease in the stability by electrodialysis and recovery by addition of the magnesium.
3480Mag: !Mag Magnesium status in children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
3481Mag: !Mag Salt-induced filamentous growth of a Salmonella strain isolated from blood.
3482Mag: !Mag Positive inotropic effect of Mg2+ in K+-depolarized isoprenaline-reactivated guinea-pig ventricular strip.
3483Mag: !Mag Blood biochemical factors in humans resistant and susceptible to formation of venous gas emboli during decompression.
3484Mag: !Mag Are magnesium determinations in postmortem material useful in the detection of hypomagnesemia and chronic alcoholism in the framework of forensic autopsies?
3485Mag: !Mag Exchanges of water and certain water-soluble minerals during passage of digesta through the stomach compartments of young ruminating bovines.
3486Mag: !Mag Biomonitoring of industrial dusts on animals. I. Bioaccumulation of dust components.
3487Mag: !Mag Site-specific activation of the alternative pathway of complement. Synthesis of a hybrid molecule consisting of antibody and cobra venom factor.
3488Mag: !Mag A reexamination of the role of magnesium in the human alternative pathway of complement.
3489Mag: !Mag Participation of neutrophils in the cytotoxic reaction against lymphatic leukemia cells in mice
3490Mag: !Mag Determining magnesium levels in food products
3491Mag: !Mag The effects of bendroflumethiazide/potassium chloride versus hydrochlorothiazide/amiloride on blood pressure and serum electrolytes in patients with mild to moderate hypertension seen in general practice.
3492Mag: !Mag Cation composition and osmolality of the hemolymph of the terrestrial crab Gecarcinus lagostoma.
3493Mag: !Mag The role of calcium, magnesium, and zinc in carcinogenesis.
3494Mag: !Mag Magnesium and octylguanidinium inhibition of monovalent cation translocation in mitochondria.
3495Mag: !Mag Indications for tocolysis. A prospective study
3496Mag: !Mag Intestinal absorption of aluminium from antacids: a comparison between hydrotalcite and algeldrate.
3497Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium chloride on various indicators of the leukocyte and erythrocyte systems and blood balance
3498Mag: !Mag Blood constituents in relation to the reproductive state in she-camel (Camelus dromedarius).
3499Mag: !Mag Effects of the impairment of renal function and of the pH of gastric secretion on the efficacy of Al(OH)3 to reduce serum inorganic phosphorus.
3500Mag: !Mag Disturbed phosphate metabolism in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
3501Mag: !Mag The deoxygenations of tosylated adenosine derivatives with Grignard reagents.
3502Mag: !Mag Comparative effects of Mg, Ca, Sr, and verapamil on the uterine longitudinal muscle of spayed and estrogen-treated rats.
3503Mag: !Mag Morphology and microanalysis of teeth in scleroderma.
3504Mag: !Mag Biochemistry of hospital nutrition. Micronutrients.
3505Mag: !Mag Therapeutic modalities for the prevention of nephrolithiasis.
3506Mag: !Mag Dissociation between the hypotensive effect of thiazides and plasma divalent cations.
3507Mag: !Mag Renal magnesium wasting disorders.
3508Mag: !Mag Renal tubular disorders associated with hypocalciuria.
3509Mag: !Mag Effect of copper on insulin release by the intact rat pancreas and the perfused rat pancreas.
3510Mag: !Mag Acute digitalis poisoning: the role of intravenous magnesium sulfate.
3511Mag: !Mag Does magnesium sulfate treat eclamptic convulsions?
3512Mag: !Mag Antacids for peptic ulcer: do we have anything better?
3513Mag: !Mag The physiology of renal magnesium handling.
3514Mag: !Mag Serum electrolyte abnormalities caused by drugs.
3515Mag: !Mag In vitro hexagonal assembly of lipopolysaccharide of Escherichia coli K-12.
3516Mag: !Mag Magnesium and potassium-sparing diuretics.
3517Mag: !Mag Renal handling of magnesium: drug and hormone interactions.
3518Mag: !Mag Unresolved questions of renal magnesium homeostasis.
3519Mag: !Mag Preparation methods for quantitative electron probe X-ray microanalysis of rat exocrine pancreas: a review.
3520Mag: !Mag Magnesium and cardiac arrhythmias: nutrient or drug?
3521Mag: !Mag Magnesium and lipids in cardiovascular disease.
3522Mag: !Mag Magnesium and bone disease.
3523Mag: !Mag Malnutrition at the cellular level in uremia: a new frontier for research.
3524Mag: !Mag Assembly and dynamics of the actin filament system in nonmuscle cells.
3525Mag: !Mag Electrolyte abnormalities and ventricular arrhythmias.
3526Mag: !Mag The effect of the dissolved oxygen concentration and anabolic limitations on the behaviour of Rhizobium ORS571 in chemostat cultures.
3527Mag: !Mag The role of ATP-magnesium in ischemia and shock.
3528Mag: !Mag Type A behavior and magnesium metabolism.
3529Mag: !Mag Magnesium, lipids and vascular diseases. Experimental evidence in animal models.
3530Mag: !Mag Biochemistry and pathophysiology of congestive heart failure: is there a role for magnesium?
3531Mag: !Mag Magnesium and potassium interrelationships in cardiac arrhythmias.
3532Mag: !Mag Magnesium and cardiac arrhythmias.
3533Mag: !Mag Systemic stress, magnesium status and cardiovascular damage.
3534Mag: !Mag Dietary aspects of the treatment of hypertension.
3535Mag: !Mag Comparison of low doses of hydrochlorothiazide plus amiloride and hydrochlorothiazide alone in hypertension in elderly patients.
3536Mag: !Mag Antihypertensive and biochemical effects of different doses of hydrochlorothiazide alone or in combination with triamterene.
3537Mag: !Mag Practical aspects of the use of photoproteins as biological calcium indicators.
3538Mag: !Mag Cardiac complications of drastic weight reduction.
3539Mag: !Mag A double-blind controlled study to compare the efficacy of an antacid plus oxethazaine with that of an antacid alone in the treatment of pain due to gastric or duodenal ulceration.
3540Mag: !Mag Etiopathogenesis of canine struvite urolithiasis.
3541Mag: !Mag Etiopathogenesis, clinical manifestations, and management of canine calcium oxalate urolithiasis.
3542Mag: !Mag Salutary effects of ATP-MgCl2 are not dependent on the presence of vanadium or the source of ATP.
3543Mag: !Mag Magnesium and cell cycle control: an update.
3544Mag: !Mag Magnesium content of the food supply in the modern-day world.
3545Mag: !Mag Investigation into the asymmetric distribution of proteins in human milk-fat-globule-membranes.
3546Mag: !Mag Effect of pH value and magnesium on the antibacterial activity of quinolone preparations
3547Mag: !Mag The mechanism of regulatory light chain dissociation from scallop myosin.
3548Mag: !Mag Effects of cations, polyamines and other aminoglycosides on gentamicin C2. Binding to ribosomes from sensitive and resistant Escherichia coli strains.
3549Mag: !Mag Kinetics of protein-nucleic acid interactions: use of salt effects to probe mechanisms of interaction.
3550Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural myocardial preservation during coronary artery surgery: a controlled, prospective, randomized study in humans.
3551Mag: !Mag Correlation of hypomagnesemia with the onset of cyclosporine-associated hypertension in marrow transplant patients.
3552Mag: !Mag Nutritional contributors to cardiovascular disease in the elderly.
3553Mag: !Mag Gastrointestinal toxicity of melos conquer mixture in rats.
3554Mag: !Mag Protection against alcohol-induced gastric mucosal injury by aluminum-containing compounds--sucralfate, antacids, and aluminum sulfate.
3555Mag: !Mag Crystalluria. Observations, interpretations, and misinterpretations.
3556Mag: !Mag Steady-state properties of calcium binding to parvalbumins from bullfrog skeletal muscle: effects of Mg2+, pH, ionic strength, and temperature.
3557Mag: !Mag Determination of calcium, magnesium, iron, copper and zinc in serum by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry
3558Mag: !Mag Microradiography and electron-microprobe analysis of some caries-like lesions of enamel prepared in vitro in human teeth.
3559Mag: !Mag Long-term antihypertensive and metabolic effects of nifedipine slow-release tablets in elderly hypertensives.
3560Mag: !Mag Clinical experiences and a review of chlormethiazole in the management of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia.
3561Mag: !Mag Potassium-sparing diuretics.
3562Mag: !Mag Thiazides and loop-diuretics therapeutic aspects.
3563Mag: !Mag Unstable behavior of magnesium-containing hydroxyapatites.
3564Mag: !Mag Pulmonary oedema during the latent period after irradiation of murine lung.
3565Mag: !Mag Vasomotor effects of magnesium: a comparison with nifedipine and verapamil of in vitro reactivity in feline cerebral and peripheral arteries.
3566Mag: !Mag A scanning electron microscope study of artificial caries lesion formation.
3567Mag: !Mag A potent, heat-stable protein inhibitor of branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase-phosphatase from bovine kidney mitochondria.
3568Mag: !Mag Normal values of various biochemical indicators in lowland black-white dairy cows from the government sector of the Gda??Coast. I. Normal values for the cow population
3569Mag: !Mag Normal values of various biochemical indicators in lowland black-white dairy cows from the government sector of the Gda??Coast. III. Changes in those indicators during feeding seasons and in consecutive months and years
3570Mag: !Mag Normal values of various biochemical indicators in lowland black-white dairy cows from the government sector of the Gda??Coast. II. Effect of basic species-specific factors
3571Mag: !Mag Exploring the function of RAS oncogenes by studying the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
3572Mag: !Mag Causes of lamb losses with special reference to listeriosis on a large-scale farm
3573Mag: !Mag Poly(ADP-ribose) and replicative DNA synthesis studied in permeable mouse thymocytes.
3574Mag: !Mag Antacid protection of gastric mucosa.
3575Mag: !Mag Center-specific variations of thyroid hormone serum levels in hemodialysis patients.
3576Mag: !Mag Does vitellogenin inhibit lipoprotein lipase in the laying hen?
3577Mag: !Mag Formation of calcium oxalate urolithiasis in experiment and its inhibition by pyridoxine and magnesium.
3578Mag: !Mag Metal-ion assisted detergent action on bacterial growth: detergent specificity and mechanism of inhibition.
3579Mag: !Mag Ionophore-induced cell shape changes in Xenopus early embryos.
3580Mag: !Mag Effects of DTT and thioredoxins on rat argininosuccinate synthetase activity in vitro
3581Mag: !Mag Influence of magnesium on norepinephrine-and histamine-induced contractions of pulmonary vascular smooth muscle.
3582Mag: !Mag Functional compartmentation of intracellular magnesium.
3583Mag: !Mag Intracellular calcium distribution in pigeon erythrocytes.
3584Mag: !Mag The gastric juice aspiration syndrome (Mendelson syndrome). Aspects of pathogenesis and treatment in the pig.
3585Mag: !Mag Detection of a metalloproteinase in patients with acute and chronic renal failure.
3586Mag: !Mag Hyperthyroidism in the elderly. II. Laboratory tests.
3587Mag: !Mag Detection and localization of silicon and associated elements in vertebrate bone tissue by imaging ion microscopy.
3588Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent and -independent tumoricidal activities of polymorphonuclear leukocytes induced by a linear beta-1,3-D-glucan and phorbol myristate acetate in mice.
3589Mag: !Mag Characterization of mediators of insulin action.
3590Mag: !Mag Effect of marathons on neuromuscular excitability; comparison of electromyographic and biochemical findings
3591Mag: !Mag Mechanism of the hypocalcemic agent WR-2721 and its acute and chronic application in eu- and hyperparathyroidism.
3592Mag: !Mag The role of calcium in leukotriene production: immune response induces cardiac myolysis.
3593Mag: !Mag Mechanisms and significance of polyamine stimulation of various protein kinase reactions.
3594Mag: !Mag Magnesium-nucleic acid conformational changes and cancer.
3595Mag: !Mag Transport ATPases in the erythrocytes of rats acclimatized to intermittent altitude hypoxia.
3596Mag: !Mag Antiarrhythmic efficiency of Craviten and changes in the activities of serum dopamine beta-hydroxylase and erythrocyte membrane ATPases.
3597Mag: !Mag Effect of zinc on neuronal activity in the rat forebrain.
3598Mag: !Mag Action of a dietary Mg2+ deficiency and overload in the male rat: measurement of certain parameters of testicular and spermatozoan activity
3599Mag: !Mag Human placental cytoplasmic 5'-nucleotidase: kinetics and molecular properties.
3600Mag: !Mag Identification of a purine 5'-nucleotidase in human erythrocytes.
3601Mag: !Mag Use of 125I-Tyr27 beta-endorphin for the study of beta-endorphin binding sites in rat cortex.
3602Mag: !Mag Crystalluria and ciprofloxacin, influence of urinary pH and hydration.
3603Mag: !Mag Probing of mRNA binding sites involved in interactions with rat liver ribosomes using poly(U) spin labeled at the ribose moiety.
3604Mag: !Mag Intracellular electrolytes in cardiac failure.
3605Mag: !Mag Indices of mineral metabolism in relation to blood pressure in a sample of a healthy population.
3606Mag: !Mag Influence of metal ions on the transport of ascorbate across membranes.
3607Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in the pathogenesis of mitral valve prolapse.
3608Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium deficiency on the pathogenesis of myocardial infarction.
3609Mag: !Mag Cyclic-AMP-dependent protein phosphorylation in the soluble fraction of parotid glands from rats with drug-induced hypothyroidism.
3610Mag: !Mag Dissolution and precipitation reactions in human tooth enamel under weak acid conditions.
3611Mag: !Mag Effect of kainic acid on synaptic transmission in the electroreceptors (ampullae of Lorenzini) of the skate
3612Mag: !Mag Calmodulin stimulation of plasmalemmal Ca2+-pump of canine aortic smooth muscle.
3613Mag: !Mag Histochemical localization of phosphatases in the pig placenta: II. Potassium-dependent and potassium-independent p-nitrophenyl phosphatases at high pH; relation to sodium-potassium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase.
3614Mag: !Mag Silica stones in humans.
3615Mag: !Mag Paired facilitation of the summated extracellular synaptic potentials of individual retino-tectal fibers in the frog
3616Mag: !Mag K+-stimulated p-nitrophenyl phosphatase is not a partial reaction of the gastric (H+ + K+)-transporting ATPase. Evidence supporting a new model for the univalent-cation-transporting ATPase systems.
3617Mag: !Mag The kinetics of bivalent metal ion dissociation from myosin subfragments.
3618Mag: !Mag Magnesium trisilicate induced fixed drug eruptions.
3619Mag: !Mag Effect of a highly dispersed zinc powder on the cAMP phosphodiesterase activity in mouse thymocytes
3620Mag: !Mag Epithelial regulation of prolactin effect on amnionic permeability.
3621Mag: !Mag 3Hleukotriene B4 binding to the guinea-pig spleen membrane preparation: a rich tissue source for a high-affinity leukotriene B4 receptor site.
3622Mag: !Mag A phosphatidylinositol kinase in rat mast cell granules.
3623Mag: !Mag PPi-dependent phosphofructotransferase (phosphofructokinase) activity in the mollicutes (mycoplasma) Acholeplasma laidlawii.
3624Mag: !Mag Kinetics of 125I-ubiquitin conjugation with and liberation from rabbit reticulocyte stroma.
3625Mag: !Mag Unique properties of the follicle-stimulating hormone- and cholera toxin-sensitive adenylyl cyclase of immature granulosa cells.
3626Mag: !Mag Acute effect of amiloride on urinary magnesium excretion in dogs.
3627Mag: !Mag Effects of dithiothreitol and thioredoxines on the in vitro activity of enzymes of the urea cycle in rats
3628Mag: !Mag On vasodilators, magnesium and second messengers.
3629Mag: !Mag Localization artefacts in ultracytochemical ion precipitation reactions.
3630Mag: !Mag Interaction of complement-solubilized immune complexes with CR1 receptors on human erythrocytes. The binding reaction.
3631Mag: !Mag Presence of an extramitochondrial anion-stimulated ATPase in the rabbit kidney: localization along the nephron and effect of corticosteroids.
3632Mag: !Mag Studies on urolithiasis. The histochemistry of the kidney tissues and stones from patients with urolithiasis
3633Mag: !Mag Interactions between clay minerals and siderophores affect the respiration of Histoplasma capsulatum.
3634Mag: !Mag Ca-ATPase and ALPase activities at the initial calcification sites of dentin and enamel in the rat incisor.
3635Mag: !Mag Spironolactone in the management of congestive cardiac failure: a review.
3636Mag: !Mag Round table: Current aspects of drug therapy in pregnancy and labor exemplified by tocolysis at the clinic and in general practice
3637Mag: !Mag Environmentally-related changes in red cell levels of ionic modulators of hemoglobin-O2 affinity in rainbow trout, Salmo gairdneri.
3638Mag: !Mag Lysosomal arylsulfatases A and B from horse blood leukocytes: purification and physico-chemical properties.
3639Mag: !Mag Blockade by D-aminophosphonovalerate or Mg2+ of excitatory amino acid-induced responses on spinal motoneurons in vitro.
3640Mag: !Mag Studies of Zn, Mg, Cu, Ca and Fe in cadmium poisoned toads before and after treatment with EDTA.
3641Mag: !Mag A comparison of the mineral composition of milk of domestic and captive wild equids (Equus przewalski, E. zebra, E. burchelli, E. caballus, E. assinus).
3642Mag: !Mag The kinetics of calcium influx into rat liver slices.
3643Mag: !Mag Ionic regulation in fish: the influence of acclimation temperature on plasma composition and apparent set points.
3644Mag: !Mag Heavy metal-induced inhibition of active transport in the rat small intestine in vitro. Interaction with other ions.
3645Mag: !Mag Harmful effects of drugs used in treating late toxicoses
3646Mag: !Mag Long-term follow-up of mitral valve prolapse and latent tetany. Preliminary data.
3647Mag: !Mag Copurification of tyrosine hydroxylase from rat pheochromocytoma by protein kinase
3648Mag: !Mag Studies on the effects of dietary beryllium at two different calcium concentrations in Achatina fulica (Pulmonata).
3649Mag: !Mag Sensitivity of a peptide-activated neuron in Aplysia to serotonin and cyclic AMP-relevant agents.
3650Mag: !Mag Problems with the use of diuretics in the treatment of hypertension.
3651Mag: !Mag Comparison of responses to transmitter candidates at an N-methylaspartate receptor mediated synapse, in slices of rat cerebral cortex.
3652Mag: !Mag A magnesium-sensitive post-synaptic potential in rat cerebral cortex resembles neuronal responses to N-methylaspartate.
3653Mag: !Mag Extracellular magnesium and contractile responses to noradrenaline in the rat tail artery.
3654Mag: !Mag Carcass minerals in chickens (Gallus domesticus) during growth.
3655Mag: !Mag Investigation of the film formation of magnesium stearate by applying a flow-through dissolution technique.
3656Mag: !Mag Preterm labor: its diagnosis and management.
3657Mag: !Mag Regulation of protein synthesis in isolated hepatocytes by calcium-mobilizing hormones.
3658Mag: !Mag Fluid and electrolyte considerations in diuretic therapy for hypertensive patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
3659Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of the F1-ATPase from Clostridium thermoaceticum.
3660Mag: !Mag Effect of Nilacid treatment in ulcer.
3661Mag: !Mag Multiple sites of divalent cation modulation of delta opioid receptor binding.
3662Mag: !Mag Influence of various ions in sporulation and the formation of delta-endotoxin in Bacillus thuringiensis cultures
3663Mag: !Mag Evidence for the existence of an inner membrane anion channel in mitochondria.
3664Mag: !Mag Aminergic studies and cerebrospinal fluid cations in suicide.
3665Mag: !Mag Influence of inorganic phosphate on glucose-induced insulin release in vitro.
3666Mag: !Mag Biosynthesis of cephamycin by resting cells of Streptomyces lactamdurans L 2/6.
3667Mag: !Mag Penetration of nalidixic acid in the cell cycle of Escherichia coli K-12.
3668Mag: !Mag Effects of tonicity on the pacemaker activity of guinea-pig sino-atrial node.
3669Mag: !Mag Changes in the ionic mechanisms of the electro-excitability of the somatic membrane of rat sensory neurons during ontogenesis. Relation between calcium channels and intracellular metabolism
3670Mag: !Mag Translation of homologous and heterologous messenger RNAs in a yeast cell-free system.
3671Mag: !Mag Comparability of the results of determining alpha-cholesterol by blood plasma lipoprotein separation using heparin-manganese and magnesium-phosphotungsten mixtures
3672Mag: !Mag Excitatory amino acids: physiological studies.
3673Mag: !Mag Plasma levels of copper, zinc and magnesium in the plasma of patients with acute infections.
3674Mag: !Mag Histochemical demonstration of copper in normal rat brain and spinal cord. Evidence of localization in glial cells.
3675Mag: !Mag Clinical considerations of biological correlates of suicide.
3676Mag: !Mag Effects of carbenoxolone sodium on gastric and duodenal mucus synthesis in mice.
3677Mag: !Mag Do porins inhibit the macrophage phagocyting activity by stimulating the adenylate cyclase?
3678Mag: !Mag Element concentrations in serum, erythrocytes, hair and urine of alopecia patients.
3679Mag: !Mag Mechanism of anion-cation selectivity of amphotericin B channels.
3680Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte cations and Na+,K+-ATPase pump activity in athletes and sedentary subjects.
3681Mag: !Mag Intracellular factors for the maintenance of calcium currents in perfused neurones from the snail, Lymnaea stagnalis.
3682Mag: !Mag Coupled transcription-translation in chloroplast lysates.
3683Mag: !Mag Properties of two types of calcium channels in clonal pituitary cells.
3684Mag: !Mag Characterization of selenium-containing tRNAGlu from Clostridium sticklandii.
3685Mag: !Mag Developments in the resuscitation of critically ill surgical patients.
3686Mag: !Mag Incorporation of calcium channels from cardiac sarcolemmal membrane vesicles into planar lipid bilayers.
3687Mag: !Mag Unexpected effects of treating hypertension in men with electrocardiographic abnormalities: a critical analysis.
3688Mag: !Mag Involvement of calcium in the regulation of serotonin N-acetyltransferase in retina.
3689Mag: !Mag Identification of an ionic strength sensitive nuclear protein kinase activity from the cervical carcinoma HeLa.
3690Mag: !Mag DNA filter retention assay for exonuclease activities. Application to the analysis of processivity of phage T5 induced 5'-exonuclease.
3691Mag: !Mag 3H Boc Nle28, 31CCK27-33, a new highly labelled ligand for CCK receptors: binding on brain and on pancreas.
3692Mag: !Mag Study of the optimal reaction conditions for assay of the mouse alternative complement pathway.
3693Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of UDP-GlcNAc:dolichyl-phosphate GlcNAc-1-phosphate transferase. Activation and inhibition of the enzyme.
3694Mag: !Mag Considerations on magnesium, a restorative of the body
3695Mag: !Mag A pH titration study on the ionic bridging within lipopolysaccharide aggregates.
3696Mag: !Mag Contribution of water to free energy of hydrolysis of pyrophosphate.
3697Mag: !Mag Cytochrome P450: substrate and prosthetic-group free radicals generated during the enzymatic cycle.
3698Mag: !Mag The arrangement of H5 molecules in extended and condensed chicken erythrocyte chromatin.
3699Mag: !Mag A comparison of ritodrine, terbutaline, and magnesium sulfate for the suppression of preterm labor.
3700Mag: !Mag Cholera toxin ADP-ribosylates the islet-activating protein substrate in adipocyte membranes and alters its function.
3701Mag: !Mag Interaction of protein kinase C with membranes is regulated by Ca2+, phorbol esters, and ATP.
3702Mag: !Mag Calmodulin plus cyclic AMP-dependent phosphorylation of a Mr 22,000 pituitary protein.
3703Mag: !Mag R 59 022, a diacylglycerol kinase inhibitor. Its effect on diacylglycerol and thrombin-induced C kinase activation in the intact platelet.
3704Mag: !Mag The properties and regulation of pantothenate kinase from rat heart.
3705Mag: !Mag Regulation of deoxyadenosine and nucleoside analog phosphorylation by human placental adenosine kinase.
3706Mag: !Mag trans-2,5-Bis-(3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl)tetrahydrofuran. An orally active specific and competitive receptor antagonist of platelet activating factor.
3707Mag: !Mag Photooxidation of porphyrin in Mg-substituted horseradish peroxidase.
3708Mag: !Mag Zn2+, not Ca2+, is the most effective cation for activation of dolichol kinase of mammalian brain.
3709Mag: !Mag Monoclonal antibodies with specific effects on partial activities of recA protein of Escherichia coli.
3710Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia, renal dysfunction, and Raynaud's phenomenon in patients treated with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin.
3711Mag: !Mag Electrolyte disturbances and cardiac failure with hypomagnesaemia in anorexia nervosa.
3712Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cation ionophore A23187 on cardiac contractile parameters.
3713Mag: !Mag Simultaneous high-performance liquid chromatographic assay of the activities of erythrocytic hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase and purine nucleoside phosphorylase.
3714Mag: !Mag Enhancement of GABA binding by the benzodiazepine partial agonist CGS9896.
3715Mag: !Mag Kainic acid responses and toxicity show pronounced Ca2+ dependence.
3716Mag: !Mag Renin, calcium metabolism and the pathophysiologic basis of antihypertensive therapy.
3717Mag: !Mag A role for inositol triphosphate in intracellular Ca2+ mobilization and granule secretion in platelets.
3718Mag: !Mag Protein synthesis in rabbit reticulocytes. A study of the mechanism of Co-eIF-2 action.
3719Mag: !Mag Catalytic properties of the HhaII restriction endonuclease.
3720Mag: !Mag Interaction of plasma gelsolin with G-actin and F-actin in the presence and absence of calcium ions.
3721Mag: !Mag Mechanistic investigations of Escherichia coli cytidine-5'-triphosphate synthetase. Detection of an intermediate by positional isotope exchange experiments.
3722Mag: !Mag Reconstitution and photolabeling of the purified (Na+ + Mg2+)-ATPase from the plasma membrane of Acholeplasma laidlawii B with phospholipids containing a photosensitive fatty acyl group.
3723Mag: !Mag Treatment of uncomplicated duodenal ulcer with an antacid-containing attapulgite. Effectiveness and tolerance in comparison with a H2 receptor antagonist
3724Mag: !Mag Enhancement of transmission at the frog neuromuscular junction by adenosine deaminase: evidence for an inhibitory role of endogenous adenosine on neuromuscular transmission.
3725Mag: !Mag Presence of membrane-associated phosphatidate phosphohydrolase activity in cultured islets and its stimulation by glucose.
3726Mag: !Mag Climbing and parallel fiber responses recorded intracellularly from Purkinje cell dendrites in guinea pig cerebellar slices.
3727Mag: !Mag Spectrofluorimetric assay of tetracycline and anhydrotetracycline in combination.
3728Mag: !Mag Rapid and selective chelatometric titration of aluminium in non-ferrous alloys.
3729Mag: !Mag Artifacts are responsible for the translational activity of polyribosome preparations isolated from alfalfa mosaic virus-infected tobacco leaves.
3730Mag: !Mag Metal ion-tetracycline interactions in biological fluids. Part 5. Formation of zinc complexes with tetracycline and some of its derivatives and assessment of their biological significance.
3731Mag: !Mag Studies on the pathogenesis of bovine ephemeral fever in sentinel cattle. II. Haematological and biochemical data.
3732Mag: !Mag Stability of procaine hydrochloride in a cardioplegic solution containing bicarbonate.
3733Mag: !Mag Can oligomeric myosin participate in smooth muscle contraction?
3734Mag: !Mag Synergistic inhibition of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase by aspartate and 2-oxoglutarate in Brevibacterium flavum.
3735Mag: !Mag The association of a magnesium-dependent endonuclease activity with a nucleosome fraction from rat-liver nuclei.
3736Mag: !Mag Effects of Young's solution (YNG solution) on cardiac function and mitochondrial function during one hour ischemia at 30 degrees C and after reperfusion
3737Mag: !Mag Topical acidification promotes healing of experimental deep partial thickness skin burns: a randomized double-blind preliminary study.
3738Mag: !Mag Effects of calcitonin on elemental distribution and ultrastructure of rat submandibular gland acinar cells.
3739Mag: !Mag Studies on the pathogenesis of cisplatin-induced hypomagnesemia in rats.
3740Mag: !Mag Influence of antacids on the gastric antisecretory activity of the synthetic prostanoid (8R,11R,12S,15R,5Z,13E)-15-(acetyloxy)- 11,16,16-trimethyl-9-oxoprosta-5,13-dien-1-oic acid in dogs.
3741Mag: !Mag Intersegmental coordination of the leech swimming rhythm. II. Comparison of long and short chains of ganglia.
3742Mag: !Mag Neuropsychiatric aspects of trace elements.
3743Mag: !Mag Plasma magnesium during epidural anaesthesia. A study in patients undergoing transurethral prostatectomy.
3744Mag: !Mag Effect of chronic alcohol intake on muscle composition and metabolic balance of calcium and phosphate in rats.
3745Mag: !Mag Effect of zinc and other cations on the release of the eosinophil cationic protein.
3746Mag: !Mag Activation of human blood platelets by arginine-vasopressin. Role of bivalent cations.
3747Mag: !Mag A 31P NMR study of the epididymis and epididymal sperm of the bull and hamster.
3748Mag: !Mag Prophylactic hypomagnesemia during cisplatin therapy.
3749Mag: !Mag Recent developments in the etiology and treatment of hypertension: dietary calcium, fat, and magnesium.
3750Mag: !Mag Terminal magnesium cardioplegia: protective effect in the isolated rat heart model using calcium accentuated ischemic damage.
3751Mag: !Mag Mineral metabolism of rats fed moderate levels of various aluminum compounds for short periods of time.
3752Mag: !Mag Influence of magnesium deficiency on liver collagen after carbon tetrachloride or ethanol administration to rats.
3753Mag: !Mag Vitamin/mineral supplement use: a telephone survey of adults in the United States.
3754Mag: !Mag Unidirectional sliding of myosin filaments along the bundle of F-actin filaments spontaneously formed during superprecipitation.
3755Mag: !Mag Maintenance of D-alanine ester substitution of lipoteichoic acid by reesterification in Staphylococcus aureus.
3756Mag: !Mag Adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-dependent protein kinase associated with the cytoskeleton of adrenal tumor cells.
3757Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium(II) and magnesium(II) on nickel(II) uptake and stimulation of thymidine incorporation into DNA in the lungs of strain A mice.
3758Mag: !Mag In vitro phosphorylation and the identification of multiple protein changes in membranes of Chinese hamster lung cells resistant to adriamycin.
3759Mag: !Mag Gastrointestinal transit times of cathartics combined with charcoal.
3760Mag: !Mag Relationship of diuretic therapy and serum magnesium levels among participants in the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial.
3761Mag: !Mag Percutaneous removal of kidney stones: review of 1,000 cases.
3762Mag: !Mag Partial purification and properties of human brain aldehyde dehydrogenases.
3763Mag: !Mag Protein phosphorylation in monkey brain basal ganglia: Ca2+/Mg2+-independent phosphorylation of a 45 kilodalton protein.
3764Mag: !Mag Bacteriological study of renal calculi.
3765Mag: !Mag Calcium transport mechanisms in dog red blood cells studied from measurements of initial flux rates.
3766Mag: !Mag Effect of heavy exercise on mineral metabolism and calcium regulating hormones in humans.
3767Mag: !Mag Inhibition of DNA polymerase alpha from leukemic and normal human cells by partially thiolated human deoxyribonucleic acids.
3768Mag: !Mag Defective responsiveness of adenylate cyclase to forskolin in the Drosophila memory mutant rutabaga.
3769Mag: !Mag Non-covalently bound C3 enhances lysis of rabbit erythrocytes through the alternative pathway.
3770Mag: !Mag Calcium transport in membrane vesicles of Bacillus subtilis.
3771Mag: !Mag Role of the dianionic form of the GTP gamma-phosphate in the polymerization process of tubulin.
3772Mag: !Mag Further studies on the subcellular distribution of Cd2+ in Cd-sensitive and Cd-resistant strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
3773Mag: !Mag Method of enzymatic determination of pyrroloquinoline quinone.
3774Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of heat-stable proteases from Bacillus stearothermophilus RM-67.
3775Mag: !Mag On the insulin effect on the magnesium homeostasis.
3776Mag: !Mag An epilogue to jejunoileal bypass.
3777Mag: !Mag Urinary stones.
3778Mag: !Mag Thermodynamic analysis of calcium binding to frog parvalbumin.
3779Mag: !Mag Silver ion-induced tension development and membrane depolarization in frog skeletal muscle fibres.
3780Mag: !Mag The effect of Arg-Gly-Asp-containing peptides on fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor binding to platelets.
3781Mag: !Mag Effect of the composition of the reversion medium on the transformation of coccal forms and L-form of Staphylococcus aureus lysostaphin protoplasts
3782Mag: !Mag Electron probe microanalysis of radiopaque material in giant tubules in a human incisor.
3783Mag: !Mag Silicon metabolism: the basic facts in renal failure.
3784Mag: !Mag Availability of fluoride added to various brands of alimentary salt used in Southern and Central America.
3785Mag: !Mag Human monocyte-endothelial cell interaction in vitro.
3786Mag: !Mag Transition-state stabilization in the mechanism of tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase revealed by protein engineering.
3787Mag: !Mag Evidence for an early calcium-independent event in the activation of the human natural killer cell cytolytic mechanism.
3788Mag: !Mag Electron microprobe analyses of Ca, S, Mg and P distribution in incisors of Spacelab-3 rats.
3789Mag: !Mag Interrelationship of some selected nutritional parameters relevant to taste for salt in a group of college-aged women.
3790Mag: !Mag Effects of pregnancy and labor on oxytocin levels in human plasma and cerebrospinal fluid.
3791Mag: !Mag The substrate specificity, tissue specificity and regulation of the 5' deiodination systems in rat liver and kidney tissues.
3792Mag: !Mag Activation of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatases by monovalent cations and its relationship with a fructose-2,6-bisphosphate allosteric site.
3793Mag: !Mag Calcium, metals and nervous system in the elderly.
3794Mag: !Mag Activity changes of three nucleolytic enzymes during the life cycle of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
3795Mag: !Mag Heavy water inhibition of alkali cation transport across the muscle membrane. II. A comparison of the action of D20 and ouabain on the sodium efflux and rubidium influx in magnesium media
3796Mag: !Mag Citrate effects on the Ca2+-loading capacity of isolated rat liver mitochondria: interaction of citrate and ATP.
3797Mag: !Mag In vitro synthesis of infectious poliovirus RNA.
3798Mag: !Mag Forskolin potentiation of cholera toxin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in intact C6-2B cells. Evidence for enhanced Gs-C coupling.
3799Mag: !Mag NADPH and "cocktails" containing polyarginine reactivate superoxide generation in leukocytes lysed by membrane-damaging agents.
3800Mag: !Mag Binding of bovine thyrotropin to specific sites in thyroid tissue from control and hemithyroidectomized rats.
3801Mag: !Mag Efficient synthesis and secretion of a thermophilic alpha-amylase by protein-producing Bacillus brevis 47 carrying the Bacillus stearothermophilus amylase gene.
3802Mag: !Mag Effects of prolonged inhalation of silica and olivine dusts on immune functions in the mouse.
3803Mag: !Mag Liberation of hydrogen from gastric acid following administration of oral magnesium.
3804Mag: !Mag Inhibitors of crystal growth of hydroxyapatite: a constant composition approach.
3805Mag: !Mag A comparative study of the change in ATPase activity of proteolytic fragments of myosin in relation to the presence of DTNB light chains.
3806Mag: !Mag The treatment of leucopenia with inspissated granula of Epimedium sagittatum and its effects on serum Zn, Cu and Mg
3807Mag: !Mag Ca2+-binding properties of a unique ATPase inhibitor protein isolated from mitochondria of bovine heart and rat skeletal muscle.
3808Mag: !Mag Regulation of anterior pituitary D2 dopamine receptors by magnesium and sodium ions.
3809Mag: !Mag Activation of transglutaminase at calcium levels consistent with a role for this enzyme as a calcium receptor protein.
3810Mag: !Mag Magnesium ions and oxytocin sensitivity of the male mouse anococcygeus.
3811Mag: !Mag Bethanechol versus antiacids in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux.
3812Mag: !Mag Action of excitatory amino acids and their antagonists on hippocampal neurons.
3813Mag: !Mag 3HWB4101 labels the 5-HT 1A serotonin receptor subtype in rat brain. Guanine nucleotide and divalent cation sensitivity.
3814Mag: !Mag Prolonged neuromuscular blockade with vecuronium in a patient treated with magnesium sulfate.
3815Mag: !Mag Induced release of gamma-aminobutyric acid by a carrier-mediated, high-affinity uptake of L-glutamate in cultured chick retina cells.
3816Mag: !Mag Kainic acid differentially affects the synaptosomal release of endogenous and exogenous amino acidic neurotransmitters.
3817Mag: !Mag The significance of calcium and calcium channel blockade in essential hypertension.
3818Mag: !Mag Morphological alterations and changes in cellular cations induced by Clostridium perfringens type A enterotoxin in tissue culture cells.
3819Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of orotate phosphoribosyltransferases from Escherichia coli K-12, and its derivative purine-sensitive mutant.
3820Mag: !Mag Ca2+ transport by mammalian mitochondria and its role in hormone action.
3821Mag: !Mag Characterization of the AIDS-associated retrovirus reverse transcriptase and optimal conditions for its detection in virions.
3822Mag: !Mag Serum calcium metabolism in acute experimental pancreatitis.
3823Mag: !Mag A murine cytotoxic T lymphocyte clone from the intestinal mucosa that is antigen specific for proliferation and displays broadly reactive inducible cytotoxic activity.
3824Mag: !Mag Hydrotalcite in the prevention of postoperative acido-peptic complications
3825Mag: !Mag Extraction of mitochondrial membrane proteins into organic solvents in a functional state.
3826Mag: !Mag Thymine glycols and urea residues in M13 DNA constitute replicative blocks in vitro.
3827Mag: !Mag Effect of ethanol on troponin calcium binding.
3828Mag: !Mag Phosphatase activity of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase. Ligand interactions and related enzyme forms.
3829Mag: !Mag Refined structure of alkaline phosphatase from Escherichia coli at 2.8 A resolution.
3830Mag: !Mag Nuclear Overhauser effect studies of the conformations and binding site environments of deoxynucleoside triphosphate substrates bound to DNA polymerase I and its large fragment.
3831Mag: !Mag Inhibition of (Na+,K+)-ATPase by dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. Evidence for two carboxyl groups that are essential for enzymatic activity.
3832Mag: !Mag NMR studies of chromomycin A3 interaction with DNA.
3833Mag: !Mag Measurement of cation diffusion in magnesium oxide by determining the Mg 18O buildup produced by an electric field.
3834Mag: !Mag Effects of temperature on actin polymerized by Ca2+. Direct evidence of fragmentation.
3835Mag: !Mag The interconversion of diacylglycerol and phosphatidylcholine during triacylglycerol production in microsomal preparations of developing cotyledons of safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.).
3836Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of aerobic and anoxic forms of pyruvate kinase from the hepatopancreas of the channelled whelk, Busycotypus canaliculatum.
3837Mag: !Mag Magnesium homeostasis following chemotherapy with cisplatin: a prospective study.
3838Mag: !Mag Pertussis toxin substrate is a guanosine 5'-beta-thiodiphosphate-, N-ethylmaleimide-, Mg2+- and temperature-sensitive GTP-binding protein.
3839Mag: !Mag Activation of permeabilized platelets by inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate.
3840Mag: !Mag The effect of chelating agents on the elemental composition of sarcoplasmic reticulum: the reactivity of SH groups with N-(1-pyrene)maleimide.
3841Mag: !Mag A multicomponent mitochondrial RNA polymerase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
3842Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate and ritodrine hydrochloride: systemic and uterine hemodynamic effects.
3843Mag: !Mag Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase from rat liver. A comparison of the kinetics of the unphosphorylated enzyme and the enzyme phosphorylated by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase.
3844Mag: !Mag 7Li, 31P, and 1H NMR studies of interactions between ATP, monovalent cations, and divalent cation sites on rabbit muscle pyruvate kinase.
3845Mag: !Mag The interaction of phosphorothioate analogues of ATP with phosphomevalonate kinase. Kinetic and 31P NMR studies.
3846Mag: !Mag Ruthenium red-insensitive Ca2+ uptake and release by mitochondria.
3847Mag: !Mag Acid DNAase activity from Dictyostelium discoideum.
3848Mag: !Mag Polyamines stimulate DNA-dependent RNA synthesis catalyzed by vaccinia virus.
3849Mag: !Mag Effect of streptomycin on the stoichiometry of GTP hydrolysis in a poly(U)-dependent cell-free translation system.
3850Mag: !Mag A restriction endonuclease SuaI from the thermoacidophilic archaebacterium Sulfolobus acidocaldarius.
3851Mag: !Mag A selective N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist depresses epileptiform activity in rat hippocampal slices.
3852Mag: !Mag Self-catalyzed cyclization of the intervening sequence RNA of Tetrahymena: inhibition by methidiumpropyl.EDTA and localization of the major dye binding sites.
3853Mag: !Mag Differential effects of magnesium on tubulin-nucleotide interactions.
3854Mag: !Mag An investigation of the SH1-SH2 and SH1-ATPase distances in myosin subfragment-1 by resonance energy transfer using nanosecond fluorimetry.
3855Mag: !Mag Therapy of the hypertensive crisis
3856Mag: !Mag Essential light chain exchange in scallop myosin.
3857Mag: !Mag Photoaffinity labeling of the cap-binding protein complex with ATP/dATP. Differential labeling of free eukaryotic initiation factor 4A and the eukaryotic initiation factor 4A component of the cap-binding protein complex with alpha-32PATP/dATP.
3858Mag: !Mag Swelling and contraction of the mitochondrial matrix. II. Quantitative application of the light scattering technique to solute transport across the inner membrane.
3859Mag: !Mag Adenosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate dependent protein kinase: fluorescent affinity labeling of the catalytic subunit from bovine skeletal muscle with o-phthalaldehyde.
3860Mag: !Mag Cyclosporine augments receptor-mediated cellular Ca2+ fluxes in isolated hepatocytes.
3861Mag: !Mag On the sequence determinants and flexibility of the kinetoplast DNA fragment with abnormal gel electrophoretic mobilities.
3862Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation and inactivation of yeast fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase from yeast.
3863Mag: !Mag Des-1-25-fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase, a nonallosteric derivative produced by trypsin treatment of the native protein.
3864Mag: !Mag Extracellular ATP perturbs transmembrane ion fluxes, elevates cytosolic Ca2+, and inhibits phagocytosis in mouse macrophages.
3865Mag: !Mag Demonstration of an Mg2+-induced conformational change by photoaffinity labelling of the high-affinity ATP-binding site of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase with 8-azido-ATP.
3866Mag: !Mag Control of Photosynthetic Sucrose Synthesis by Fructose 2,6-Bisphosphate : V. Modulation of the Spinach Leaf Cytosolic Fructose 1,6-Bisphosphatase Activity in Vitro by Substrate, Products, pH, Magnesium, Fructose 2,6-Bisphosphate, Adenosine Monophosphate, and Dihydroxyacetone Phosphate.
3867Mag: !Mag Perfluorochemicals (FDA-20%, fluosol), available as cardioplegic solution
3868Mag: !Mag Changes in serum and urinary magnesium in head injury patients
3869Mag: !Mag The evaluation of antacid value of magnesium-aluminium trisilicate dihydrate tablets.
3870Mag: !Mag Bioluminescent assay of NADPH-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase and its substrates and cofactors.
3871Mag: !Mag Zinc concentrations and total amount of zinc in seminal plasma of infertile men with special reference to prostatic secretory function
3872Mag: !Mag Dissolution of infectious concretions by irrigation of the hollow system of the kidney
3873Mag: !Mag Ultrastructure and chemical composition of calcite urinary calculi in Chinese swamp buffalo.
3874Mag: !Mag Characterization of miniature inhibitory post-synaptic potentials in rat spinal motoneurones.
3875Mag: !Mag Effect of dose of bovine growth hormone on milk composition: alpha-lactalbumin, fatty acids, and mineral elements.
3876Mag: !Mag Absorption of magnesium and other macrominerals in sheep infused with potassium in different parts of the digestive tract.
3877Mag: !Mag Deranged Ca, Al and Mg content in the tissues of patients with chronic renal failure, as measured by non-destructive neutron activation analysis.
3878Mag: !Mag Serum lipoproteins during treatment with the antihypertensive agent indapamide.
3879Mag: !Mag Comparative study of the effects of two tocolytic agents (magnesium sulfate and alcohol) on the ionic transfer through the isolated human amnion.
3880Mag: !Mag Relationship of aluminum to Alzheimer's disease.
3881Mag: !Mag Methods of assigning accurate values to reference serum. Part 2. The use of definitive methods, reference laboratories, transferred values and consensus values.
3882Mag: !Mag Low serum magnesium concentration in Paget's disease of bone (osteitis deformans).
3883Mag: !Mag X-ray powder diffraction and microscopic analysis of crystalluria in dogs with ethylene glycol poisoning.
3884Mag: !Mag Switch hair as an indicator of magnesium and copper status of beef cows.
3885Mag: !Mag Pregnancy-associated nonspecific immunosuppression: mechanism for the activation of the immunosuppressive factors.
3886Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary fat level on laying hens fed various concentrations of calcium.
3887Mag: !Mag Bile acid synthesis in rat liver peroxisomes: metabolism of 26-hydroxycholesterol to 3 beta-hydroxy-5-cholenoic acid.
3888Mag: !Mag Role of extracellular Ca2+ in toxic liver injury: comparative studies with the perfused rat liver and isolated hepatocytes.
3889Mag: !Mag Agonist interactions with cardiac muscarinic receptors. Effects of Mg2+, guanine nucleotides, and monovalent cations.
3890Mag: !Mag Graphic display of urinary risk factors for renal stone formation.
3891Mag: !Mag Fortified mothers' milk for very low birth weight infants: results of macromineral balance studies.
3892Mag: !Mag In vivo and in vitro evaluation of magnesium-aluminum hydroxide antacid tablets and liquid.
3893Mag: !Mag Enhanced distal absorption of potassium by magnesium-deficient rats.
3894Mag: !Mag Preferential DNA-protein cross-linking by NiCl2 in magnesium-insoluble regions of fractionated Chinese hamster ovary cell chromatin.
3895Mag: !Mag Exaggerated natriuretic and calciuric responses to hydrochlorothiazide in renal hypercalciuria but not in absorptive hypercalciuria.
3896Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on active and passive sodium transport in the human ileum.
3897Mag: !Mag Pyruvate dehydrogenase activity in cardiac mitochondria from genetically diabetic mice.
3898Mag: !Mag Standard dried nutrient medium for determining microorganism sensitivity to antibiotics
3899Mag: !Mag New synthesis of fluorine-18-labeled 6-fluoro-L-dopa by cleaving the carbon-silicon bond with fluorine.
3900Mag: !Mag Diacylglycerols and mezerein activate neutrophils by a phorbol myristate acetate-like mechanism.
3901Mag: !Mag Measurement of quantal secretion induced by ouabain and its correlation with depletion of synaptic vesicles.
3902Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia in hospitalized patients receiving nutritional support.
3903Mag: !Mag Development of a high-affinity GABA uptake system in embryonic amphibian spinal neurons.
3904Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalytic method for measurement of dry matter and elemental content of individual bacteria.
3905Mag: !Mag Duodenal ulcer healing with four antacid tablets daily.
3906Mag: !Mag Foreign body granulomas in normal ovaries.
3907Mag: !Mag Diffusible sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium and phosphorus in frog skeletal muscle.
3908Mag: !Mag The effects of ADP and phosphate on the contraction of muscle fibers.
3909Mag: !Mag Action of polyvalent cations on sodium transport across skin of larval and adult Rana catesbeiana.
3910Mag: !Mag The effect of potassium and magnesium infusion on plasma Mg concentration and Mg balance in ewes.
3911Mag: !Mag Cap-dependent RNA splicing in a HeLa nuclear extract.
3912Mag: !Mag Cryobaroenzymic studies as a tool for investigating activated complexes: creatine kinase.ADP.Mg.nitrate.creatine as a model.
3913Mag: !Mag Use of intravenous terbutaline to facilitate uterine repositioning.
3914Mag: !Mag A controlled study of the effects of thyrotoxicosis and propranolol treatment on mineral metabolism and parathyroid hormone immunoreactivity.
3915Mag: !Mag Low serum concentrations of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in human magnesium deficiency.
3916Mag: !Mag Plasma concentrations of magnesium in infants with acute diarrhea, dehydration and acidosis
3917Mag: !Mag Effect of praziquantel on the Ca2+, Mg2+, K+ and Na+ content and distribution of 45Ca2+ in male Schistosoma japonicum
3918Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium stearate in preparation of eudragit RS-microcapsules containing drugs
3919Mag: !Mag Acute aluminium phosphide poisoning.
3920Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium levels in schizophrenia.
3921Mag: !Mag Effect of cadmium on essential metals in blood in male and female rats
3922Mag: !Mag A preliminary study on serum magnesium levels in patients seen at the Kenyatta National Hospital, Nairobi.
3923Mag: !Mag Effect of cations on hydrolysis of fructose 1:6 bisphosphate in bull seminal plasma.
3924Mag: !Mag Some properties of fructose 1:6 bisphosphatase activity of buffalo seminal plasma.
3925Mag: !Mag Fiber diet and antacids in the short-term treatment of duodenal ulcer.
3926Mag: !Mag Diagnosis and treatment of primary aldosteronism and isolated hypoaldosteronism.
3927Mag: !Mag Nucleoside phosphotransferase in animal tissues. Tissue distribution and kinetic properties.
3928Mag: !Mag Evidence for the ordered release of rubidium ions occluded within the Na,K-ATPase of mammalian kidney.
3929Mag: !Mag Dependence on Ca2+ of the activities of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate phosphodiesterase and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate phosphatase in smooth muscles of the porcine coronary artery.
3930Mag: !Mag Kinetics of thermoinactivation of kidney Na+-,K+-ATPase
3931Mag: !Mag A defined system for the DNA strand-transfer reaction at the initiation of bacteriophage Mu transposition: protein and DNA substrate requirements.
3932Mag: !Mag Identification and regulation of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in rabbit ileal mucosa.
3933Mag: !Mag Solubilization of a thromboxane A2/prostaglandin H2 antagonist binding site from human platelets.
3934Mag: !Mag Evidence that intracellular magnesium is present in cells at a regulatory concentration for protein synthesis.
3935Mag: !Mag Transcription of vaccinia virus early genes by a template-dependent soluble extract of purified virions.
3936Mag: !Mag A role for adenylate cyclase in the subsensitivity to isoproterenol during ontogenesis of the embryonic chick ventricle.
3937Mag: !Mag Inhibition of parathyroid hormone secretion and parathyroid hormone-independent diminution of tubular calcium reabsorption by WR-2721, a unique hypocalcemic agent.
3938Mag: !Mag Comparative stability and catalytic and chemical properties of the sulfate-activating enzymes from Penicillium chrysogenum (mesophile) and Penicillium duponti (thermophile).
3939Mag: !Mag Formation and decay of the vanadate complex of the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium transport protein.
3940Mag: !Mag Phorbol ester-induced adhesion (binding) among human mononuclear leukocytes requires extracellular Mg++ and is sensitive to protein kinase C, lipoxygenase, and ATPase inhibitors.
3941Mag: !Mag In vivo and in vitro effects of doxycycline on leucocyte membrane receptors.
3942Mag: !Mag Problems in the differential diagnosis of Kartagener's syndrome and ATP-ase deficiency.
3943Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in the rat increases tissue levels of docosahexaenoic acid.
3944Mag: !Mag Stimulating action of viadryl on the frog neuromuscular synapse
3945Mag: !Mag Hyperglycaemia: imitating Claude Bernard's piqure with drugs.
3946Mag: !Mag Alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in the human cell line, HT29. Characterization with the full agonist radioligand 3HUK-14,304 and inhibition of adenylate cyclase.
3947Mag: !Mag Heavy water inhibition of the transport of alkaline cations across the muscle membrane. I. A comparison of different types of sodium transfer
3948Mag: !Mag Epinephrine infusion decreases magnesium plasma concentration in humans.
3949Mag: !Mag Drug-induced torsade de pointes.
3950Mag: !Mag Apurinic and apyrimidinic DNA endonuclease of extremely thermophilic Thermothrix thiopara.
3951Mag: !Mag Essential ions for maintenance of the corneal epithelial surface.
3952Mag: !Mag Exogenous ATP enhances calcium influx in intact thymocytes.
3953Mag: !Mag Spasmophilia
3954Mag: !Mag Activation of rat liver cytosolic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase kinase by adenosine 5'-monophosphate.
3955Mag: !Mag The effect of ferric iron complex on isolated rat liver mitochondria. II. Ion movements.
3956Mag: !Mag Some properties of adenylate cyclase which might be important for memory formation.
3957Mag: !Mag Lactate reduction in Clostridium propionicum. Purification and properties of lactyl-CoA dehydratase.
3958Mag: !Mag Effects of Ca2+ on the conformation and enzymatic activity of smooth muscle myosin.
3959Mag: !Mag The role of tightly bound ADP on chloroplast ATPase.
3960Mag: !Mag Ketamine and phencyclidine cause a voltage-dependent block of responses to L-aspartic acid.
3961Mag: !Mag H2 histaminic receptors in rat cerebral cortex. 1. Binding of 3Hhistamine.
3962Mag: !Mag Antibodies to Z DNA stabilized with polyarginine.
3963Mag: !Mag Stimulated release of endogenous GABA and glycine from the goldfish retina.
3964Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte morphology in women with severe preeclampsia and eclampsia. Preliminary observations with scanning electron microscopy.
3965Mag: !Mag 31P-nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of the intracellular pH in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum.
3966Mag: !Mag Characterization of the Ca2+ coordination site regulating binding of Ca2+ channel inhibitors d-cis-diltiazem, (+/-)bepridil and (-)desmethoxyverapamil to their receptor site in skeletal muscle transverse tubule membranes.
3967Mag: !Mag Comparative kinetic studies on the two interconvertible forms of Streptococcus faecalis inorganic pyrophosphatase.
3968Mag: !Mag Relationships between Ca2+ release, Ca2+ cycling, and Ca2+-mediated permeability changes in mitochondria.
3969Mag: !Mag Adriamycin and cisplatin for hepatoblastoma.
3970Mag: !Mag Effects of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol on testosterone production in vitro: influence of Ca++, Mg++ or glucose.
3971Mag: !Mag Nutritional parameters in urban and rural Zulus.
3972Mag: !Mag Treatment of type I primary hyperoxaluria.
3973Mag: !Mag A model for intracellular translocation of protein kinase C involving synergism between Ca2+ and phorbol esters.
3974Mag: !Mag Magnesium content of feed and the formation of urinary calculi in fattening calves
3975Mag: !Mag pH studies on the chemical mechanism of rabbit muscle pyruvate kinase. 2. Physiological substrates and phosphoenol-alpha-ketobutyrate.
3976Mag: !Mag 3HYohimbine binding to human platelet membranes: evidence for high and low affinity binding sites with negative cooperativity.
3977Mag: !Mag Effect of spectrin dimer on actin polymerization.
3978Mag: !Mag Opposing effects of oxytocin and of a mu-receptor agonistic opioid peptide on the same class of non-pyramidal neurones in rat hippocampus.
3979Mag: !Mag DNA packaging of bacteriophage T4 proheads in vitro. Evidence that prohead expansion is not coupled to DNA packaging.
3980Mag: !Mag Cyclic nucleotide-independent protein kinase from rat liver. Purification and characterization of a multifunctional protein kinase.
3981Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent metal ions and pH upon the binding reactivity of human serum amyloid P component, a C-reactive protein homologue, for zymosan. Preferential reactivity in the presence of copper and acidic pH.
3982Mag: !Mag The interaction of human platelet thrombospondin with fibrinogen. Thrombospondin purification and specificity of interaction.
3983Mag: !Mag Severe hypocalcemia and increased creatine kinase activity.
3984Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a smooth muscle myosin phosphatase from turkey gizzards.
3985Mag: !Mag Adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate kinase from Penicillium chrysogenum. Determining ligand dissociation constants of binary and ternary complexes from the kinetics of enzyme inactivation.
3986Mag: !Mag Regulation of the Pi-ATP exchange and hydrolytic reactions in F0-F1 reconstituted liposomes.
3987Mag: !Mag A fluorescence study of thermally induced conformational changes in yeast hexokinase.
3988Mag: !Mag A model for the tertiary structure of p21, the product of the ras oncogene.
3989Mag: !Mag Structure of the GDP domain of EF-Tu and location of the amino acids homologous to ras oncogene proteins.
3990Mag: !Mag Inhibition of smooth muscle 5'-nucleotidase by imidazole and its reversal by magnesium.
3991Mag: !Mag Ionic effects on the structure of nucleoprotein cores from adenovirus.
3992Mag: !Mag Facteurs influen?t le profil m?nologie des vaches laitieres.
3993Mag: !Mag Isolation and Characterization of a Halophilic Methanogen from Great Salt Lake.
3994Mag: !Mag Magnesium status of dairy cows.
3995Mag: !Mag Food intake before and after gastroplasty for morbid obesity.
3996Mag: !Mag Articular chondrocalcinosis and hypomagnesemia of renal origin. Apropos of 2 cases
3997Mag: !Mag Action of hydrochloric acid on aluminum hydroxide-magnesium hydroxide gels and magaldrate: 27Al NMR and pH-stat studies.
3998Mag: !Mag A streamlined method of subfragment one preparation from myosin.
3999Mag: !Mag Variations in the mineral concentrations in breast milk during a single nursing, diurnally and on consecutive days.
4000Mag: !Mag Fluid therapy trials in neonatal piglets infected with transmissible gastroenteritis virus.
4001Mag: !Mag Influence of age, dietary cholic acid, and calcium levels on performance, utilization of free fatty acids, and bone mineralization in broilers.
4002Mag: !Mag Effect of cocoa on excretion of oxalate, citrate, magnesium and calcium in the urine of children
4003Mag: !Mag Studies of the human testis. XX--Effect of NADH on 17 alpha-hydroxypregnene C17-20 lyase activity.
4004Mag: !Mag Death in leopard geckos (Eublepharis macularius) following ingestion of vermiculite.
4005Mag: !Mag Comparative effectiveness of topical treatments for hydrofluoric acid burns.
4006Mag: !Mag Skeletal and blood biochemical characteristics of sheep during growth and breeding: a comparison of flocks with and without broken mouth.
4007Mag: !Mag Nutrient utilization in lambs fed diets high in sodium or potassium.
4008Mag: !Mag Experimental T-2 toxicosis in swine. II. Effect of intravascular T-2 toxin on serum enzymes and biochemistry, blood coagulation, and hematology.
4009Mag: !Mag Regulation of the rate of proximal and distal reabsorption after intratubular injection of cobalt ions
4010Mag: !Mag Organic magnesium salts in the treatment of premenstrual tension
4011Mag: !Mag Comparison of urinary oxalate excretion in urolithiasis patients with and without hypercalciuria.
4012Mag: !Mag Stromal protein phosphorylation in spinach (Spinacia oleracea) chloroplasts.
4013Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary supplementation with ethoxyquin, magnesium oxide, methionine hydroxy analog, and B vitamins on tansy ragwort (Senecio jacobaea) toxicosis in beef cattle.
4014Mag: !Mag Somatomedin synthesis by a subclone of Buffalo rat liver cells. Influence of divalent cations on rIGF-II release.
4015Mag: !Mag Mineral seal oil excreted in urine--a case report.
4016Mag: !Mag Method for determining the lung burden of talc in rats and mice after inhalation exposure to talc aerosols.
4017Mag: !Mag Effects of pregnancy and magnesium sulfate infusion on blood pressure and plasma catecholamines.
4018Mag: !Mag Magnesium and potassium therapy in multifocal atrial tachycardia.
4019Mag: !Mag The magnesium mavens. Much ado about something.
4020Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalysis of psoriatic skin.
4021Mag: !Mag Cluster analysis to improve food classification within commodity groups.
4022Mag: !Mag Mechanism of ethanol inhibition of fermentation in Zymomonas mobilis CP4.
4023Mag: !Mag The effect of maternal diabetes on trace element status and fetal development in the rat.
4024Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalysis of mineralized matrix vesicles of experimental saccular aneurysms.
4025Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of mitotic factors from HeLa cells.
4026Mag: !Mag Peroxidase-coupled method for kinetic colorimetry of total creatine kinase activity in serum.
4027Mag: !Mag Cisplatin in recurrent pediatric brain tumors. A POG Phase II study. A Pediatric Oncology Group Study.
4028Mag: !Mag Gentamicin and hypokalemia.
4029Mag: !Mag Enzymatic regulation of glycoprotein synthesis in peripheral nervous system myelin.
4030Mag: !Mag Hypercalcemia in rats bearing growth hormone- and prolactin-secreting transplantable pituitary tumors.
4031Mag: !Mag Effects of aluminum on bovine parathyroid adenylate cyclase.
4032Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium ions in the septum and nucleus accumbens of the rabbit are antagonistic to acupuncture analgesia and morphine analgesia
4033Mag: !Mag A culture medium for cultivation of mycobacteria, probably Mycobacterium leprae from Mycobacterium leprae infected tissues.
4034Mag: !Mag Calcium and neurulation in mammalian embryos.
4035Mag: !Mag Effect of Ca2+ ions on plasmid transformation of Streptococcus lactis protoplasts.
4036Mag: !Mag Metabolic relationship between arachidonate activation and its transfer to lysophospholipids by brain microsomes.
4037Mag: !Mag Fluorescence polarization study on Ca2+-sensitivity of conformational changes in F-actin induced by the formation of F-actin-subfragment-1 complex.
4038Mag: !Mag The calcium dependence of insulin degradation by rat skeletal muscle.
4039Mag: !Mag Cerestore
4040Mag: !Mag Magnesia ceramic jacket crowns.
4041Mag: !Mag Tetany and rickets in the neonatal period (2)
4042Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia in the insulin hypoglycemia test
4043Mag: !Mag Cystic calculi in two horses.
4044Mag: !Mag A new look at the hypertension problem: the role of the renin system for analysis and treatment.
4045Mag: !Mag Synthesis of messenger-like RNA in avian erythrocyte nuclei.
4046Mag: !Mag Interactions between thylakoid electron transfer complexes. I. In vitro kinetic studies with isolated photosystem II and cytochrome b6-f complexes.
4047Mag: !Mag Phase 1 study of carboplatin in patients with advanced cancer, intermittent intravenous bolus, and 24-hour infusion.
4048Mag: !Mag Content of red blood-cell sialic acid in BW 35 blood donors. Relation to magnesium concentration and pyruvate kinase activity.
4049Mag: !Mag Serial serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and mineral homeostasis in very premature infants fed preterm human milk.
4050Mag: !Mag ZOE cements: phase identification by thermal analysis.
4051Mag: !Mag Electron probe study of coronal dentin in red deer.
4052Mag: !Mag Magnesium in 1985
4053Mag: !Mag Calcium and phosphorus metabolism in insulin dependent and non-insulin dependent diabetics, well-controlled and poorly-controlled
4054Mag: !Mag The effect of immobilization on ultrastructural changes in the myocardium of rats on a low-magnesium diet.
4055Mag: !Mag Effect of immobilization on histological and histochemical changes in the myocardium of rats on a low-magnesium diet.
4056Mag: !Mag Preliminary report on the use of magnesium sulfate in cases of severe pre-eclampsia and eclampsia.
4057Mag: !Mag Pituitary binding of vasopressin is altered by experimental manipulations of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis in normal as well as homozygous (di/di) Brattleboro rats.
4058Mag: !Mag The effect of dinitrophenol on magnesium transport across an isolated preparation of sheep rumen epithelium.
4059Mag: !Mag Functional units in rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) liver: I. Arrangement and histochemical properties of hepatocytes.
4060Mag: !Mag Differentiation between amine transport and beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated binding in cultured mammalian cells.
4061Mag: !Mag Phosphatidate and monooleylphosphatidate inhibition of fibroblast adenylate cyclase is mediated by the inhibitory coupling protein, Ni.
4062Mag: !Mag Phospholipid methyltransferase activity in pancreatic islets: activation by calcium.
4063Mag: !Mag Identification of two populations of cardiac microsomes with nitrendipine receptors: correlation of the distribution of dihydropyridine receptors with organelle specific markers.
4064Mag: !Mag Nephrolithiasis in childhood inflammatory bowel disease.
4065Mag: !Mag Synaptic plasticity in the molluscan peripheral nervous system: physiology and role for peptides.
4066Mag: !Mag Kinetic analysis of F-actin depolymerization in the presence of platelet gelsolin and gelsolin-actin complexes.
4067Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of a new phosphoprotein kinase from cells infected with pseudorabies virus.
4068Mag: !Mag Synthesis of pyrophosphate by chromatophores of Rhodospirillum rubrum in the light and by soluble yeast inorganic pyrophosphatase in water-organic solvent mixtures.
4069Mag: !Mag Evidence that beta-endorphin binds to specific receptors in rat peripheral tissues and stimulates the adenylate cyclase-adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate system.
4070Mag: !Mag Lack of effects of copper gluconate supplementation.
4071Mag: !Mag Organic anions stabilize the reactivated motility of sperm flagella and the latency of dynein 1 ATPase activity.
4072Mag: !Mag Influence of the granulation technique and starting material properties on the lubricating effect of granular magnesium stearate.
4073Mag: !Mag Excitatory transmitter release induced by high concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in crayfish neuromuscular junctions.
4074Mag: !Mag Ketamine acts as a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist on frog spinal cord in vitro.
4075Mag: !Mag Sudden unexpected death in patients with congestive heart failure: a second frontier.
4076Mag: !Mag Increase in Mg2+ affinity as a possible mechanism of chymotryptic activation of adenylate cyclase in rat heart membranes.
4077Mag: !Mag Effect of gramicidin A and thallium ions on cation effluxes in frog sartorius muscle.
4078Mag: !Mag Ion transport across plasma membrane in primary hypertension.
4079Mag: !Mag Peritubular uptake and brush border transport of 28Mg by flounder renal tubules.
4080Mag: !Mag The Ca channel in skeletal muscle is a large pore.
4081Mag: !Mag Alterations of ultrastructure and elemental composition in cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes after metabolic inhibition with iodoacetic acid.
4082Mag: !Mag Association of rapidly-labelled RNAs with actin in nuclear matrix from mouse L5178Y cells.
4083Mag: !Mag Accuracy and precipitation efficiency of improved precipitation methods for quantifying high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol.
4084Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency syndrome in a patient with surgical hypothyroidism with normal blood magnesium
4085Mag: !Mag Investigation and treatment of renal calculi.
4086Mag: !Mag Stimulation and inhibition of rat basophilic leukemia cell adenylate cyclase by forskolin.
4087Mag: !Mag The influence of caldesmon on ATPase activity of the skeletal muscle actomyosin and bundling of actin filaments.
4088Mag: !Mag Magnesium permeability of sarcoplasmic reticulum. Mg2+ is not countertransported during ATP-dependent Ca2+ uptake by sarcoplasmic reticulum.
4089Mag: !Mag The effects of anoxia on cytosolic free calcium, calcium fluxes, and cellular ATP levels in cultured kidney cells.
4090Mag: !Mag Fusion of bacterial spheroplasts by electric fields.
4091Mag: !Mag The pairing activity of stable nucleoprotein filaments made from recA protein, single-stranded DNA, and adenosine 5'-(gamma-thio)triphosphate.
4092Mag: !Mag Crystallization of the Ca2+-ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum by calcium and lanthanide ions.
4093Mag: !Mag Stoichiometric and electrostatic characterization of calcium binding to native and lipid-substituted adenosinetriphosphatase of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
4094Mag: !Mag Incorporation and translocation of aminophospholipids in human erythrocytes.
4095Mag: !Mag 1H nuclear magnetic resonance studies of the conformation and environment of nucleotides bound to pig heart NADP+-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase.
4096Mag: !Mag Common structural framework of the two Ca2+/Mg2+ binding loops of troponin C and other Ca2+ binding proteins.
4097Mag: !Mag Cross-linking of actin to myosin subfragment 1 in the presence of nucleotides.
4098Mag: !Mag Synergistic interaction of 4-aminopyridine with neostigmine at the neuromuscular junction.
4099Mag: !Mag Cloning, expression, and purification of gene 3 endonuclease from bacteriophage T7.
4100Mag: !Mag Mechanism of allosteric regulation of the Ca,Mg-ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum: studies with 5'-adenylyl methylenediphosphate.
4101Mag: !Mag Effects of guanine nucleotides and cations on agonist affinity of alpha 1-adrenoceptors in brown adipose tissue.
4102Mag: !Mag The nucleotide binding site of F1-ATPase which carries out uni-site catalysis is one of the alternating active sites of the enzyme.
4103Mag: !Mag Adverse effects of aluminium-magnesium antacids
4104Mag: !Mag Intermediates in homologous pairing promoted by recA protein. Isolation and characterization of active presynaptic complexes.
4105Mag: !Mag Stabilising action of carnitine on energy linked processes in rat liver mitochondria.
4106Mag: !Mag Oxidation of reduced pyridine nucleotides by plasma membranes of soybean hypocotyl.
4107Mag: !Mag Colorimetric measurement of serum magnesium with an IL micro centrifugal analyzer.
4108Mag: !Mag Intracellular demonstration of an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor mediated component of synaptic transmission in the rat hippocampus.
4109Mag: !Mag Unusual RNA polymerase content of Trypanosoma brucei nuclei.
4110Mag: !Mag Mechanism of interferon action. Purification and substrate specificities of the double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase from untreated and interferon-treated mouse fibroblasts.
4111Mag: !Mag Experimental evidence for the contractile activities of Acanthamoeba myosins IA and IB.
4112Mag: !Mag Action of magnesium sulfate on platelet prostacyclin interaction and prostacyclin of blood vessels.
4113Mag: !Mag Phosphorylated intermediate of (Ca2+ + K+)-stimulated Mg2+-dependent transport ATPase in endoplasmic reticulum from rat pancreatic acinar cells.
4114Mag: !Mag Effect of ATP on phosphofructokinase-2 from Escherichia coli. A mutant enzyme altered in the allosteric site for MgATP.
4115Mag: !Mag Coated vesicles contain a phosphatidylinositol kinase.
4116Mag: !Mag Inadvertant intrathecal administration of magnesium sulfate.
4117Mag: !Mag Heavy metal and trace element concentrations in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy
4118Mag: !Mag Interaction of troponin and tropomyosin: spectroscopic and calorimetric studies.
4119Mag: !Mag Evidence of the cytoprotective action of antacids. Behavior of the transmural stomach electric potential difference with antacids in healthy subjects and stomach ulcer patients
4120Mag: !Mag A novel brain ATPase with properties expected for the fast axonal transport motor.
4121Mag: !Mag The separation and identification of enolase isozymes of brain and sciatic nerve by high-pressure liquid anion-exchange chromatography.
4122Mag: !Mag Magnesium-dependent conformational changes of membrane proteins are related to the Mg2+-dependent ATPase activity in cardiac sarcolemma.
4123Mag: !Mag Dephosphorylation of the deinhibitor protein by the PCSH protein phosphatase.
4124Mag: !Mag Investigation of the preferred Mg(II)-adenine-nucleotide complex at the active site of ectonucleotidases in intact vascular cells using phosphorothioate analogues of ADP and ATP.
4125Mag: !Mag Adenosine kinase from bovine adrenal medulla.
4126Mag: !Mag Blood chemical parameters in shot Cape Mountain Zebra Equus zebra zebra.
4127Mag: !Mag Feeding of very-low-birth-weight infants with breast-milk enriched by energy, nitrogen and minerals: FM85.
4128Mag: !Mag Age-related characteristics of calcium and magnesium levels in the myocardium of growing rats after pharmacologic sympathectomy
4129Mag: !Mag Effects of exogenous catecholamines and exercise on plasma magnesium concentrations.
4130Mag: !Mag Effect of temperature on the concentration of Ca2+, Mg2+, Na+ and K+ in the hemolymph and urine of Procambarus clarkii, Girard
4131Mag: !Mag Determination of potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium in dialysis solution for artificial kidneys by capillary isotachophoresis.
4132Mag: !Mag Dietary fat and blood pressure: an intervention study on the effects of a low-fat diet with two levels of polyunsaturated fat.
4133Mag: !Mag Measurement of copper, zinc and magnesium in serum and urine by DC plasma emission spectrometry.
4134Mag: !Mag Magnesium excretion in recurrent calcium urolithiasis
4135Mag: !Mag Isolation of rosette-like structures from partially deproteinized chromatin in rat hepatocytes
4136Mag: !Mag Two classes of arginine vasopressin binding sites on rat brain membranes.
4137Mag: !Mag Successful human pregnancy following in vitro fertilization using frozen semen.
4138Mag: !Mag Effect of transdermal scopolamine on salivation.
4139Mag: !Mag Activation of palmitic acid by human spermatozoa.
4140Mag: !Mag Effect of antacids on salicylate kinetics.
4141Mag: !Mag Montmorillonite as a drug carrier: the release of papaverine from the complex with veegum
4142Mag: !Mag Gastric mucosal protection during confinement stress: the role of intragastric glucose.
4143Mag: !Mag The acylation of sn-glycerol 3-phosphate and the metabolism of phosphatidate in microsomal preparations from the developing cotyledons of safflower (Carthamus tinctorius L.) seed.
4144Mag: !Mag Circulating immunoreactive parathyroid hormone levels in premature infants and the response to calcium therapy.
4145Mag: !Mag Oxygen deprivation-induced injury to isolated rabbit kidney tubules.
4146Mag: !Mag The effects of oral iron supplementation on zinc and magnesium levels during pregnancy.
4147Mag: !Mag Renal and hepatic concentrations of platinum: relationship to cisplatin time, dose, and nephrotoxicity.
4148Mag: !Mag Effect of parenteral magnesium sulfate on penicillin-induced seizure foci in anesthetized cats.
4149Mag: !Mag Postnatal changes in calcium-regulating hormones in very-low-birth-weight infants. Effect of early neonatal hypocalcemia and intravenous calcium infusion on serum parathyroid hormone and calcitonin homeostasis.
4150Mag: !Mag Sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, zinc, citrate and chloride content of human prostatic and seminal fluid.
4151Mag: !Mag Mineral balance during nutritional supplementation in adolescents with Crohn disease and growth failure.
4152Mag: !Mag Symptomatic hypomagnesemia in cystic fibrosis.
4153Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of brush border membrane vesicles from bovine small intestine.
4154Mag: !Mag Exercise-induced hypercalcemia and the calciotropic hormones.
4155Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on production of toxic-shock-syndrome toxin-1 by Staphylococcus aureus.
4156Mag: !Mag Energy and nutrient values from different computerized data bases.
4157Mag: !Mag Effect of changes in the osmolarity of the growth medium on Vibrio cholerae cells.
4158Mag: !Mag Use of sintered magnesium borate thermoluminescent dosimeters for low dose measurements.
4159Mag: !Mag NIH report on research challenges in nutrition and hypertension.
4160Mag: !Mag Mg2+ determined with a commercial kit and the Technicon RA 1000 analyzer.
4161Mag: !Mag Magnesium depletion as a cause of refractory potassium repletion.
4162Mag: !Mag Magnesium toxicity as a cause of hypotension and hypoventilation. Occurrence in patients with normal renal function.
4163Mag: !Mag Non-dialytic therapy of acute renal failure: a review.
4164Mag: !Mag Stone-containing pyelocaliceal diverticulum: a case report
4165Mag: !Mag Magnesium absorption from the rumen of heifers.
4166Mag: !Mag Magnesium absorption from the temporarily isolated rumen of sheep. The effect of water absorption and osmotic pressure.
4167Mag: !Mag Survival of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Y5 during starvation in the presence of osmotic supports.
4168Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of a polymannuronic acid depolymerase produced by a mucoid strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolated from a patient with cystic fibrosis.
4169Mag: !Mag Optical studies of excitation-contraction coupling in the early embryonic chick heart.
4170Mag: !Mag Hg2+-induced contracture in mechanically skinned fibers of frog skeletal muscle.
4171Mag: !Mag The effect of feeds treated with ionizing irradiation on biochemical indicators of the nutritional value of energy nutrients
4172Mag: !Mag Plasma therapy of primary rat mammary carcinoma: dependence of consumption of C3 during absorption of plasma with sepharose derivatives on the anticoagulant.
4173Mag: !Mag Magnesium. Mineral--trace element--therapeutic substance? A review
4174Mag: !Mag Relationship of carbohydrate intolerance to serum lipoprotein profiles in childhood. The Bogalusa Heart Study.
4175Mag: !Mag Studies on the serum DNA polymerase in leukemic patients
4176Mag: !Mag Hypertension: salt isn't the only culprit.
4177Mag: !Mag Specific binding of 3Hheparin to bovine granulosa cell membranes.
4178Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesaemic influence of bovine parathormone in Bufo andersonii Laurenti.
4179Mag: !Mag Effects of the calcium antagonists perhexiline and cinnarizine on vascular and cardiac contractile protein function.
4180Mag: !Mag Productive phage infection in Escherichia coli with reduced internal levels of the major cations.
4181Mag: !Mag Effects of alpha-human atrial natriuretic peptide in essential hypertension.
4182Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural localization of calcium-activated adenosine triphosphatase (Ca2+-ATPase) in growth-plate cartilage.
4183Mag: !Mag Mode of inhibitory action of Zn2+, Hg2+ and UO2(2+) on 5'-nucleotidase of mouse hepatic microsomes.
4184Mag: !Mag Ouabain binding and the conformational change in Na+, K+ -ATPase
4185Mag: !Mag Polyphosphoinositide metabolism in aging human erythrocytes.
4186Mag: !Mag Changes in vitamin D metabolites and bone histology in rats during recovery from rickets.
4187Mag: !Mag Effects of enalapril in heart failure: a double blind study of effects on exercise performance, renal function, hormones, and metabolic state.
4188Mag: !Mag Response of serum 1,25(OH)2D3 to variation of ionized calcium during chronic acidosis.
4189Mag: !Mag Influence of luminal pH on rat large bowel epithelial cell cycle.
4190Mag: !Mag Ionic inhibition of formation of RecA nucleoprotein networks blocks homologous pairing.
4191Mag: !Mag Effects of various dietary staples on esophageal carcinogenesis induced in rats by subcutaneously administered N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine.
4192Mag: !Mag Existence of sites for anions and divalent cations in the solubilized gamma-aminobutyric acid/benzodiazepine receptor complex.
4193Mag: !Mag Streptococcal phosphoenolpyruvate: sugar phosphotransferase system: purification and characterization of a phosphoprotein phosphatase which hydrolyzes the phosphoryl bond in seryl-phosphorylated histidine-containing protein.
4194Mag: !Mag Insulin-like growth factor receptor in fetal lamb liver: characterization and developmental changes.
4195Mag: !Mag Polyphloretin phosphate, an antagonist of thyrotropin action: evidence for an interaction with the hormone rather than the receptor.
4196Mag: !Mag Comparative evaluation of cardiotropic effects of nicamag, panangin and asparkam
4197Mag: !Mag Phencyclidine increases the affinity of dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist binding in rat brain.
4198Mag: !Mag Ecto-nucleotide triphosphatase activity of human lymphocytes: studies of normal and CLL lymphocytes.
4199Mag: !Mag Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide-sensitive ATPase in Halobacterium saccharovorum.
4200Mag: !Mag Beta-mimetics in obstetrics
4201Mag: !Mag Adherence of Moraxella bovis to cell cultures of bovine origin.
4202Mag: !Mag Changes in erythrocytes in malignant neoplasms
4203Mag: !Mag Aspiration of gastric contents.
4204Mag: !Mag Inhibitory action of taurine on motoneuron of frog spinal cord.
4205Mag: !Mag Muscle cell growth and the distribution of water and electrolyte in human pregnancy.
4206Mag: !Mag Sinoatrial automaticity and transmembrane potentials in hamsters on a magnesium-deficient diet.
4207Mag: !Mag Painful muscle spasm reversed by magnesium sulphate. A case report.
4208Mag: !Mag A new method for chemical analysis of faeces.
4209Mag: !Mag Translational modulation in vitro of a eukaryotic viral mRNA encoding overlapping genes: ribosome scanning and potential roles of conformational changes in the P/C mRNA of Sendai virus.
4210Mag: !Mag Protease-activated protein kinase in rat liver plasma membrane.
4211Mag: !Mag Comparison of antacid, sucralfate, cimetidine, and ranitidine in protection of the gastric mucosa against ethanol injury.
4212Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of Salmonella typhimurium acetolactate synthase isozyme II from Escherichia coli HB101/pDU9.
4213Mag: !Mag Efficient solubilization and partial purification of sea urchin histone genes as chromatin.
4214Mag: !Mag Differential effects of cations and guanyl nucleotides on agonist and antagonist binding to rat adrenal and uterine angiotensin II receptors.
4215Mag: !Mag Spontaneous electrical activity induced by herpes virus infection in rat sensory neuron cultures.
4216Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of smooth muscle myosin at two distinct sites by myosin light chain kinase.
4217Mag: !Mag Reactivities of thiols in myosin rod: effect of magnesium and ionic strength.
4218Mag: !Mag Effects of cation binding on the thermal transitions in calmodulin.
4219Mag: !Mag The phospholipid-N-methyltransferase of rat brain microsomes.
4220Mag: !Mag Complete co-purification of choline kinase and ethanolamine kinase from rat kidney and immunological evidence for both kinase activities residing on the same enzyme protein(s) in rat tissues.
4221Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate in magnesium deficiency
4222Mag: !Mag 2',3'-Dialdehyde of GTP blocks regulatory functions of adenylate cyclase NS protein.
4223Mag: !Mag Activation of a cellular tyrosine-specific protein kinase by phosphorylation.
4224Mag: !Mag Optical thin layers of MgF2 produced by decomposition of organic magnesium-fluoro compounds.
4225Mag: !Mag Chloroplast biogenesis: quantitative determination of monovinyl and divinyl Mg-protoporphyrins and protochlorophyll(ides) by spectrofluorometry.
4226Mag: !Mag Ca2+-dependent inhibition of smooth muscle adenylate cyclase activity.
4227Mag: !Mag Structural characterization and the determination of negative cooperativity in the tight binding of 2-carboxyarabinitol bisphosphate to higher plant ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase.
4228Mag: !Mag Effect of bivalent cations on rat liver cytosol casein (glycogen synthase) kinases 1 and 2. Influence of the protein substrate.
4229Mag: !Mag The inhibitor of liver plasma membrane (Ca2+-Mg2+)-ATPase. Purification and identification as a mediator of glucagon action.
4230Mag: !Mag Identification and partial characterization of bovine heart cytosolic phosphorylase phosphatases.
4231Mag: !Mag Characterization of insulin-like growth factor I-stimulated tyrosine kinase activity associated with the beta-subunit of type I insulin-like growth factor receptors of rat liver cells.
4232Mag: !Mag Site-specific mutagenesis of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase. Evidence that carbamate formation at Lys 191 is required for catalytic activity.
4233Mag: !Mag Ca2+ in biological systems.
4234Mag: !Mag Direct measurements of forces between phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine bilayers in aqueous electrolyte solutions.
4235Mag: !Mag Synthetic abilities of Euglena chloroplasts in darkness.
4236Mag: !Mag Morphine increases the activity of midbrain dopamine neurons in vitro.
4237Mag: !Mag Methanogenesis and the K+ transport system are activated by divalent cations in ammonia-treated cells of Methanospirillum hungatei.
4238Mag: !Mag An intracellular (ATP + Mg2+)-dependent calcium pump within the N1E-115 neuronal cell line.
4239Mag: !Mag Side effects of antacids
4240Mag: !Mag Iridium in sea-water.
4241Mag: !Mag Thermodynamics of formation of magnesium, calcium, strontium and barium complexes with 2,2'-bipyridyl and 1,10-phenanthroline, at different ionic strengths in aqueous solution.
4242Mag: !Mag Alterations in trace element and plasma amino-acid profile in experimental gram-negative septicaemia.
4243Mag: !Mag Muscle water and electrolytes in relation to nutritional status in gastric carcinoma.
4244Mag: !Mag Effects of Chemical Speciation on the Mineralization of Organic Compounds by Microorganisms.
4245Mag: !Mag Electron correlations in atomic valence shells: Magnesium and aluminum.
4246Mag: !Mag The mononuclear cell magnesium content in patients with chronic glomerulonephritis and on regular hemodialysis treatment
4247Mag: !Mag Formation of the staghorn calculi
4248Mag: !Mag Post-injection phlegmons
4249Mag: !Mag Factors influencing cadmium uptake and cytotoxicity in cultured cells.
4250Mag: !Mag Effect of enkephalins on metabolic indices in experimental myocardial infarct in rats
4251Mag: !Mag Isolation and cell culture of the epithelial cells of cauda epididymidis of the bull.
4252Mag: !Mag Determination of total calcium, zinc, manganese, iron, magnesium and phosphorus in animal feeds and plant material using inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry.
4253Mag: !Mag A study of serum and cerebrospinal fluid magnesium in convulsive disorders.
4254Mag: !Mag NAD-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase from bovine heart. Interaction with Ca2+ chelators.
4255Mag: !Mag Kidney function of single comb white Leghorn pullets following acute renal portal infusion of the mycotoxin citrinin.
4256Mag: !Mag Significance of the measurement of serum substrates in children
4257Mag: !Mag Hyaluronic acid-complement interactions--II. Role of divalent cations and gelatin.
4258Mag: !Mag Solubility of calcium and zinc in model solutions based on bovine and human milks.
4259Mag: !Mag The specific phosphorylation of a 40S ribosomal protein in growth-arrested tetrahymena is induced by sodium.
4260Mag: !Mag Calmodulin-dependent protein kinase in acini from lactating rat mammary tissue: subcellular locale, characterization, and solubilization.
4261Mag: !Mag Voluntary dehydration and electrolyte losses during prolonged exercise in the heat.
4262Mag: !Mag Effects of deficient and adequate dietary magnesium concentrations on body magnesium concentrations in wethers.
4263Mag: !Mag Mineral-metabolic side effects of low-dose antacids.
4264Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary calcium on metabolic balance of normal infants.
4265Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium oxide on trichlormethiazide bioavailability.
4266Mag: !Mag Allopurinol treatment of renal calcium stone disease.
4267Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent cations on the limited proteolysis of prothrombin by thrombin.
4268Mag: !Mag Renal function in sea snakes. II. Sodium, potassium, and magnesium excretion.
4269Mag: !Mag Thyroid hormones increase renal brush border membrane transport of phosphate in X-linked hypophosphatemic (Hyp) mice.
4270Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium and magnesium salts on nickel subsulfide carcinogenicity in Fischer rats.
4271Mag: !Mag Metabolic complications and deficiencies of parenteral nutrition.
4272Mag: !Mag Cyclosporine-induced nephrotoxicity in patients with autoimmune uveitis.
4273Mag: !Mag Preservation of arachidonoyl phospholipids during tissue processing for electron microscopic autoradiography.
4274Mag: !Mag Size and surface charge properties of myelin vesicles from normal and diseased (multiple sclerosis) brain.
4275Mag: !Mag The effect of potassium, calcium and magnesium concentration on insulin and glucagon secretion of the perfused dog pancreas.
4276Mag: !Mag Interactions of some naturally occurring cations with phenylalanine and initiator tRNA from yeast as reflected by their thermal stability.
4277Mag: !Mag Destruction of the outer membrane permeability barrier of Escherichia coli by heat treatment.
4278Mag: !Mag Management of ascites.
4279Mag: !Mag The biochemical profile in Indian patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes in the young with retinopathy.
4280Mag: !Mag Hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism. New associations.
4281Mag: !Mag Effects of adenosine triphosphate-magnesium chloride (ATP-MgCl2) on shocked red blood cells
4282Mag: !Mag Resolution of the competitive inhibitory effects of lithium and AMPPNP on the beat frequency of ATP-reactivated, demembranated, sea urchin sperm flagella.
4283Mag: !Mag Voltage dependence of membrane charge movement and calcium release in frog skeletal muscle fibres.
4284Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of galactocerebroside sulfotransferase from rat kidney.
4285Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of a novel ferricyanide-linked xanthine dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas putida 40.
4286Mag: !Mag Ammonium repression of cephalosporin production by Streptomyces clavuligerus.
4287Mag: !Mag Evidence for alteration of the vitamin D-endocrine system in blacks.
4288Mag: !Mag Bone modulating factors in nephrotic children with normal glomerular filtration rate.
4289Mag: !Mag Fibrosing peritonitis in a drug abuser.
4290Mag: !Mag Specific 3Hneurotensin binding to rat spinal cord membranes.
4291Mag: !Mag Studies of phosphorylation in rat mast cells (sixth report). Cyclic AMP-dependent protein phosphorylation in rat mast cell granule membranes
4292Mag: !Mag Nonsynaptic characteristics of neurotransmission mediated by egg-laying hormone in the abdominal ganglion of Aplysia.
4293Mag: !Mag Calculated solubility of chrysotile asbestos in physiological systems.
4294Mag: !Mag A structural basis for S1 nuclease sensitivity of double-stranded DNA.
4295Mag: !Mag Solubilization of a high affinity CA-ATPase from dog antrum smooth muscle.
4296Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural study of mineral fiber uptake by hepatocytes in vitro.
4297Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate and beta-mimetic dual-agent tocolysis in preterm labor after single-agent failure.
4298Mag: !Mag The kinetics of dihydrostreptomycin uptake in Pseudomonas putida membrane vesicles: absence of inhibition by cations.
4299Mag: !Mag Protection of the hypertrophied human heart by adjusting regional myocardial temperature to a safe level.
4300Mag: !Mag Transmembrane sodium and potassium gradients modulate histamine secretion induced by ionophore A23187.
4301Mag: !Mag Uncoupler-stimulated release of Ca2+ from Ehrlich ascites tumor cell mitochondria.
4302Mag: !Mag Evidence for peroxisomal hydroxylase activity in rat liver.
4303Mag: !Mag Selective effects of gold (III) on parathyroid hormone-, prostaglandin E2- and guanine nucleotide-sensitive adenylate cyclase.
4304Mag: !Mag Dual effects of acetaldehyde on electrical activity in the isolated frog spinal cord.
4305Mag: !Mag Mg2+ efflux is accomplished by an amiloride-sensitive Na+/Mg2+ antiport.
4306Mag: !Mag Formation of N tau-ribosylhistidine, a novel histidine derivative found in the urine in histidinemia, from histidine and NAD(P)+ catalyzed by an NAD(P)+ glycohydrolase system.
4307Mag: !Mag NMR studies of ion binding to Escherichia coli tRNAPhe.
4308Mag: !Mag Kinetics of DNA renaturation catalyzed by the RecA protein of Escherichia coli.
4309Mag: !Mag Tight divalent metal binding to Escherichia coli F1-adenosinetriphosphatase. Complete substitution of intrinsic magnesium by manganese or cobalt and studies of metal binding sites.
4310Mag: !Mag Analysis of the mechanism of histamine release induced by substance-P.
4311Mag: !Mag Influence of the extracellular ionic environment on ganglionic fast excitatory postsynaptic currents.
4312Mag: !Mag Lack of effect of oral magnesium on high blood pressure: a double blind study.
4313Mag: !Mag Bovine mitochondrial ribosomes. Elongation factor specificity.
4314Mag: !Mag Sialylation of glycoprotein oligosaccharides with N-acetyl-, N-glycolyl-, and N-O-diacetylneuraminic acids.
4315Mag: !Mag Interconversion of androgen receptor forms by divalent cations and 8 S androgen receptor-promoting factor. Effects of Zn2+, Cd2+, Ca2+, and Mg2+.
4316Mag: !Mag Euglena gracilis chloroplast elongation factor Tu. Interaction with guanine nucleotides and aminoacyl-tRNA.
4317Mag: !Mag Condensation of the chromatin gel by cations.
4318Mag: !Mag Ribosome-associated cyclic nucleotide-independent protein kinase of Artemia salina cryptobiotic gastrulae.
4319Mag: !Mag Nutrient insulin secretagogues decrease 45Ca2+ efflux from islet cells by a mechanism other than the inhibition of the Na+-Ca2+ countertransport.
4320Mag: !Mag Antacids--gel or tablet. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study
4321Mag: !Mag Clinical evaluation of a '3-in-1' intravenous nutrient solution.
4322Mag: !Mag Differences in G-actin containing bound ATP or ADP: the Mg2+-induced conformational change requires ATP.
4323Mag: !Mag Multistage unfolding of wheat germ ribosomal 5S RNA analyzed by differential scanning calorimetry.
4324Mag: !Mag Arsenic toxicosis and suspected chromium toxicosis in a herd of cattle.
4325Mag: !Mag Regulation of the human-erythrocyte hexose-monophosphate shunt under conditions of oxidative stress. A study using NMR spectroscopy, a kinetic isotope effect, a reconstituted system and computer simulation.
4326Mag: !Mag Identification of the calmodulin-binding components in bovine lens plasma membranes.
4327Mag: !Mag The role of the phosphate group for the structure of phosphopeptide products of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate-dependent protein kinase.
4328Mag: !Mag Inhibition of membrane-bound chloroplast coupling factor 1 by a dephosphorylated derivative of dialdehyde ADP.
4329Mag: !Mag ABC of nutrition. Diet and hypertension.
4330Mag: !Mag The effect of di- and trivalent cations on the phosphorylation of the Ca2+-ATPase in sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.
4331Mag: !Mag Repetitive strain injury (RSI) and magnesium and fluoride intake.
4332Mag: !Mag Formation of unesterified choline by rat brain.
4333Mag: !Mag Neurotensin depolarizes substantia nigra dopamine neurones.
4334Mag: !Mag ABC of nutrition. Reducing the risk of coronary heart disease.
4335Mag: !Mag Active calcium sequestration by intestinal microsomes. Stimulation by increased calcium load.
4336Mag: !Mag Proton exchange and base-pair kinetics of poly(rA).poly(rU) and poly(rI).poly(rC).
4337Mag: !Mag Distribution of a fatty acid spin probe in sarcoplasmic reticulum. Evidence of membrane asymmetry.
4338Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a protein-tyrosine kinase encoded by the Abelson murine leukemia virus.
4339Mag: !Mag Isolation of a phosphomonoesterase from human platelets that specifically hydrolyzes the 5-phosphate of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate.
4340Mag: !Mag Regulation of glucagon receptor binding. Lack of effect of Mg and preferential role for GDP.
4341Mag: !Mag Novel ATP-dependent calcium transport component from rat liver plasma membranes. The transporter and the previously reported (Ca2+-Mg2+)-ATPase are different proteins.
4342Mag: !Mag Purification of the calmodulin-sensitive adenylate cyclase from bovine cerebral cortex.
4343Mag: !Mag Interaction of DNA polymerase I of Escherichia coli with nucleotides. Antagonistic effects of single-stranded polynucleotide homopolymers.
4344Mag: !Mag Electron-impact excitation of ions in the magnesium sequence: Fe XV.
4345Mag: !Mag Studies on urinary calcium ion activity in urolithiasis, 2. The relationship to calcium oxalate crystal formation and the effects of magnesium and citrate
4346Mag: !Mag Monovalent and divalent cations in hypertension.
4347Mag: !Mag Attenuation of aspirin analgesia by calcium loading in healthy subjects.
4348Mag: !Mag Renal excretion of magnesium in a freshwater teleost, Salmo gairdneri.
4349Mag: !Mag Vitamin B12 absorption in the neonatal piglet. 3. Influence of vitamin B12-binding protein from sows' milk on uptake of vitamin B12 by microvillus membrane vesicles prepared from small intestine of the piglet.
4350Mag: !Mag Effect of dietotherapy on the magnesium content of the blood serum of ischemic heart disease patients
4351Mag: !Mag Element analysis of sclerotic plaques of large blood vessels by laser mass-spectrometry
4352Mag: !Mag Myocardial protection utilizing calcium containing and calcium free perfusates.
4353Mag: !Mag In vitro biopharmaceutical test for wetting rate.
4354Mag: !Mag Pathophysiology and clinical aspects of pre-eclampsia
4355Mag: !Mag Considerations on the pathogenesis of mitral valve prolapse.
4356Mag: !Mag Correction of intracellular metabolism in acute pneumonia in young children
4357Mag: !Mag The pathogenetic spectrum of Bartter's syndrome.
4358Mag: !Mag Complexation of the fungal metabolite tenuazonic acid with copper (II), iron (III), nickel (II), and magnesium (II) ions.
4359Mag: !Mag Gastrointestinal transit times of cathartics used with activated charcoal.
4360Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency psychosis induced by cancer chemotherapy.
4361Mag: !Mag Changes of methodology and their potential effects on data banks for drug effects on clinical laboratory tests.
4362Mag: !Mag A method for isolation of cytoplasmic RNA from a slime mold, Physarum polycephalum.
4363Mag: !Mag Undiagnosed phaeochromocytoma in the perioperative period. Case reports.
4364Mag: !Mag Effect of decapitation and stress on some plasma electrolyte levels in rats.
4365Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia associated with other electrolyte imbalances.
4366Mag: !Mag Movement and absorption of major minerals and water in ovine gastrointestinal tract.
4367Mag: !Mag Complete distal renal tubular acidosis in systemic lupus: clinical and laboratory findings.
4368Mag: !Mag Evaluation of a flushing solution designed to protect kidneys from in situ ischemia.
4369Mag: !Mag Subclinical trace element deficiency in children with undue susceptibility to infections.
4370Mag: !Mag The effect of citrate, calcium, and magnesium ions on the potassium movement across the human platelet membrane.
4371Mag: !Mag Ultrasonic absorption of bovine serum albumin solutions in the frequency range 200 kHz-1 MHz.
4372Mag: !Mag Topical methotrexate alters solute and water transport in the rat jejunum in vivo and rabbit ileum in vitro.
4373Mag: !Mag Selenium and drug metabolism--III. Relation of glutathione-peroxidase and other hepatic enzyme modulations to dietary supplements.
4374Mag: !Mag Tocolysis of eclampsia-associated uterine hypertonus.
4375Mag: !Mag Selective disturbances of serum mineral profiles by electroconvulsive therapy.
4376Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations on the interaction of platelets with tumor cells: aggregation and perfusion studies with two homologous human systems.
4377Mag: !Mag Fibronectin binding to thrombin-stimulated platelets: evidence for fibrin(ogen) independent and dependent pathways.
4378Mag: !Mag Accumulation, acetylation, and releasability of diethylhomocholine from a sympathetic ganglion.
4379Mag: !Mag Metallic elements of gallstone in 100 cases
4380Mag: !Mag Quantitative determination of bacterial endotoxins by the chromogenic limulus method: critical analysis and study of interactions between 3 divalent cations
4381Mag: !Mag Effects of specific nutrients on the immune response. Selected clinical applications.
4382Mag: !Mag Dolomite as a possible magnesium-containing phase in human tooth enamel.
4383Mag: !Mag Statistical evidence for the relation between citrate and carbonate in human cortical bone.
4384Mag: !Mag An adenosine triphosphate-dependent calcium uptake pump in human neutrophil lysosomes.
4385Mag: !Mag Magnesium balance and distribution during total parenteral nutrition: effect of calcium additives.
4386Mag: !Mag NADPH-dependent generation of H2O2 in a thyroid particulate fraction requires Ca2+.
4387Mag: !Mag Nutrition and hypertension
4388Mag: !Mag Serum and erythrocyte magnesium levels in type I and type II diabetics.
4389Mag: !Mag Response to "A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of magnesium sulfate in the ethanol withdrawal syndrome.
4390Mag: !Mag Modified properties of hexokinase from heart mitochondria prepared using proteolytic enzyme.
4391Mag: !Mag New drug therapy for kidney stones: a review of cellulose sodium phosphate, acetohydroxamic acid, and potassium citrate.
4392Mag: !Mag Salt-dependent binding of Escherichia coli initiation factor 3 to nucleic acids determined by sedimentation partition chromatography.
4393Mag: !Mag Correlation of binding of rabbit granulocyte peptides to Candida albicans with candidacidal activity.
4394Mag: !Mag Activity of rabbit leukocyte peptides against Candida albicans.
4395Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate in the inhibition of premature labor
4396Mag: !Mag A clinical comparison of potassium and magnesium-potassium crystalloid cardioplegia: metabolic considerations.
4397Mag: !Mag Extracellular calcium ion depletion in frog cardiac ventricular muscle.
4398Mag: !Mag Late infantile tetany and secondary hyperparathyroidism in infants fed humanized cow milk formula. Longitudinal follow-up.
4399Mag: !Mag Monoclonal antibodies to an interferon-induced Mr 68,000 protein and their use for the detection of double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase in human cells.
4400Mag: !Mag Conformational change of 50 S ribosomes on enzymatic binding of phenylalanyl-tRNA.
4401Mag: !Mag Stability studies of lecithin in pharmaceutical forms for internal use. I
4402Mag: !Mag Effect of exposure to cold on the ultrastructural changes in the myocardium of rats on low-magnesium diet.
4403Mag: !Mag Histological and ultrastructural changes in femoral muscle of rat caused by low-magnesium diet.
4404Mag: !Mag Trace elements in the sera of leprosy spectrum.
4405Mag: !Mag Serum cations (calcium and magnesium) in leprosy.
4406Mag: !Mag Effect of aldosterone antagonists on aldosterone-induced activation of Mg2+ -HCO3- -ATPase and carbonic anhydrase in rat intestinal mucosa.
4407Mag: !Mag Lysosomal enzyme binding to mouse P388D1 macrophage membranes lacking the 215-kDa mannose 6-phosphate receptor: evidence for the existence of a second mannose 6-phosphate receptor.
4408Mag: !Mag Properties of carboxypeptidase A-treated chicken gizzard tropomyosin.
4409Mag: !Mag Experimental study of the effect of potassium sulfate fertilizers on the body in animals
4410Mag: !Mag Biochemical and functional changes in hearts from rabbits with diabetes.
4411Mag: !Mag Effect of ACTH and hydrocortisone on sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium levels and Ca2-ATPase activity in skeletal muscles
4412Mag: !Mag N-Chloroacetylhydrazone of oxo-GTP irreversibly inhibits the activating function of GTP-binding protein coupled with adenylate cyclase.
4413Mag: !Mag Magnesium ion exerts a central role in the regulation of inhibitory adenosine receptors.
4414Mag: !Mag Various physico-chemical properties of inorganic pyrophosphatase from the mouse spleen
4415Mag: !Mag Addition of buffers to high quality alfalfa hay-based diets for dairy cows in early lactation.
4416Mag: !Mag Comparison of the mitochondrial endonucleases from Neurospora crassa and Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
4417Mag: !Mag Association of type I DNA topoisomerase with herpes simplex virus.
4418Mag: !Mag Evidence for alteration of the vitamin D-endocrine system in obese subjects.
4419Mag: !Mag Factors affecting the secretory dynamics of 1 alpha-hydroxycorticosterone in the dogfish, Scyliorhinus canicula.
4420Mag: !Mag Inhibition and activation of bovine heart NAD-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase by ATP.
4421Mag: !Mag Studies on the mechanism of the lower esophageal sphincter pressure response to alkali ingestion in humans.
4422Mag: !Mag A special recipe to banish constipation.
4423Mag: !Mag Epidermal growth factor receptor levels in mouse mammary glands in various physiological states.
4424Mag: !Mag Mechanism of transposition of bacteriophage Mu: structure of a transposition intermediate.
4425Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte membrane sodium-potassium and magnesium ATPase in primary affective disorder.
4426Mag: !Mag Bone disease in alcohol abuse.
4427Mag: !Mag The actual nutrition of the rural population of the Georgian SSR
4428Mag: !Mag Regulation of human neutrophil guanylate cyclase by metal ions, free radicals and the muscarinic cholinergic receptor.
4429Mag: !Mag Effects of changes in motor unit size on transmitter release at the frog neuromuscular junction.
4430Mag: !Mag Characterization of quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase in human blood and observations in Huntington's disease.
4431Mag: !Mag Distribution of tightly bound non-histone proteins in chromatin fractions obtained by DNAase II digestion.
4432Mag: !Mag Histological and histochemical changes of myocardium in rats receiving low-magnesium diet and submitted to periodical cold stresses.
4433Mag: !Mag Differential regulation of peptide and catecholamine characters in cultured sympathetic neurons.
4434Mag: !Mag Correction of metabolic disorders of the myocardium in acute myocardial infarct as an important factor in preventing the development of circulatory insufficiency
4435Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of recombinant interferon-gamma by kinases released from various cells.
4436Mag: !Mag Phenylarsine oxide-induced increase in alveolar macrophage surface receptors: evidence for fusion of internal receptor pools with the cell surface.
4437Mag: !Mag Effect of sodium-potassium pump inhibitors and membrane-depolarizing agents on sodium nitroprusside-induced relaxation and cyclic guanosine monophosphate accumulation in rat aorta.
4438Mag: !Mag The positive transcription factor of the 5S RNA gene induces a 5S DNA-specific gyration in Xenopus oocyte extracts.
4439Mag: !Mag Accurate cleavage and polyadenylation of exogenous RNA substrate.
4440Mag: !Mag Bovine heart cytochrome c oxidase preparations contain high affinity binding sites for magnesium as well as for zinc, copper, and heme iron.
4441Mag: !Mag Imaging elemental distribution and ion transport in cultured cells with ion microscopy.
4442Mag: !Mag High and low affinity states of the dihydropyridine and phenylalkylamine receptors on the cardiac calcium channel and their interconversion by divalent cations.
4443Mag: !Mag Two modes of inhibition of the Ca2+ pump in red cells by Ca2+.
4444Mag: !Mag Characterization of a calcium-dependent ATPase in Entamoeba invadens.
4445Mag: !Mag Transition of a cloned d(AT)n-d(AT)n tract to a cruciform in vivo.
4446Mag: !Mag Nerve growth factor-induced increase in the cell-free phosphorylation of a nuclear protein in PC12 cells.
4447Mag: !Mag Relationship between secretagogue-induced Ca2+ release and inositol polyphosphate production in permeabilized pancreatic acinar cells.
4448Mag: !Mag Regulation by calcium of prolactin and growth hormone mRNA sequences in primary cultures of rat pituitary cells.
4449Mag: !Mag Trypsin-modified alkaline phosphatase. Formation of apoenzyme monomer and hybrid dimer.
4450Mag: !Mag High-performance liquid chromatography of tRNAs on novel stationary phases.
4451Mag: !Mag High-performance hydrophobic-interaction chromatography on ether-bonded phases. Chromatographic characteristics and gradient optimization.
4452Mag: !Mag Characterization of the platelet agglutinating activity of thrombospondin.
4453Mag: !Mag H+- and Ca2+-induced fusion and destabilization of liposomes.
4454Mag: !Mag Proton-induced fusion of oleic acid-phosphatidylethanolamine liposomes.
4455Mag: !Mag Influence of Ca and Mg on the uptake and deposition of Pb and Cd in mice.
4456Mag: !Mag Epidermal growth factor stimulates diacylglycerol kinase in isolated plasma membrane vesicles from A431 cells.
4457Mag: !Mag Intramembranous particles are clustered on microvillus membrane vesicles.
4458Mag: !Mag Protein synthesis in rabbit reticulocytes. A study of the roles of Co-eIF-2, Co-eIF-2A80, and GDP in peptide chain initiation.
4459Mag: !Mag Identification of pre-osteonectin produced by cell-free translation of fetal porcine calvarial mRNA.
4460Mag: !Mag A comparative study of the characteristics of eIF-2 and eIF-2-ancillary factor activities from yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and rabbit reticulocytes.
4461Mag: !Mag Protein synthesis in rabbit reticulocytes. Purification and properties of an Mr 80,000 polypeptide (Co-eIF-2A80) with Co-eIF-2A activity.
4462Mag: !Mag Manganese-phospholipid-stimulated protein kinase activity of human leukemic cells.
4463Mag: !Mag Electron probe X-ray microanalysis of post-tetanic Ca2+ and Mg2+ movements across the sarcoplasmic reticulum in situ.
4464Mag: !Mag Metal-nucleotide structural characteristics during catalysis by beef heart mitochondrial F1.
4465Mag: !Mag Binding and degradation of angiotensin II by mesenteric artery subcellular membranes.
4466Mag: !Mag Comparison between cimetidine-pirenzepine and antacids for the prevention of stress hemorrhage in intensive care patients. A controlled clinical study on 125 patients
4467Mag: !Mag Interaction of calmodulin with the red cell and its membrane skeleton and with spectrin.
4468Mag: !Mag Mg2+ reduces N-methyl-D-aspartate neurotoxicity in embryonic chick neural retina in vitro.
4469Mag: !Mag Piretanide for hypertension.
4470Mag: !Mag A calorimetric study of Ca2+ binding to two major isotypes of bullfrog parvalbumin.
4471Mag: !Mag Catalytic properties of a human cytomegalovirus-induced protein kinase.
4472Mag: !Mag Polarography of the alkaline-earth metals--II: The adsorption wave for the Magnesium-Eriochrome Black T complex.
4473Mag: !Mag Two cases of natural human infection by Echinostoma hortense and its second intermediate host in Wonju area
4474Mag: !Mag Studies on intestinal trematodes in Korea: XVII. Development of egg lying capacity of Echinostoma hortense in albino rats and human experimental infection.
4475Mag: !Mag Respective role of microgravity and cosmic rays on Paramecium tetraurelia cultured aboard Salyut 6.
4476Mag: !Mag Electron capture by protons and helium ions from lithium, sodium, and magnesium.
4477Mag: !Mag Trace minerals and magnesium in athrosclerosis and hypertension.
4478Mag: !Mag Studies of experimental calcium oxalate stones. 2. The preventive effects of phytin and citrate on renal deposition of calcium oxalate induced by ethylene glycol administration
4479Mag: !Mag Studies of experimental calcium oxalate stones. 1. The calcium and magnesium of renal deposition of calcium oxalate induced by ethylene glycol administration
4480Mag: !Mag A clinical study of urolithiasis in Shizuoka City Hospital--stone analysis and 24-hour urine calcium and uric acid levels
4481Mag: !Mag Optimal cationic composition of perfusates in relation to temperature during preservation of the liver
4482Mag: !Mag Influence of vitamin D on mineral metabolism, hormonal status and bone histology in lactating rats and their pups.
4483Mag: !Mag Isolation of L8 and L8S8 forms of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase from Chromatium vinosum.
4484Mag: !Mag Transport of calcium, magnesium and strontium by human serum proteins.
4485Mag: !Mag Phosphatidylethanolamine methylation in intestinal brush border membranes from rats resistant to Trichinella spiralis.
4486Mag: !Mag Concentrations of total and ionic calcium, inorganic phosphorus, magnesium, and protein in maternal and fetal blood and in amniotic fluid in parathyroidectomized pregnant rats.
4487Mag: !Mag Solution conformations of valinomycin-divalent cation complexes.
4488Mag: !Mag Mode of stimulatory actions of cadmium ion on the mouse diaphragm.
4489Mag: !Mag The role of free calmodulin in the regulation of calcium-pump activity in erythrocytes
4490Mag: !Mag Blood chemical and electrolyte concentrations in the ostrich Struthio camelus.
4491Mag: !Mag Effect of lubricant level and applied compressional pressure on surface friction of tablets.
4492Mag: !Mag Breast-feeding among teenage mothers: milk composition, infant growth, and maternal dietary intake.
4493Mag: !Mag Effects of monensin on Mg, Ca, P and Zn metabolism and tissue concentrations in lambs.
4494Mag: !Mag Metabolic effects of gallium nitrate administered by prolonged infusion.
4495Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent cations on the assembly of neutral and charged phospholipid bilayers in patch-recording pipettes.
4496Mag: !Mag Brain cerebrosides: preparative purification using a new chromatographic support--magnammsil.
4497Mag: !Mag Speciation of hexavalent chromium in welding fumes interference by air oxidation of chromium.
4498Mag: !Mag Encrustation and stone formation: complication of indwelling ureteral stents.
4499Mag: !Mag Bone mineral loss, bone histomorphometry and vitamin D metabolism in patients with rheumatoid arthritis on long-term glucocorticoid treatment.
4500Mag: !Mag Biochemical studies in paraplegic renal stone patients. 1. Plasma biochemistry and urinary calcium and saturation.
4501Mag: !Mag Continuous monitoring of blood glucose concentration during open-heart surgery.
4502Mag: !Mag Allosteric inhibition of brain hexokinase by glucose 6-phosphate in the reverse reaction.
4503Mag: !Mag Calcium transport and inner mitochondrial membrane damage in renal cortical mitochondria.
4504Mag: !Mag Absorption of starch by healthy ileostomates: effect of transit time and of carbohydrate load.
4505Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium sulfate on electroencephalographic findings in preeclampsia/eclampsia.
4506Mag: !Mag Cerebral intracellular pH by 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.
4507Mag: !Mag Solutions for preservation of the heart at 0 degrees C.
4508Mag: !Mag Inorganic constituents of breast milk from vegetarian and nonvegetarian women: relationships with each other and with organic constituents.
4509Mag: !Mag Control of production of toxic-shock-syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1) by magnesium ion.
4510Mag: !Mag Synthesis of protein in host-free reticulate bodies of Chlamydia psittaci and Chlamydia trachomatis.
4511Mag: !Mag Formation of a hexagonal lattice structure by an R-form lipopolysaccharide of Klebsiella sp.
4512Mag: !Mag Elevated circulating immunoreactive calcitonin in the magnesium-deficient normocalcemic rat.
4513Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia in patients entering the ICU.
4514Mag: !Mag pH and magnesium alter 45calcium binding to platelets at sites other than glycoproteins I or IIb/IIIa.
4515Mag: !Mag Study of the influence of conditions during urine collection on measurement of the major constituents of urinary calculi
4516Mag: !Mag Effect of regulatory light chain on chymotryptic digestion of scallop adductor myosin.
4517Mag: !Mag Turbidimetric assay of apolipoprotein A-II.
4518Mag: !Mag Hepatic microcirculatory failure after ischemia and reperfusion: improvement with ATP-MgCl2 treatment.
4519Mag: !Mag Alternative conformations in Escherichia coli 16S ribosomal RNA.
4520Mag: !Mag Mineral homeostasis in very premature infants: serial evaluation of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, serum minerals, and bone mineralization.
4521Mag: !Mag Perturbation of hydrogen bonds in the adenine ... thymine base pair by Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+ and NH4+ cations.
4522Mag: !Mag A request for the use of phostoxin with an aluminum phosphide or magnesium phosphide base for the de-infestation of insects in stored produce
4523Mag: !Mag Prevention of cecitis in hamsters by certain prostaglandins.
4524Mag: !Mag Comparative study of cimetidine and Mylanta II in the 6-week treatment of gastric ulcer.
4525Mag: !Mag Mineral X disease interactions.
4526Mag: !Mag Endoscopic controlled trial of four drug regimens in the treatment of chronic duodenal ulceration.
4527Mag: !Mag Profound hypomagnesemia and renal magnesium wasting associated with the use of cyclosporine for marrow transplantation.
4528Mag: !Mag Absorption, dosage, and effect on mineral homeostasis of 25-hydroxycholecalciferol in premature infants: comparison with 400 and 800 IU vitamin D2 supplementation.
4529Mag: !Mag Carbon fiber debris within the synovial joint. A time-dependent mechanical and histologic study.
4530Mag: !Mag Ion compartmentalization in frog oocytes as demonstrated by X-ray microanalysis.
4531Mag: !Mag Influence of divalent cations on the phospholipase-independent action of beta-bungarotoxin at frog neuromuscular junctions.
4532Mag: !Mag Magnesium administration reverses the hypocalcaemia secondary to hypomagnesaemia despite low circulating levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D.
4533Mag: !Mag Sialochemistry of patients with autoimmune rheumatic disease with and without histological manifestations of Sjgren's syndrome.
4534Mag: !Mag Regulatory properties of human erythrocyte hexokinase during cell ageing.
4535Mag: !Mag Flushing solution for the arterial line.
4536Mag: !Mag New ways of caries prevention by increasing the pH of dental plaque with Neutralith
4537Mag: !Mag Inhibition of hormonally regulated adenylate cyclase by the beta gamma subunit of transducin.
4538Mag: !Mag Protein kinase activity associated with the purified rat hepatic glucocorticoid receptor.
4539Mag: !Mag The influence of various molecules on the occurrence of the human sperm acrosome reaction
4540Mag: !Mag Effects of vitamin D on renal handling of calcium, magnesium and phosphate in the hamster.
4541Mag: !Mag Families of children with idiopathic hypercalciuria. Evidence for the hormonal basis of familial hypercalciuria.
4542Mag: !Mag Calcium-ATPase activity in erythrocyte ghosts from patients with familial benign hypercalcaemia.
4543Mag: !Mag In vitro tests overestimate in vivo neutralizing capacity of antacids in presence of food.
4544Mag: !Mag Effect of a new tube-feeding formula on metabolism, urinary electrolytes and gastrointestinal tract of healthy adults with and without a supplement of ballast material from soy bran
4545Mag: !Mag Erythrosin B inhibits high affinity ouabain binding in guinea-pig heart Na+-K+-ATPase without influence on cardiac glycoside induced contractility.
4546Mag: !Mag The calcium ion activity and the standardized excretion rate of calcium in urine of healthy adults.
4547Mag: !Mag Solubilization and characterization of putative alpha-2 adrenergic isoceptors from the human platelet and the rat cerebral cortex.
4548Mag: !Mag Divalent cations and the phosphatase activity of the (Na + K)-dependent ATPase.
4549Mag: !Mag The influence of the membrane sodium pump activity on the ability of human peripheral blood lymphocytes to form early rosettes with SRBC.
4550Mag: !Mag Application of the principle of linked functions to ATP-driven ion pumps: kinetics of activation by ATP.
4551Mag: !Mag Characterization and subcellular distribution of somatogenic receptor in rat liver.
4552Mag: !Mag Corticotropin-releasing factor binding to peripheral tissue and activation of the adenylate cyclase-adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate system.
4553Mag: !Mag Studies on the analytical method of RBC magnesium
4554Mag: !Mag Role of Mn2+ and Mg2+ in catalysis and regulation of Aspergillus niger glutamine synthetase.
4555Mag: !Mag Dose-dependent effect of calcium and magnesium etidronate on salicylic acid absorption in the rat.
4556Mag: !Mag The effect of punch velocity on the compaction of a variety of materials.
4557Mag: !Mag Cyclosporin and magnesium.
4558Mag: !Mag Serial plasma oncotic pressure levels and echoencephalography during and after delivery in severe pre-eclampsia.
4559Mag: !Mag Potassium-induced release of endogenous amino acids in the guinea pig cochlea.
4560Mag: !Mag Activation of mammalian endplate receptors by iontophoretic application of reducing and oxidizing sulphydryl reagents.
4561Mag: !Mag Effects of a prostacyclin analog iloprost on kidney function, renin-angiotensin and kallikrein-kinin systems, prostanoids and catecholamines in man.
4562Mag: !Mag The rat isolated mast cell as a model for the study of calcium antagonists.
4563Mag: !Mag Chronic treatment with nifedipine prevents development of hypertension and abnormal red cell Na+ transport in Dahl-S-rats.
4564Mag: !Mag Histo-autoradiographic study of the secretion of gastric mucus in the rat stomach. II. Role of feeding and its combination with an antacid
4565Mag: !Mag Characterization of trypsin stimulation of cardiac adenylate cyclase.
4566Mag: !Mag Effect of cisplatin on the transepithelial potential difference of rat distal tubule.
4567Mag: !Mag The effect of ETH 1001 on ion fluxes across red blood cell membranes.
4568Mag: !Mag Stimulus-secretion coupling of parathyroid hormone release: studies of 45Ca and 86Rb fluxes.
4569Mag: !Mag Improvement of ion chromatography with ultraviolet photometric detection and comparison with conductivity detection for the determination of serum cations.
4570Mag: !Mag 31P-NMR studies of the oral pathogen Streptococcus mutans: observation of lipoteichoic acid.
4571Mag: !Mag 31P-NMR studies of metabolite compartmentation in Fasciola hepatica.
4572Mag: !Mag Uptake of spermine by rat liver mitochondria and its influence on the transport of phosphate.
4573Mag: !Mag Regulation of aminotransferase-glutamate dehydrogenase interactions by carbamyl phosphate synthase-I, Mg2+ plus leucine versus citrate and malate.
4574Mag: !Mag The interaction of calmodulin with the carbocyanine dye (Stains-all).
4575Mag: !Mag Absence of the inhibitory effect of guanine nucleotides on adenylate cyclase activity in white adipocyte membranes of the ob/ob mouse. Effect of the ob gene.
4576Mag: !Mag Analysis of the metal-induced conformational change in myosin with a monoclonal antibody to light chain two.
4577Mag: !Mag On the mechanism of regulation of type I phosphoprotein phosphatase from bovine heart. Regulation by a novel intracyclic activation-deactivation mechanism via transient phosphorylation of the regulatory subunit by phosphatase-1 kinase (FA).
4578Mag: !Mag Metal interactions with beef heart mitochondrial ATPase.
4579Mag: !Mag Effect of ketamine on amino acid-evoked release of acetylcholine from rat cerebral cortex in vitro.
4580Mag: !Mag Cis-platinum and distal renal tubule toxicity.
4581Mag: !Mag Effects of Ca2+ and Mg2+ on the actomyosin adenosine-5'-triphosphatase of stably phosphorylated gizzard myosin.
4582Mag: !Mag Exchange rates and numbers of annular lipids for the calcium and magnesium ion dependent adenosinetriphosphatase.
4583Mag: !Mag Magaldrate and almasilate--complex buffering antacids.
4584Mag: !Mag The binding of cytochalasin D to monomeric actin.
4585Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent metal ions and glycerol on the GTPase activity of H-ras proteins.
4586Mag: !Mag Desensitization of opioid-stimulated GTPase in neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells.
4587Mag: !Mag Activation of bovine heart ATP-MG2+-dependent phosphoprotein phosphatase: isolation of a phosphoenzyme intermediate and its conversion to the active form via a Mg2+-dependent autodephosphorylation reaction.
4588Mag: !Mag Serum copper, zinc and magnesium levels during normal pregnancy and labor in at-term and prolonged pregnancy
4589Mag: !Mag Characterization of oligomers of tubulin by two-dimensional native electrophoresis.
4590Mag: !Mag Mathematical modelling of metabolic pathways affected by an enzyme deficiency. A mathematical model of glycolysis in normal and pyruvate-kinase-deficient red blood cells.
4591Mag: !Mag Magnesium enhances human pancreatic elastase digestion of 125I-labeled elastin.
4592Mag: !Mag pH effects on cystine transport in lysosome-rich leucocyte granular fractions.
4593Mag: !Mag Interaction of DDT and pyrethroids with calmodulin and its significance in the expression of enzyme activities of phosphodiesterase.
4594Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy of torsade de pointes ventricular tachycardia
4595Mag: !Mag Ion dependence of the Bacillus subtilis RNase P reaction.
4596Mag: !Mag Identification of insulin receptors on the mucosal surface of colon epithelial cells.
4597Mag: !Mag ATP-dependent protease in bovine adrenal cortex. Tissue specificity, subcellular localization, and partial characterization.
4598Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial F1-ATPase will bind and cleave ATP but only slowly release ADP after N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide or 7-chloro-4-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole derivatization.
4599Mag: !Mag Potentiometric measurements of stoichiometric and apparent affinity constants of EGTA for protons and divalent ions including calcium.
4600Mag: !Mag Zinc deficiency and the Euglena gracilis chromatin: formation of an alpha-amanitin-resistant RNA polymerase II.
4601Mag: !Mag The quaternary structure of E. coli inorganic pyrophosphatase is not required for catalytic activity.
4602Mag: !Mag Potassium regulation--current understanding from a clinical viewpoint
4603Mag: !Mag Changes in magnesium levels in erythrocytes, serum and urine in healthy persons after physical exertion
4604Mag: !Mag Manganese stimulates calcium flux through the mitochondrial uniporter.
4605Mag: !Mag Assay of human erythrocyte pyrimidine and deoxypyrimidine 5'-nucleotidase by isocratic reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography.
4606Mag: !Mag Two chymotrypsin-susceptible sites of myosin rod from chicken gizzard.
4607Mag: !Mag Properties of the MgATP and MgADP binding sites on the Fe protein of nitrogenase from Azotobacter vinelandii.
4608Mag: !Mag Automated flow-injection pseudotitration of strong and weak acids, ascorbic acid and calcium, and catalytic pseudotitrations of aminopolycarboxylic acids by use of a microcomputer-controlled analyser.
4609Mag: !Mag Important electrophysiological changes, in subjects with implanted pacemakers, occurring during extracorporeal circulation and with a cardioplegic solution. Experimental study in dogs
4610Mag: !Mag Modification of the risk of urolithiasis by changes in magnesium and calcium concentrations in the urine as affected by stress conditions
4611Mag: !Mag A simple and rapid procedure for high-yield isolation of essentially undegraded free and membrane-bound polysomes from rat liver.
4612Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on passive fluxes of lithium in the human erythrocyte.
4613Mag: !Mag Equine alternative pathway activation by unsensitized rabbit red blood cells.
4614Mag: !Mag Calcium homeostasis in the first days of life in relation to feeding.
4615Mag: !Mag Treatment of chronic cocaine abuse and attention deficit disorder, residual type, with magnesium pemoline.
4616Mag: !Mag Adenylate cyclase of Dictyostelium discoideum: solubilization and Mn2+-dependency.
4617Mag: !Mag The effect of oxygen on the amplitude of photodriven electron transfer across the lipid bilayer-water interface.
4618Mag: !Mag Failure of magnesium sulphate to prevent suxamethonium induced muscle pains.
4619Mag: !Mag Effects of a three-hour calcium clamp on calcium, phosphate, magnesium and zinc concentrations of human parotid saliva.
4620Mag: !Mag Heavy metals in human and animal bones from ancient and contemporary France.
4621Mag: !Mag Modification of the vitamin K-dependent carboxylase assay.
4622Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia: an underdiagnosed interaction between gentamicin and cytotoxic chemotherapy for acute non-lymphoblastic leukaemia.
4623Mag: !Mag Aggregation and fibril formation of plasma fibronectin by heparin.
4624Mag: !Mag Use of bituminous coal as an alternative technique for field concentration of waterborne viruses.
4625Mag: !Mag Uremic pruritus: skin divalent ion content and response to ultraviolet phototherapy.
4626Mag: !Mag Magnesium, calcium, and phosphorus content of shells from hatching and nonhatching turkey eggs.
4627Mag: !Mag Nitrogen absorption and endogenous nitrogen along the intestinal tract of chicks.
4628Mag: !Mag Distribution and characterization of mineral-binding phosphoprotein particles in Bivalvia.
4629Mag: !Mag Patterns of energy metabolism in the stone crab, Menippe mercenaria, during severe hypoxia and subsequent recovery.
4630Mag: !Mag High-pressure water jet injury of the hand.
4631Mag: !Mag Regulation of rat liver microsomal squalene epoxidase: inactivation of the supernatant protein factor by nucleotides.
4632Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte adenosine transport: effects of Ca2+ channel antagonists and ions.
4633Mag: !Mag Avian tibial dyschondroplasia. III. Electron probe analysis.
4634Mag: !Mag Maternal and perinatal outcome of conservative management of severe preeclampsia in midtrimester.
4635Mag: !Mag Plasma prolactin concentrations and pregnancy-induced hypertension.
4636Mag: !Mag Mineral analyses of vegetarian, health, and conventional foods: magnesium, zinc, copper, and manganese content.
4637Mag: !Mag Regulation by calmodulin of adenylate cyclase activity in anterior pituitary.
4638Mag: !Mag Alterations in calcium, magnesium, iron, and zinc metabolism by dietary cholestyramine.
4639Mag: !Mag Direct spectrophotometry of magnesium in serum after reaction with hexokinase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase.
4640Mag: !Mag Serum chemistry abnormalities in adult patients with seizures.
4641Mag: !Mag Influence of continuous infusion of citrate on responses of immunoreactive parathyroid hormone, calcium and magnesium components, and other electrolytes in normal adults during plateletapheresis.
4642Mag: !Mag Effect of etidronate disodium (EHDP) on calcium oxalate renal stones induced by synthetic 1 alpha(OH) vitamin D3 and ethylene glycol in rats
4643Mag: !Mag Hemolytic plate assay for quantification of active human complement component C3 using methylamine-treated plasma as complement source.
4644Mag: !Mag Skeletal adenylate cyclase: effect of Mg2+, Ca2+, and PTH.
4645Mag: !Mag Oxidative metabolism associated with phagocytosis in Acanthamoeba castellanii.
4646Mag: !Mag Clinical (behavior scale items), electrophysiologic (conditioned evoked potentials) and biochemical (urinary homovanillic acid) markers in infantile autism
4647Mag: !Mag Ranitidine and high-dose antacid in reflux oesophagitis. A randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
4648Mag: !Mag Monolayer culture of parenchymal rat hepatocytes on collagen-coated microcarriers. A hepatocyte system for short- and long-term metabolic studies.
4649Mag: !Mag Membrane adhesion in photosynthetic bacterial membranes. Light harvesting complex I (LHI) appears to be the main adhesion factor.
4650Mag: !Mag Canine liver aldehyde dehydrogenases: distribution, isolation, and partial characterization.
4651Mag: !Mag Simplified fixative medium for direct immunofluorescence in skin biopsies.
4652Mag: !Mag Zinc metabolism during captopril treatment.
4653Mag: !Mag Prostaglandin endoperoxide analogues stimulate phospholipase C and protein phosphorylation during platelet shape change.
4654Mag: !Mag Two modes of amber codon read-through in vitro.
4655Mag: !Mag Factors affecting tolerance to digitalis.
4656Mag: !Mag Vitamin B6, magnesium, and combined B6-Mg: therapeutic effects in childhood autism.
4657Mag: !Mag Effect of excitatory amino acids on gamma-aminobutyric acid release from frog horizontal cells.
4658Mag: !Mag Activation of normal and abnormal human factor IX with trypsin.
4659Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium content of mixed saliva and their clinical significance: report of 473 cases
4660Mag: !Mag Methods of analysis for infant formula: Food and Drug Administration and Infant Formula Council Collaborative Study.
4661Mag: !Mag Marihuana-derived material: biochemical studies of the ocular responses.
4662Mag: !Mag Chitin synthetase from the yeast and mycelial phases of Blastomyces dermatitidis.
4663Mag: !Mag Pharmacological study on angusticeps-type toxins from mamba snake venoms.
4664Mag: !Mag Atypical phenylketonuria with "dihydrobiopterin synthetase" deficiency: absence of phosphate-eliminating enzyme activity demonstrated in liver.
4665Mag: !Mag Site-specific cleavage of tobacco mosaic virus RNA: a study of factors influencing the cleavage.
4666Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary alfalfa:orchardgrass hay and lasalocid on nutrient utilization by gravid sows.
4667Mag: !Mag Prolactin receptor in rat liver: sex difference in estrogenic stimulation and imprinting of the responsiveness to estrogen by neonatal androgen in male rats.
4668Mag: !Mag Inhalation studies on the effects of tremolite and brucite dust in rats.
4669Mag: !Mag Effects of altered Ca2+ and Mg2+ concentrations on proliferation and functional differentiation of the clonal insulin-producing cells RINm5F.
4670Mag: !Mag Thyrotropin regulation of adenylate cyclase activity in human thyroid neoplasms.
4671Mag: !Mag Prolactin receptors on human T and B lymphocytes: antagonism of prolactin binding by cyclosporine.
4672Mag: !Mag Neuromuscular transmission in the jellyfish Aglantha digitale.
4673Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies of asparagine synthetase from rat liver: role of Mg2+ in enzyme catalysis.
4674Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of fimbriae isolated from Bordetella pertussis.
4675Mag: !Mag Chromatin-associated protein kinases in human normal and benign hyperplastic prostate.
4676Mag: !Mag Phospholipid asymmetry in human erythrocyte ghosts.
4677Mag: !Mag The interplay between cyclic AMP and ions in the stimulus-secretion coupling in pancreatic B-cells.
4678Mag: !Mag Influx of 22Na through acetylcholine receptor-associated Na channels: relationship between 22Na influx, 45Ca influx and secretion of catecholamines in cultured bovine adrenal medulla cells.
4679Mag: !Mag Ribonuclease activities in rat sympathetic ganglia: evidence for the presence of an endogenous inhibitor of alkaline ribonuclease.
4680Mag: !Mag Measurements of calcium and other elements in muscle biopsy samples from patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
4681Mag: !Mag The role of Mg2+ and Ca2+ in the simultaneous binding of vanadate and ATP at the phosphorylation site of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase.
4682Mag: !Mag Na+-like effect of imidazole on the phosphorylation of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase.
4683Mag: !Mag A DNA primase from yeast. Purification and partial characterization.
4684Mag: !Mag Malonyl coenzyme A synthetase. Purification and properties.
4685Mag: !Mag Heart 6-phosphofructo-1-kinase. Subcellular distribution and binding to myofibrils.
4686Mag: !Mag Mechanism of strand passage by Escherichia coli topoisomerase I. The role of the required nick in catenation and knotting of duplex DNA.
4687Mag: !Mag The defective proton-ATPase of uncD mutants of Escherichia coli. Two mutations which affect the catalytic mechanism.
4688Mag: !Mag Alternative conformers of 5S ribosomal RNA and their biological relevance.
4689Mag: !Mag Regulation of 3Hforskolin binding to human platelet membranes by GppNHp, NaF, and prostaglandin E1.
4690Mag: !Mag Tissue-specific modulation of the mitochondrial calcium uniporter by magnesium ions.
4691Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia increase.
4692Mag: !Mag Apurinic/apyrimidinic-specific endonuclease activities from Dictyostelium discoideum.
4693Mag: !Mag The effect of glyoxalase I on the metabolism of 4,5-dioxovaleric acid.
4694Mag: !Mag Decarbamoylating activity of ornithine transcarbamoylase.
4695Mag: !Mag Inhibition of DNA polymerase alpha, DNA polymerase beta, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, and DNA ligase II by poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation reaction in vitro.
4696Mag: !Mag Inhibition by luciferin-luciferase reagents of aggregatory responses to excitatory agonists in washed platelet suspensions.
4697Mag: !Mag Rat liver glutaminase. Regulation by reversible interaction with the mitochondrial membrane.
4698Mag: !Mag Chronic idiopathic hypoparathyroidism: report of 3 cases
4699Mag: !Mag Glycerol formation after the breaking of dormancy of Phycomyces blakesleeanus spores. Role of an interconvertible glycerol-3-phosphatase.
4700Mag: !Mag Effects of ATP gamma S in isolated rat brain synaptosomes.
4701Mag: !Mag Eclampsia in the black population of the Natal midlands.
4702Mag: !Mag A comparison of the structure of echinomycin and triostin A complexed to a DNA fragment.
4703Mag: !Mag Efficient modification of E. coli RNA polymerase in vitro by the N gene transcription antitermination protein of bacteriophage lambda.
4704Mag: !Mag ATP-dependent specific binding of Tn3 transposase to Tn3 inverted repeats.
4705Mag: !Mag Canine neutrophil plasma membrane markers.
4706Mag: !Mag Involvement of surface potential in regulation of polar membrane lipids in Acholeplasma laidlawii.
4707Mag: !Mag S-Adenosylmethionine synthetase from human lymphocytes. Purification and characterization.
4708Mag: !Mag The interaction of plasma fibronectin with fibroblastic cells in suspension.
4709Mag: !Mag The Escherichia coli adenylate cyclase complex. Stimulation by potassium and phosphate.
4710Mag: !Mag The uvsX protein of bacteriophage T4 arranges single-stranded and double-stranded DNA into similar helical nucleoprotein filaments.
4711Mag: !Mag Mercuric and cadmium ions stimulate phosphorylation of band 4.2 protein on human erythrocyte membranes.
4712Mag: !Mag The divalent cation dependence of bovine brain calmodulin-dependent phosphatase.
4713Mag: !Mag Optical model studies of the salt-induced 10-30-nm fiber transition in chromatin.
4714Mag: !Mag Diphenylhydantoin reduces veratridine-induced sodium permeability in frog skeletal muscle.
4715Mag: !Mag Evidence of a square two-dimensional solid of methane physisorbed on the (100) surface of magnesium oxide.
4716Mag: !Mag Adenosine 5'-triphosphate stimulates the release of polypeptides from mitochondria.
4717Mag: !Mag Lipid requirements for reconstitution of the delipidated beta-adrenergic receptor and the regulatory protein.
4718Mag: !Mag Some characteristics of a porcine retrovirus from a cell line derived from swine malignant lymphomas.
4719Mag: !Mag Changes in calcium metabolism in patients with renal lithiasis
4720Mag: !Mag Cations and blood pressure
4721Mag: !Mag The rate of MgADP binding to and dissociation from acto-S1.
4722Mag: !Mag Failure of copper or vitamin D supplements to affect the dental condition of young sheep on two Wairarapa farms.
4723Mag: !Mag Urinary excretion of copper, magnesium and zinc after gastric resection.
4724Mag: !Mag Reference values of urinary electrolyte excretion in respect of a vegetarian diet. A chronobiological study.
4725Mag: !Mag Effects of age, milking and season on magnesium, calcium and inorganic phosphorus metabolisms in cows.
4726Mag: !Mag The effects of high dietary levels of sodium saccharin on mineral and water balance and related parameters in rats.
4727Mag: !Mag Effect of the anticarcinogenic drug 6-mercaptopurine on mineral metabolism in the mouse.
4728Mag: !Mag Experimental and clinical studies on calcium urolithiasis: (I) Animal model for calcium oxalate urolithiasis using ethylene glycol and 1-alpha (OH) D3
4729Mag: !Mag Calcium binding to troponin C and troponin: effects of Mg2+, ionic strength and pH.
4730Mag: !Mag Clinical experience with 781 cases of alcoholism evaluated and treated on an inpatient basis by various methods.
4731Mag: !Mag Experiments with limestone supplemented cereal grain fed sheep.
4732Mag: !Mag Monovalent cations transfer through isolated human amnion: a new pharmacological model.
4733Mag: !Mag Pregnant women's absorption of iron from prenatal supplements.
4734Mag: !Mag Changes in the biochemical composition of semen following danazol plus testosterone enanthate administration to the langur monkey.
4735Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency syndrome.
4736Mag: !Mag Iron, zinc, copper, manganese and magnesium in malignant lymphomas.
4737Mag: !Mag Renal tubular hypomagnesemia of familial origin
4738Mag: !Mag Beta dosimetry with newly developed graphite mixed TL detectors.
4739Mag: !Mag Ribosomal ribonucleases in avian liver during estrogen-induced vitellogenin synthesis.
4740Mag: !Mag Dietary magnesium oxide interactions with sodium bicarbonate on cows in early lactation.
4741Mag: !Mag 25-Hydroxyvitamin D levels during breast-feeding with or without maternal or infantile supplementation of vitamin D.
4742Mag: !Mag Frequency of hypomagnesemia in hospitalized patients receiving digitalis.
4743Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia in the patient receiving digitalis.
4744Mag: !Mag New location of milk-of-calcium.
4745Mag: !Mag Urinary tract stones. Medical management.
4746Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural microbial ecology of infection-induced urinary stones.
4747Mag: !Mag Vertical distribution of elements in cells and matrix of epiphyseal growth plate cartilage determined by quantitative electron probe analysis.
4748Mag: !Mag High-frequency transformation of Brevibacterium lactofermentum protoplasts by plasmid DNA.
4749Mag: !Mag Effects of temperature and sodium chloride concentration on the phospholipid and fatty acid compositions of a halotolerant Planococcus sp.
4750Mag: !Mag K, Ca, Mg, and Zn in platelets, as determined by atomic absorption spectrometry with use of a sealed decomposition bomb and discrete nebulization.
4751Mag: !Mag Characteristics of phospholipid methylation in human erythrocyte ghosts: relationship(s) to the psychoses and affective disorders.
4752Mag: !Mag Bone calcification and calcium homeostasis in rats with non-insulin-dependent diabetes induced by streptozocin.
4753Mag: !Mag Adenylate cyclase in the corpus luteum of the rhesus monkey. I. General properties and optimal assay conditions.
4754Mag: !Mag Serum potassium concentration as a risk factor of ventricular arrhythmias early in acute myocardial infarction.
4755Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent allosteric modulation of the giant hemoglobin from the terrestrial oligochaete, Eisenia foetida.
4756Mag: !Mag Selective inhibition of the accumulation of extracellular proteases of Pseudomonas aeruginosa by gentamicin and tobramycin.
4757Mag: !Mag Idiopathic haemochromatosis and eye symptoms. A case report.
4758Mag: !Mag The use of the fluorescence photobleaching recovery technique to study the self-assembly of tubulin.
4759Mag: !Mag Cold ischemic arrest: comparison of calcium-free and calcium-containing solutions.
4760Mag: !Mag Ethanol's effects on cortical adenylate cyclase activity.
4761Mag: !Mag Pseudomonas aeruginosa cytotoxin stimulates prostacyclin production in cultured pulmonary artery endothelial cells: membrane attack and calcium influx.
4762Mag: !Mag Effects of methanol and magnesium chloride on the induction of respiration-deficient mutants in yeast by metal ions.
4763Mag: !Mag Premedication for abdominal sonography--comparison of the efficacy of 2 dimethicone preparations
4764Mag: !Mag Site-specifically modified oligodeoxyribonucleotides as templates for Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I.
4765Mag: !Mag Laser flow measurements of scattering and fluorescence from cell nuclei in the presence of increasing Mg++ concentrations.
4766Mag: !Mag Cimetidine in labour: absence of adverse effect on the high-risk fetus.
4767Mag: !Mag Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent endonuclease activity in different subpopulations of spleen cells from normal and erythroleukemic mice.
4768Mag: !Mag Extraction model of the longitudinal flagellum of Ceratium tripos (Dinoflagellida): reactivation of flagellar retraction.
4769Mag: !Mag Dysfunction of calcium handling by smooth muscle in hypertension.
4770Mag: !Mag Thio-analogues of inorganic pyrophosphate inhibit the replication of influenza virus A in vitro.
4771Mag: !Mag Effects of guanyl nucleotides and ions on kappa opioid binding.
4772Mag: !Mag Effect of hydrocortisone on neuromuscular transmission in the frog skeletal muscles
4773Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent chloride secretion in rat colon epithelium.
4774Mag: !Mag Cannabinoid inhibition of adenylate cyclase. Biochemistry of the response in neuroblastoma cell membranes.
4775Mag: !Mag Nutrition evaluation of published weight-reducing diets.
4776Mag: !Mag Manipulation of intracellular magnesium content in polymyxin B nonapeptide-sensitized Escherichia coli by ionophore A23187.
4777Mag: !Mag Specific growth hormone receptors on human peripheral mononuclear cells: reexpression, identification, and characterization.
4778Mag: !Mag Release of endogenous dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and amino acid transmitters from rat striatal slices.
4779Mag: !Mag Evidence that the Mg-dependent low-affinity binding site for ATP and Pi demonstrated on the isolated beta subunit of the F0.F1 ATP synthase is a catalytic site.
4780Mag: !Mag Essential arginyl residues in the H+-translocating ATPase of plasma membrane from the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.
4781Mag: !Mag The action of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid on mouse spinal neurones in culture.
4782Mag: !Mag Potassium channels in isolated presynaptic nerve terminals from rat brain.
4783Mag: !Mag Soft tissue calcium and magnesium content in acute pancreatitis in the dog: calcium accumulation, a mechanism for hypocalcemia in acute pancreatitis.
4784Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent fluxes of potassium-42 and chloride-36 during norepinephrine activation of rat aorta.
4785Mag: !Mag Biochemical studies of synaptic membrane and pharmacology. Ion transport system of synaptic membrane and pharmacological action
4786Mag: !Mag Occlusion of Na+ by the Na,K-ATPase in the presence of oligomycin.
4787Mag: !Mag UDPglucose-ceramide glucosyltransferase from porcine submaxillary glands is associated with the Golgi apparatus.
4788Mag: !Mag N-Butyrate incubation of immature chicken erythrocytes preferentially enhances the solubility of beta A chromatin.
4789Mag: !Mag A new generation of Ca2+ indicators with greatly improved fluorescence properties.
4790Mag: !Mag Oxygen exchange between phosphate and water accompanies calcium-regulated ATPase activity of skinned fibers from rabbit skeletal muscle.
4791Mag: !Mag Characterization of restriction-modification enzymes Cfr13 I from Citrobacter freundii RFL13.
4792Mag: !Mag Enhancement by Ca2+ or Mg2+ of catalytic activity of the superoxide-producing NADPH oxidase in membrane fractions of human neutrophils and monocytes.
4793Mag: !Mag Multiple affinity states of opiate receptor in neuroblastoma x glioma NG108-15 hybrid cells. Opiate agonist association rate is a function of receptor occupancy.
4794Mag: !Mag Tightly bound adenosine diphosphate, which inhibits the activity of mitochondrial F1-ATPase, is located at the catalytic site of the enzyme.
4795Mag: !Mag The cDNA cloning of a 55-kilodalton protein from guinea pig seminal vesicle. Evidence that the protein is the precursor of a 25-kilodalton basic secretory protein.
4796Mag: !Mag The relative solubilities of four modern glass-ionomer cements.
4797Mag: !Mag Preparation and properties of highly-purified Vibrio costicola polynucleotide phosphorylase.
4798Mag: !Mag The hepatic response to Ca2+ is inhibited by Mg2+ and enhanced by phenylephrine or ouabain.
4799Mag: !Mag A novel magnesium-dependent structural transition of chicken erythrocyte chromatin in situ.
4800Mag: !Mag 2'-Fluoro-2'-deoxycytidine triphosphate as a substrate for RNA- and DNA-dependent DNA polymerases.
4801Mag: !Mag Torsades de pointes in alcoholics
4802Mag: !Mag Treatment of torsades de pointes with magnesium sulfate
4803Mag: !Mag Anti-arrhythmia effects of magnesium salts. 4 cases
4804Mag: !Mag Measurements of magnesium in mononuclear cells.
4805Mag: !Mag Sex and age related differences in trace element concentrations in hair.
4806Mag: !Mag Mechanisms of altered myocardial contractility during hemodialysis: importance of changes in the ionized calcium to plasma potassium ratio.
4807Mag: !Mag Therapy of the tetany syndrome
4808Mag: !Mag Combined use of ritodrine and magnesium sulfate for tocolysis of preterm labor.
4809Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium and magnesium acetates on tissue distribution of carcinogenic doses of cadmium chloride in Wistar rats.
4810Mag: !Mag Magnesium and certain other elements and cardiovascular disease.
4811Mag: !Mag Phosphorylated intermediates of two hepatic microsomal ATPases.
4812Mag: !Mag Phosphatidic acid phosphatase activity in subcellular fractions of normal and dystrophic human muscle.
4813Mag: !Mag 5'-Nucleotidase from rat heart membranes. Inhibition by adenine nucleotides and related compounds.
4814Mag: !Mag Cap accessibility correlates with the initiation efficiency of alfalfa mosaic virus RNAs.
4815Mag: !Mag Comparative structural aspects of cation binding to phosphatidylserine bilayers.
4816Mag: !Mag Influence of liposome charge on the association of liposomes with Kupffer cells in vitro. Effects of divalent cations and competition with latex particles.
4817Mag: !Mag Differential interaction of cations with the thiamine and biotin transport proteins of Lactobacillus casei.
4818Mag: !Mag Affinity labeling of the (Na+ + Mg2+)-ATPase from Acholeplasma laidlawii B membranes by the 2',3'-dialdehyde derivative of adenosine 5'-triphosphate.
4819Mag: !Mag The effects of cation-induced and pH-induced membrane stacking on chlorophyll fluorescence decay kinetics.
4820Mag: !Mag Increased stability of the higher order structure of chicken erythrocyte chromatin: nanosecond anisotropy studies of intercalated ethidium.
4821Mag: !Mag Magnesium ions reveal nanomolar potency of dopamine at 3Hspiperone labelled D-2 receptors in rat corpus striatum.
4822Mag: !Mag Topoisomerase I has a strong binding preference for a conserved hexadecameric sequence in the promoter region of the rRNA gene from Tetrahymena pyriformis.
4823Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent polyphosphoinositide hydrolysis is associated with exocytosis in vitro.
4824Mag: !Mag Comparison of the effects of one-side- and two-side Mg2+ on the reconstitution of mitochondrial H+-ATPase.
4825Mag: !Mag 4',6-Diamidino-2-phenylindole, a fluorescent probe for tubulin and microtubules.
4826Mag: !Mag The enzymatic conversion of dihydroneopterin triphosphate to tripolyphosphate and 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin, an intermediate in the biosynthesis of other pterins in Drosophila melanogaster.
4827Mag: !Mag Transfer RNA splicing in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Secondary and tertiary structures of the substrates.
4828Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of acetylcholine receptor membrane-associated (nonreceptor v2-protein) and soluble electrocyte creatine kinases.
4829Mag: !Mag Renal, haemodynamic, and hormonal effects of human alpha atrial natriuretic peptide in healthy volunteers.
4830Mag: !Mag MgATP specifically controls in vitro self-assembly of vertebrate skeletal myosin in the physiological pH range.
4831Mag: !Mag Effects of phosphate, glucose, and ammonium on cell growth and lincomycin production by Streptomyces lincolnensis in chemically defined media.
4832Mag: !Mag Characterization of a Purified Photosystem II-Phycobilisome Particle Preparation from Porphyridium cruentum.
4833Mag: !Mag Purification and Characterization of the Pea Chloroplast Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Complex : A Source of Acetyl-CoA and NADH for Fatty Acid Biosynthesis.
4834Mag: !Mag The mechanisms of "primary mineralization' in the reaction of bone to injury and administration of implant.
4835Mag: !Mag Effects of cadmium on urinary electrolytes and essential metals in rats
4836Mag: !Mag An in vitro investigation of the astringency property of certain anhidrotic solutions.
4837Mag: !Mag cis-Diamminedichloroplatinum-induced hypomagnesemia and renal magnesium wasting.
4838Mag: !Mag High-dose cisplatin in patients with advanced malignancies.
4839Mag: !Mag Energy response of a thermoluminescent lithium fluoride disc dosimeter to beta-rays.
4840Mag: !Mag Trace element concentrations in hair from autistic children.
4841Mag: !Mag Small-angle X-ray and light scattering studies on the influence of Mg2+ ions on the structure of the RNA from bacteriophage MS2.
4842Mag: !Mag Magnesium, calcium and phosphate changes in the serum of newborn infants after exchange transfusion
4843Mag: !Mag Effect of chronic uremia in the rat on cerebral mitochondrial calcium concentrations.
4844Mag: !Mag Diabetes insipidus during pregnancy complicated by preeclampsia. A case report.
4845Mag: !Mag Stability of metronidazole and ten antibiotics when mixed with magnesium sulphate solutions.
4846Mag: !Mag The effects of sodium and magnesium-ion interactions on chromatin structure and solubility.
4847Mag: !Mag Quin 2: the dissociation constants of its Ca2+ and Mg2+ complexes and its use in a fluorimetric method for determining the dissociation of Ca2+-protein complexes.
4848Mag: !Mag Survival of Brevibacterium linens during nutrient starvation and intracellular changes.
4849Mag: !Mag An unexpected effect of divalent cations on the adenovirus endogenous protein kinase: alteration in the specificity of phosphorylation.
4850Mag: !Mag Concentrations of selected cations in turkey serum and oviductal mucosae.
4851Mag: !Mag Response of laying hens to dietary saturated and unsaturated fatty acids in the presence of varying dietary calcium levels.
4852Mag: !Mag Assay of calcium borogluconate veterinary medicines for calcium gluconate, boric acid, phosphorus, and magnesium by using inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry.
4853Mag: !Mag Comparisons of avian renal responses to bovine parathyroid extract, synthetic bovine (1-34) parathyroid hormone, and synthetic human (1-34) parathyroid hormone.
4854Mag: !Mag pH-dependent effect of magnesium sulfate on the stability of penicillin G potassium solution.
4855Mag: !Mag Interactions between pharmacological cardioplegia and hypothermia for intraoperative myocardial protection.
4856Mag: !Mag Changes in anatomy, glomerular filtration, and solute excretion in aging rat kidney.
4857Mag: !Mag Phosphagens and intracellular pH in intact rabbit smooth muscle studied by 31P-NMR.
4858Mag: !Mag Acute digitalis toxicity during TURP.
4859Mag: !Mag Severe preeclampsia with persistent postpartum hemolysis and thrombocytopenia treated by plasmapheresis.
4860Mag: !Mag Particle-induced coronary vasoconstriction during cardioplegic infusion. Characterization and possible mechanisms.
4861Mag: !Mag Urease-induced crystallization in synthetic urine.
4862Mag: !Mag Elemental composition and water content of neuron and glial cells in the central nervous system of the North American medicinal leech (Macrobdella decora).
4863Mag: !Mag Effects of neuronal activity on inositol phospholipid metabolism in the rat autonomic nervous system.
4864Mag: !Mag Quantitative electron probe x-ray microanalysis and densitometric mass determination of individual rat blood platelets.
4865Mag: !Mag Variability of nutrient intake over a 3-day period.
4866Mag: !Mag One-day and 3-day nutrient intakes by individuals--Nationwide Food Consumption Survey findings, Spring 1977.
4867Mag: !Mag Concentrations of Mg and Ca in serum are correlated in normal individuals.
4868Mag: !Mag Stabilization of the calmagite reagent for automated measurement of magnesium in serum and urine.
4869Mag: !Mag Molar absorptivity and the blank correction factor.
4870Mag: !Mag Magnesium content of mononuclear blood cells.
4871Mag: !Mag trans-1,2-Diaminocyclohexane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid is superior to ethylenediamine-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid for sequestering Mg2+ in 31P NMR experiments involving ATP spectra at neutral and acidic pH.
4872Mag: !Mag Complications of total parenteral nutrition.
4873Mag: !Mag Soluble C3 proconvertase and convertase of the classical pathway of human complement. Conditions of stabilization in vitro.
4874Mag: !Mag Calciuretic effect of cyclic versus continuous total parenteral nutrition.
4875Mag: !Mag Amyloid 'degrading factor activity': a non-specific calcium-mediated effect.
4876Mag: !Mag Hypertension associated with alcohol withdrawal: assessment of mechanisms and complications.
4877Mag: !Mag The influence of jejunoileal ratio on plasma electrolytes and liver function in intestinal bypass for morbid obesity. A randomized trial.
4878Mag: !Mag Extraction of proteins from Saccharomyces cerevisiae ribosomes under nondenaturing conditions.
4879Mag: !Mag Calcium metabolism and parathyroid function in primary aldosteronism.
4880Mag: !Mag Non-drug treatment of hypertension.
4881Mag: !Mag Therapy of milk fever and downer cows.
4882Mag: !Mag Staphylococcus saprophyticus as the cause of infected urinary calculus.
4883Mag: !Mag Vitamin D metabolism and osteomalacia in cystic fibrosis.
4884Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural study of type II alveolar cell response to acute lung injury
4885Mag: !Mag Nutrient effects on anthracycline production by Streptomyces peucetius in a defined medium.
4886Mag: !Mag Caries prevention by raising the pH levels in the dental plaque during the intake of cariogenic carbohydrates
4887Mag: !Mag A comparison of Lamicel and prostaglandin E2 vaginal gel for cervical ripening before induction of labor.
4888Mag: !Mag Detection of tyrosine-specific protein kinases with gastrin as exogenous substrate.
4889Mag: !Mag 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 increases plasma magnesium and calcium in sheep fed liquid diets low in calcium and magnesium.
4890Mag: !Mag Interaction between Ca2+ and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine membranes. II. Fluorescence anisotropy study.
4891Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent metal ions--stimulants of uterine contractile activity--on the Mg2+, ATP-dependent transport of Ca2+ in the myometrial sarcolemma fraction
4892Mag: !Mag Vasopressin-induced activation of human blood platelets: prominent role of Mg2+.
4893Mag: !Mag Effect of calcium, magnesium and temperature on praziquantel-induced tegument damage of the male Schistosoma japonicum
4894Mag: !Mag Trace element profiles in individual blood cells from patients with Down's syndrome.
4895Mag: !Mag Analysis of nonprescription capsules purported to contain an adrenal androgen.
4896Mag: !Mag Reduced uptake of noradrenaline into storage vesicles from the pregnant uterus.
4897Mag: !Mag Selective interaction of DG-5128 with a low agonist affinity state of alpha-2 adrenoceptor.
4898Mag: !Mag Polyamines stimulate hGH receptor-binding in liver microsomes.
4899Mag: !Mag Effects of a salt mixture on the state of the mother, fetus and newborn in experimental hypoxia
4900Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium trisilicate mixture, metoclopramide and ranitidine on gastric pH, volume and serum gastrin.
4901Mag: !Mag Response of dairy cows to sodium bicarbonate and limestone in early lactation.
4902Mag: !Mag Liquid chromatographic determination of vitamins D2 and D3 in fortified milk and infant formulas.
4903Mag: !Mag Multiple forms of synthase D phosphatase and phosphorylase a phosphatase in liver and regulatory effects of metabolites on their activities.
4904Mag: !Mag The interaction between calcium and the activation of Na+, K+-ATPase by noradrenaline.
4905Mag: !Mag Reaction rate of OH radicals with phi X174 DNA: influence of salt and scavenger.
4906Mag: !Mag Characteristics of somatotropic growth hormone binding to homologous liv plasma membranes.
4907Mag: !Mag Etoposide and very high dose cisplatin: salvage therapy for patients with advanced germ cell neoplasms.
4908Mag: !Mag Electrocardiographic finding simulating acute myocardial infarction in a compound metabolic aberration.
4909Mag: !Mag Purification and mode of action of a microsomal exoribonuclease from rat liver.
4910Mag: !Mag Effects of dithiothreitol, dithioerythritol and chelating agents on 5'-nucleotidase from bull seminal plasma.
4911Mag: !Mag The storage pool deficiency in platelets from humans with the Ch?ak-Higashi syndrome: study of six patients.
4912Mag: !Mag Correlation of serum zinc levels with resistance of cattle to trypanosomiasis.
4913Mag: !Mag Medullary thyroid carcinoma and calcitonin.
4914Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of beef pancreatic asparagine synthetase.
4915Mag: !Mag Ca influx and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca release in cardiac muscle activation during postrest recovery.
4916Mag: !Mag Template properties of ultraviolet-irradiated poly(dC) replicated by E. coli DNA polymerase I: indication for a role of apyrimidinic-sites in UV-induced mutagenesis.
4917Mag: !Mag Evidence of essential disulfide bonds in angiotensin II binding sites of rabbit hepatic membranes. Inactivation by dithiothreitol.
4918Mag: !Mag CoA-independent transfer of arachidonic acid from 1,2-diacyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine to 1-O-alkyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (lyso platelet-activating factor) by macrophage microsomes.
4919Mag: !Mag Modulation of adenylate cyclase by guanine nucleotides and Kirsten sarcoma virus mediated transformation.
4920Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of the phosphate eliminating enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of BH4 in man.
4921Mag: !Mag Selective blockade of an excitatory synapse in rat cerebral cortex by the sigma opiate cyclazocine: an intracellular, in vitro study.
4922Mag: !Mag Skeletal muscle myosin subfragment-1 induces bundle formation by actin filaments.
4923Mag: !Mag Nucleotide-dependent binding of the gene 4 protein of bacteriophage T7 to single-stranded DNA.
4924Mag: !Mag The inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding protein (Ni) purified from bovine brain is a high affinity GTPase.
4925Mag: !Mag Subunit phosphorylation and activation of skeletal muscle phosphorylase kinase by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Divalent metal ion, ATP, and protein concentration dependence.
4926Mag: !Mag Insulin and epidermal growth factor do not affect phosphoinositide metabolism in rat liver plasma membranes and hepatocytes.
4927Mag: !Mag Therapy of stomach ulcer with low-dose antacid gel and cimetidine. A multicenter double-blind study
4928Mag: !Mag The change from symmetry to asymmetry of a sodium transport system in red cell membranes.
4929Mag: !Mag Structure of the calcium regulatory muscle protein troponin-C at 2.8 A resolution.
4930Mag: !Mag Effects of phosphorylation on the kinetic properties of rat liver ATP-citrate lyase.
4931Mag: !Mag The characterization and regulation of a polyamine-responsive, cyclic nucleotide-independent protein kinase activity in the mouse mammary gland.
4932Mag: !Mag Activation of guinea-pig and bovine neutrophil NADPH oxidase by N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide.
4933Mag: !Mag Thermodynamic study of domain organization in troponin C and calmodulin.
4934Mag: !Mag Regulatory light chains and scallop myosin. Form of light chain removal or reuptake is dependent on the presence of divalent cations.
4935Mag: !Mag Luminescence and photoconductivity in magnesium aluminum spinel.
4936Mag: !Mag A method for determining oligo- and poly(ADP-ribosyl)ated enzymes and proteins in vitro.
4937Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of NADH/NADPH-dependent p-hydroxybenzoate hydroxylase from Corynebacterium cyclohexanicum.
4938Mag: !Mag A clinical approach to common electrolyte problems: 4. Hypomagnesemia.
4939Mag: !Mag Fatty acid chain elongation by microsomal enzymes from the bovine meibomian gland.
4940Mag: !Mag Presence of a high-affinity Ca2+- and Mg2+-dependent ATPase in rat peritoneal mast-cell membranes.
4941Mag: !Mag Characterization of transverse tubule membrane proteins: tentative identification of the Mg-ATPase.
4942Mag: !Mag 13C nuclear magnetic resonance studies on bacteriochlorophyll a biosynthesis in Rhodopseudomonas spheroides S.
4943Mag: !Mag Binding of prostaglandin E1 to human erythrocyte membrane.
4944Mag: !Mag Characterization of extracellular phospholipase A2 in rheumatoid synovial fluid.
4945Mag: !Mag On the 6-phosphofructo-1-kinase phosphatase activity of protein phosphatase 2C and its dimeric nature.
4946Mag: !Mag Conformational changes induced by Mg2+ on actin monomers. An immunologic attempt to localize the affected region.
4947Mag: !Mag Purification and partial characterization of alkaline phosphatase of matrix vesicles from fetal bovine epiphyseal cartilage. Purification by monoclonal antibody affinity chromatography.
4948Mag: !Mag Plasmalogenase in hamster heart.
4949Mag: !Mag Characterization of an arachidonic acid-selective acyl-CoA synthetase from murine T lymphocytes.
4950Mag: !Mag The activation of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor by the transmitter.
4951Mag: !Mag An N-methylaspartate receptor-mediated synapse in rat cerebral cortex: a site of action of ketamine?
4952Mag: !Mag Lunar Sample 14425: Characterization and Resemblance to High-Magnesium Microtektites.
4953Mag: !Mag Effects of low magnesium and magnesium-free solutions on action potentials of isolated right ventricular muscle cell in the guinea pig
4954Mag: !Mag Copper, zinc and magnesium levels in placental tissue in early pregnancy and in at-term and prolonged pregnancies
4955Mag: !Mag Forskolin stimulation of adenylate cyclase in human thyroid membranes.
4956Mag: !Mag High-dose cisplatin with sodium thiosulfate protection.
4957Mag: !Mag The negative correlation between prolactin and ionic calcium in cord blood of full term infants.
4958Mag: !Mag Radioimmunoassay of cholecystokinin using XAD-2 resin extraction method of plasma. Plasma cholecystokinin responses after a meal and intraduodenal ingestion of MgSO4 in humans
4959Mag: !Mag A study of serum and cerebrospinal fluid magnesium in convulsive disorders.
4960Mag: !Mag Rabbit liver phosphorylase a phosphatase: regulation by glucose and caffeine.
4961Mag: !Mag Characterization of magnesium-induced urinary disease in the cat and comparison with feline urologic syndrome.
4962Mag: !Mag Effect of electrophoresis of atropine, ganglerone, papaverine and magnesium sulfate on liver hemodynamics studied by rheography
4963Mag: !Mag 20 years' experience in using electric reversion of sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation
4964Mag: !Mag Modulation by calcitonin of magnesium and calcium urinary excretion in the rat.
4965Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary potassium and sodium on magnesium utilization in sheep.
4966Mag: !Mag Effects of potassium + magnesium aspartate on muscle metabolism and force development during short intensive static exercise.
4967Mag: !Mag The non-participation of Na, K, and Mg ions in Lippes loop breakage
4968Mag: !Mag Disorder of magnesium metabolism in hyper- and hypothyroid patients
4969Mag: !Mag Magnesium metabolism studies in children with chronic inflammatory disease of the bowel.
4970Mag: !Mag Transient neutral fat steatorrhea, elevated sweat chloride concentration, and hypoparathyroidism in a child with celiac disease.
4971Mag: !Mag A note on gentamicin susceptibility testing: the validity of the MS-2 system and Rosco Neosensitabs agar diffusion.
4972Mag: !Mag On the coordination properties of Eu3+ bound to tRNA.
4973Mag: !Mag Mechanism of depolarization of rat cortical synaptosomes at submicromolar external Ca2+ activity. The use of Ca2+ buffers to control the synaptosomal membrane potential.
4974Mag: !Mag Translation fidelity in the aging mammal: studies with an accurate in vitro system on aged rats.
4975Mag: !Mag Two bacteriophages of Clostridium difficile.
4976Mag: !Mag Abnormal calcium and magnesium stores in erythrocytes and granulocytes from patients with inflammatory connective tissue diseases. Relationship to inflammatory activity and effect of corticosteroid therapy.
4977Mag: !Mag Further characterization of the reassembly of creatine kinase and effect of substrate.
4978Mag: !Mag Modulation of rat liver hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA reductase by protein phosphatases: purification of nonspecific hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA reductase phosphatases.
4979Mag: !Mag Efficacy of activated charcoal and magnesium citrate in the treatment of oral paraquat intoxication.
4980Mag: !Mag The use of magnesium sulfate in the anesthetic management of pheochromocytoma.
4981Mag: !Mag Water and ion shifts in skeletal muscle of humans with intense dynamic knee extension.
4982Mag: !Mag Disappearance of high-incidence amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and parkinsonism-dementia on Guam.
4983Mag: !Mag Dietary calcium and vitamin D: risk factors in the development of atherosclerosis in young goats.
4984Mag: !Mag Establishment of proliferative, pure cultures of pigmented chicken melanocytes from neural tubes.
4985Mag: !Mag Increasing calcium intake lowers blood pressure: the literature reviewed.
4986Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and myocardial infarct size in the dog.
4987Mag: !Mag Fractionation of micrococcal nuclease-digested chromatin solubilized at physiologic ionic strength.
4988Mag: !Mag Chronic diarrhea caused by abuse of laxatives
4989Mag: !Mag Relationships between magnesium and protein concentrations in serum.
4990Mag: !Mag Glycolate kinase activity in human red cells.
4991Mag: !Mag Adherence of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes to endothelial monolayers: effects of temperature, divalent cations, and chemotactic factors on the strength of adherence measured with a new centrifugation assay.
4992Mag: !Mag Golytely lavage versus a standard colonoscopy preparation. Effect on normal colonic mucosal histology.
4993Mag: !Mag Microassay for ammonium by determination of ammonia nitrogen in a nitrogen analyzer.
4994Mag: !Mag Crystallization of excipients in tablets.
4995Mag: !Mag Metabolic complications during total parenteral
4996Mag: !Mag Microvascular albumin permeability in isolated perfused lung: effects of EDTA.
4997Mag: !Mag In vitro reassociation of EDTA-extractable proteins with calf lens fiber membranes.
4998Mag: !Mag Long-term lithium treatment. Some clinical, psychological and biological aspects.
4999Mag: !Mag Subunit dissociation and reconstitution of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase from Chromatium vinosum.
5000Mag: !Mag Flexibility of DNA and RNA upon binding to different metal cations. An investigation of the B to A to Z conformational transition by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy.
5001Mag: !Mag The biosynthesis of porphyrins, chlorophylls, and vitamin B12.
5002Mag: !Mag Genetic transformation of the phytopathogenic bacteria, Erwinia chrysanthemi.
5003Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium in insulin-dependent diabetics and healthy subjects in relation to insulin secretion and glycemia during glucose-glucagon test.
5004Mag: !Mag Successful sodium thiosulphate treatment for recurrent calcium urolithiasis.
5005Mag: !Mag Urinary tract stones.
5006Mag: !Mag Resolution and properties of the catalytic unit of cardiac adenylate cyclase.
5007Mag: !Mag Role of chromatin structure in the repair of DNA photoproducts in mammalian cells.
5008Mag: !Mag Adenosine triphosphate--magnesium chloride ameliorates reperfusion injury following ischemia as determined by phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance.
5009Mag: !Mag Electron probe study of human and red deer cementum and root dentin.
5010Mag: !Mag Relationships between carbonate, sex and other macroelements in human whole enamel.
5011Mag: !Mag Accurate initiation of rat ribosomal RNA gene transcription using a fractionated nuclear extract from normal liver and a hepatoma.
5012Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of an RNA ligase from HeLa cells.
5013Mag: !Mag In situ enzymatic reclosure of opened imidazole rings of purines in DNA damaged by gamma-irradiation.
5014Mag: !Mag Pharmacokinetics and biologic effects of calcitriol in normal humans.
5015Mag: !Mag Dual effect of filamin on actomyosin ATPase activity.
5016Mag: !Mag Inhibition of hydrolysis of phosphorylated Ca2+,Mg2+-ATPase of the sarcoplasmic reticulum by Ca2+ inside and outside the vesicles.
5017Mag: !Mag In vitro activity of enoxacin compared with norfloxacin and amikacin.
5018Mag: !Mag The effect of zinc on vitamin D3-induced cardiac necrosis.
5019Mag: !Mag Thallium replaces potassium in activation of the (Na+,K+)-ATPase of rat liver plasma membranes.
5020Mag: !Mag Diagnosis of hyperparathyroidism.
5021Mag: !Mag Disseminated talc granulomatosis. An unusual finding in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and fatal cytomegalovirus infection.
5022Mag: !Mag Insulin-induced increases in the activity of the spontaneously active and ATP.Mg-dependent forms of phosphatase-1 in alloxan-diabetic rat liver.
5023Mag: !Mag The phosphate-pyrophosphate exchange and hydrolytic reactions of the membrane-bound pyrophosphatase of Rhodospirillum rubrum: effects of Mg2+, phosphate, and pyrophosphate.
5024Mag: !Mag Pharmacological characterization of postsynaptic receptors for excitatory amino acids in Purkinje cell dendrites in the guinea pig cerebellum.
5025Mag: !Mag Profiles of evoked release along the length of frog motor nerve terminals.
5026Mag: !Mag The effect of Ca++ and Mg++ on the action of Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin on Vero cells.
5027Mag: !Mag Quantitative studies on some antagonists of N-methyl D-aspartate in slices of rat cerebral cortex.
5028Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of an anion-activated ATPase from radish microsomes.
5029Mag: !Mag Interaction of azide with beef heart mitochondrial ATPase.
5030Mag: !Mag Internal motions of transfer RNA: a study of exchanging protons by magnetic resonance.
5031Mag: !Mag Two types of calcium channels in the somatic membrane of new-born rat dorsal root ganglion neurones.
5032Mag: !Mag Radioimmunoassay of cyclic AMP can provide a highly sensitive assay for adenylate cyclase, even at very high ATP concentrations.
5033Mag: !Mag Medical complications of bulimia: a prospective evaluation.
5034Mag: !Mag Cerebrospinal fluid magnesium and calcium related to amine metabolites, diagnosis, and suicide attempts.
5035Mag: !Mag Stabilization by host cell components and Mg2+ of the neutralization epitopes of poliovirus.
5036Mag: !Mag Comparison of improved precipitation methods for quantification of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.
5037Mag: !Mag Rapid method for evaluating intra-erythrocyte Na+ activity
5038Mag: !Mag Release of exchangeably bound guanine nucleotides from tubulin in a magnesium-free buffer.
5039Mag: !Mag Light scattering studies of the recA protein of Escherichia coli: relationship between free recA filaments and the recA X ssDNA complex.
5040Mag: !Mag Rate of membrane sodium transport and calcium and magnesium concentrations in the granulocytes of patients with primary arterial hypertension
5041Mag: !Mag Differential binding of rabbit fast muscle myosin light chain isoenzymes to regulated actin.
5042Mag: !Mag The influence of adenosine triphosphate, adenosine diphosphate and cytochalasin B on nucleotide exchange of F-actin. Evidence that treadmilling is not involved.
5043Mag: !Mag The metallochromic indicator dye Arsenazo III forms 1:1 complexes with caffeine.
5044Mag: !Mag Evidence that adrenaline activates key oxidative enzymes in rat liver by increasing intramitochondrial Ca2+.
5045Mag: !Mag Proteolysis of mitochondria in reticulocytes during maturation is ubiquitin-dependent and is accompanied by a high rate of ATP hydrolysis.
5046Mag: !Mag Reduction of the metallochromic indicators arsenazo III and antipyrylazo III to their free radical metabolites by cytoplasmic enzymes.
5047Mag: !Mag Subcellular localization and some properties of the enzymes hydrolysing inositol polyphosphates in rat liver.
5048Mag: !Mag Cardiopulmonary arrest after the administration of magnesium sulphate. A case report.
5049Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate and digitalis-toxic arrhythmias.
5050Mag: !Mag Characterization of Leishmania donovani acid phosphatases.
5051Mag: !Mag Fatty acyl-AMP as an intermediate in fatty acid reduction to aldehyde in luminescent bacteria.
5052Mag: !Mag Mg2+-ATP-dependent sodium transport in inside-out basolateral plasma membrane vesicles from guinea-pig small intestinal epithelial cells.
5053Mag: !Mag Cooperativity in low-affinity Mg2+ binding to tRNA.
5054Mag: !Mag Reaction mechanism of the calcium-transport ATPase in endoplasmic reticulum of rat liver. Demonstration of different reactive forms of the phosphorylated intermediate.
5055Mag: !Mag Vit C.Fe(III) induced loss of the covalently bound phosphate and enzyme activity of phosphoglucomutase.
5056Mag: !Mag Fe2+ and other divalent metal ions uncouple Ca2+ transport from (Ca2+-Mg2+)-ATPase in rat liver plasma membranes.
5057Mag: !Mag A latent activity dynein-like cytoplasmic magnesium adenosine triphosphatase.
5058Mag: !Mag Effects of Mg2+ on calcium accumulation by two fractions of sarcoplasmic reticulum from rabbit skeletal muscle.
5059Mag: !Mag Fast cold-induced activation of the external pathway of NADH oxidation in liver mitochondria of hyperthyroid rats.
5060Mag: !Mag alpha, beta-Bidentate CrADP abolishes the negative cooperativity of yeast mitochondrial F1-ATPase.
5061Mag: !Mag Synexin binds in a calcium-dependent fashion to oriented chromaffin cell plasma membranes.
5062Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia causes coronary artery spasm.
5063Mag: !Mag Identification of enzymatic activities which process protein bound mono(ADP-ribose).
5064Mag: !Mag Labeling of a specific arginine residue at the active site of glutamine synthetase (E.coli).
5065Mag: !Mag Structural basis for stabilization of Z-DNA by cobalt hexaammine and magnesium cations.
5066Mag: !Mag Comparison of eubacterial and eukaryotic 5S RNA structures: a chemical modification study.
5067Mag: !Mag ADP-ribosyltransferase in isolated nuclei from sea-urchin embryos.
5068Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia and cyclosporin toxicity.
5069Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent cations on gastrointestinal hormone release and exocrine pancreatic secretion in dogs.
5070Mag: !Mag Are 2 tablets of magaldrate at bedtime effective in the therapy of duodenal ulcer?
5071Mag: !Mag Divalent cation-induced phosphatidic acid membrane fusion. Effect of ion binding and membrane surface tension.
5072Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies of calcium and magnesium binding to troponin C.
5073Mag: !Mag Changes in Ca2+ affinity related to conformational transitions in the phosphorylated state of soluble monomeric Ca2+-ATPase from sarcoplasmic reticulum.
5074Mag: !Mag Calmodulin: calcium, potassium, and magnesium ion multiple equilibria and kinetics for interconversion, including the effect of repeated stimulation.
5075Mag: !Mag Magnesium ions block an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component of synaptic transmission in rat hippocampus.
5076Mag: !Mag Conformational changes in actin resulting from Ca2+/Mg2+ exchange as detected by proton NMR spectroscopy.
5077Mag: !Mag Fusion of erythrocyte ghosts induced by calcium phosphate. Kinetic characteristics and the role of Ca2+, phosphate and calcium-phosphate complexes.
5078Mag: !Mag Formation constants for the complexes of orthophosphate with magnesium and hydrogen ions.
5079Mag: !Mag Cation binding by bacteriorhodopsin.
5080Mag: !Mag Enrichment and Isolation of Rumen Bacteria That Reduce trans- Aconitic Acid to Tricarballylic Acid.
5081Mag: !Mag Magnesium: metabolism and hormonal regulation in different species.
5082Mag: !Mag The interaction of main group metals with CC double bonds.  Molecular orbital calculations on the model complexes H2Zn C2H4 and H2Mg C2H4.
5083Mag: !Mag Infrared spectroscopic studies of the effect of elevated temperature on the association of pyroglutamic acid with clay and other minerals.
5084Mag: !Mag Tomato responses to ammonium and nitrate nutrition under controlled root-zone pH.
5085Mag: !Mag An evaluation of MES (2(N-Morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid) and Amberlite IRC-50 as pH buffers for nutrient solution studies.
5086Mag: !Mag Seafloor hydrothermal activity and spreading rates:  the Eocene carbon dioxide greenhouse revisted.
5087Mag: !Mag Millimeter-scale variations of stable isotope abundances in carbonates from banded iron-formations in the Hamersley Group of Western Australia.
5088Mag: !Mag Doubly excited states of beryllium and magnesium.
5089Mag: !Mag Bone mineral content of transilial biopsies in patients with hip fracture.
5090Mag: !Mag Renal responsiveness to magnesium and parathormone in primary familial hypomagnesaemia.
5091Mag: !Mag Apatite-type crystal deposition in arthritic cartilage.
5092Mag: !Mag Pharmacokinetics of magnesium sulfate in the sheep model.
5093Mag: !Mag Trace elements in chemical evolution. II: Synthesis of amino acids under simulated primitive earth conditions in the presence of trace elements.
5094Mag: !Mag Formation of a hexagonal lattice structure by an R-form lipopolysaccharide of Klebsiella: relationship between lattice formation and uniform salt forms.
5095Mag: !Mag Cooperative phenomena in the membrane potential of parathyroid cells induced by divalent cations
5096Mag: !Mag Freeze-dried vaccine against Rinderpest: stability and activity study.
5097Mag: !Mag Experimental study of fluorosis in lambs
5098Mag: !Mag Metals: trace-elements and toxics.
5099Mag: !Mag Multivitamin-mineral supplementation: effects on blood chemistries of college-age women.
5100Mag: !Mag Maternal plasma proteins, magnesium, zinc and copper concentration at term associated with birth size in Kuwait.
5101Mag: !Mag Renal excretion of electrolytes in patients on long-term diuretic therapy for arterial hypertension and/or congestive heart failure.
5102Mag: !Mag Bone disease in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis treatment and the role in its development of magnesium in drinking water used in the preparation of dialysis solution
5103Mag: !Mag Reproducibility of spectrophotometric and flame photometric methods
5104Mag: !Mag Modulation of forskolin binding to rat brain membranes.
5105Mag: !Mag Mineral deposition in diethylstilbestrol- and Synovex-treated steers.
5106Mag: !Mag A study of the selective inhibition by urea of neutrophil alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes.
5107Mag: !Mag Effect of ATP, ADP and magnesium ions on the activity of phosphorylase kinase from rabbit skeletal muscles
5108Mag: !Mag Metabolic alkalosis with hypertonic dehydration in a patient with diarrhoea and magnesium oxide ingestion.
5109Mag: !Mag Influence of Mg2+-deficiency on the membrane elastic shear modulus and geometric factors of rat blood cells.
5110Mag: !Mag Determination of zinc, magnesium and copper in the amniotic fluid of pregnant patients with suspected intrauterine retardation
5111Mag: !Mag Cardioplegic protection with hypothermic K-Fluosol DA and K/Mg-Fluosol DA solutions.
5112Mag: !Mag Abstracts. International Symposium on Magnesium and its Relationship to Cardiovascular, Renal, and Metabolic Disorders. Los Angeles, Calif., USA, February 12-15, 1985.
5113Mag: !Mag Relationship between magnesium, potassium and sodium concentrations in lymphocytes and erythrocytes from normal subjects.
5114Mag: !Mag The myth of long-term thiazide-induced magnesium deficiency.
5115Mag: !Mag Skeletal muscle magnesium and potassium determinations: correlation with lymphocyte contents of magnesium and potassium.
5116Mag: !Mag Magnesium variability of lymphocytes from cell culture.
5117Mag: !Mag Influence of vitamin C and magnesium on calcium, magnesium and copper contents of guinea pig tissues.
5118Mag: !Mag Effect of two antacids on the bioavailability of paracetamol.
5119Mag: !Mag The relationship of lithium-potassium cotransport and the passive lithium leak to hypertension in Utah subjects.
5120Mag: !Mag Electrolyte intake and excretion and blood pressure in young students with and without family history of hypertension.
5121Mag: !Mag Electrolytes and hypertension.
5122Mag: !Mag Magnesium determination in maternal and umbilical cord serum following tocolysis with magnesium supplement
5123Mag: !Mag Case of primary hypomagnesemia with functional hypoparathyroidism
5124Mag: !Mag The content and release of endogenous GABA in isolated horizontal cells of the goldfish retina.
5125Mag: !Mag Analysis of urinary calculi
5126Mag: !Mag Changing patterns of femoral and skeletal mineralization during growth in juvenile X-linked hypophosphatemic mice.
5127Mag: !Mag Mg content of healthy and chronically diseased human cancellous bone in relation to age and some physical and chemical factors.
5128Mag: !Mag Uremic neuropathy: clinical and neurophysiological investigation of dialysis patients using different chemical membranes.
5129Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent ions in acrosome reaction induced by glycosamineglycans in porcine spermatozoa.
5130Mag: !Mag St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegia for myocardial preservation during prolonged aortic cross-clamping.
5131Mag: !Mag The effects of methenamine-hippurate upon urinary risk factors for renal stone formation.
5132Mag: !Mag Clinical evaluation of triletide versus antacids in the treatment of duodenal ulcer out-patients.
5133Mag: !Mag The toxic shock syndrome revisited.
5134Mag: !Mag Activated platelets stimulate human neutrophils functions.
5135Mag: !Mag Impaired potassium and magnesium homeostasis in acute tubulo-interstitial nephritis.
5136Mag: !Mag Reduction of the increased portal vascular resistance of the isolated perfused cirrhotic rat liver by vasodilators.
5137Mag: !Mag Plasma and skeletal muscle electrolytes in patients with Crohn's disease.
5138Mag: !Mag Andrew's liver salt as an effervescent in upper gastrointestinal radiography.
5139Mag: !Mag Biochemical variables in plasma and urine before and after prolonged physical exercise.
5140Mag: !Mag Comparative kinetic studies of Mn2+-activated and fructose-1,6-P-modified Mg2+-activated pyruvate kinase from Concholepas concholepas.
5141Mag: !Mag Correction of respiratory acidosis and transient hypomagnesemia.
5142Mag: !Mag Aggravation of thiamine deficiency by magnesium depletion. A case report.
5143Mag: !Mag Possible linkage relationship between genetic markers and blood magnesium and zinc. A twin study.
5144Mag: !Mag Absorption of calcium, magnesium and phosphate during chronic renal failure and the effect of vitamin D in rabbits.
5145Mag: !Mag Peroral magnesium hydroxide therapy and intermittent claudication--a preliminary report.
5146Mag: !Mag An evaluation of test sticks used for the measurement of the specific gravity of urine from patients with stone disease.
5147Mag: !Mag Relationship of the surface structure of metaphase chromosomes to the higher order organization of chromatin fibers.
5148Mag: !Mag Actinomyces viscosus cell-free synthesis of extracellular slime polysaccharide.
5149Mag: !Mag Preservation of resting potential by magnesium in hypoxic canine cardiac cells.
5150Mag: !Mag Coronary arterial lesions in Mg-deficient hamsters.
5151Mag: !Mag Urinary magnesium loss in aging diabetic mellitus rats.
5152Mag: !Mag Quantifying the role of magnesium in the interrelationship between human mortality/morbidity and water hardness.
5153Mag: !Mag The relationship between unstable angina (UA) and myocardial infarction (MI)
5154Mag: !Mag Pheochromocytoma--a rare cause of hypermagnesemia.
5155Mag: !Mag Lymphocyte and bone magnesium in alcohol-associated osteoporosis.
5156Mag: !Mag Parenteral magnesium tolerance testing in the evaluation of magnesium deficiency.
5157Mag: !Mag The hyperventilation syndrome: a neurosis or a manifestation of magnesium imbalance?
5158Mag: !Mag Erythrocytic magnesium in freshwater fishes.
5159Mag: !Mag Lymphocyte and erythrocyte concentrations of potassium, magnesium and calcium in normal controls.
5160Mag: !Mag Ionic modulation of electrically induced fusion of mammalian cells.
5161Mag: !Mag Effect of cimetidine on maximal stomach secretion in physical stress and at rest in patients with chronic duodenal ulcer
5162Mag: !Mag Protection by magnesium of renal calcinosis in furosemide-treated weanling rats with moderate magnesium deficiency.
5163Mag: !Mag Diurnal rhythms in calcium and phosphate metabolism in rodents and their relations to lighting and feeding schedules.
5164Mag: !Mag Ototoxicity of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum.
5165Mag: !Mag Pseudoparalysis induced by cancer chemotherapy (cis-platinum)
5166Mag: !Mag The effect of pH on alkaline phosphatase activity in serum of the rat and other species.
5167Mag: !Mag Potentiality of artificial sea water salts for the production of carrageenase by a marine Cytophaga sp.
5168Mag: !Mag Observations on the article by Arsura et al.: Magnesium and zinc levels in ischemic heart disease, published in Magnesium 2: 105-112, 1983.
5169Mag: !Mag Magnesium level in drinking water and cardiovascular risk factor: a hypothesis.
5170Mag: !Mag Comparative effects of magnesium deficiency and overload on calcium and phosphorus metabolism in the growing pig
5171Mag: !Mag Electrolytes and ventricular arrhythmias.
5172Mag: !Mag Early radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis responds to magnesium therapy.
5173Mag: !Mag Magnesium and liver cirrhosis: a hypothesis.
5174Mag: !Mag Barium modifies the concentration dependence of active potassium transport by insect midgut.
5175Mag: !Mag Abstracts presented at the American College of Nutrition 26th annual meeting and the Fourth International Symposium on Magnesium. Blacksburg, Virginia, July 21-28, 1985.
5176Mag: !Mag C56 formation in the reaction mixture of isolated complement components through the classical complement pathway.
5177Mag: !Mag The influence of dietary calcium on kidney calcification and renal function in rats fed high-phosphate diets.
5178Mag: !Mag Renal stones--current viewpoints on etiology and management.
5179Mag: !Mag Laboratory evaluation of the nutritive value of average daily diets of selected population groups in Poland. III. Levels of calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, iron and potassium
5180Mag: !Mag Plasma 25-OH D deficiency in Maghrebian children more than 10 years of age immigrated to France
5181Mag: !Mag Magnesium excretion in idiopathic hypercalciuria.
5182Mag: !Mag Nonaprenylpyrophosphate synthetase from Micrococcus luteus.
5183Mag: !Mag Hexaprenylpyrophosphate synthetase of Micrococcus luteus B-P 26.
5184Mag: !Mag Magnesium and calcium dietary intakes of the U.S. population.
5185Mag: !Mag Physiologic changes during a marathon, with special reference to magnesium.
5186Mag: !Mag Interrelationship of dietary Mg intake and electrolyte homeostasis in hamsters: I. Severe Mg deficiency, electrolyte homeostasis, and myocardial necrosis.
5187Mag: !Mag Blood and urinary magnesium, zinc, calcium, free fatty acids, and catecholamines in type A and type B subjects.
5188Mag: !Mag Observations on serum and red blood cell magnesium changes in treadmill exercise-induced cardiac ischemia.
5189Mag: !Mag Enhanced incidence of isoproterenol-induced ventricular fibrillation in the magnesium-deficient rat.
5190Mag: !Mag Nutrition in cardiovascular disease.
5191Mag: !Mag Concentration of magnesium and calcium electrolytes in the last trimester of normal pregnancy and in fetal hypotrophy
5192Mag: !Mag Mineral nutrition of Aerobacter aerogenes for valine production in a synthetic medium.
5193Mag: !Mag Anti-ischemic protection of the myocardium by cardioplegic solutions
5194Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium for prevention of pain in vasospastic angina in a patient with recurrent myocardial infarction; pathogenesis of vasospasm
5195Mag: !Mag Study of urinary tract stone--correlation of urinary tract stones analyzed at Tsukuba University with clinical manifestations
5196Mag: !Mag Absence of alkaline phosphatase-linked inorganic phosphate transport in the chick jejunum.
5197Mag: !Mag Human red cell porphobilinogen deaminase. A simpler method of purification and some unusual properties.
5198Mag: !Mag Concentration of various bioelements in the serum of otosclerosis patients
5199Mag: !Mag Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic correlation of muzolimine with and without aluminium hydroxide.
5200Mag: !Mag The effects of single doses of muzolimine upon urinary solute and fluid excretion.
5201Mag: !Mag Sugar-induced caries affected by added fluoride and magnesium using a caries model
5202Mag: !Mag Magnesium and congestive heart failure.
5203Mag: !Mag Effect of amiloride on experimental gentamicin nephrotoxicity.
5204Mag: !Mag Renal magnesium and phosphate wastage in a patient with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis: effect of oral phosphorus and magnesium supplements.
5205Mag: !Mag Skeletal muscle water and electrolytes in treated and untreated essential hypertension.
5206Mag: !Mag Electrogenic calcium transport in plasma membrane of rat pancreatic acinar cells.
5207Mag: !Mag Lens cell-to-cell channel protein: I. Self-assembly into liposomes and permeability regulation by calmodulin.
5208Mag: !Mag Muscarinic cholinergic receptor-mediated attenuation of adenylate cyclase activity in rat heart membranes.
5209Mag: !Mag Elemental analysis of individual rat blood platelets by electron probe X-ray microanalysis using a direct quantification method.
5210Mag: !Mag Renal handling of citrate in children with various kidney disorders.
5211Mag: !Mag Are insulin dependent diabetics in the West of Scotland prone to nutritional deficiencies?
5212Mag: !Mag Immunochemical studies of serum, urine and calculus proteins in urolithiasis.
5213Mag: !Mag Chromatographic separation as selection process for prebiotic evolution and the origin of the genetic code.
5214Mag: !Mag Effects of cations and cosolvents on eukaryotic ribosomal subunit conformation.
5215Mag: !Mag Utilization of mycelial waste of antibiotic production in the technology of kilned construction materials
5216Mag: !Mag Treatment of hypercalciuria found in urolithiasis patients
5217Mag: !Mag The relationship between QTc changes and nutrition during weight loss after gastroplasty.
5218Mag: !Mag Modified method for the rapid determination of the magnesium requirement of cows and sheep
5219Mag: !Mag Chronobiologic observations of calcium and magnesium in the elderly.
5220Mag: !Mag 31P-NMR spectra of AP4.
5221Mag: !Mag Myocardial reoxygenation damage. Can it be circumvented?
5222Mag: !Mag Differences in electrical and mechanical recovery from ischemic heart arrest and cardioplegia.
5223Mag: !Mag Evidence for three catalytic sites in heart sarcolemmal phospholipid N-methylation.
5224Mag: !Mag Ectopic calcification. The role of parathyroid hormone.
5225Mag: !Mag Magnesium renal wasting in calcium stone formers with idiopathic hypercalciuria contrasting with lower magnesium:calcium urinary ratio.
5226Mag: !Mag Symptomatic hypercalcaemia precipitated by magnesium therapy.
5227Mag: !Mag Increase in membrane permeability in the absence of Ca and Mg in the smooth muscle of guinea-pig taenia coli.
5228Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in human subjects--a personal historical perspective.
5229Mag: !Mag Magnesium, potassium, sodium and calcium in post-mortem vitreous humour from humans.
5230Mag: !Mag Limitation on the use of amiloride in early renal failure.
5231Mag: !Mag Moraxella bovis hemagglutinins: effect of carbohydrates, heating and erythrocytes.
5232Mag: !Mag The effect of the divalent cations Mg2+ and Mn2+ on adenylate cyclase activity in white and brown adipose tissue of lean and obese (ob/ob) mice.
5233Mag: !Mag Isoproterenol induces a ribosomal modification in the heart and the skeletal muscle of hamsters.
5234Mag: !Mag Placenta previa: an analysis of three years experience.
5235Mag: !Mag Changes in the electrolyte composition of the heart, liver and kidneys of the rat in pre- and postnatal ontogeny
5236Mag: !Mag Substantiation of the lower limit of dissolved salts in mineral waters
5237Mag: !Mag Stimulation by glucagon and PTH of Ca and Mg reabsorption in the superficial distal tubule of the rat kidney.
5238Mag: !Mag Intracellular localization and some properties of the system in guinea pig liver responsible for the aromatization of cyclohexanecarboxylic acid to hippuric acid.
5239Mag: !Mag Plasma and cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of magnesium in epileptic children.
5240Mag: !Mag Rapid strip test method to assist management of foaling mares.
5241Mag: !Mag The fine structure of euchromatin and centromeric heterochromatin in Tenebrio molitor chromosomes.
5242Mag: !Mag Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcaemia I: Renal handling of calcium, magnesium and phosphate.
5243Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalytical studies on cryofixed blood cells of the ascidian Phallusia mammillata. I. Elemental composition of morula cells.
5244Mag: !Mag Secretion of organic acids and bases by the kidneys of marine teleosts
5245Mag: !Mag A case-control study of renal cancer mortality at a Texas chemical plant.
5246Mag: !Mag Effect of calcium antagonists (nifedipine) on nephrocalcinosis and calcium excretion in the rat
5247Mag: !Mag Levels and intracellular distribution of calcium and magnesium in the myometrium
5248Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia in dairy cows and the quick urine test for control of the cow's magnesium supply
5249Mag: !Mag Magnesium concentrations in the ventricular and lumbar cerebrospinal fluid of hypomagnesaemic cows.
5250Mag: !Mag Renal osteodystrophy and metastatic calcification in long-term continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
5251Mag: !Mag Activity of septal and hippocampal neurons during isolated and combined growth in the anterior chamber of the eye in the rat
5252Mag: !Mag Basic aspects of blood platelet monoamine oxidase activity in hospitalized men alcoholics.
5253Mag: !Mag Cation binding effects on the pH, thermal and urea denaturation transitions in alpha-lactalbumin.
5254Mag: !Mag Near drowning in the dead sea. Electrolyte imbalances and therapeutic implications.
5255Mag: !Mag Postmortem magnesium concentration in bovine vitreous humor: comparison with antemortem serum magnesium concentration.
5256Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium loading on magnesium delivery to the juxtamedullary end-descending limb.
5257Mag: !Mag Major metals in human cancer: calcium, magnesium, sodium and potassium.
5258Mag: !Mag The use of magnesium sulphate infusions in the management of very severe tetanus.
5259Mag: !Mag Formation of a rate-limiting intermediate in 5S RNA gene transcription.
5260Mag: !Mag Activation of the caffeine center of the sarcoplasmic reticulum at a reduced concentration of magnesium ions
5261Mag: !Mag Magnesium transport in murine S49 lymphoma cells: pharmacology and divalent cation selectivity.
5262Mag: !Mag Myotonic muscular dystrophy associated with ritodrine tocolysis.
5263Mag: !Mag Torsade de pointes and magnesium deficiency.
5264Mag: !Mag The requirements for ionized calcium and magnesium in lymphocyte proliferation.
5265Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in a medical ICU population.
5266Mag: !Mag Treatment of severe hypophosphatemia.
5267Mag: !Mag Morphometric and elemental microanalytical studies of human lung in health and disease.
5268Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium on calcium oxalate crystallization.
5269Mag: !Mag A prospective study of bone mass in patients with type I diabetes.
5270Mag: !Mag Cell damage by viruses, toxins and complement: common features of pore-formation and its inhibition by Ca2+.
5271Mag: !Mag Platelet X-ray microanalysis in patients with chronic renal failure.
5272Mag: !Mag Magnesium metabolism in chronic lead poisoning: influence of chelating treatment
5273Mag: !Mag Substrate selection by RNA polymerase from E. coli. The role of ribose and 5'-triphosphate fragments, and nucleotides interaction.
5274Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations on the synthesis of alginic acid-like exopolysaccharide from mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
5275Mag: !Mag Dynamics of serum minerals changes after renal transplantation.
5276Mag: !Mag Prognosis of urolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis in hypomagnesemia.
5277Mag: !Mag Ca2+ inhibition of brush border alkaline phosphatase activity in Hymenolepis diminuta.
5278Mag: !Mag Collapse of cortex expansion during germination of Bacillus megaterium spores.
5279Mag: !Mag Polymorphonuclear leucocytes as a model of Ca++ and Mg++-dependent cellular activation. Effect of calcium entry blockers.
5280Mag: !Mag Glucose uptake in isolated heart cells: studies on the role of insulin.
5281Mag: !Mag Metabolic complications to total parenteral nutrition.
5282Mag: !Mag Hospital experience of total parenteral nutrition with 3-litre containers (big bags).
5283Mag: !Mag Addition of drugs to infusion fluids: pharmaceutical considerations on preparation and use.
5284Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium on the action of vasodilatory agents.
5285Mag: !Mag Magnesium requirements in patients with chronic inflammatory disease receiving intravenous nutrition.
5286Mag: !Mag Membrane-bound adenylate cyclase activity in the testis of the blue fox.
5287Mag: !Mag Alterations of neuroendocrine functions in spinal cord injury.
5288Mag: !Mag Induction of stable L-forms of Salmonella typhi and Listeria monocytogenes.
5289Mag: !Mag Bone magnesium in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with hypercapnia.
5290Mag: !Mag Nutritional aspects of inflammatory bowel disease.
5291Mag: !Mag Heptaprenylpyrophosphate synthetase from Bacillus subtilis.
5292Mag: !Mag Metabolic, water and electrolyte changes after moderate surgical trauma. Observations after different schedules of parenteral nutrition.
5293Mag: !Mag Magnesium, calcium and zinc levels in plasma and erythrocytes of spontaneously hypertensive rats
5294Mag: !Mag Production of four interfacial active rhamnolipids from n-alkanes or glycerol by resting cells of Pseudomonas species DSM 2874.
5295Mag: !Mag Osteosclerotic myeloma complicated by diffuse arteritis, vascular calcification and extensive cutaneous necrosis.
5296Mag: !Mag Elemental distribution in Rana pipiens retinal rods: quantitative electron probe analysis.
5297Mag: !Mag Transport of AMP by Rickettsia prowazekii.
5298Mag: !Mag Energy-dependent cell cohesion in myxobacteria.
5299Mag: !Mag The use of heat-treated Factor VIII-concentrates in von Willebrand's disease.
5300Mag: !Mag "On" and "off" responses of guinea pig ureter.
5301Mag: !Mag Staphylococcal alpha-toxin-induced PGI2 production in endothelial cells: role of calcium.
5302Mag: !Mag Cytotoxicity of human serum for Leishmania donovani amastigotes: antibody facilitation of alternate complement pathway-mediated killing.
5303Mag: !Mag Arachidonic acid release and catecholamine secretion from digitonin-treated chromaffin cells: effects of micromolar calcium, phorbol ester, and protein alkylating agents.
5304Mag: !Mag Multifactorial low remodeling bone disease during cyclic total parenteral nutrition.
5305Mag: !Mag Immunoregulatory properties of some heavy metals in physiology and pathology conditions. Part I.
5306Mag: !Mag Dietary intake, trace elements and serum protein status in young diabetics.
5307Mag: !Mag Magnesium and zinc in diabetic pregnancy.
5308Mag: !Mag Normocalcemic tetany and candidiasis.
5309Mag: !Mag Therapeutic effect of a magnesium salt in patients suffering from mitral valvular prolapse and latent tetany.
5310Mag: !Mag New perspectives on the role of magnesium in the pathophysiology of the cardiovascular system. II. Experimental aspects.
5311Mag: !Mag No effect of vitamin B-6 against premenstrual tension. A controlled clinical study.
5312Mag: !Mag Protective effect of two antacids in acute acetylsalicylic acid-induced injuries to the human gastric mucosa
5313Mag: !Mag Scanning electron microscopical observation on the isolated mucosa of rat small intestine: with special reference to the intestinal crypt.
5314Mag: !Mag Possibility of a morphological approach to the association process of small and large subunits of ribosomes.
5315Mag: !Mag Struvite urolithiasis in animals and man: formation, detection, and dissolution.
5316Mag: !Mag Rapid yeast DNA staining method for flow cytometry.
5317Mag: !Mag Oxygen-dependent and oxygen-independent mechanisms of microbicidal activity of neutrophils.
5318Mag: !Mag Minerals in foods: dietary sources, chemical forms, interactions, bioavailability.
5319Mag: !Mag Current data on the physiological effects of aldosterone in the kidney
5320Mag: !Mag Comparative evaluation of antacids in duodenal ulcer
5321Mag: !Mag The effects of piretanide, a potassium stable diuretic, on serum electrolytes in patients with congestive heart failure.
5322Mag: !Mag Controlled clinical assessment of the efficacy and tolerance of triletide versus antacids in patients with gastric and duodenal ulcers.
5323Mag: !Mag Calcium supplement therapy of hypertension--has the time come?
5324Mag: !Mag Studies of human natural killer cytotoxic factor (NKCF): characterization and analysis of its mode of action.
5325Mag: !Mag Acid and alkaline phosphatase activity in Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes.
5326Mag: !Mag Survival capability of brain slices in vitro and the relation of their functional status to incubation conditions
5327Mag: !Mag Actin and tubulin polymerization: the use of kinetic methods to determine mechanism.
5328Mag: !Mag Diuretics in cardiovascular therapy. Perusing the past, practising in the present, preparing for the future.
5329Mag: !Mag Changes in total body calcium after renal transplantation: effect of low-dose steroid regime.
5330Mag: !Mag Effects of glucose deprivation and altered Ca2+ concentrations on clonal insulin-producing cells (RINm5F).
5331Mag: !Mag The insulin receptor of adult heart muscle cells.
5332Mag: !Mag Comparison of ranitidine and high-dose antacid in the treatment of prepyloric or duodenal ulcer. A double-blind controlled trial.
5333Mag: !Mag Urinary excretion of electrolytes during prolonged physical activity in normal man.
5334Mag: !Mag Piretanide, a potassium stable diuretic, in the treatment of essential hypertension: a double-blind comparison of two formulations.
5335Mag: !Mag Neurological recovery after cardiac arrest: clinical feasibility trial of calcium blockers.
5336Mag: !Mag Calcium metabolism in pregnancy and the perinatal period: a review.
5337Mag: !Mag Blood pressure lowering and potassium conservation by triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide and amiloride-hydrochlorothiazide in hypertension.
5338Mag: !Mag The reorientation of the Golgi apparatus and the microtubule-organizing center in the cytotoxic effector cell is a prerequisite in the lysis of bound target cells.
5339Mag: !Mag Is type A behavior modulated by genetic factors regulating magnesium and zinc metabolism? Working hypotheses and preliminary results
5340Mag: !Mag In vitro and in vivo chemotherapy screening of the divalent cation chelator 1,10-orthophenanthroline.
5341Mag: !Mag Decreased calcium and magnesium urinary excretion during prostaglandin synthesis inhibition in the rat.
5342Mag: !Mag Relationship between postvaccinal anti-influenza antibodies, blood magnesium levels, and HLA antigens.
5343Mag: !Mag Influence of magnesium ion on human ventricular defibrillation after aortocoronary bypass surgery.
5344Mag: !Mag Biochemical study of muscle samples from chicken embryos affected by Wofatox 50 EC.
5345Mag: !Mag Atherosclerosis precursors in Finnish children and adolescents. VIII. Food consumption and nutrient intakes.
5346Mag: !Mag Calcium metabolism in healthy men deprived of sunlight.
5347Mag: !Mag Posteruptive maturation of tooth enamel studied with the electron microprobe.
5348Mag: !Mag Magnesium and phosphorous: the electrolytes of energy metabolism.
5349Mag: !Mag Analytical transmission electron microscopy of the distribution of elements in human supragingival dental calculus.
5350Mag: !Mag The effects of long-term anticonvulsant drug therapy on vitamin D metabolites and mineral homeostasis in pregnant epileptic women and their newborns.
5351Mag: !Mag Mechanisms of tobacco smoke toxicity on pulmonary macrophage cells.
5352Mag: !Mag Pharmacoprevention of tobacco smoke effects on macrophage cells.
5353Mag: !Mag Pyruvate carboxylase: mechanisms of the partial reactions.
5354Mag: !Mag Dental calculus: analysis with infrared and emission spectroscopy
5355Mag: !Mag Selected indicator enzymes in the blood serum of persons chronically exposed to fluorides before and after preventive administration of magnesium salts
5356Mag: !Mag Minerals and bone-modulating hormones in children on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
5357Mag: !Mag Metabolic bone disease with and without osteomalacia after intestinal bypass surgery: a bone histomorphometric study.
5358Mag: !Mag Maternal paralytic ileus as a complication of magnesium sulfate tocolysis.
5359Mag: !Mag The ionic composition of the plasma and erythrocytes of deep sea fish.
5360Mag: !Mag Differential effects of cytosolic modulators of fluoride-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in striatum and cerebral cortex.
5361Mag: !Mag Composition in N, Ca, P and Mg in the uterus, placenta and foetus from day 16 to day 21 of gestation in the rat. Influence of the hydrocortisone acetate.
5362Mag: !Mag Composition in N, Ca, P and Mg in the group uterus, placenta and foetus until day 14 of gestation in the rat. Influence of the hydrocortisone acetate.
5363Mag: !Mag Effects of ATP-MgCl2 and ATP-Na2 administration on renal function and cellular metabolism following renal ischemia.
5364Mag: !Mag Renal function, serum calcium and magnesium during treatment of advanced bladder carcinoma with cis-dichlorodiamineplatinum: impact of tumour site, patient age and magnesium suppletion.
5365Mag: !Mag Influence of renal capsule on kidney function in hypertension.
5366Mag: !Mag Comparison of the effects of taurine and magnesium on electrical characteristics of artificial and natural membranes. V. Study on the human amnion of the antagonism between magnesium, taurine and polluting metals
5367Mag: !Mag Behavior of urinary magnesium in comparison with urinary calcium and oxaluria in rats subjected to portacaval anastomosis
5368Mag: !Mag Magnesium, calcium, zinc, potassium, total and HDL cholesterol and total creatine kinase in 37 cases of instable angina: a correlation study
5369Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium levels in patients after myocardial infarction or unstable angina treated with nitrites and calcium antagonists.
5370Mag: !Mag Study of several parameters of magnesium metabolism in spontaneously hypertensive rats
5371Mag: !Mag Magnesium and the cardiovascular system. 12th annual French colloquium on magnesium. Paris, December 8, 1984.
5372Mag: !Mag Electrolyte levels in the CSF of children with nontumoral hydrocephalus. Relation to clinical parameters.
5373Mag: !Mag Investigations of the mixing time dependence of the lubricating properties of granular and powdered magnesium stearate.
5374Mag: !Mag Effect of orally administered magnesium hydroxide in experimental iron intoxication.
5375Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium ions on rat pineal N-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.5) activity.
5376Mag: !Mag ATP, glucose and lactate levels in the blood of persons exposed to fluorides before and after preventive administration of magnesium salts
5377Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on body metabolism and medical consequences of its deficiency
5378Mag: !Mag Magnesium, calcium and phosphorus levels in the blood and urine of persons chronically exposed to fluorides before and after preventive administration of magnesium salts
5379Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium salts on the urinary excretion of fluorine in persons chronically exposed to fluorides
5380Mag: !Mag Magnesium in the urine of persons chronically exposed to fluorides emitted by an aluminum foundry before and 1 year after closing down the source of emission
5381Mag: !Mag Effect of chronic administration of various magnesium salts on magnesium levels in rabbit erythrocytes and plasma in vitro
5382Mag: !Mag Effect of various levels of magnesium and fluorides on erythrocyte glycolysis in vitro
5383Mag: !Mag Clinical studies of a magnesium-fortified diet for patients with cardiovascular diseases
5384Mag: !Mag Tetanic syndrome during year seasons. III. Behaviour of wave M in ischemic and postischemic phase of ischemic test.
5385Mag: !Mag Seasons of year and tetanic syndrome.
5386Mag: !Mag Effect of prednisolone on the rat bone calcium, phosphorus and magnesium concentration.
5387Mag: !Mag Properties of human erythrocyte Ns and Ni, the regulatory components of adenylate cyclase, as purified without regulatory ligands.
5388Mag: !Mag Control of adenylate cyclase activity by G proteins.
5389Mag: !Mag Interaction of magnesium and inorganic phosphate with calcium-deprived sarcoplasmic reticulum adenosinetriphosphatase as reflected by organic solvent induced perturbation.
5390Mag: !Mag Transient-state kinetics of the ADP-insensitive phosphoenzyme in sarcoplasmic reticulum: implications for transient-state calcium translocation.
5391Mag: !Mag The assay and partial characterization of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase of the hamster epididymis.
5392Mag: !Mag Effect of embryonic magnesium deficiency on odontogenesis in Wistar rats
5393Mag: !Mag Properties of erythrocyte anion ATPase
5394Mag: !Mag The economy of isometric force development, myosin isoenzyme pattern and myofibrillar ATPase activity in normal and hypothyroid rat myocardium.
5395Mag: !Mag Impaired essential fatty acid metabolism in latent tetany.
5396Mag: !Mag Characterization of membrane-bound adenosinetriphosphatase activity of sarcolemma-enriched fraction from vascular smooth muscle.
5397Mag: !Mag Effect of sodium fluoride on magnesium-activated ATPase from human erythrocyte membranes
5398Mag: !Mag Mode of calcium activation of calmodulin-regulated enzymes.
5399Mag: !Mag Subunit structure and regulation of phosphorylase phosphatase.
5400Mag: !Mag Dietary factors in essential hypertension.
5401Mag: !Mag Hypocalcemia from deficiency of and resistance to parathyroid hormone.
5402Mag: !Mag Properties of an ecto-5'-nucleotidase of the renal brush border.
5403Mag: !Mag Basalt pneumoconiosis.
5404Mag: !Mag Tension development in frog skeletal muscle induced by silver ions.
5405Mag: !Mag Regulatory mechanism of cell pH in the renal proximal tubule of bullfrog nephron.
5406Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalysis of urinary stones, a comparison with other methods.
5407Mag: !Mag Changes in action potential and beta-adrenergic effects of the circular muscle of postpartum rat uterus.
5408Mag: !Mag Effect of wheat bran and pectin on the absorption and retention of phosphorus, calcium, magnesium and zinc by the growing pig.
5409Mag: !Mag Regulation of hormone receptors and adenylyl cyclases by guanine nucleotide binding N proteins.
5410Mag: !Mag Primary hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia. Report of a case and review of the world literature.
5411Mag: !Mag A re-examination of otoconia from the Shaker mouse.
5412Mag: !Mag Nutrition and hypertension.
5413Mag: !Mag DNA fragmentation in targets of CTL: an example of programmed cell death in the immune system.
5414Mag: !Mag Effect of parenteral magnesium on pulmonary function, plasma cAMP, and histamine in bronchial asthma.
5415Mag: !Mag Alteration of cellular calcium metabolism as primary cause of hypertension.
5416Mag: !Mag Calcium accumulating ability of mitochondria from bovine coronary artery. Comparison with aortic mitochondria.
5417Mag: !Mag Alterations in the activities of subcellular fractions marker enzymes in rat liver and brain by hydrocortisone and corticosterone treatment.
5418Mag: !Mag Properties required of a functional Ni, the GTP regulatory complex that mediates the inhibitory actions of neurotransmitters on adenylate cyclase.
5419Mag: !Mag Mechanism of diuretic-induced hypopotassemia in human hypertension.
5420Mag: !Mag Phosphatidate phosphatase in rat liver: the relationship between the activities with membrane-bound phosphatidate and aqueous dispersion of phosphatidate.
5421Mag: !Mag Plasma vitamin D3 response in cattle and sheep exposed to ultraviolet radiation.
5422Mag: !Mag The effect of several uremic parameters on uremic serum inhibition of lymphocyte blastogenesis.
5423Mag: !Mag Specific binding of the cAMP receptor protein of Escherichia coli to the lactose operon promoter.
5424Mag: !Mag The quantal nature of transmission and spontaneous potentials at the Torpedo electromotor junction.
5425Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of adenosine kinase from rat liver: separation from deoxyadenosine kinase activity.
5426Mag: !Mag Activation of adenylate cyclase system enzymes and lysosomal acid phosphatase in target cells interacting with T-killer cells
5427Mag: !Mag Interaction of type I collagen with sepiolite (magnesium silicate).
5428Mag: !Mag Effect of space flight factors on the hormonal regulation of water-salt metabolism
5429Mag: !Mag Ha-ras proteins exhibit GTPase activity: point mutations that activate Ha-ras gene products result in decreased GTPase activity.
5430Mag: !Mag On the mechanism of renaturation of complementary DNA strands by the recA protein of Escherichia coli.
5431Mag: !Mag Characterization of gill (Na+ + K+)-ATPase in the sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax L.).
5432Mag: !Mag Entrapping of the spin label tempocholine into human erythrocytes by resealing after hyposmolar stress. Comparison with haemolysis. The effects of some membrane-active substances.
5433Mag: !Mag Ca2+-stimulated phospholipid phosphoesterase activities in rabbit erythrocyte membranes.
5434Mag: !Mag Adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-dependent phosphoproteins in human placenta.
5435Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of chicken gizzard myosin: myosin filament hypothesis of calcium regulation.
5436Mag: !Mag Comparison of the effects of taurine and magnesium on electrical characteristics of artificial and natural membranes. IV. Effects on different components of the paracellular and cellular conductances of the human amnion
5437Mag: !Mag Biochemical and morphologic studies of the prostate gland in men subjected to radical cystectomy.
5438Mag: !Mag Trans-magnesium dependency of ATP-dependent calcium uptake into sarcoplasmic reticulum of skeletal muscle.
5439Mag: !Mag Characterization of the kinetic and regulatory properties of high-affinity Ca2+-ATPase activity in acinar preparations of rat submandibular salivary glands.
5440Mag: !Mag Magnesium regulation of the glycolytic pathway and the enzymes involved.
5441Mag: !Mag Influence of ATP and magnesium on phosphofructokinase from sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax L.) liver.
5442Mag: !Mag In vivo evaluation of the effect of antacids and H2 receptor blockaders on the intragastric pH in gastric and duodenal ulcer
5443Mag: !Mag Changes in plasma prolactin and magnesium in male rats treated with thioproperazine and/or bromocriptine
5444Mag: !Mag Purification of serotype 2 fimbriae of Bordetella pertussis and their identification as a mouse protective antigen.
5445Mag: !Mag Calcium and transmitter release.
5446Mag: !Mag Actions and interactions of neurotensin on preoptic anterior hypothalamic neurons in vitro.
5447Mag: !Mag Generation of calcium action potentials in crustacean muscle fibers following exposure to sulfhydryl reagents.
5448Mag: !Mag Three-year study on trace mineral concentration in the blood plasma of Shetland pony mares.
5449Mag: !Mag Effects of mercury on ion and osmoregulation in the shore crab Carcinus maenas (L.).
5450Mag: !Mag Magnesium chloride as an anaesthetic for cephalopods.
5451Mag: !Mag Physiological responses of the adult male collared peccary, Tayassu tajacu (Tayassuidae), to severe dietary restriction.
5452Mag: !Mag Activation of washed chicken thrombocytes by 1-O-hexadecyl/octadecyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine (platelet-activating factor).
5453Mag: !Mag Beta-mimetics, magnesium and tocolysis
5454Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy decreased the rate of intrauterine fetal retardation, premature rupture of membranes and premature delivery in risk pregnancies treated with betamimetics.
5455Mag: !Mag Plasma calcium and calcitonin in the marine teleost, Gadus morhua.
5456Mag: !Mag Distribution of plasma magnesium in various vertebrates.
5457Mag: !Mag Characteristics of the translation of thymosin alpha 1 precursor mRNA by cell-free wheat germ system. Evidence for the acetylation of thymosin alpha 1 precursor.
5458Mag: !Mag Absence of increase of serum alkaline phosphatase activity with parenteral nutrition-associated cholestasis: possible consequence of hypozincemia and hypomagnesemia.
5459Mag: !Mag The modulatory action of 5-hydroxytryptamine on sodium efflux: the barnacle muscle fibre as a model system.
5460Mag: !Mag The effect of oxytetracycline on growth and lipid metabolism in poultry.
5461Mag: !Mag Differences in the responses of brain cytosolic and mitochondrial hexokinases to three essential divalent metal ions.
5462Mag: !Mag Inhibition of adenylate cyclase.
5463Mag: !Mag Ouabain-insensitive Na+ stimulation of a microsomal Mg2+ -ATPase in gills of sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax L.).
5464Mag: !Mag Adenylate cyclase activity during phenotypic variation of Bordetella pertussis.
5465Mag: !Mag Urine analysis of three rodent species with emphasis on calcium and magnesium bicarbonate.
5466Mag: !Mag Purification and regulation of glutamine synthetase in a collagenolytic Vibrio alginolyticus strain.
5467Mag: !Mag Betamimetics and their substitutes for the treatment of premature labor
5468Mag: !Mag Bovine retinal glutamine synthetase 2. Regulation and properties on the basis of glutamine synthetase and glutamyl transferase reactions.
5469Mag: !Mag Stimulation of adenylate cyclase in the heart of Aplysia californica by biogenic amines.
5470Mag: !Mag Features of osmotic and ionic regulations in Russian sturgeon (Acipenser gldenst?i Brandt).
5471Mag: !Mag Properties and regulation of glutamine synthetase from Rhodospirillum rubrum.
5472Mag: !Mag Characterization of glutamate uptake into synaptic vesicles.
5473Mag: !Mag Absence of genotoxic effects of nonasbestos mineral fibers.
5474Mag: !Mag Role of cyclic AMP in antiserum-induced growth inhibition of murine leukemia L5178Y cells.
5475Mag: !Mag Energetic role of the plasma and mitochondrial membranes of neurons in antenatal pathology with increased convulsive susceptibility (review)
5476Mag: !Mag Insulin action on cardiac glucose transport. Studies on the role of the sodium pump.
5477Mag: !Mag Interferon induction in vitro by polyribonucleotides and intercalating drugs.
5478Mag: !Mag Transmembrane effects in the sodium pump system. II. The ratio of the sodium efflux to the sodium concentration in frog muscle in media with various sodium substitutes
5479Mag: !Mag Effects of captopril, hydrochlorothiazide, and their combination on timed urinary excretions of water and solutes.
5480Mag: !Mag Antihypertensive and metabolic effects of long-term therapy with nifedipine slow-release tablets.
5481Mag: !Mag The harmful effects of ethanol on ion transport and cellular respiration.
5482Mag: !Mag Lignoceroyl-CoA ligase activity in rat brain microsomal fraction: topographical localization and effect of detergents and alpha-cyclodextrin.
5483Mag: !Mag Biochemical markers for suicidal behavior.
5484Mag: !Mag Efficacy and limits of magnesium therapy in extrasystole
5485Mag: !Mag Mn2+ dependent transformation of Bacillus subtilis.
5486Mag: !Mag Torsades de pointes and hypomagnesemia
5487Mag: !Mag Medical treatment of idiopathic calcium lithiasis (II)
5488Mag: !Mag Mineral salts and water in the diet of the athlete
5489Mag: !Mag Dihydropyridine BAY K 8644 enables reduction of Ca concentration to induce catecholamine secretion from the perfused cat adrenal.
5490Mag: !Mag Histochemical analysis of the neural basal lamina in the hindbrain region of exencephalic mutant mice.
5491Mag: !Mag Calcium metabolism and the renin-aldosterone system in essential hypertension.
5492Mag: !Mag Coupling mechanisms of alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
5493Mag: !Mag Effect of cations and cation channel blockers on human natural killer cells.
5494Mag: !Mag Murein hydrolases of Caulobacter crescentus.
5495Mag: !Mag 10 nm RecA protein filaments formed in the presence of Mg2+ and ATP gamma S may contain RNA.
5496Mag: !Mag Single conductivity channels in membranes formed from mitochondrial lipids
5497Mag: !Mag Nucleoside phosphorothioates.
5498Mag: !Mag Relationship between magnesium and zinc levels of the diet and its protein utilization.
5499Mag: !Mag Determination of caffeine in tea by high-performance liquid chromatography and a modified digestion procedure.
5500Mag: !Mag Proceedings of a symposium: Calcium metabolism and calcium channel blockers for understanding and treating hypertension.
5501Mag: !Mag Enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation in B lymphocytes upon complexing of membrane immunoglobulin.
5502Mag: !Mag Photoaffinity cross-linking of the coupling factor 1 from Micrococcus luteus by 3'-arylazido-8-azido-ATP.
5503Mag: !Mag The effects of sodium, hydrogen and magnesium ions on mitochondrial calcium sequestration in adult rat ventricular myocytes.
5504Mag: !Mag Some thoughts on the evolutionary basis for the prominent role of ATP and ADP in cellular energy metabolism.
5505Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of a novel Mg2+-dependent ATPase present in the cytosol from human erythrocytes.
5506Mag: !Mag Stimulation of in vitro transcription from the SV40 early promoter by the enhancer involves a specific trans-acting factor.
5507Mag: !Mag Ca2+-stimulated, Mg2+-independent ATP hydrolysis and the high affinity Ca2+-pumping ATPase. Two different activities in rat kidney basolateral membranes.
5508Mag: !Mag Driving forces in hepatocellular uptake of phalloidin and cholate.
5509Mag: !Mag Hypothalamic sodium-transport inhibitor is a high-affinity reversible inhibitor of Na+-K+-ATPase.
5510Mag: !Mag Guanine nucleotides and magnesium dependence of the association states of the subunits of transducin.
5511Mag: !Mag The role of sialic acid in the nerve terminal for the release of transmitter.
5512Mag: !Mag Ca2+ and Mg2+-enhanced reduction of arsenazo III to its anion free radical metabolite and generation of superoxide anion by an outer mitochondrial membrane azoreductase.
5513Mag: !Mag The role of Mg2+-dependent phosphatidate phosphohydrolase in pulmonary glycerolipid biosynthesis.
5514Mag: !Mag Calcium dependence of villin-induced actin depolymerization.
5515Mag: !Mag Protein stabilization and destabilization by guanidinium salts.
5516Mag: !Mag Mechanism of protein salting in and salting out by divalent cation salts: balance between hydration and salt binding.
5517Mag: !Mag Structure of the thyrotropin receptor and thyroid adenylate cyclase system as determined by target analysis.
5518Mag: !Mag Comments on the BLAG model:  the carbonate-silicate geochemical cycle and its effect on atmospheric carbon dioxide over the past 100 million years.
5519Mag: !Mag Small increments in plasma calcium concentration reduce the responsiveness of forearm resistance vessels to verapamil in men with primary hypertension.
5520Mag: !Mag Experiences with Merfluan tooth powder after periodontal surgery
5521Mag: !Mag Induction of a Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent endonuclease activity during the early stages of murine erythroleukemic cell differentiation.
5522Mag: !Mag Magnesium salts in preventing and treating digitalis poisoning
5523Mag: !Mag Intrauterine synechiae complicated with threatened abortion and preterm labor. Combined therapy with terbutaline and magnesium sulfate.
5524Mag: !Mag Water diuretic effect of intravenously administered 9-deoxo-16, 16-dimethyl-9-methylene-PGE2 in conscious man.
5525Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia after cisplatin combination chemotherapy.
5526Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia associated with cisplatin combination chemotherapy.
5527Mag: !Mag Importance of the oxygenation of cardioplegic solutions for myocardial protection in cardiac surgery
5528Mag: !Mag Antibody preference for the catalytically active form of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase.
5529Mag: !Mag Correlation between the C3 fraction of complement and magnesium levels in the erythrocytes and blood serum of patients with juvenile-onset diabetes mellitus
5530Mag: !Mag Visual concomitants of retinal spreading depression.
5531Mag: !Mag Anti-arrhythmic action of magnesium sulfate in "torsade de pointes" ventricular arrhythmia
5532Mag: !Mag Determination of zinc, copper, magnesium and iron in renal diseases and their clinical significance
5533Mag: !Mag Ro 15-1570, a new sulfur-containing retinoid devoid of bone toxicity in rats.
5534Mag: !Mag Stones of the seminal vesicles and ejaculatory duct in infant: report of a case
5535Mag: !Mag Studies of influence of animal protein intake on the urinary risk factors of calcium oxalate stone formation
5536Mag: !Mag Calcium and hyperthyroidism
5537Mag: !Mag Chromatographic separation of the C(1), C(1a), and C(2) components of gentamicin and the assessment of their individual binding to serum proteins.
5538Mag: !Mag An evaluation of various biological characteristics in assessing low phosphorus intake in weanling swine.
5539Mag: !Mag Deficiency of external Ca and Mg increases membrane permeability in the vascular smooth muscle of rabbit aorta.
5540Mag: !Mag Calcitonin-like immunoreactivity in human milk, longitudinal alterations and divalent cations.
5541Mag: !Mag Changes in blood composition of pregnant cows during the onset of hypomagnesaemia.
5542Mag: !Mag Stimulation of tubular reabsorption of magnesium and calcium by antidiuretic hormone in conscious rats. Study in Brattleboro rats with hereditary hypothalamic diabetes insipidus.
5543Mag: !Mag Relapse rates of duodenal ulcer healed with concentrated antacid or cimetidine.
5544Mag: !Mag Effects of lysophospholipids on Ca2+ transport in rat liver mitochondria incubated at physiological Ca2+ concentrations in the presence of Mg2+, phosphate and ATP at 37 degrees C.
5545Mag: !Mag The effect of Citrullus colocynthis on sheep.
5546Mag: !Mag Effects of Crotalaria saltiana on Nubian goats.
5547Mag: !Mag Total cytoplasmic calcium in relaxed and maximally contracted rabbit portal vein smooth muscle.
5548Mag: !Mag Cycle length dependence of the chronotropic effects of adrenaline, acetylcholine, Ca2+ and Mg2+ in the Guinea-pig sinoatrial node.
5549Mag: !Mag Hair and serum copper, zinc, calcium, and magnesium concentrations in Alzheimer-type dementia.
5550Mag: !Mag Atypical stimulant responder.
5551Mag: !Mag Struvite uroliths in a cheetah.
5552Mag: !Mag Interaction of extracellular calcium and magnesium in the regulation of cytosolic calcium and PTH release in dispersed bovine parathyroid cells.
5553Mag: !Mag Magnesium intakes, balances, and blood levels of adults consuming self-selected diets.
5554Mag: !Mag Cardiovascular diseases.
5555Mag: !Mag Munchausen's syndrome by proxy (child abuse) presenting as apparent autoerythrocyte sensitization syndrome: an unusual presentation of Polle syndrome.
5556Mag: !Mag Respiratory arrest during therapy for premature labor in a patient with myasthenia gravis.
5557Mag: !Mag Button battery ingestion: assessment of therapeutic modalities and battery discharge state.
5558Mag: !Mag Hematuria and magnesium deficiency.
5559Mag: !Mag Effect of diet and intranephronic calculosis on bone modeling and parathyroid volume in rats.
5560Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary calcium, phosphorus and magnesium on intranephronic calculosis in rats.
5561Mag: !Mag Observations on the measurement and evaluation of endotoxemia by a quantitative limulus lysate microassay.
5562Mag: !Mag Nutrient intakes of female adolescents from eight southern states.
5563Mag: !Mag Schistosoma mansoni: differences in acetylcholine, dopamine, and serotonin control of circular and longitudinal parasite muscles.
5564Mag: !Mag Effects of extracellular calcium and magnesium on junctional intercellular communication in human fibroblasts.
5565Mag: !Mag Adsorption characteristics of certain antibiotics to veegum and activated charcoal.
5566Mag: !Mag The effect of differing dietary calcium and phosphorus contents on mineral metabolism and bone histomorphometry in young vitamin D-replete baboons.
5567Mag: !Mag Role of metal ions in activity and site:site heterogeneity in isocitrate lyase of castor seedling endosperm.
5568Mag: !Mag Covalent modification of the solubilized rat liver vitamin K-dependent carboxylase with pyridoxal-5'-phosphate.
5569Mag: !Mag Pseudoachondroplasia: biochemical and histochemical studies of cartilage.
5570Mag: !Mag Phenotypic modification of the reactivity in human serum of Escherichia coli K1 isolates.
5571Mag: !Mag Effects of intravenous glucose or epinephrine injection on plasma concentrations of potassium, magnesium and insulin in sheep.
5572Mag: !Mag Glucose phosphorylating activities in the islets of Langerhans of the rat. Effect of fasting.
5573Mag: !Mag The antimicrobial properties of magnesium monoperoxyphthalate hexahydrate.
5574Mag: !Mag DNA polymerases, deoxyribonucleases, and recombination during meiosis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
5575Mag: !Mag Comparative analysis of translation accuracy in an Escherichia coli and a mammalian cell-free system.
5576Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulphate in arterial disease.
5577Mag: !Mag The 'tomato effect' in clinical nutrition. New treatments languishing on the vine?
5578Mag: !Mag A newly designed model for infection-induced bladder stone formation in the rat.
5579Mag: !Mag Effect of 24,25(OH)2D3 on PTH levels and bone histology in dogs with chronic uremia.
5580Mag: !Mag Complement in chronic secretory otitis media. C3 breakdown and C3 splitting activity.
5581Mag: !Mag Improved myocardial recovery from ischemia. Treatment with low-dose adenosine triphosphate-magnesium chloride.
5582Mag: !Mag Safe aorta-saphenous vein anastomosis.
5583Mag: !Mag Local anesthetics: a new class of partial inhibitors of mitochondrial ATPase.
5584Mag: !Mag Effect of potassium deficiency on the magnesium metabolism of rats
5585Mag: !Mag Effect of potassium deficiency on magnesium metabolism of rats
5586Mag: !Mag Proteins of the kidney microvillar membrane. Biosynthesis of endopeptidase-24.11, dipeptidylpeptidase IV and aminopeptidases N and A in pig kidney slices.
5587Mag: !Mag 125I Tyr27 beta-endorphin: a radio-iodinated derivative of beta-endorphin for the study of opiate receptors.
5588Mag: !Mag Lack of specificity in cation effects on solubilized benzodiazepine receptor.
5589Mag: !Mag Protein, fiber, and mineral nutrition of growing dairy goats.
5590Mag: !Mag Channel selectivity and gating specificity of calcium-induced calcium release channel in isolated sarcoplasmic reticulum.
5591Mag: !Mag Metabolic control of ionic channels in the neuronal membrane.
5592Mag: !Mag DNA-binding proteins of human placenta: purification and characterization of an endonuclease.
5593Mag: !Mag Interactions of physiological ligands with the Ca pump and Na/Ca exchange in squid axons.
5594Mag: !Mag Chloride current induced by injection of calcium into Xenopus oocytes.
5595Mag: !Mag Studies on the action of nystatin on cultured rat myocardial cells and cell membranes, isolated rat hearts, and intact rats.
5596Mag: !Mag Characterization of cholecystokinin receptors on bovine gallbladder membranes.
5597Mag: !Mag Molecular mechanisms of manganese mutagenesis.
5598Mag: !Mag Ribonucleotide reductase of herpes simplex virus type 2 resembles that of herpes simplex virus type 1.
5599Mag: !Mag Modulation of phosphorylation of a 30-kD polyribosomal protein (pp30) by ACTH and spermine: comparison with modulation of brain protein synthesis.
5600Mag: !Mag Stereospecific receptors for substance-P on cultured human IM-9 lymphoblasts.
5601Mag: !Mag Abnormal rectoanal function in children recovered from chronic constipation and encopresis.
5602Mag: !Mag Characterization of a protein kinase-substrate complex precipitable with Ca2+ from the cytosol fraction of AH-66 hepatoma cells.
5603Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of mitochondrial thioesterase from rabbit myocardium and its inhibition by palmitoyl carnitine.
5604Mag: !Mag Characterization of somatostatin binding sites in cytosolic fraction of rat intestinal mucosa.
5605Mag: !Mag Quantitative aspects of metal ion binding to certain transfer RNA anticodon loop modified nucleosides.
5606Mag: !Mag Effects of metal ions and chelating agents on in vitro stability of glucocorticoid receptors in brain cytosol.
5607Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of RNA polymerase I augments its interaction with autoantibodies of systemic lupus erythematosus patients.
5608Mag: !Mag Monoclonal antibodies against human abnormal (des-gamma-carboxy)prothrombin specific for the calcium-free conformer of prothrombin.
5609Mag: !Mag Mutational analysis of primosome assembly sites. II. Role of secondary structure in the formation of active sites.
5610Mag: !Mag An electron spin resonance study of o-semiquinones formed during the enzymatic and autoxidation of catechol estrogens.
5611Mag: !Mag Messenger RNA guanlyltransferase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. II. Catalytic properties.
5612Mag: !Mag Coralliform calculi and recurrent urinary infection: a case of newberyite calculi (MgHPO4.3H2O)
5613Mag: !Mag Isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase from bakers' yeast: variable discrimination between tRNAIle and tRNAVal and different pathways of cognate and noncognate aminoacylation under standard conditions, in the presence of pyrophosphatase, elongation factor Tu-GTP complex, and spermine.
5614Mag: !Mag Chronically elevating plasma Mg2+ improves hippocampal frequency potentiation and reversal learning in aged and young rats.
5615Mag: !Mag Assessment of adequacy of pancreatic enzyme replacement with the multiple-phase carbon-14-triolein test.
5616Mag: !Mag Association between cyclosporin neurotoxicity and hypomagnesaemia.
5617Mag: !Mag Calcium-ion and calmodulin-dependent kappa-casein kinase in rat mammary acini.
5618Mag: !Mag A comparison of intravenous and intramuscular magnesium sulfate regimens in preeclampsia.
5619Mag: !Mag Inhibition of polymorphonuclear leukocyte functions by chlortetracycline.
5620Mag: !Mag Differences in physical and biological properties of 50S ribosomes and 23S RNAs derived from tight and loose couple 70S ribosomes.
5621Mag: !Mag Stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation in lectin treated human lymphocytes.
5622Mag: !Mag Studies on enzymes related to diacylglycerol production in activated platelets. II. Subcellular distribution, enzymatic properties and positional specificity of diacylglycerol- and monoacylglycerol-lipases.
5623Mag: !Mag Regulation of human leukocyte microsomal hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA reductase activity by a phosphorylation and dephosphorylation mechanism.
5624Mag: !Mag Regulation of ligand binding to leukotriene D4 receptors: effects of cations and guanine nucleotides.
5625Mag: !Mag Preparation and polymerization of skeletal muscle ADP-actin.
5626Mag: !Mag Interaction of the stimulatory and inhibitory regulatory proteins of the adenylyl cyclase system with the catalytic component of cyc-S49 cell membranes.
5627Mag: !Mag Regulation of light-harvesting chlorophyll-binding protein mRNA accumulation in Chlamydomonas reinhardi. Possible involvement of chlorophyll synthesis precursors.
5628Mag: !Mag Phytanic acid alpha-oxidation in rat liver. Requirement of cytosolic factor.
5629Mag: !Mag Spermine. A regulator of mitochondrial calcium cycling.
5630Mag: !Mag Characterization of D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate phosphatase in rat liver plasma membranes.
5631Mag: !Mag Evidence that neutral sphingomyelinase of cultured murine neuroblastoma cells is oriented externally on the plasma membrane.
5632Mag: !Mag Localization of the hemagglutinating activity of platelet thrombospondin to a 140 000-dalton thermolytic fragment.
5633Mag: !Mag Determination of dissociation constants for enzyme-reactant complexes for NAD-malic enzyme by modulation of the thiol inactivation rate.
5634Mag: !Mag Kinetic mechanism in the direction of oxidative decarboxylation for NAD-malic enzyme from Ascaris suum.
5635Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of a fibrinogenase from the venom of Naja nigricollis.
5636Mag: !Mag Effect of Mg2+ on solution conformation of two different transfer ribonucleic acids.
5637Mag: !Mag Catecholamine-stimulated guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) binding to the stimulatory GTP-binding protein of adenylate cyclase: kinetic analysis in reconstituted phospholipid vesicles.
5638Mag: !Mag Reconstitution of catecholamine-stimulated binding of guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) to the stimulatory GTP-binding protein of adenylate cyclase.
5639Mag: !Mag In vitro regulation of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutarylcoenzyme A reductase and acylcoenzyme A: cholesterol acyltransferase activities by phosphorylation-dephosphorylation in rabbit intestine.
5640Mag: !Mag Calcium and cardiovascular function. Intracellular calcium levels during contraction and relaxation of mammalian cardiac and vascular smooth muscle as detected with aequorin.
5641Mag: !Mag Potassium and magnesium abnormalities: diuretics and arrhythmias in hypertension.
5642Mag: !Mag Solubilized monomeric sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca pump protein. Phosphorylation by inorganic phosphate.
5643Mag: !Mag ATP-dependent DNA topoisomerase from the archaebacterium Sulfolobus acidocaldarius. Relaxation of supercoiled DNA at high temperature.
5644Mag: !Mag Effects of hydrochlorothiazide plus sotalol on acute urinary electrolyte excretion in normal subjects.
5645Mag: !Mag Proton movements and electric potential generation in reconstituted ATPase proteoliposomes from the thermophilic cyanobacterium Synechococcus 6716.
5646Mag: !Mag Activation of brain calcineurin towards proteins containing Thr(P) and Ser(P) by Ca2+, calmodulin, Mg2+ and transition metal ions.
5647Mag: !Mag Comparison of two digestion methods used in the determination of selenium in marine biological tissues by gas chromatography with electron-capture detection.
5648Mag: !Mag Mineral content of colostrum and mature milk of lactating Nigerian women as influenced by stage of lactation.
5649Mag: !Mag Scanning electron microscopy and elementary analytic studies of osteosarcoma
5650Mag: !Mag Mineral and trace element determination in human osteosarcoma. Case report
5651Mag: !Mag Dietary calcium and serum 1,25-(OH)2-vitamin D concentrations as determinants of calcium balance in healthy men.
5652Mag: !Mag The structure and absolute stereochemistry of zincophorin (antibiotic M144255): a monobasic carboxylic acid ionophore having a remarkable specificity for divalent cations.
5653Mag: !Mag Mechanism of chronic hypocalciuria with chlorthalidone: reduced calcium absorption.
5654Mag: !Mag Influence of forskolin on the parathyroid hormone dependent adenylate cyclase system of canine kidney: evidence for noncatalytic effects of forskolin.
5655Mag: !Mag The relationship between certain clinical characteristics and course of disease in milk fever in dairy cows.
5656Mag: !Mag An in-vivo study of the buffering effect of almasilate in eight volunteers.
5657Mag: !Mag Structural studies of infection stones: structure of the nuclei
5658Mag: !Mag Creatine kinase isoenzyme MB determination on the ACA: dependence on serum matrix and other effectors.
5659Mag: !Mag Plasma aldosterone, cortisol and electrolyte concentrations in physical exercise after magnesium supplementation.
5660Mag: !Mag Hygienic regulation of magnesium oxide aerosols in the atmosphere
5661Mag: !Mag A mechanism for the selective preservation of homogeneous. F(ATP) actin.
5662Mag: !Mag Importance of water for the health and productivity of the dairy cow.
5663Mag: !Mag Diagnosis and operative treatment of nevi and hemangiomas in the area of the head and neck
5664Mag: !Mag Relationship between magnesium intake and fecal magnesium excretion of ruminants.
5665Mag: !Mag Presence of several elements in normal and pathological human semen samples and its origin.
5666Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary saturated or unsaturated fatty acids and calcium levels on performance and mineral metabolism of broiler chicks.
5667Mag: !Mag Effect of litter treatment on broiler performance and certain litter quality parameters.
5668Mag: !Mag Reference values of sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium, inorganic phosphate and magnesium levels in the cerebrospinal fluid of children
5669Mag: !Mag Qualitative and quantitative analysis of uroliths in dogs: definitive determination of chemical type.
5670Mag: !Mag Free amino acids and calcium, magnesium and zinc levels in Friedreich's ataxia.
5671Mag: !Mag 54Mn2+ as a tracer of the polymerization of actin. Intermediate oligomers condense to give F-actin.
5672Mag: !Mag Breast milk volume and composition during late lactation (7-20 months).
5673Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and citrate toxicity.
5674Mag: !Mag Combinations of laxatives for bowel preparation: are they necessary?
5675Mag: !Mag Kinetics of nucleation-controlled polymerization. A perturbation treatment for use with a secondary pathway.
5676Mag: !Mag Magnesium absorption in mature ewes infused intrarumenally with magnesium chloride.
5677Mag: !Mag Nutrient intake of pregnant Asian women at Sorrento Maternity Hospital, Birmingham.
5678Mag: !Mag Longitudinal evaluation of hemodynamic changes in eclampsia.
5679Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium content in fetuses at risk and prenecrotic Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
5680Mag: !Mag Manganese action on protein synthesis in diabetic rat pancreas: evidence for a possible physiological role.
5681Mag: !Mag Interaction between ethanol and low dietary zinc during gestation and lactation in the rat.
5682Mag: !Mag Guanyl nucleotide and divalent cation regulation of cortical S2 serotonin receptors.
5683Mag: !Mag Dietary status of elite female high school gymnasts: inadequacy of vitamin and mineral intake.
5684Mag: !Mag ATP-dependent movement of myosin in vitro: characterization of a quantitative assay.
5685Mag: !Mag Alkalinization stimulates Ca2+-dependent spreading during the activation of resting lens epithelial cells in primary culture.
5686Mag: !Mag A pharmacokinetic comparison of choline magnesium trisalicylate and soluble aspirin.
5687Mag: !Mag Experimental cantharidiasis in the horse.
5688Mag: !Mag Metabolic bone disease in a patient on long-term total parenteral nutrition: a case report with review of literature.
5689Mag: !Mag Adsorption of pepsin by aluminum hydroxide II: Pepsin inactivation.
5690Mag: !Mag Guanosine nucleotide binding by highly purified Ha-ras-encoded p21 protein produced in Escherichia coli.
5691Mag: !Mag The effects of magnesium on calcium inhibition of parathyroid adenylate cyclase.
5692Mag: !Mag Automated calmagite compleximetric measurement of magnesium in serum, with sequential addition of EDTA to eliminate endogenous interference.
5693Mag: !Mag Sodium-sensitive calcium binding to sarcolemma-enriched preparations from canine ventricle.
5694Mag: !Mag Clinical and biochemical value of Magnesium + vitamin B6 combination in the treatment of residual autism in adults
5695Mag: !Mag Metaphase synchronization and chromosome preparation from the OK opossum cell line having a potentially isolatable X chromosome.
5696Mag: !Mag A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of magnesium sulfate in the ethanol withdrawal syndrome.
5697Mag: !Mag Hypothesis. Biochemical changes at the menopause: possible role of the central nervous system.
5698Mag: !Mag Controlled therapeutic trial to determine the optimum dose of antacids in duodenal ulcer.
5699Mag: !Mag Interaction of hemolysis and genotype on ionized calcium in bile of mice with hemolysis-induced gallstones.
5700Mag: !Mag Treatment with high-dose oral vitamin D2 in patients with jejunoileal bypass for morbid obesity. Effects on calcium and magnesium metabolism, vitamin D metabolites, and faecal lag time.
5701Mag: !Mag Changes in miniature end-plate potentials after brief nervous stimulation at the frog neuromuscular junction.
5702Mag: !Mag Localization and characterization of the sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase in Rhodopseudomonas sphaeroides.
5703Mag: !Mag Control of in vitro lymphocyte proliferation by copper, magnesium and zinc deficiency.
5704Mag: !Mag Effects of several anti-arrhythmia agents on excitability and conduction depressed by digitalis agents
5705Mag: !Mag Effects of metal-containing drugs taken simultaneously with clioquinol upon clinical features of SMON.
5706Mag: !Mag Inhibition of complement activation on the surface of cells after incorporation of decay-accelerating factor (DAF) into their membranes.
5707Mag: !Mag Precipitation of apo E-containing lipoproteins by precipitation reagents for apolipoprotein B.
5708Mag: !Mag Ca2+,Mg2+-ATPase of microsomal membranes from bovine aortic smooth muscle. Identification and characterization of an acid-stable phosphorylated intermediate of the Ca2+,Mg2+-ATPase.
5709Mag: !Mag The control of firing pattern in nigral dopamine neurons: burst firing.
5710Mag: !Mag Calcium, ATP, and magnesium activate soluble tyrosine hydroxylase from rat striatum.
5711Mag: !Mag Regulation of intracellular Ca2+ in the nerve terminal
5712Mag: !Mag Slow, regular discharge in suprachiasmatic neurones is calcium dependent, in slices of rat brain.
5713Mag: !Mag In vitro complexation of aluminum and magnesium by cimetidine and ranitidine. A nuclear magnetic resonance study.
5714Mag: !Mag Response of milking cows fed a high concentrate, low roughage diet plus sodium bicarbonate, magnesium oxide, or magnesium hydroxide.
5715Mag: !Mag The key role of Mg+2 in acid secretion (gastric microsomal model).
5716Mag: !Mag Characteristics of a slow hyperpolarizing synaptic potential in rat hippocampal pyramidal cells in vitro.
5717Mag: !Mag Magnesium trisilicate mixture BP.
5718Mag: !Mag A "convertible pore" model of neural membrane conductance.
5719Mag: !Mag Bactericidal action of bicarbonate ion on selected periodontal pathogenic microorganisms.
5720Mag: !Mag Effect of bromocriptin treatment on prolactin and steroid receptor levels in human breast cancer.
5721Mag: !Mag ATPase activity of erythrocyte membrane in patients with trisomy 21 (Down's syndrome).
5722Mag: !Mag Calcium paradox of the heart: a role for intracellular sodium ions.
5723Mag: !Mag Measurement of cytosolic free calcium in mammalian cells with aequorin.
5724Mag: !Mag Effect of veratridine on membrane potential of sartorius muscle from Rana pipiens.
5725Mag: !Mag Specific in vitro adenylylation of the simian virus 40 large tumor antigen.
5726Mag: !Mag Early differentiation of vertebrate spinal neurons in the absence of voltage-dependent Ca2+ and Na+ influx.
5727Mag: !Mag Induction of hepatic receptors for growth hormone (GH) and prolactin by GH infusion is sex independent.
5728Mag: !Mag Increased 5-phospho-alpha-D-ribose-1-diphosphate synthetase (ribosephosphate pyrophosphokinase, EC 2.7.6.1) activity in rat hepatomas.
5729Mag: !Mag Human cardiac beta-adrenoceptors: both beta 1- and beta 2-adrenoceptors are functionally coupled to the adenylate cyclase in right atrium.
5730Mag: !Mag Asocainol, a new antiarrhythmic drug with natrium- and calcium-antagonistic effects on ventricular myocardium.
5731Mag: !Mag Binding of the yeast phenylalanine tRNA with Escherichia coli ribosomes. Effect of the removal of a modified base from the 3'-end of the anticodon on codon-anticodon interaction
5732Mag: !Mag Buspirone increases locus coeruleus noradrenergic neuronal activity in vitro.
5733Mag: !Mag Manganese ions inhibit acetylcholine receptor synthesis in cultured mouse soleus muscles.
5734Mag: !Mag The mechanism of the adenylosuccinate synthetase reaction as studied by positional isotope exchange.
5735Mag: !Mag Calcium interactions in pulmonary surfactant.
5736Mag: !Mag Stability of quaternary structure and mode of dissociation of fructosediphosphate aldolase isoenzymes.
5737Mag: !Mag Kinetic mechanism and location of rate-determining steps for aspartase from Hafnia alvei.
5738Mag: !Mag Stability constants of Mg2+ and Cd2+ complexes of adenine nucleotides and thionucleotides and rate constants for formation and dissociation of MgATP and MgADP.
5739Mag: !Mag Vacuum ultraviolet loss in magnesium fluoride films.
5740Mag: !Mag Fluorescence changes from single striated muscle fibres injected with labelled troponin C (TnCDANZ).
5741Mag: !Mag Significance of ionic fluxes and changes in membrane potential for stimulus-secretion coupling in pancreatic B-cells.
5742Mag: !Mag Evidence that the ATP binding site of sarcoplasmic reticulum CaATPase has a Mg(2+) ion binding sub-site.
5743Mag: !Mag Effects of carbon tetrachloride and 1,1-dichloroethylene on rat hepatic microsomal calcium- and/or magnesium-stimulated ATPase.
5744Mag: !Mag Stimulation of pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase activity by polyamines.
5745Mag: !Mag Selective binding of amino acid residues to tRNAPhe.
5746Mag: !Mag Ribosomal subunit antiassociation activity in rabbit reticulocyte lysates. Evidence for a low molecular weight ribosomal subunit antiassociation protein factor (Mr = 25,000).
5747Mag: !Mag Differential compartmentation of magnesium and calcium in murine S49 lymphoma cells.
5748Mag: !Mag Different effects of tubulin ligands on the intrachain cross-linking of beta 1-tubulin.
5749Mag: !Mag Actin polymerization. The effect of brevin on filament size and rate of polymerization.
5750Mag: !Mag Subunit association of enzyme I of the Salmonella typhimurium phosphoenolpyruvate: glycose phosphotransferase system. Temperature dependence and thermodynamic properties.
5751Mag: !Mag Conformation-specific monoclonal antibodies to glutamine synthetase in Escherichia coli.
5752Mag: !Mag Purification and kinetic characterisation of human erythrocyte actin.
5753Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium chloride on smooth muscle actomyosin adenosine-5'-triphosphatase activity, myosin conformation, and tension development in glycerinated smooth muscle fibers.
5754Mag: !Mag Effects of tetraethylammonium-chloride and divalent cations on the afterhyperpolarization following repetitive firing in leech neurons.
5755Mag: !Mag Zinc: effect and interaction with other cations in the cortex of the rat.
5756Mag: !Mag Miniature synaptic potentials recorded intracellularly from Purkinje cell dendrites in guinea pig cerebellar slices.
5757Mag: !Mag Sodium citrate compared with Link as a preoperative antacid for emergency patients
5758Mag: !Mag Mg2+ dependence of membrane resistance increases evoked by NMDA in hippocampal neurones.
5759Mag: !Mag Isolated neonatal hypomagnesaemia associated with maternal overuse of stool softener.
5760Mag: !Mag Effect of spermine on interaction of DNA polymerase alpha from the loach (Misgurnus fossilis) eggs with DNA.
5761Mag: !Mag Characterization of VP-16-induced DNA damage in isolated nuclei from L1210 cells.
5762Mag: !Mag 12 S small nuclear ribonucleoprotein-associated acidic-and pyrimidine-specific endoribonuclease from calf thymus and L5178y cells.
5763Mag: !Mag Use of non-drug therapy in treating hypertension.
5764Mag: !Mag Magnesium content of cementum and dentin of healthy teeth and teeth affected with periodontolysis
5765Mag: !Mag A Mg2+-independent high-affinity Ca2+-stimulated adenosine triphosphatase in the plasma membrane of rat stomach smooth muscle. Subcellular distribution and inhibition by Mg2+.
5766Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of rabbit-kidney brush-border (Ca2+ or Mg2+)-dependent adenosine triphosphatase.
5767Mag: !Mag Role of Calcium in the Polar Secretion of Indoleacetic Acid.
5768Mag: !Mag Influence of prostaglandins on electrolyte metabolism of human trabecular bone in vitro.
5769Mag: !Mag Osteoporosis in postmenopausal women.
5770Mag: !Mag Intracellular free magnesium in erythrocytes of essential hypertension: relation to blood pressure and serum divalent cations.
5771Mag: !Mag Salivary content of patients with subjective symptoms resembling galvanic pain.
5772Mag: !Mag Effect of pyquiton on calcium uptake of the male Schistosoma japonicum under various conditions
5773Mag: !Mag Magnesium-induced respiratory arrest in a parturient recovering from general anesthesia--a case report.
5774Mag: !Mag Egg yolk-free Baird-Parker medium for the accelerated enumeration of foodborne Staphylococcus aureus.
5775Mag: !Mag Breath-holding spell syndrome of functional disorder--a study of serum ferritin and erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase
5776Mag: !Mag Effect of vasectomy on biochemical constituents of the blood in langur monkey--a 2 1/2 years follow up.
5777Mag: !Mag Antisperm antibodies and male infertility.
5778Mag: !Mag Stone composition and metabolic study in urinary calculous disease.
5779Mag: !Mag Preliminary crystallographic studies on bacterioferritin from Azotobacter vinelandii.
5780Mag: !Mag Reconstitution of compact polynucleosomes and comparison of the functions of histones H1 and H5.
5781Mag: !Mag Simultaneous determination of dimethadione and trimethadione by infrared-spectrometry: application for mean intracellular pH measurement.
5782Mag: !Mag Effect of experimental infection with ovine ureaplasma upon the development of uroliths in feedlot lambs.
5783Mag: !Mag Effect of gastric pH on antidotal efficacy of activated charcoal in man.
5784Mag: !Mag Sodium withdrawal contractures in rat slow twitch skeletal muscle.
5785Mag: !Mag Comparative evaluation of structure and micromeritics properties of magnesium stearate.
5786Mag: !Mag Blood constituents in lactating Holstein cows influenced by hematocrit, sampling site, and diet protein and calcium.
5787Mag: !Mag Characterization of lactogenic hormone binding to membranes from ovine and bovine mammary gland and liver.
5788Mag: !Mag Ventricular arrhythmias in patients with myocardial infarction and ischaemia. Relationship to serum potassium and magnesium.
5789Mag: !Mag Diuretic-induced magnesium losses.
5790Mag: !Mag Ischaemic heart disease. An epidemiological perspective with special reference to electrolytes.
5791Mag: !Mag Intracellular magnesium loss after diuretic administration.
5792Mag: !Mag Magnesium in coronary artery disease.
5793Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency. Causes and clinical implications.
5794Mag: !Mag The pathophysiology of potassium and magnesium disturbances. A cardiac perspective.
5795Mag: !Mag The use of radiotelemetry techniques for the in vivo assessment of antacids.
5796Mag: !Mag Effect of extracellular calcium on contractile activation in guinea-pig ventricular muscle.
5797Mag: !Mag Arsenazo III calcium transients and latency relaxation in frog skeletal muscle fibres at different sarcomere lengths.
5798Mag: !Mag Photoaddition of chlorpromazine to DNA.
5799Mag: !Mag Enhancement of Vibrio parahaemolyticus virulence by lysed erythrocyte factor and iron.
5800Mag: !Mag Schistosoma mansoni: electron probe X-ray microanalysis of the elemental composition of the tegument and subtegumental tissues of adult worms.
5801Mag: !Mag Effect of sample pH on results of plasma magnesium analysis.
5802Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesemia associated with hemiacidrin irrigation.
5803Mag: !Mag Regional calcium accumulation and cation shifts in rat brain by kainate.
5804Mag: !Mag Ionic regulation of the binding of DL-3H2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate to L-glutamate-sensitive sites on rat brain membranes.
5805Mag: !Mag Induction of aggregation in Streptococcus mitis by certain ions.
5806Mag: !Mag Adhesion of tumor cells to hepatocytes: different mechanisms for mammary carcinoma compared with lymphosarcoma cells.
5807Mag: !Mag Toad egg-jelly as a source of divalent cations essential for fertilization.
5808Mag: !Mag Elemental contamination of Japanese women's hair from historical samples.
5809Mag: !Mag Absence of effect of 24,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol on serum immunoreactive PTH in patients with persistent hyperparathyroidism after renal transplantation.
5810Mag: !Mag Control of excitation energy distribution in photosynthetic systems in vivo.
5811Mag: !Mag Colicin E2 release: lysis, leakage or secretion? Possible role of a phospholipase.
5812Mag: !Mag Endocrine physiology of electrolyte metabolism.
5813Mag: !Mag Effects of diuretics on the renal handling of magnesium.
5814Mag: !Mag Cardiovascular toxicity of diuretics related to magnesium depletion.
5815Mag: !Mag Involvement of the carboxyl-terminal domain of tubulin in the regulation of its assembly.
5816Mag: !Mag Increased permeability and subsequent resealing of the host cell membrane early after infection of Escherichia coli with bacteriophage T1.
5817Mag: !Mag Agonist binding to multiple muscarinic receptors.
5818Mag: !Mag Ureaplasma urealyticum-induced crystallization of magnesium ammonium phosphate and calcium phosphates in synthetic urine.
5819Mag: !Mag Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, ionomycin or ouabain, and raised extracellular magnesium induce proliferation of chicken heart mesenchymal cells.
5820Mag: !Mag Calcium releasing action of quercetin on sarcoplasmic reticulum from frog skeletal muscle.
5821Mag: !Mag Studies of the accuracy of measurements of serum high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels.
5822Mag: !Mag 33K protein--an inhibitory factor of tubulin polymerization in porcine brain.
5823Mag: !Mag The action of thallium acetate on spontaneous transmitter release in the rat neuromuscular junction.
5824Mag: !Mag Characteristics of skeletal muscle ecto-ATPase in situ.
5825Mag: !Mag Magnesium, electrolyte transport and coronary vascular tone.
5826Mag: !Mag Accidental magnesium fluoro silicate ingestion.
5827Mag: !Mag Haemosiderin and tissue damage.
5828Mag: !Mag Transmembrane effects in the sodium pump system. I. The effect of external potassium and rubidium on the dependence of sodium efflux on sodium concentration in the frog muscle
5829Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia: studies of parathyroid hormone secretion and function.
5830Mag: !Mag Competitive inhibition of phosphodiesterase activity by amrinone: its implication in the cardiac effect of the drug.
5831Mag: !Mag Purification and partial characterization of the phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate kinase from rat brain.
5832Mag: !Mag Studies of the mechanism of noradrenaline stimulation of fluid absorption by rat jejunum in vitro.
5833Mag: !Mag The structural proteins of chick embryo lethal orphan virus (fowl adenovirus type 1).
5834Mag: !Mag The assessment of gastric acidity and antacid effect in pregnant women by a non-invasive radiotelemetry technique.
5835Mag: !Mag A role for the intestine in the bone disease of juvenile X-linked hypophosphatemic mice: malabsorption of calcium and reduced skeletal mineralization.
5836Mag: !Mag Properties of oscillatory afterpotentials in young embryonic chick hearts.
5837Mag: !Mag Control of the ATP,Mg-dependent protein phosphatase by heat-stable regulatory proteins.
5838Mag: !Mag Silicate urolithiasis.
5839Mag: !Mag Studies on acylneuraminate cytidylytransferase from human placenta.
5840Mag: !Mag Structural and biochemical aspects of liver cell nuclear organization in normal and scalded rats.
5841Mag: !Mag Different effects of cardioplegic solution HTK during single or intermittent administration.
5842Mag: !Mag In vitro cadmium-DNA interactions: cooperativity of cadmium binding and competitive antagonism by calcium, magnesium, and zinc.
5843Mag: !Mag Diuretics, magnesium deficiency, sudden death and coronary disease
5844Mag: !Mag A subnanosecond-pulse fluorometric study of the CA2+ and MG2+ induced conformational changes on S-100a protein.
5845Mag: !Mag Transfer RNA chromatography on reversed phase five: effect of cadmium ion on a queuine-type tRNA.
5846Mag: !Mag Calcium transport by rat brain mitochondria and oxidation of 2-oxoglutarate.
5847Mag: !Mag Calcium-promoted fusion of isolated chromaffin granules detected by resonance energy transfer between labeled lipids embedded in the membrane bilayer.
5848Mag: !Mag A role for DNA polymerase in the specificity of nucleotide incorporation opposite N-acetyl-2-aminofluorene adducts.
5849Mag: !Mag Metal dissociation constants for glyoxalase I reconstituted with Zn2+, Co2+, Mn2+, and Mg2+.
5850Mag: !Mag The effect of ligands of phenylalanine 4-monooxygenase on the cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of the enzyme.
5851Mag: !Mag Nucleotide-induced changes in the proteolytically sensitive regions of myosin subfragment 1.
5852Mag: !Mag Effects of guanine nucleotides and Mg on human erythrocyte Ni and Ns, the regulatory components of adenylyl cyclase.
5853Mag: !Mag Immunochemical studies of conformational alterations in bone gamma-carboxyglutamic acid containing protein.
5854Mag: !Mag Sarcoplasmic reticulum adenosinetriphosphatase phosphorylation from inorganic phosphate. Theoretical and experimental reinvestigation.
5855Mag: !Mag Phosphorothioate analogues of 5-phosphoribosyl 1-diphosphate: 31P nuclear magnetic resonance study.
5856Mag: !Mag Changes in site specificity of single-strand-specific endonucleases on supercoiled PM2 DNA with temperature and ionic environment.
5857Mag: !Mag 28,000-dalton polypeptide (p28) of adult T-cell leukemia-associated antigen encoded by 24 S mRNA of human T-cell leukemia virus has an associated protein kinase activity.
5858Mag: !Mag New treatment for struvite urinary stones.
5859Mag: !Mag A randomized double-blind study of acetohydroxamic acid in struvite nephrolithiasis.
5860Mag: !Mag Two kinetically distinguishable ATP sites in firefly luciferase.
5861Mag: !Mag In vitro biosynthesis of isoprene from mevalonate utilizing a rat liver cytosolic fraction.
5862Mag: !Mag Stopped-flow kinetics of the interaction of the fluorescent calcium indicator Quin 2 with calcium ions.
5863Mag: !Mag Characterization of the exchange reactions of rat liver 6-phosphofructo 2-kinase/fructose 2,6-bisphosphatase.
5864Mag: !Mag Magnetic resonance studies on the interaction of metal-ion and nucleotide ligands with brain hexokinase.
5865Mag: !Mag Measurements of electron spin resonance with the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex from Escherichia coli. Studies on the allosteric binding site of acetyl-coenzyme A.
5866Mag: !Mag Addition of magnesium sulfate improves effectiveness of ritodrine in preventing premature delivery.
5867Mag: !Mag Modulation of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl CoA reductase by 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid.
5868Mag: !Mag Parvalbumin, an intracellular calcium-binding protein; distribution, properties and possible roles in mammalian cells.
5869Mag: !Mag Guanylate cyclase stimulation by nitro-compounds is dependent on free Ca2+.
5870Mag: !Mag Effect of nutrition on the pathogenesis and metaphylaxis of urinary calculi
5871Mag: !Mag Premedication for sonography. Enzyme-paractol in comparison with a placebo
5872Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy in pregnancy. Pharmacologic and toxicologic aspects of magnesium supplementation and use in pre-eclampsia and threatened premature labor
5873Mag: !Mag Adenosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate dependent protein kinase: nucleotide binding to the chemically modified catalytic subunit.
5874Mag: !Mag Crosslinking of troponin complex with 1,3-difluoro-4,6-dinitrobenzene. Identification of the crosslink formed between troponin C and troponin I in the absence of Ca2+.
5875Mag: !Mag RNA structure analysis using T2 ribonuclease: detection of pH and metal ion induced conformational changes in yeast tRNAPhe.
5876Mag: !Mag 23Na NMR relaxation study of the effects of conformation and base composition on the interactions of counterions with double-helical DNA.
5877Mag: !Mag Calcium dependence for increased antizyme inhibitory activity of ornithine decarboxylase in rat glioma cells.
5878Mag: !Mag Off-pathway synaptic transmission in the outer retina of the axolotl is mediated by a kainic acid-preferring receptor.
5879Mag: !Mag Effect of prostaglandins on in vitro electrolyte metabolism in human spongiosa
5880Mag: !Mag Use of osmotic dilators to facilitate induced midtrimester abortion: clinical evaluations.
5881Mag: !Mag The mineral phase of Malherbe's calcifying tumor
5882Mag: !Mag Correlation between some salivary tests, oral hygiene and caries in children.
5883Mag: !Mag Protein synthesis in rabbit reticulocytes: a study of the mechanism of action of the protein factor RF that reverses protein synthesis inhibition in heme-deficient reticulocyte lysates.
5884Mag: !Mag Effects of environmental factors on human fertilization and embryonic development
5885Mag: !Mag Hormonal inhibition of adenylate cyclase. A crucial role for Mg2+.
5886Mag: !Mag Trace element levels in human alcoholic brain.
5887Mag: !Mag Synthesis of deuterium labeled 17-methyl-testosterone.
5888Mag: !Mag Magnesium and congestive heart failure--a clinical study of magnesium levels in patients with congestive heart failure
5889Mag: !Mag Conditions to enhance transfection in Streptococcus pneumoniae.
5890Mag: !Mag Electrolyte (Ca, Mg, inorganic phosphate, Na, K) levels in blood plasma of sows during the beginning of parturition as well as in whole litters of newborn piglets prior to the uptake of colostrum and in 16 to 24 hours following birth
5891Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium and catecholamines on spontaneous contraction of pregnant human isthmic myometrium.
5892Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium and nicardipine in the cardioplegic solution on the coronary arteries and myocardium
5893Mag: !Mag Mechanism of Hansenula polymorpha reaction to the pulsed addition of a limiting substrate
5894Mag: !Mag Effect of chorionic gonadotropin on water diuresis and electrolyte excretion in rats
5895Mag: !Mag The hypocalcemia associated with magnesium infusion is mediated through parathyroid hormone.
5896Mag: !Mag Alloxan effects on mitochondria: study of oxygen consumption, fluxes of Mg2+, Ca2+, K+ and adenine nucleotides, membrane potential and volume change in vitro.
5897Mag: !Mag Metabolic responses to fasting and alloxan-induced diabetes mellitus in steers.
5898Mag: !Mag A multinuclear NMR relaxation study of the interaction of divalent metal ions with L-aspartic acid.
5899Mag: !Mag Comparison of three tests for virulent Yersinia enterocolitica.
5900Mag: !Mag Influence of aluminum as sulfate, chloride and citrate on magnesium and calcium metabolism in sheep.
5901Mag: !Mag Hydrofluoric acid burns.
5902Mag: !Mag Ethanol increases calcium permeability of heavy sarcoplasmic reticulum of skeletal muscle.
5903Mag: !Mag A longitudinal study of rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) milk composition: trace elements, minerals, protein, carbohydrate, and fat.
5904Mag: !Mag Intracellular free magnesium in neurones of Helix aspersa measured with ion-selective micro-electrodes.
5905Mag: !Mag Low-calcium field burst discharges of CA1 pyramidal neurones in rat hippocampal slices.
5906Mag: !Mag The role of calcium in the pathogenesis of gallstones: Ca++ electrode studies of model bile salt solutions and other biologic systems. With an hypothesis on structural requirements for Ca++ binding to proteins and bile acids.
5907Mag: !Mag Influence of calcium and magnesium deprivation on ovulation and ovum maturation in the perfused rabbit ovary.
5908Mag: !Mag Predictors of clinical hypomagnesemia. Hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia, hyponatremia, and hypocalcemia.
5909Mag: !Mag Ritodrine/magnesium for the treatment of premature labor.
5910Mag: !Mag Thrombocytopenia in preeclampsia: associated abnormalities and management principles.
5911Mag: !Mag Renal magnesium wasting associated with amphotericin B therapy.
5912Mag: !Mag Studies on human lactation. I. Within-feed and between-breast variation in selected components of human milk.
5913Mag: !Mag A risk of inaccuracy in biochemical analysis of urinary stone-forming salts.
5914Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural pathology of nerve fibers in calcium-induced myelopathy.
5915Mag: !Mag A two-year dietary survey of middle-aged women: repeated dietary records as a measure of usual intake.
5916Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial response to transient forebrain ischemia and recirculation in the rat.
5917Mag: !Mag The effects of metalloporphyrins, porphyrins and metals on the activity of delta-aminolevulinic acid synthase in monolayers of chick embryo liver cells.
5918Mag: !Mag Effects of KCl, MgCl2, and CaCl2 concentrations on the monomer-polymer equilibrium of actin in the presence and absence of cytochalasin D.
5919Mag: !Mag Cis-platinum treatment for malignancy-associated humoral hypercalcemia in an athymic mouse model.
5920Mag: !Mag Reversal of the growth inhibitory effect of alpha-difluoromethylornithine by putrescine but not by other divalent cations.
5921Mag: !Mag Energy and mineral utilization from a peptide-based elemental diet and a polymeric enteral diet given to ileostomists in the early postoperative course.
5922Mag: !Mag Thyrotropin-releasing hormone-induced changes in intracellular Ca2+ measured by microspectrofluorometry on individual quin2-loaded cells.
5923Mag: !Mag Protoplasts of Streptomyces griseus and its auxotrophic derivatives
5924Mag: !Mag Clinical application of diuretics: renal calculi
5925Mag: !Mag Nutrition and sports performance.
5926Mag: !Mag How do ribosome binding sites recognize the functional state of tRNA?
5927Mag: !Mag Interaction of tRNA with ribosomes
5928Mag: !Mag Arrhythmias in patients with drug toxicity, electrolyte, and endocrine disturbances.
5929Mag: !Mag Influence of dietary aluminum on nutrient utilization in ruminants.
5930Mag: !Mag Antacids and cimetidine treatment for gastro-oesophageal reflux and peptic oesophagitis.
5931Mag: !Mag Prevention of urinary catheter incrustations by acetohydroxamic acid.
5932Mag: !Mag Determinants of reperfusion cardiac electrical activity after cold cardioplegic arrest during coronary bypass surgery.
5933Mag: !Mag Human erythrocyte phosphoglucomutase: comparison of the kinetic properties of PGM1 and PGM2 isoenzymes.
5934Mag: !Mag Characterization of high affinity binding sites for vasopressin in bovine adrenal medulla.
5935Mag: !Mag Mg2+ induces a sharp and reversible transition in U1 and U2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein configurations.
5936Mag: !Mag Pre-steady-state kinetics of beef heart mitochondrial ATPase.
5937Mag: !Mag Inhibition of the activation and troponin calcium binding of dog cardiac myofibrils by acidic pH.
5938Mag: !Mag Histamine content and histidine decarboxylase activity in the spleen of the magnesium-deficient rat: comparison with the skin and peritoneal mast cells.
5939Mag: !Mag Potassium-wasting nephropathy secondary to chemotherapy simulating Bartter's syndrome.
5940Mag: !Mag The influence of H2 receptor antagonists on the plasma concentrations of midazolam and temazepam.
5941Mag: !Mag The nature of the chick's magnesium-sensitive retinal spreading depression.
5942Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of autolytic endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase and the N-acetylmuramyl-L-alanine amidase from Bacillus subtilis strain 168.
5943Mag: !Mag Current understanding of pharmacologic mechanisms in the prevention of preterm birth.
5944Mag: !Mag Single dose antacid therapy before caesarian section.
5945Mag: !Mag Mode of interaction between forskolin and manganese ion in activating catalytic unit of adenylate cyclase from rat brain.
5946Mag: !Mag Divalent cation effects on acetylcholine-activated channels at the frog neuromuscular junction.
5947Mag: !Mag Common action of certain viruses, toxins, and activated complement: pore formation and its prevention by extracellular Ca2+.
5948Mag: !Mag Clenbuterol and fenoterol--animal experiment comparison of 2 tocolytic agents (with special reference to cardiovascular side effects)
5949Mag: !Mag Differences in phosphorylation of the two large subunits of brine shrimp Na,K-ATPase.
5950Mag: !Mag Bovine sperm adenylate cyclase. Inhibition by adenosine and adenosine analogs.
5951Mag: !Mag Interaction of cardiac glycosides with (Na+ + K+)-activated ATPase. A biochemical link to digitalis-induced inotropy.
5952Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies of fructokinase I of pea seeds.
5953Mag: !Mag Glycerolipid biosynthesis in rat adipose tissue 12. Properties of Mg2+-dependent and -independent phosphatidate phosphohydrolase.
5954Mag: !Mag Comparative study of four antacids.
5955Mag: !Mag Sodium- and adenosine-triphosphate-dependent calcium movements in membrane vesicles prepared from dog erythrocytes.
5956Mag: !Mag Can phosphorylation of phosphatidate phosphohydrolase by a cyclic AMP-dependent mechanism regulate its activity and subcellular distribution and control hepatic glycerolipid synthesis?
5957Mag: !Mag Effects of cadmium and zinc on calcium uptake in human red blood cells.
5958Mag: !Mag Properties of hepatic binding sites for prolactin in ring doves (Streptopelia risoria).
5959Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesemia, serum calcium, and parathyroid hormone levels.
5960Mag: !Mag Fluorescence lifetime and acrylamide quenching studies of the interactions between troponin subunits.
5961Mag: !Mag Comparison of effects of smooth and skeletal muscle tropomyosins on interactions of actin and myosin subfragment 1.
5962Mag: !Mag Cadmium-substituted skeletal troponin C. Cadmium-113 NMR spectroscopy and metal binding investigations.
5963Mag: !Mag Calcium inhibition of the NAD+-linked isocitrate dehydrogenase from blowfly flight muscle mitochondria.
5964Mag: !Mag Reconstitution of a hormone-sensitive adenylate cyclase system. The pure beta-adrenergic receptor and guanine nucleotide regulatory protein confer hormone responsiveness on the resolved catalytic unit.
5965Mag: !Mag Ion selectivity of aqueous leaks induced in the erythrocyte membrane by crosslinking of membrane proteins.
5966Mag: !Mag Transient and enduring morphological correlates of synaptic activity and efficacy change in the rat hippocampal slice.
5967Mag: !Mag ADP binds similarly to rigor muscle myofibrils and to actomyosin-subfragment one.
5968Mag: !Mag Brain protein phosphorylation in vitro: selective substrate action of insulin.
5969Mag: !Mag Polyamine-stimulated phosphorylation of proteins from corn (Zea mays L.) coleoptiles.
5970Mag: !Mag The interaction of calmodulin with human and avian spectrin.
5971Mag: !Mag Preliminary X-ray data for the calmodulin/trifluoperazine complex.
5972Mag: !Mag Interaction of chromatin with NaCl and MgCl2. Solubility and binding studies, transition to and characterization of the higher-order structure.
5973Mag: !Mag Interaction of polyamines and magnesium with casein kinase II.
5974Mag: !Mag Antibiotic uptake by bacteria as measured by partition in polymer aqueous phase systems.
5975Mag: !Mag The allosteric properties of rat liver fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase.
5976Mag: !Mag Electron microscopy of secondary structure in partially denatured Escherichia coli 16S rRNA and 30S subunits.
5977Mag: !Mag Characterization of a protein synthesis system from rat liver. Translation of endogenous and exogenous messenger RNA.
5978Mag: !Mag Evidence for functional hexokinase compartmentation in rat skeletal muscle mitochondria.
5979Mag: !Mag Binary interactions of troponin subunits.
5980Mag: !Mag Lysyl residue 47 is near the subunit ATP-binding site of glutamine synthetase from Escherichia coli.
5981Mag: !Mag Endogenous ionic currents traverse intact and damaged bone.
5982Mag: !Mag Guanyl nucleotides decrease antagonist binding at high affinity dopamine receptors.
5983Mag: !Mag Effects of Cadmium on Aquatic Hyphomycetes.
5984Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium depletion on thyroid function in rats.
5985Mag: !Mag Reduction of plasma lecithin--cholesterol acyltransferase activity by acute magnesium deficiency in the rat.
5986Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary phytate, calcium and magnesium levels on zinc bioavailability to rats.
5987Mag: !Mag The effect of fasting and hypocaloric diets on the functional and metabolic characteristics of rat gastrocnemius muscle.
5988Mag: !Mag Rapid measurement of serum magnesium with a kit.
5989Mag: !Mag Rapid colorimetry of zinc in seminal fluid.
5990Mag: !Mag Multivariate examination of response surfaces around the reaction conditions for the Scandinavian Society's recommended method for creatine kinase determinations.
5991Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium sulfate on electroencephalographic findings in preeclampsia-eclampsia.
5992Mag: !Mag Properties of gonadotropin-stimulable adenylyl cyclase of the human corpus luteum: regulation of hormonal responsiveness by guanyl nucleotide and magnesium ion.
5993Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium contents and volume of the terminal cisternae in caffeine-treated skeletal muscle.
5994Mag: !Mag Saliva--biological role, composition and secretory mechanisms. II. Chemical composition of saliva
5995Mag: !Mag Vegetarian diet, blood pressure and cardiovascular risk.
5996Mag: !Mag Prostaglandin-vasopressin interactions on the renal handling of calcium and magnesium.
5997Mag: !Mag Studies on the formation of electrostatic complexes between benzethonium chloride and anionic polymers.
5998Mag: !Mag Effect of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 on calcium absorption in the colon of healthy humans.
5999Mag: !Mag Fluid and electrolyte disorders. Magnesium.
6000Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium in pulmonary tuberculosis.
6001Mag: !Mag Electron transfer reactions of chemically modified plastocyanin with P700 and cytochrome f. Importance of local charges.
6002Mag: !Mag Structural and functional impairment of mitochondria from rat livers chronically injured by thioacetamide.
6003Mag: !Mag New application of catecholamine fluorescence histochemistry using glyoxylic acid for diagnosis of Hirschsprung's disease by rectal biopsy.
6004Mag: !Mag Fluid-electrolyte metabolism and renal function of white rats in experiments aboard Cosmos biosatellites.
6005Mag: !Mag Determination of calcium, magnesium and phosphorus in human stones by inductively coupled plasma atomic-emission spectroscopy.
6006Mag: !Mag Hemolytic effect of Listeria innocua on sheep erythrocytes
6007Mag: !Mag Reproducible preparation of a wheat germ cell-free system.
6008Mag: !Mag Fluorosis in the laying hen.
6009Mag: !Mag The actions of gamma-aminobutyric acid, glycine and their antagonists upon horizontal cells of the Xenopus retina.
6010Mag: !Mag The rate of polymerization of rabbit skeletal muscle actin is enhanced by polyethylene glycol.
6011Mag: !Mag Solubilization and characterization of guanine nucleotide-sensitive muscarinic agonist binding sites from rat myocardium.
6012Mag: !Mag Conditions that may result in (de-)phosphorylation of hepatic acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase result also in modulation of substrate supply in vitro.
6013Mag: !Mag Evaluation of a calculolytic diet in female dogs with induced struvite urolithiasis.
6014Mag: !Mag Colonic function in rural and urban populations of Turkey.
6015Mag: !Mag Silent chorioamnionitis as a cause of preterm labor refractory to tocolytic therapy.
6016Mag: !Mag The effects of magnesium sulfate infusion on blood pressure and vascular responsiveness during pregnancy.
6017Mag: !Mag Evaluation of the ASTRA o-cresolphthalein complexone calcium method.
6018Mag: !Mag The National Evaluation of School Nutrition Programs: program impact on dietary intake.
6019Mag: !Mag Effect of free Mg2+ on liver phosphorylase kinase activity.
6020Mag: !Mag Perturbation of ribosome subunit interaction by glutaraldehyde fixation.
6021Mag: !Mag Magnesium and the regulation of germ-tube formation in Candida albicans.
6022Mag: !Mag Mediation of the killing of rough, mucoid isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa from patients with cystic fibrosis by the alternative pathway of complement.
6023Mag: !Mag Role of calcium and the calcium-calmodulin complex in resumption of meiosis, cumulus expansion, viability and hyaluronidase sensitivity of bovine cumulus-oocyte complexes.
6024Mag: !Mag Polymorphonuclear leukocytic inhibition by citrate, other metal chelators, and trifluoperazine. Evidence to support calcium binding protein involvement.
6025Mag: !Mag Metabolic profiles in patients with acute neurosurgical injuries.
6026Mag: !Mag Interaction of some polyhexamethylene biguanides and membrane phospholipids in Escherichia coli.
6027Mag: !Mag Modulation of muscarinic cholinergic receptor affinity for antagonists in rat heart.
6028Mag: !Mag Factors influencing the healing rate of gastric ulcer in hospitalised subjects.
6029Mag: !Mag Application of 13C and 31P NMR to the study of hepatic metabolism.
6030Mag: !Mag 31P NMR lineshapes of beta-P (ATP) in the presence of Mg2+ and Ca2+: estimate of exchange rates.
6031Mag: !Mag Pharmacology of the vestibular hair cell-afferent fiber synapse in the frog.
6032Mag: !Mag Interaction of plasma lipoproteins with human platelets.
6033Mag: !Mag Hypothesis--a chemical mechanism for the biosynthesis of ATP involving ion-exchange reactions.
6034Mag: !Mag Loose binding of testicular mitochondrial ATPase to the inner membrane.
6035Mag: !Mag RNA synthesis in neuronal and glial cell nuclei from rat cerebral hemispheres during early postnatal development.
6036Mag: !Mag Ca2+ and cyclic nucleotide dependence of amylase release from isolated rat pancreatic acinar cells rendered permeable by intense electric fields.
6037Mag: !Mag Glutamine enhances glutamate release in preference to gamma-aminobutyrate release in hippocampal slices.
6038Mag: !Mag The promotion of mitosis in cultured thymic lymphocytes by acetylcholine and catecholamines.
6039Mag: !Mag Pharmacology of tocolytic agents.
6040Mag: !Mag Hypertension in pregnancy. Pathophysiology and management.
6041Mag: !Mag Dissociation of clathrin coats coupled to the hydrolysis of ATP: role of an uncoating ATPase.
6042Mag: !Mag Characterization of cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum dysfunction during short-term, normothermic, global ischemia.
6043Mag: !Mag Polymorphonuclear leukocyte as a model of Ca++ and Mg++-dependent cellular activation. Effect of flunarizine.
6044Mag: !Mag The effect of racemomycin-D, a nephrotoxic antibiotic, on cellular metabolism of rat kidney cortex in vitro.
6045Mag: !Mag Secondary structure of heart sarcolemmal proteins during interaction with metallic cofactors of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase.
6046Mag: !Mag Pituitary receptors for corticotropin-releasing factor: no effect of vasopressin on binding or activation of adenylate cyclase.
6047Mag: !Mag Influence of the beta-adrenergic receptor concentration on functional coupling to the adenylate cyclase system.
6048Mag: !Mag Base pairing in Bacillus subtilis ribosomal 5S RNA as measured by ultraviolet absorption and Fourier-transform infrared spectrometry.
6049Mag: !Mag Magnesium: recent findings in physiopathology, clinical aspects and therapy
6050Mag: !Mag Superoxide release by neutrophils: synergistic effects of a phorbol ester and a calcium ionophore.
6051Mag: !Mag Voltage-dependent calcium channels from Paramecium cilia incorporated into planar lipid bilayers.
6052Mag: !Mag Rate constants for actin polymerization in ATP determined using cross-linked actin trimers as nuclei.
6053Mag: !Mag Structure of divalent cation-phosphatidic acid complexes as determined by 31P-NMR.
6054Mag: !Mag Interdependence of factors affecting the actin-activated ATPase activity of myosin II from Acanthamoeba castellanii.
6055Mag: !Mag Effects of Ca2+ and Mg2+ on the actin-activated ATP hydrolysis by phosphorylated heavy meromyosin from arterial smooth muscle.
6056Mag: !Mag Activation of brain calcineurin phosphatase towards nonprotein phosphoesters by Ca2+, calmodulin, and Mg2+.
6057Mag: !Mag Movement of the 3'-end of 16 S RNA towards S21 during activation of 30 S ribosomal subunits.
6058Mag: !Mag A newberyite staghorn calculus. A case report.
6059Mag: !Mag Calculation of free-Mg2+ concentration in adenosine 5'-triphosphate containing solutions in vitro and in vivo.
6060Mag: !Mag The use of nucleotide phosphorothioate diastereomers to define the structure of metal-nucleotide bound to GTP-AMP and ATP-AMP phosphotransferases from beef-heart mitochondria.
6061Mag: !Mag Inflammatory mediators stimulate granulocyte adherence to cultured human endothelial cells.
6062Mag: !Mag Properties of rat heart adenosine kinase.
6063Mag: !Mag Space Plasma Physics: Atmospheric Emissions Photometric Imaging Experiment.
6064Mag: !Mag Changes in the transmural electric potential difference in the region of stomach ulcer. Local effect of sucralfate, aluminum hydroxide and magnesium trisilicate
6065Mag: !Mag Drug therapy of eclampsia. An obstetric-anesthesiologic problem in the intensive care unit
6066Mag: !Mag The spontaneous activation of a potassium channel during the preparation of resealed human erythrocyte ghosts.
6067Mag: !Mag Two alternate kinetic routes for the decomposition of the phosphorylated intermediate of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase.
6068Mag: !Mag 6-(4-bromo-2,3-dioxobutyl)thio-6-deaminoadenosine 5'-monophosphate and 5'-diphosphate: new affinity labels for purine nucleotide sites in proteins.
6069Mag: !Mag Formation and rejoining of deoxyribonucleic acid double-strand breaks induced in isolated cell nuclei by antineoplastic intercalating agents.
6070Mag: !Mag Localization of Mg-Chelatase and Mg-Protoporphyrin IX Monomethyl Ester (Oxidative) Cyclase Activities within Isolated, Developing Cucumber Chloroplasts.
6071Mag: !Mag Glucose 6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase Isozymes of Maize Leaves : Some Comparative Properties.
6072Mag: !Mag Labile magnesium reserves in beef cows subjected to different prepasture supplementation regimens.
6073Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia associated with gentamicin therapy.
6074Mag: !Mag Hypophosphatemia.
6075Mag: !Mag Mineral and endocrine metabolism during fracture healing in dogs.
6076Mag: !Mag N-acetylglutamate-independent activity of carbamyl phosphate synthetase (ammonia): implications for the kinetic assay of acetylglutamate.
6077Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy in massive digoxin intoxication.
6078Mag: !Mag The use of magnesium sulfate in the management of acute fetal distress.
6079Mag: !Mag Renal and systemic magnesium metabolism during chronic continuous PTH infusion in normal subjects.
6080Mag: !Mag Changes in plasma, red blood cell and cerebrospinal fluid mineral concentrations in calves during magnesium depletion followed by repletion with rectally infused magnesium chloride.
6081Mag: !Mag An evaluation of the parenteral magnesium load test in weanling rats.
6082Mag: !Mag Synaptic release of excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter mediates anoxic neuronal death.
6083Mag: !Mag Cytolytic activity of purified cytoplasmic granules from cytotoxic rat large granular lymphocyte tumors.
6084Mag: !Mag Selected minerals in foods surveys, 1974 to 1981/82.
6085Mag: !Mag The higher-order structure of chromatin: evidence for a helical ribbon arrangement.
6086Mag: !Mag Regular surface layer of Azotobacter vinelandii.
6087Mag: !Mag Total Mg2+ measured in serum and urine in the Technicon RA 1000 random access analyzer by use of modified manual calmagite procedure.
6088Mag: !Mag Prospective evaluation of metabolic bone disease after jejunoileal bypass.
6089Mag: !Mag The kinetics of magnesium adenosine triphosphate cleavage in skinned muscle fibres of the rabbit.
6090Mag: !Mag Preterm labor and premature rupture of the membranes--1984.
6091Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase phosphatase from bovine kidney.
6092Mag: !Mag New protein kinase from plasma membrane of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells activated by natural polypeptides.
6093Mag: !Mag Glutathathione synthetase of bovine lens: anomalies of the enzyme-catalyzed formation of ophthalmic acid.
6094Mag: !Mag Interaction of metal ions with gastrointestinal hormones: binding studies of Mg++ to biologically active analogs of little gastrin and minigastrin.
6095Mag: !Mag Inflammation-mediated osteopenia in the rat: a new animal model for pathological loss of bone mass.
6096Mag: !Mag Calcium, magnesium, and phosphate balances during very low calorie diets of soy or collagen protein in obese men: comparison to total fasting.
6097Mag: !Mag Magnesium tetraborate in environmental monitoring with thermoluminescent dosimetry
6098Mag: !Mag Calcium, zinc, magnesium, concentration in seminal plasma of infertile men with prostatitis.
6099Mag: !Mag Experimental study on the optimal sodium, potassium and magnesium concentrations in the cardioplegic solution
6100Mag: !Mag Urinary infections caused by ureolytic diphtheromorphs with false-negative cultures
6101Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium ion upon the calcitonin content of rat thyroid.
6102Mag: !Mag Cyclodextrin polymer, a new tablet disintegrating agent.
6103Mag: !Mag Electrolyte composition of parotid saliva from sodium-replete red kangaroos (Macropus rufus).
6104Mag: !Mag Ca-dependent regulation of the subunit exchange of F-actin under the influence of tropomyosin and troponin.
6105Mag: !Mag Electrolyte disorders in the surgical patient.
6106Mag: !Mag The role of the anion gap in detecting and managing mixed metabolic acid-base disorders.
6107Mag: !Mag Intracellular mechanism of quinidine action on muscle contraction. A comparison between rabbit cardiac and skeletal muscle.
6108Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium injection on foetal development.
6109Mag: !Mag Hypoglycemia: a factor associated with low survival rate of neonatal piglets infected with transmissible gastroenteritis virus.
6110Mag: !Mag Role of a disorder in poly(ADP-ribosylation) in the activation of Ca/Mg-dependent endonuclease
6111Mag: !Mag Magnesium absorption from the digestive tract of sheep.
6112Mag: !Mag EKG of the month. Torsades de pointes.
6113Mag: !Mag Choline magnesium trisalicylate: comparative pharmacokinetic study of once-daily and twice-daily dosages.
6114Mag: !Mag Exchange of sodium by magnesium in aluminum hydroxycarbonate gel.
6115Mag: !Mag Chemical state of magnesium in plasma.
6116Mag: !Mag Use of alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme analysis in the evaluation of cholestatic liver disease.
6117Mag: !Mag The human milk contents of iron, copper, zinc, calcium and magnesium in a population with a habitually high intake of iron.
6118Mag: !Mag Mild hypothermia and Mg++ protect against irreversible damage during CNS ischemia.
6119Mag: !Mag The multiple valences of lithium therapy
6120Mag: !Mag Hemoconcentration in calves and its relation to the hematologic, protein, mineral and electrolyte profile
6121Mag: !Mag Inhibition by 1,25 dihydroxycholecalciferol of hormonal secretion of rat parathyroid gland in organ culture.
6122Mag: !Mag Compounds which increase the permeability of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane.
6123Mag: !Mag Effects of valproic acid derivatives on the acquisition of active avoidance behavior in the rat.
6124Mag: !Mag A thiol oxidation interpretation of the Cu2+ effects on rat liver mitochondria.
6125Mag: !Mag Acanthamoeba castellanii capping protein: properties, mechanism of action, immunologic cross-reactivity, and localization.
6126Mag: !Mag Evolution of analytical methods for the determination of calcium and magnesium in wines. A review.
6127Mag: !Mag Counteractive effects of propionate or 1,2-propanediol against hypoglycemia and ketonemia of tributyrin-treated cows.
6128Mag: !Mag Biochemical and ultrastructural integrity of the saphenous vein conduit during coronary artery bypass grafting. Preliminary results of the effect of papaverine.
6129Mag: !Mag Magnesium: nature's physiologic calcium blocker.
6130Mag: !Mag Activation of the alternative complement pathway by isolated human glomerular basement membrane.
6131Mag: !Mag Role of calcium ions in kinin-induced chloride secretion.
6132Mag: !Mag Interaction of cardiac glycosides and Na,K-ATPase is regulated by effector-controlled equilibrium between two limit enzyme conformers.
6133Mag: !Mag Mg2+- or Mn2+-dependent p-nitrophenylphosphatase activity is present in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.
6134Mag: !Mag Parathyroid hormone: biochemical aspects of biosynthesis, secretion, action, and metabolism.
6135Mag: !Mag Mechanism of bacterial resistance to complement-mediated killing: inserted C5b-9 correlates with killing for Escherichia coli O111B4 varying in O-antigen capsule and O-polysaccharide coverage of lipid A core oligosaccharide.
6136Mag: !Mag Possible role of ascorbic acid in catecholamines-stimulated Na+-K+-adenosine triphosphatase activity of the central nervous tissues.
6137Mag: !Mag Magnesium and premature labor.
6138Mag: !Mag Demonstration of three protonated forms of poly(A): potentiometric and conductometric study of isoionic solutions
6139Mag: !Mag Properties of lipid bilayer membranes modified by brain Na+,K+-ATPase subunits
6140Mag: !Mag Biochemical changes in blood and uterine fluid of fowl following experimental EDS'76 virus infection.
6141Mag: !Mag Action of potassium sulfate and potassium magnesium sulfate on the body of animals in a chronic experiment
6142Mag: !Mag Na K ATPase activity in mammalian erythrocytes
6143Mag: !Mag The relationship between localization of Na+, K+-ATPase and cellular fine structure in the rat parotid gland.
6144Mag: !Mag Generation of an unusual depolarizing response in rabbit primary afferent neurones in the absence of divalent cations.
6145Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte Na+,K+ cotransport and Na+,K+ pump in black and caucasian hypertensive patients.
6146Mag: !Mag Regulation of myocardial and vascular alpha-adrenergic receptor affinity. Effects of guanine nucleotides, cations, estrogen, and catecholamine depletion.
6147Mag: !Mag The effect of 4 different antacids on the gastrointestinal tract and mineral metabolism
6148Mag: !Mag Calmodulin X (Ca2+)4 is the active calmodulin-calcium species activating the calcium-, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase of cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum in the regulation of the calcium pump.
6149Mag: !Mag A method for quantitative wet chemical analysis of urinary calculi.
6150Mag: !Mag Calcium-induced calcium release from purified cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles. General characteristics.
6151Mag: !Mag Characterization of a calmodulin-stimulated adenylate cyclase from abalone spermatozoa.
6152Mag: !Mag Subcellular site and mechanism of vasopressin-stimulated hydrolysis of phosphoinositides in rat hepatocytes.
6153Mag: !Mag A comparison of 4-week peptic ulcer healing rates following treatment with antacids and ranitidine.
6154Mag: !Mag Regulatory properties of rabbit red blood cell hexokinase at conditions close to physiological.
6155Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency
6156Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of the major AP endonuclease from Chlamydomonas reinhardi.
6157Mag: !Mag Cleansing of the colon using bisacodyl and magnesium sulfate
6158Mag: !Mag Refractive properties of magnesium fluoride.
6159Mag: !Mag Preoperative dilatation of the first-trimester cervix: a comparison between Lamicel and 16,16-dimethyl-trans delta 2 prostaglandin E1 methyl ester pessaries.
6160Mag: !Mag The effects of magnesium ions on the interactions of ox brain and liver glutamate dehydrogenase with ATP and GTP.
6161Mag: !Mag Ionophoric activity of the antibiotic X.14547 A in the mitochondrial membrane.
6162Mag: !Mag Calcification inhibitors in rat and human serum and plasma.
6163Mag: !Mag Demonstration of RA - adenosine receptors in rat renal papillae.
6164Mag: !Mag Basal plasma somatostatin in biliary stone patients.
6165Mag: !Mag The isolation and properties of mitochondria from rat pancreas.
6166Mag: !Mag Electron-paramagnetic-resonance studies of manganese(II) complexes with elongation factor Tu from Bacillus stearothermophilus. Observation of a GTP hydrolysis intermediate state complex.
6167Mag: !Mag Cell-free fatty acid acylation of Semliki Forest viral polypeptides with microsomal membranes from eukaryotic cells.
6168Mag: !Mag Solubilization and characterization of the beta-bungarotoxin-binding protein of chick brain membranes.
6169Mag: !Mag Kinetics of activation of casein kinase II by polyamines and reversal of 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate inhibition.
6170Mag: !Mag Characterization of fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase from bakers' yeast.
6171Mag: !Mag Purification of intact and nicked forms of a zinc-containing, Mg2+-dependent, low Km cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase from bakers' yeast.
6172Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies of fructose 6-phosphate,2-kinase and fructose 2,6-bisphosphatase.
6173Mag: !Mag High affinity, calcium-stimulated adenosine triphosphatase activity in the particulate fraction of rat pancreatic acini.
6174Mag: !Mag Seizures after antiemetic treatment with high dose domperidone: report of four cases.
6175Mag: !Mag Lithium reversibly inhibits microtubule-based motility in sperm flagella.
6176Mag: !Mag Inhibition of bovine heart NAD-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase by reduced pyridine nucleotides: modulation of inhibition by ADP, NAD+, Ca2+, citrate, and isocitrate.
6177Mag: !Mag Activation of acetylcholinesterase by monovalent (Na+,K+) and divalent (Ca2+,Mg2+) cations.
6178Mag: !Mag Reaction intermediate analogues for enolase.
6179Mag: !Mag ATP synthesis catalyzed by the purified erythrocyte Ca-ATPase in the absence of calcium gradients.
6180Mag: !Mag Responses of suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons to optic nerve stimulation in rat hypothalamic slice preparation.
6181Mag: !Mag Mechanical changes in the amphibian spinal cord produced by afferent volleys of nerve impulses.
6182Mag: !Mag Two cases of human infection by adult of Spirometra erinacei.
6183Mag: !Mag Fifteen human cases of Fibricola seoulensis infection in Korea.
6184Mag: !Mag Studies on intestinal trematodes in Korea XII. Two cases of human infection by Stellantchasmus falcatus.
6185Mag: !Mag The growth of Paracoccus halodenitrificans in a defined medium.
6186Mag: !Mag Immunochemical study of chromatin non-histone proteins. II. Localization of immunogenic tissue-specific proteins in nuclease-hypersensitive sites of chromatin.
6187Mag: !Mag Slow non-cholinergic excitatory potentials in neurones of the guinea-pig coeliac ganglia.
6188Mag: !Mag Bundling of bovine and brine shrimp (Artemia) microtubules in vitro.
6189Mag: !Mag Effect of a protein-free haemodialysate on tissue respiration and healing of burns.
6190Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium in children with schizophrenia and major depression.
6191Mag: !Mag Triacylglycerol synthesis in goat mammary gland. Factors influencing the esterification of fatty acids synthesized de novo.
6192Mag: !Mag Efficacy of clear antacid prophylaxis in obstetrics.
6193Mag: !Mag Mineral levels in sudden infant death syndrome.
6194Mag: !Mag Effect of inorganic additives on solutions of nonionic surfactants VI: Further cloud point relations.
6195Mag: !Mag Sensitivity of the sigmoid colon and rectum in children treated for chronic constipation.
6196Mag: !Mag Immunoreactive parathyroid hormone, calcium, and magnesium in human cerebrospinal fluid.
6197Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia is a common complication of aminoglycoside therapy.
6198Mag: !Mag Calcium and cardioplegia. The optimal calcium content for the St. Thomas' Hospital cardioplegic solution.
6199Mag: !Mag Nickel inhibition of calcium release from subsarcolemmal calcium stores of molluscan smooth muscle.
6200Mag: !Mag Activation of adenylyl cyclase by preincubation of rat cerebral-cortical membranes under phosphorylating conditions: role of ATP, GTP, and divalent cations.
6201Mag: !Mag Mechanism of regulation of actin polymerization by Physarum profilin.
6202Mag: !Mag The chronically isoproterenol-treated rat in the study of cystic fibrosis: X-ray microanalysis of the submandibular gland.
6203Mag: !Mag Direct potentiometric determination of sodium ion in blood. II. Influence of cations.
6204Mag: !Mag Bone mineral status in childhood accidental fractures.
6205Mag: !Mag Urinary calculi in Lewis and Wistar rats.
6206Mag: !Mag Potassium current in clonal cytotoxic T lymphocytes from the mouse.
6207Mag: !Mag Studies on the etiology of tibial dyschondroplasia in chickens.
6208Mag: !Mag The mesiodens teeth under an electron scanning microscope and X-ray microanalyser.
6209Mag: !Mag Kallikrein-kinin system of blood and microelement metabolism in patients with chronic ischemic heart disease during complex treatment including orcomin
6210Mag: !Mag Absorption and bioavailability of calcium and magnesium salts of indomethacin from rectal suppositories.
6211Mag: !Mag Triacylglycerol synthesis in goat mammary gland. The effect of ATP, Mg2+ and glycerol 3-phosphate on the esterification of fatty acids synthesized de novo.
6212Mag: !Mag Effects of high intake of dietary animal protein on mineral metabolism and urinary supersaturation of calcium oxalate in renal stone formers.
6213Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium levels in diabetes mellitus.
6214Mag: !Mag Serum copper, zinc, magnesium and calcium in neonates.
6215Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on erythrocytic electrolytes in digitalis poisoning
6216Mag: !Mag Experimental study on the optimal potassium and magnesium concentrations in the cardioplegic solution
6217Mag: !Mag An experimental and clinical study on the effect of magnesium during cardiopulmonary bypass
6218Mag: !Mag Studies on antibiotic biosynthesis by protoplasts and resting cells of Streptomyces echinatus. Part I. The synthesis of echinomycin.
6219Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia with chondrocalcinosis.
6220Mag: !Mag Postoperative surveillance of patients operated on for primary hyperparathyroidism
6221Mag: !Mag Metal ion-tetracycline interactions in biological fluids. Part 3. Formation of mixed-metal ternary complexes of tetracycline, oxytetracycline, doxycycline and minocycline with calcium and magnesium, and their involvement in the bioavailability of these antibiotics in blood plasma.
6222Mag: !Mag Effect of occupational lead exposure on various elements in the human blood. Effects on calcium, cadmium, iron, copper, magnesium, manganese and zinc levels in the human blood, erythrocytes and plasma in vivo
6223Mag: !Mag Calcium oxalate dihydrate formation in urine.
6224Mag: !Mag Chicken gizzard tropomyosin: head-to-tail assembly and interaction with F-actin and troponin.
6225Mag: !Mag Brief extraction with detergent induces the appearance of many plasma membrane-associated microtubules in hepatocytic cells.
6226Mag: !Mag Studies on magnesium. 3. Effect of magnesium aspartate hydrochloride on stress reactions in magnesium-deficient animals
6227Mag: !Mag Studies on magnesium. 2. Effect of magnesium chloride and magnesium aspartate hydrochloride on stress reactions
6228Mag: !Mag The effect of divalent cations on the rosette formation via C3 receptors.
6229Mag: !Mag Effects of manganese on the growth and morphology of Ureaplasma urealyticum.
6230Mag: !Mag Results of long-term treatment of osteoporosis with 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 and calcium.
6231Mag: !Mag Antibiotic susceptibility testing by the disk method. Comparative evaluation of 5 commercial systems
6232Mag: !Mag Sexual agglutinin of mating-type minus gametes in Chlamydomonas reinhardii. I. Loss and recovery of agglutinability of gametes treated with EDTA.
6233Mag: !Mag The composition of catheter encrustations, including the effects of allopurinol treatment.
6234Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and hypertension.
6235Mag: !Mag A comparison of the effects of semisynthetic human insulin and porcine insulin on transmembrane ion shifts and glucose metabolism during euglycaemic clamping.
6236Mag: !Mag The role of lipopolysaccharides in the action of the bactericidal/permeability-increasing neutrophil protein on the bacterial envelope.
6237Mag: !Mag Lymphocytes express specific antigen-independent contact interaction sites upon activation.
6238Mag: !Mag End-plate currents evoked by paired stimuli in frog muscle fibres.
6239Mag: !Mag Magnesium trisilicate mixture BP. Its physical characteristics and effectiveness as a prophylactic.
6240Mag: !Mag Effect of perfusate phosphate concentration on responses to PTH in isolated rat kidney.
6241Mag: !Mag Interaction of Ca2+ with (Na+ + K+)-ATPase: properties of the Ca2+-stimulated phosphatase activity.
6242Mag: !Mag Long-term effects of cold cardioplegic myocardial protection in the rat.
6243Mag: !Mag Protein kinase activities in human prostatic secretion: biochemical characterization and effect of prostatitis.
6244Mag: !Mag Regulation of reactivated contraction in teleost retinal cone models by calcium and cyclic adenosine monophosphate.
6245Mag: !Mag Effects of guanine nucleotides and divalent cations on forskolin activation of rabbit luteal adenylyl cyclase: evidence for the existence of an inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory component.
6246Mag: !Mag Effects of guar gum in male subjects with hypercholesterolemia.
6247Mag: !Mag Metabolic and contractile function enhancement during rat heart postnatal development.
6248Mag: !Mag Wear behavior of a composite restorative and various styli in sliding contact.
6249Mag: !Mag Calcium localization in nerve fibers in relation to axoplasmic transport.
6250Mag: !Mag Evidence for a serotonin-mediated slow excitatory potential in the guinea-pig coeliac ganglia.
6251Mag: !Mag Comparison of phosphotungstate and dextran sulfate-Mg2+ precipitation procedures for determination of high density lipoprotein cholesterol.
6252Mag: !Mag Control of oxygen affinity of hemoglobin in K562 cells induced by hemin.
6253Mag: !Mag Multiple opioid receptor systems in brain and spinal cord: Part I.
6254Mag: !Mag Effect of sodium valproate on magnesium and sodium + potassium adenosine triphosphatases of human fetal brain.
6255Mag: !Mag Kinetic properties of glutaminase from cerebral cortex.
6256Mag: !Mag Regulation of Mycobacterium smegmatis glutamine synthetase by adenylylation.
6257Mag: !Mag Supraoptic neurons sustain high frequency firing when extracellular Ca2+ is replaced with other divalent cations in rat brain slices.
6258Mag: !Mag Reperfusion-induced arrhythmias: mechanisms and prevention.
6259Mag: !Mag Characterization of calcium-activated and magnesium-activated ATPases of brain nerve endings.
6260Mag: !Mag Stimulation of 3Hgamma-aminobutyric acid release by calcium chelators in synaptosomes.
6261Mag: !Mag Interaction of sodium and potassium ions with Na+, K+-ATPase
6262Mag: !Mag Guanine nucleotide and cation regulation of radioligand binding to Ri adenosine receptors of rat fat cells.
6263Mag: !Mag Some neuromuscular effects of the crude extracts of the leaves of Abrus precatorius.
6264Mag: !Mag Purification of a eukaryotic site-specific endonuclease, Endo.Sce I, from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and effectors on its specificity and activity.
6265Mag: !Mag Catecholamine responsive adenylate cyclase in human myocardial preparations. Properties and optimalization of assay conditions.
6266Mag: !Mag The occlusion of sodium ions within the mammalian sodium-potassium pump: its role in sodium transport.
6267Mag: !Mag Sites and mechanisms of actions of enkephalin in the feline parasympathetic ganglion.
6268Mag: !Mag Measurement of beta-glucuronidase in effluent of perifused alveolar macrophages challenged with chemically modified chrysotile asbestos.
6269Mag: !Mag Presence of retrovirus in the B95-8 Epstein-Barr virus-producing cell line from different sources.
6270Mag: !Mag Mg2+ counteracts the inhibitory effect of spermine on liver phosphorylase kinase.
6271Mag: !Mag Characterization of phosphotyrosyl-protein phosphatase activity associated with calcineurin.
6272Mag: !Mag Interaction of Z form poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) with divalent metal ions: localization of the binding sites by I.R. spectroscopy.
6273Mag: !Mag Mechanism of the inhibition of Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent endonuclease of bull seminal plasma induced by ADP-ribosylation.
6274Mag: !Mag Pyrophosphate of high and low energy. Contributions of pH, Ca2+, Mg2+, and water to free energy of hydrolysis.
6275Mag: !Mag Regulation of soluble guanylate cyclase activity by porphyrins and metalloporphyrins.
6276Mag: !Mag Role of calcium in regulating intracellular pH following the stepwise release of the metabolic blocks at first-meiotic prophase and second-meiotic metaphase in amphibian oocytes.
6277Mag: !Mag Direct measurement of intracellular free magnesium in frog skeletal muscle using magnesium-selective microelectrodes.
6278Mag: !Mag Tryptic digestion of rabbit skeletal myofibrils: an enzymatic probe of myosin cross-bridges.
6279Mag: !Mag The effect of lipopolysaccharide on lipid bilayer permeability of beta-lactam antibiotics.
6280Mag: !Mag Solubilization in high yield of opioid receptors retaining high-affinity delta, mu and kappa binding sites.
6281Mag: !Mag Single-Crystal Elastic Properties of the Modified Spinel (Beta) Phase of Magnesium Orthosilicate.
6282Mag: !Mag Demonstration of microsomal oxygenation of the benzo ring of 6-nitrobenzoapyrene by thin-layer chromatography.
6283Mag: !Mag Voltage-dependent block by Mg2+ of NMDA responses in spinal cord neurones.
6284Mag: !Mag Mineral metabolism during short-term starvation in man.
6285Mag: !Mag Intermediates in the enzymic synthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin in Drosophila melanogaster.
6286Mag: !Mag Investigation of cation-binding properties of cardiac troponin C peptides by circular-dichroism spectroscopy.
6287Mag: !Mag Conformational changes induced by binding of bivalent cations to oncomodulin, a paravalbumin-like tumour protein.
6288Mag: !Mag Analysis of the mechanism of the magnesium effect on the warfarin-albumin interaction.
6289Mag: !Mag Preliminary X-ray investigation of enzyme substrate complexes of horse muscle phosphoglycerate kinase.
6290Mag: !Mag Affinity labelling of the eukaryotic elongation factor EF-2 with the guanosine nucleotide analogue 5'-p-fluorosulfonylbenzoylguanosine.
6291Mag: !Mag Dissociation and oxygen equilibrium properties of the extracellular hemoglobin of Eisenia foetida.
6292Mag: !Mag Calcium levels in normal and hypertensive pregnant patients.
6293Mag: !Mag The activity state of the branched-chain 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase complex in rat tissues.
6294Mag: !Mag Ribonucleotide reductase activity in intact mammalian cells: stimulation of enzyme activity by MgCl2, dithiothreitol, and several nucleotides.
6295Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte membrane tropomyosin. Purification and properties.
6296Mag: !Mag Distinctions between mechanisms of cytochalasin D activity for Mg2+- and K+-induced actin assembly.
6297Mag: !Mag Magnesium, the mimic/antagonist to calcium.
6298Mag: !Mag The influence of hypermagnesemia on serum calcium and parathyroid hormone levels in human subjects.
6299Mag: !Mag Evidence from oxygen exchange studies that the two heads of myosin are functionally different.
6300Mag: !Mag Ca/Mg-dependent endonuclease from porcine liver. Purification, properties, and sequence specificity.
6301Mag: !Mag In vitro phosphorylation of tropomyosin by a kinase from chicken embryo.
6302Mag: !Mag Parathyroid hormone receptors in circulating human mononuclear leukocytes.
6303Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of the deoxyuridine triphosphate nucleotidohydrolase enzyme derived from HeLa S3 cells. Comparison to a distinct dUTP nucleotidohydrolase induced in herpes simplex virus-infected HeLa S3 cells.
6304Mag: !Mag Bound-cation exchange affects the lag phase in actin polymerization.
6305Mag: !Mag Immunochemical characterization of a functional site of (Na+,K+)-ATPase.
6306Mag: !Mag High tyrosine protein kinase activities in soluble and particulate fractions in bone marrow cells.
6307Mag: !Mag The rate constant for ATP hydrolysis by polymerized actin.
6308Mag: !Mag In vitro studies on origin and site of action of enzyme activity responsible for conversion of human proapoprotein A-I into apoprotein A-I.
6309Mag: !Mag Preliminary X-ray diffraction study of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase from Rhodospirillum rubrum.
6310Mag: !Mag Bioengineering of photosynthetic membranes. Requirement of magnesium for the conversion of chlorophyllide a to chlorophyll a during the greening of etiochloroplasts in vitro.
6311Mag: !Mag Alfalfa Root Nodule Carbon Dioxide Fixation : II. Partial Purification and Characterization of Root Nodule Phosphoenolpyruvate Carboxylase.
6312Mag: !Mag Chemical composition of deposits on IUD removed from uterus
6313Mag: !Mag Microfossils in stromatolitic cherts from the upper proterozoic Min'yar formation, southern Ural Mountains, USSR.
6314Mag: !Mag Absolute bioavailability and effect of food and antacid on diazepam absorption from a slow-release preparation.
6315Mag: !Mag Changes in calcemia and other indicators during pregnancy
6316Mag: !Mag Albuterol: an adrenergic agent for use in the treatment of asthma pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and clinical use.
6317Mag: !Mag Interaction of internal Na+ and external K+ with the erythrocyte Na+, K+ cotransport system in essential hypertension.
6318Mag: !Mag The organ distribution of tin and the effect of tin on concentrations of several essential elements in rabbit.
6319Mag: !Mag Effects of excessive noradrenaline on cardiac mitochondrial calcium transport and oxidative phosphorylation.
6320Mag: !Mag A high sensitivity LiF thermoluminescent dosimeter--LiF(Mg, Cu, P).
6321Mag: !Mag Some aspects of studies of thermal transitions in proteins by means of their intrinsic fluorescence.
6322Mag: !Mag Measurement of inhibitors of calcium phosphate precipitation in plasma ultrafiltrate.
6323Mag: !Mag Magnesium transport in the proximal straight tubule of the rabbit.
6324Mag: !Mag Effect of calcium therapy in the sick premature infant with early neonatal hypocalcemia.
6325Mag: !Mag Effect of antacids on predicted steady-state cimetidine concentrations.
6326Mag: !Mag Dialysis and ultrafiltration give different measures of binding of divalent cations to serum proteins.
6327Mag: !Mag Relationship of potassium and magnesium concentrations in serum to cardiac arrhythmias.
6328Mag: !Mag Trace elements in serum from Pakistani patients with acute and chronic ischemic heart disease and hypertension.
6329Mag: !Mag Cortical blindness as a complication of eclampsia.
6330Mag: !Mag Primary dissolution therapy of struvite calculi.
6331Mag: !Mag Uptake of magnesium by chromaffin granules in vitro: role of the proton electrochemical gradient.
6332Mag: !Mag The dependence of force and shortening velocity on substrate concentration in skinned muscle fibres from Rana temporaria.
6333Mag: !Mag Diet-induced feline urethral obstruction.
6334Mag: !Mag Epidemiology of naturally occurring feline uroliths and urethral plugs.
6335Mag: !Mag Calcium-phosphorus-magnesium metabolism in the primary teeth of children living in an area contaminated by fluorine compounds
6336Mag: !Mag Characteristics of bovine alveolar macrophage elastase.
6337Mag: !Mag Affinity modification of creatine kinase from the rabbit skeletal muscle by gamma-amide of ATP--a nitrogen mustard derivative
6338Mag: !Mag Metabolic imbalances of calcium, phosphorus, nitrogen and magnesium in diabetic patients
6339Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia after small bowel resection: treatment with 1 alpha-hydroxylated vitamin D metabolites.
6340Mag: !Mag Repression of beta-lactam production in Cephalosporium acremonium by nitrogen sources.
6341Mag: !Mag Treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with regimens containing cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum--effect and toxicity
6342Mag: !Mag Action of magnesium on ventricular fibrillation
6343Mag: !Mag Cellular lesions in the central nervous system of Periplaneta americana following insecticide treatment in vitro and in vivo. II. Glial cells.
6344Mag: !Mag Cellular lesions in the central nervous system of Periplaneta americana following insecticide treatment in vitro and in vivo. I. Nerve cell bodies and the neuropile.
6345Mag: !Mag Study of urinary stone weight correlated with composition
6346Mag: !Mag Effect of zinc ions on farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase activity.
6347Mag: !Mag Effect of composition on the neutralizing properties of antacid preparations.
6348Mag: !Mag Renal phosphate excretion in spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats.
6349Mag: !Mag Basic problems in the determination of stone-forming salts in the urine (Ca, P, Mg and uric acid)
6350Mag: !Mag Metal content of the liver in sudden infant death syndrome.
6351Mag: !Mag A brief review of the research on toxemia of pregnancy in Shanghai.
6352Mag: !Mag Chronic cor pulmonale and hypomagnesemia
6353Mag: !Mag Calcitonin inhibits TRH-induced TSH secretion.
6354Mag: !Mag Mineral loss in cortical and trabecular bone during high-dose prednisone treatment.
6355Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of human fibrinogen in vitro by calcium-activated phospholipid-dependent protein kinase from pig spleen.
6356Mag: !Mag Medical management of male and female cats with nonobstructive lower urinary tract disease.
6357Mag: !Mag Manganese content of large-volume parenteral solutions and of nutrient additives.
6358Mag: !Mag Effect of antacid on the bioavailabiity of lithium carbonate.
6359Mag: !Mag Studies on magnesium. 1. Contribution on its pharmacological effect
6360Mag: !Mag Elemental composition of bacterial metachromatic inclusions determined by electron microprobe X-ray analysis.
6361Mag: !Mag Extracellular calcium ion depletion induces release of glycoproteins by canine trachea.
6362Mag: !Mag Factor VIII-von Willebrand factor requires calcium for facilitation of platelet adherence.
6363Mag: !Mag Binding of chlorpromazine to S-100 protein.
6364Mag: !Mag Interrelations between divalent cations, pancreatic islet cell function and calcium-regulating hormones in altered glucose concentration of the blood
6365Mag: !Mag Successful strategies for renal transplantation in primary oxalosis.
6366Mag: !Mag Selective affinity chromatography of DNA polymerases with associated 3' to 5' exonuclease activities.
6367Mag: !Mag Medical prophylaxis of feline lower urinary tract disorders.
6368Mag: !Mag Treatment and prevention of feline struvite urolithiasis.
6369Mag: !Mag Diet as a causative factor of feline urolithiasis.
6370Mag: !Mag Influence of water quality on enteric virus concentration by microporous filter methods.
6371Mag: !Mag A rapid and safe method of estimating nanomole quantities of P, K+, Na+, Ca2+, and Mg2+ in plant material by perchloric acid digestion.
6372Mag: !Mag Growth of coagulase-negative staphylococci on colistin-nalidixic acid agar and susceptibility to polymyxins.
6373Mag: !Mag Binding of bovine growth hormone to bovine liver membranes.
6374Mag: !Mag Oral ranitidine in labour.
6375Mag: !Mag Transforming proteins of fujinami and PRCII avian sarcoma viruses have different subcellular locations.
6376Mag: !Mag Trehalase activity and cyclic AMP content during early development of Mucor rouxii spores.
6377Mag: !Mag Chromatin assembly in Xenopus oocytes: in vitro studies.
6378Mag: !Mag Culture of normal adult human melanocytes.
6379Mag: !Mag Cisplatin
6380Mag: !Mag Mechanism of the concerted action of recA protein and helix-destabilizing proteins in homologous recombination.
6381Mag: !Mag Rat growth hormone (GH) but not prolactin (PRL) induces both GH and PRL receptors in female rat liver.
6382Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate-induced water secretion in hamster small intestine.
6383Mag: !Mag Effect of Radix ophiopogonis and a small dose of magnesium sulfate on hemodynamics after myocardial infarction, arrhythmia and the extent of myocardial infarction
6384Mag: !Mag Lysis of Escherichia coli after infection with phiX174 depends on the regulation of the cellular autolytic system.
6385Mag: !Mag Derangements of muscle composition, ion transport, and oxygen consumption in chronically alcoholic dogs.
6386Mag: !Mag A genetic switch in vitro: DNA inversion by Gin protein of phage Mu.
6387Mag: !Mag Membrane inorganic pyrophosphatase. "Syncatalytic" inactivation by the fluoride ion
6388Mag: !Mag Effects of cytochrome b5 on cytochrome P-450-catalyzed reactions. Studies with manganese-substituted cytochrome b5.
6389Mag: !Mag Cytosolic protein phosphatases of rat ascites hepatoma AH-13 as compared with those of rat liver: isolation and characterization of a novel protein phosphatase.
6390Mag: !Mag Antacids and anticholinergics in the treatment of duodenal ulcer.
6391Mag: !Mag Calcium transport in and out of brain nerve endings in vitro--the role of synaptosomal plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase in Ca2+-extrusion.
6392Mag: !Mag Synchronous epileptiform bursts without chemical transmission in CA2, CA3 and dentate areas of the hippocampus.
6393Mag: !Mag Properties of a human cytomegalovirus-induced protein kinase.
6394Mag: !Mag Interaction of Mg2+ with human liver aldehyde dehydrogenase. II. Mechanism and site of interaction.
6395Mag: !Mag Magnesium and potassium depletion in patients with cancer.
6396Mag: !Mag Mechanism of codon recognition by transfer RNA and codon-induced tRNA association.
6397Mag: !Mag Interaction of Mg2+ with human liver aldehyde dehydrogenase. I. Species difference in the mitochondrial isozyme.
6398Mag: !Mag Zn(II)-113Cd(II) and Zn(II)-Mg(II) hybrids of alkaline phosphatase. 31P and 113Cd NMR.
6399Mag: !Mag Insulin-stimulated tyrosine protein kinase. Characterization and relation to the insulin receptor.
6400Mag: !Mag Inhibition of (Na,K)-ATPase by tetravalent vanadium.
6401Mag: !Mag A new DNA-dependent ATPase from Escherichia coli. Purification and characterization of ATPase IV.
6402Mag: !Mag Differences in polypeptide composition and enzyme activity between cold-stable and cold-labile microtubules and study of microtubule alkaline phosphatase activity.
6403Mag: !Mag Regulation by calcium and calmodulin of adenylate cyclase from rabbit intestinal epithelium.
6404Mag: !Mag Phase behavior of isolated photoreceptor membrane lipids is modulated by bivalent cations.
6405Mag: !Mag Escherichia coli DNA topoisomerase III: purification and characterization of a new type I enzyme.
6406Mag: !Mag Calmodulin binding and protein phosphorylation in adrenal medulla coated vesicles.
6407Mag: !Mag Stimulation-induced uptake and release of zinc in hippocampal slices.
6408Mag: !Mag Release of endogenous Zn2+ from brain tissue during activity.
6409Mag: !Mag Lysosomal involvement in cellular turnover of plasma membrane sphingomyelin.
6410Mag: !Mag Tocolysis for the insulin-dependent diabetic woman.
6411Mag: !Mag Interaction and conformational changes of chromatin with divalent ions.
6412Mag: !Mag Template-dependent variation in the relative fidelity of DNA polymerase I of Escherichia coli in the presence of Mg2+ versus Mn2+.
6413Mag: !Mag Phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance studies of the binding of nucleotides to NADP+-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase.
6414Mag: !Mag Glycyl- and alanyl-tRNA synthetases from Bombyx mori. Purification and properties.
6415Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a human platelet cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase.
6416Mag: !Mag Potent catenation of supercoiled and gapped DNA circles by topoisomerase I in the presence of a hydrophilic polymer.
6417Mag: !Mag Kinetic and physical properties of Co2+ enolase.
6418Mag: !Mag Role of divalent cation bound to phosphoenzyme intermediate of sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase.
6419Mag: !Mag Response of the adenosine triphosphatase activity of the soluble latent F1 enzyme from beef heart mitochondria to changes in Mg2+ and H+ concentrations.
6420Mag: !Mag Effect of Cytran, a magnesium-containing feed supplement on the properties of meat from of stress-resistant and stress-susceptible swine
6421Mag: !Mag Inactivation of beef heart mitochondrial F1-ATPase by the 2',3'-dialdehyde derivatives of adenine nucleotides.
6422Mag: !Mag Fasting plasma magnesium concentrations and glucose disposal in diabetes.
6423Mag: !Mag A serum biochemical profile of normal pregnancy.
6424Mag: !Mag Effects of preparative procedures on the sedimentation behaviour of 40-S ribosomal subunits.
6425Mag: !Mag Mechanism of pertussis toxin action on the adenylate cyclase system. Inhibition of the turn-on reaction of the inhibitory regulatory site.
6426Mag: !Mag Endoplasmic Reticulum as a Site of Phenylpropanoid and Flavonoid Metabolism in Hippeastrum.
6427Mag: !Mag Adhesion of Colletotrichum lindemuthianum Spores to Phaseolus vulgaris Hypocotyls and to Polystyrene.
6428Mag: !Mag Hypocalcaemia associated with high dose rates of zinc oxide to lactating dairy cows.
6429Mag: !Mag Modulation of oat mitochondrial ATPase activity by CA2+ and phytochrome.
6430Mag: !Mag Association and dissociation of estrogen receptor with estrogen receptor-binding factors is regulated by Mg2+.
6431Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of a DNA ligase from sea urchin embryos.
6432Mag: !Mag Sarcophagine (beta-alanyl-L-tyrosine) synthesis in the fat body of Sarcophaga peregrina larvae.
6433Mag: !Mag Analysis of the interaction between DNA and major core protein in adenovirus chromatin by circular dichroism and ultraviolet light induced cross-linking.
6434Mag: !Mag Inorganic chemical elements and cancer.
6435Mag: !Mag Suspected dimethoate toxicity in cattle.
6436Mag: !Mag Activity patterns and osmosensitivity of rat supraoptic neurones in perfused hypothalamic explants.
6437Mag: !Mag Quasi-distribution-free multivariate assessment of clinico-chemical patient data using of van der Waerden's X-transformation
6438Mag: !Mag Effects of a shielding antacid on changes in the gastric potential difference induced by aspirin in man
6439Mag: !Mag Responses of enterometasympathetic neurons to transmural electric stimulation
6440Mag: !Mag Binding of Ca2+ to phosphoinositols, phosphatidylserines and gangliosides.
6441Mag: !Mag Acid-soluble, non-histone proteins in rat liver chromatin. Interaction with DNA
6442Mag: !Mag Effect of digoxin on serum and urinary cation changes on acute induction to high altitude.
6443Mag: !Mag Selected physical and chemical characteristics of prostatic fluid collected by ejaculation from healthy dogs and from dogs with bacterial prostatitis.
6444Mag: !Mag Efficacy of a large magnesium alloy rumen bolus in the prevention of hypomagnesemic tetany in cows.
6445Mag: !Mag Potassium-induced depolarizations and generation of tension in barnacle muscle fibres: effects of external calcium, strontium and barium.
6446Mag: !Mag Parathyroid carcinoma in a child: unusual presentation with seizures.
6447Mag: !Mag 8-Anilino-1-naphthalenesulphonate, a fluorescent probe for the regulatory light chain binding site of scallop myosin.
6448Mag: !Mag The effects of estrogen on skeletal calcium metabolism and on plasma parameters of vitellogenesis in the male, three-toed box turtle (Terrapene carolina triunguis).
6449Mag: !Mag Rheumatoid pneumoconiosis in a dolomite worker: a light and electron microscopic, and X-ray microanalytical study.
6450Mag: !Mag Investigation of the binding of Ca2+, Mg2+, Mn2+ and K+ to the vitamin D-dependent Ca2+-binding protein from pig duodenum.
6451Mag: !Mag The carboxybiotin complex of pyruvate carboxylase. A kinetic analysis of the effects of Mg2+ ions on its stability and on its reaction with pyruvate.
6452Mag: !Mag Inhibition of tumor growth by zinc depletion of rats.
6453Mag: !Mag Inhibition of tumor growth by magnesium depletion of rats.
6454Mag: !Mag Chloride and phosphate as impediments to silica urinary calculi in rats fed tetraethylorthosilicate.
6455Mag: !Mag Advances in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of the metabolic causes of urolithiasis
6456Mag: !Mag The Parkland Memorial Hospital protocol for treatment of eclampsia: evaluation of 245 cases.
6457Mag: !Mag Magnesium absorption in human subjects from leafy vegetables, intrinsically labeled with stable 26Mg.
6458Mag: !Mag Metabolism of 4-14Candrostenedione by cells cultured from human amniotic fluid.
6459Mag: !Mag The DNA polymerase activity of vaccinia virus 'virosomes': solubilization and properties.
6460Mag: !Mag Mineral and vitamin content of goat's milk.
6461Mag: !Mag In vitro comparisons of hepatic adenylate cyclase from normal and hypophysectomized rat liver plasma membrane.
6462Mag: !Mag Inhibition by magnesium and calcium acetates of lead subacetate- and nickel acetate-induced lung tumors in strain A mice.
6463Mag: !Mag Effect of a subcutaneously growing Walker 256 carcinosarcoma on host tissue mitochondrial function and magnesium content.
6464Mag: !Mag Time- and dose-related biphasic effects of synthetic bovine parathyroid hormone fragment 1-34 on urinary cation excretion.
6465Mag: !Mag In vitro development of the embryonic mouse inner ear following exposure to trypsin.
6466Mag: !Mag Fall in blood pressure in response to volume expansion in pregnancy-associated hypertension (pre-eclampsia): why does it occur?
6467Mag: !Mag Infrared spectroscopic studies of renal stones.
6468Mag: !Mag Biochemical effects in patients with calcium oxalate stone disease during combined treatment with bendroflumethiazide and magnesium oxide.
6469Mag: !Mag A new method for sequential extraction of oxytocin and antidiuretic hormone for radioimmunoassay.
6470Mag: !Mag Bacteriological and architectural studies of infected stones
6471Mag: !Mag Potassium and magnesium in the myocardial cell: general data
6472Mag: !Mag Magnesium and arrhythmia
6473Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiencies in cardiovascular diseases
6474Mag: !Mag The effect of chilling, freezing, and rewarming on the postmortem chemistry of vitreous humor.
6475Mag: !Mag Effects of Ca2+ and Mg2+ on the switch-on of transcriptase function in reovirus in vitro.
6476Mag: !Mag Magnesium transport by brain mitochondria: energy requirement and dependence on Ca2+ fluxes.
6477Mag: !Mag Microcirculatory actions and uses of naturally-occurring (magnesium) and novel synthetic calcium channel blockers.
6478Mag: !Mag Comparison of biochemical characterisation of ICRC bacilli with M. leprae: effect of substrate alteration in the medium.
6479Mag: !Mag Characterization of RNA polymerase activity of highly purified preparations of influenza virus A/duck/Alberta/48/76
6480Mag: !Mag 15 (R)-15-methyl prostaglandin E2 does not prevent gastrointestinal bleeding in seriously ill patients.
6481Mag: !Mag Calcium requirements in humans. Report of original data and a review.
6482Mag: !Mag Analysis of the coliphage T5 DNA ejection process with free and liposome-associated TonA protein.
6483Mag: !Mag Optimization of in vitro protein synthesis by isolated mouse adrenal mitochondria.
6484Mag: !Mag Improved yield of plasma membrane from mammalian cells through modifications of the two-phase polymer isolation procedure.
6485Mag: !Mag Hydrophobicity of cultured mammalian cells and some effects of bacterial phospholipases C.
6486Mag: !Mag Endotoxin-mediated inhibition of human platelet aggregation.
6487Mag: !Mag Hormonal and nutritional enhancement of Na+-K+-ATPase activity may aid the prevention and treatment of essential hypertension.
6488Mag: !Mag Studies on the effects of magnesium ion and propranolol on iris muscle phosphatidate phosphohydrolase.
6489Mag: !Mag Effect of aldosterone on abundance and phosphorylation kinetics of Na-K-ATPase of toad urinary bladder.
6490Mag: !Mag Comparison of the prophylactic use of magnesium trisilicate mixture B.P.C., sodium citrate mixture or cimetidine in obstetrics.
6491Mag: !Mag Hypophysectomy and growth hormone receptors in liver membranes of male rats.
6492Mag: !Mag 5'-Nucleotidase from bovine caudate nucleus synaptic plasma membranes: specificity for substrates and cations; study of the carbohydrate moiety by glycosidases.
6493Mag: !Mag The effects of magnesium on ion transport in short-circuited rabbit terminal ileum.
6494Mag: !Mag Study on pathological basis of yang-deficiency and yin-deficiency in patients with chronic nephritis by urinary analysis of creatinine, urea, potassium, phosphorus and magnesium
6495Mag: !Mag Identification of Fe2+ dependent ATPase in whole particulate suspension of the rat intestinal mucosa
6496Mag: !Mag Contraction of rabbit skinned skeletal muscle fibers at low levels of magnesium adenosine triphosphate.
6497Mag: !Mag Several enzymic properties of the DNA-polymerase alpha complexes with antibodies
6498Mag: !Mag Role of intracellular calcium in histamine release from rat mast cells.
6499Mag: !Mag Interaction of doxorubicin with nuclei isolated from rat liver and kidney.
6500Mag: !Mag Oxygen at physiological concentrations. A potential, paradoxical mediator of reperfusion injury to mitochondria induced by phosphate.
6501Mag: !Mag The actions of noradrenaline on neurones of the rat substantia gelatinosa in vitro.
6502Mag: !Mag The use of ritodrine and magnesium sulfate in the arrest of premature labor.
6503Mag: !Mag Inhibition by chlorpromazine, metals and I-ascorbic acid of calcium-ATPase and magnesium-ATPase in bovine adrenal medullary microsomes.
6504Mag: !Mag Modeling the steady-state behavior of the Ca2+ -Mg2+ -ATPase pump of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
6505Mag: !Mag The role of different K antigens of Escherichia coli in phagocytosis by polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
6506Mag: !Mag Dihydroxyphenylalanine production in rat brain striatal synaptosomes: stimulation by a calcium chelator.
6507Mag: !Mag Isolation of the fibrinogen-binding region of platelet thrombospondin.
6508Mag: !Mag Therapy of hepatic coma
6509Mag: !Mag Active cation transport and Na+K+Mg ATPase of the monotreme erythrocytes.
6510Mag: !Mag Phosphoprotein particles: calcium and inorganic phosphate binding structures.
6511Mag: !Mag Magnesium binding and conformational change of DNA in chromatin.
6512Mag: !Mag Role of calcium ions the structure and function of pulmonary surfactant.
6513Mag: !Mag Identification of the highly reactive sulfhydryl group of pig kidney fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase at cysteine 128.
6514Mag: !Mag Regulation of stromal sedoheptulose 1,7-bisphosphatase activity by pH and Mg2+ concentration.
6515Mag: !Mag The inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory component of adenylate cyclase. Properties and function of the purified protein.
6516Mag: !Mag Drug interactions with diuretics.
6517Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and hypertension: correlation between magnesium-deficient diets and microcirculatory changes in situ.
6518Mag: !Mag Stool behavior following the administration of antacids
6519Mag: !Mag Cofactor requirements of splicing of purified messenger RNA precursors.
6520Mag: !Mag Rapid inactivation of Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent endonuclease of rat liver nuclei after cycloheximide treatment.
6521Mag: !Mag The glucocorticoid receptor in rat liver.
6522Mag: !Mag In vitro interactions of agonists and antagonists with beta-adrenergic receptors.
6523Mag: !Mag The effect of membrane preparation and cellular maturation on human erythrocyte adenylate cyclase.
6524Mag: !Mag Critical amount of oligovalent ion binding required for the B-Z transition of poly (dG-m5dC).
6525Mag: !Mag Activated states of phosphorylase kinase as detected by the chemical cross-linker 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.
6526Mag: !Mag Regulation of casein kinase II by 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate in erythroid cells.
6527Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesaemia and hypophosphataemia after ingestion of magnesium sulphate.
6528Mag: !Mag Diuretics in cardiovascular pathology. Their clinical use in the light of recent pathogenetic studies
6529Mag: !Mag Metal dependence and thermodynamic characteristics of the beef heart mitochondrial adenosine triphosphatase.
6530Mag: !Mag Investigations of the metal ion-binding sites of yeast inorganic pyrophosphatase.
6531Mag: !Mag Characterization of heart sarcolemmal phospholipid methylation.
6532Mag: !Mag Magnesium for the treatment of ryegrass staggers.
6533Mag: !Mag Effects of cardioplegia induced by a Young's solution (YNG solution) on the blood-perfused canine papillary muscle preparation.
6534Mag: !Mag Functional and metabolic effects of cardioplegia induced by a young's solution (YNG solution) as assessed in isolated atrial preparations and in isolated perfused heart preparations of the guinea pig.
6535Mag: !Mag Experimental study on the effects of compositions of cardioplegic solutions on coronary arteries
6536Mag: !Mag Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels in Finnish children aged 2 to 17 years.
6537Mag: !Mag Dietary intake and urinary excretion of various mineral substances in patients with hypertension and ischemic heart disease
6538Mag: !Mag Sporulation and crystal formation in Bacillus thuringiensis during growth limitation via nutrient sources
6539Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial calcium accumulation and respiration in ischemic acute renal failure in the rat.
6540Mag: !Mag Clinical and chemical factors in kidney calculus formation in childhood. An analysis of 40 patients
6541Mag: !Mag Correction of protein metabolism in myocardial infarction according to the results of radionuclide studies with 131-albumin during during treatment with a number of drugs (retabolyl, methyluracil, panangin, strophanthin) and combinations of them
6542Mag: !Mag Heat capacity and entropy changes of calmodulin induced by calcium binding.
6543Mag: !Mag Metabolic abnormalities associated with tobramycin therapy.
6544Mag: !Mag Magnesium and sports
6545Mag: !Mag The pattern of spontaneous contraction and the effects of Mg++ and terbutaline on pregnant human myometrium
6546Mag: !Mag Specific binding of the glycosaminoglycan 3H-heparin to bull, monkey, and rabbit spermatozoa in vitro.
6547Mag: !Mag Effect of ions on counterion fluctuation in low-molecular weight DNA dielectric dispersions.
6548Mag: !Mag Blood magnesium constancy with vitamin B-6 supplementation in pre- and post-menopausal women.
6549Mag: !Mag Elemental isotopic abundance determinations of magnesium in biological materials by secondary ion mass spectrometry.
6550Mag: !Mag In-utero transport.
6551Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and respiratory muscle power.
6552Mag: !Mag Effect of hypocalcemia on isoproterenol induced cardiotoxicity in dogs.
6553Mag: !Mag Mechanism of action of barium ion on rat aortic smooth muscle.
6554Mag: !Mag Influence of monensin and lasalocid on mineral metabolism and ruminal urease activity in steers.
6555Mag: !Mag Characterization of Saccharomycopsis lipolytica mutants that express temperature-sensitive synthesis of isocitrate lyase.
6556Mag: !Mag Renal actions of piretanide and three other "loop" diuretics.
6557Mag: !Mag Collection and handling of 24-hour urine specimens for measurement of analytes related to renal calculi.
6558Mag: !Mag Characterization of membrane-bound and soluble catechol-O-methyltransferase from human frontal cortex.
6559Mag: !Mag Phosphate deprivation increases serum 1,25-(OH)2-vitamin D concentrations in healthy men.
6560Mag: !Mag Pure hemidystonia with basal ganglion abnormalities on positron emission tomography.
6561Mag: !Mag Computed tomographic analysis of renal calculi.
6562Mag: !Mag Computed tomographic analysis of urinary calculi.
6563Mag: !Mag Plasma magnesium and anticonvulsant therapy.
6564Mag: !Mag Imaging of calcium and aluminum in neurofibrillary tangle-bearing neurons in parkinsonism-dementia of Guam.
6565Mag: !Mag Characterization of the initial C3 convertase of the alternative pathway of human complement.
6566Mag: !Mag Computer calculations on the effect of urine components on saturation relations of calcium oxalate in the urine
6567Mag: !Mag A kinetic analysis of activation of smooth muscle adenylate cyclase by forskolin.
6568Mag: !Mag Ca2+- and Mg-ATP-dependent shape change of human erythrocyte ghosts and triton shells.
6569Mag: !Mag Indian childhood cirrhosis: a search for cause and remedy.
6570Mag: !Mag Impact of alcohol consumption on the mineral composition of the body in the rat
6571Mag: !Mag Treatment of diabetic keto-acidosis
6572Mag: !Mag Saliva for monitoring of patients with primary affective disorders.
6573Mag: !Mag Regulation of hormone-responsive Sertoli cell adenylyl cyclase in a cell-free system.
6574Mag: !Mag Biosynthesis of arabinogalactan-protein in Lolium multiflorum (Italian ryegrass) endosperm cells. Subcellular distribution of galactosyltransferases.
6575Mag: !Mag The effects of dietary tryptophan levels on growth and metabolism of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri).
6576Mag: !Mag Protective effect of an asanguineous reperfusion solution on myocardial performance following cardioplegic arrest.
6577Mag: !Mag Involvement of envelope-bound calcium in the transient depolarization of the Escherichia coli cytoplasmic membrane induced by bacteriophage T4 and T5 adsorption.
6578Mag: !Mag Effect of EDTA on insulin binding and insulin action in isolated cardiocytes from adult rat. Evidence for a functional role of low-affinity insulin receptors.
6579Mag: !Mag Current concepts in the pathogenesis of gestosis with special reference to magnesium deficiency
6580Mag: !Mag Optimization of a protein synthesizing lysate system from Trypanosoma cruzi.
6581Mag: !Mag Diuretics, potassium depletion and the risk of arrhythmias.
6582Mag: !Mag Isolation and localization of phosphoprotein pp 135 in the nucleoli of various cell lines.
6583Mag: !Mag Phosphorus administration in patients with profound hypophosphatemia.
6584Mag: !Mag Binding sites for 3H-LTC4 in membranes from guinea pig ileal longitudinal muscle.
6585Mag: !Mag Decreased isoproterenol-induced "down"-regulation of beta-adrenergic receptors in the myocardium of SHR.
6586Mag: !Mag Practical experiences with antegrade local chemolysis of struvite/apatite, uric acid and cystine calculi in the kidney
6587Mag: !Mag The effects of antacid and propantheline on the absorption of oral ranitidine.
6588Mag: !Mag Nutritive value of selected variety breads and pastas.
6589Mag: !Mag Aluminum ions stimulate DNA synthesis in quiescent cultures of Swiss 3T3 and 3T6 cells.
6590Mag: !Mag Correlation of 3,4-dihydroxybutyl 1-phosphonate resistance with a defect in cardiolipin synthesis in Escherichia coli.
6591Mag: !Mag Identification and characterization of the rabbit angiotensin II myocardial receptor.
6592Mag: !Mag Electron probe analysis of sodium and other elements in hypertrophied and sodium-loaded smooth muscle.
6593Mag: !Mag Inhibition of the pentose phosphate shunt by lead: a potential mechanism for hemolysis in lead poisoning.
6594Mag: !Mag An improved, automated adenylate cyclase assay utilizing preparative HPLC: effects of phosphodiesterase inhibitors.
6595Mag: !Mag Alteration of acylphosphate formation of cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase by calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation.
6596Mag: !Mag Activation volumes of the calcium dependent para-nitrophenyl phosphate hydrolysis of the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium transport enzyme.
6597Mag: !Mag An examination of factors affecting the instability of Saccharomyces cerevisiae glucan synthetase in cell free extracts.
6598Mag: !Mag Effect of potassium and magnesium aspartate on experimental myocardial ischemia and infarction
6599Mag: !Mag Crystallization of transfer ribonucleic acids.
6600Mag: !Mag Mg2+-induced proton release from Escherichia coli ribosome and ribosomal RNA.
6601Mag: !Mag Current concepts in the management of laryngeal papillomatosis.
6602Mag: !Mag Non-catalytic roles of ATP in muscle metabolism and in its control.
6603Mag: !Mag Agonist interactions with beta adrenergic receptors in rat brain.
6604Mag: !Mag Alterations in the morphology of rabbit skeletal muscle plasma membrane during membrane isolation.
6605Mag: !Mag 25-Hydroxysterols increase the permeability of liposomes to Ca2+ and other cations.
6606Mag: !Mag Regulation of intracellular magnesium by Mg2+ efflux.
6607Mag: !Mag Reconstituted amiloride-inhibited sodium transporter from rabbit kidney medulla is responsible for Na+-H+ exchange.
6608Mag: !Mag Analysis of 31P NMR spectra of enzyme-bound reactants and products of adenylate kinase using density matrix theory of chemical exchange.
6609Mag: !Mag The Mg2+ requirements of nonactivated and activated rat liver phosphorylase kinase. Inhibition of the activated form by free Mg2+.
6610Mag: !Mag Effects of lead on neuromuscular transmission in the frog.
6611Mag: !Mag Enzymatic conversion of dihydroneopterin triphosphate to the pyrimidodiazepine intermediate involved in the biosynthesis of the drosopterins in Drosophila melanogaster.
6612Mag: !Mag Identification of a gamma subunit associated with the adenylyl cyclase regulatory proteins Ns and Ni.
6613Mag: !Mag Possible participation of Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent endonuclease in liver DNA fragmentation after N-methyl-N-nitrosourea treatment.
6614Mag: !Mag The conformation of the tRNAPhe anticodon loop monitored by fluorescence.
6615Mag: !Mag Physical properties of the E. coli 4.5S RNA: first results suggest a hairpin helix of unusual thermal stability.
6616Mag: !Mag Absorption and fluorescence studies of the binding of the recA gene product from E. coli to single-stranded and double-stranded DNA. Ionic strength dependence.
6617Mag: !Mag Roentgenostructural phase analysis of urinary calculi. II. Results of the analysis of oxalate calculi
6618Mag: !Mag The contribution of calcium and potassium to the alpha-action of adrenaline on smooth muscle cells of the portal vein, pulmonary artery and taenia caeci of the guinea-pig.
6619Mag: !Mag Urinary acidification in the prevention and treatment of feline struvite urolithiasis.
6620Mag: !Mag Evaluation of ammonium chloride as a urinary acidifier in the cat.
6621Mag: !Mag The effect of tamoxifen on bone mineral content in premenopausal women with breast cancer.
6622Mag: !Mag Interaction of constituent subunits in ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase from Aphanothece halophytica.
6623Mag: !Mag Phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate phosphodiesterase and phosphomonoesterase activities of rat brain. Some properties and possible control mechanisms.
6624Mag: !Mag Anion and divalent cation activation of phosphoglycolate phosphatase from leaves.
6625Mag: !Mag The proton adenosinetriphosphatase complex of rat liver mitochondria. Temperature-dependent dissociation-reassociation of the F1-ATPase subunits.
6626Mag: !Mag Renal pressor effect of ethanol in the isolated perfused rat kidney.
6627Mag: !Mag Chromatin prepared using micrococcal nuclease retains the enzyme activity which can be removed with cation-exchange resin AG 50 WX2.
6628Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and digitalis toxicity.
6629Mag: !Mag Citrate activation of NAD-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase from bovine heart.
6630Mag: !Mag Electrolyte excretion following administration of various diuretics in healthy females
6631Mag: !Mag Mitral ring calcification in dialysis patients. Echocardiographic diagnosis and etiological factors
6632Mag: !Mag Magnesium gates glutamate-activated channels in mouse central neurones.
6633Mag: !Mag Magnesium Deficiency Results in Increased Suberization in Endodermis and Hypodermis of Corn Roots.
6634Mag: !Mag A bacteriological study on urinary calculi associated with infections
6635Mag: !Mag Statistical analysis on 1,500 urinary calculi by using microcomputer
6636Mag: !Mag Parathyroid hormone secretion rate in magnesium deficient calves.
6637Mag: !Mag The interaction of proteins with hydroxyapatite. III. Mechanism.
6638Mag: !Mag Excitation-contraction coupling in rested-state contractions of guinea-pig ventricular myocardium.
6639Mag: !Mag Microelement concentration in the blood plasma, erythrocytes and hair of patients with coronary disease with risk factors
6640Mag: !Mag Modification of crossbridge states by ethylene glycol in insect flight muscle.
6641Mag: !Mag Characterization of the action of porcine brain profilin on actin polymerization.
6642Mag: !Mag Longitudinal changes in milk composition of mothers delivering preterm and term infants.
6643Mag: !Mag Purification and various properties of hyaloplasmic NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase from the rabbit adrenal gland
6644Mag: !Mag Different inhibitory sites of action for magnesium and verapamil in the bovine adrenal medulla.
6645Mag: !Mag Magnesium, an essential factor in the pathogenesis and therapy of diseases of civilization
6646Mag: !Mag Comparison of magnesium sulfate, terbutaline and a placebo for inhibition of preterm labor. A randomized study.
6647Mag: !Mag Performance, ruminal and serum characteristics of steers fed lasalocid on pasture.
6648Mag: !Mag High prevalence of urinary stones in Marj-ayoun, Lebanon.
6649Mag: !Mag Compatibility of magnesium sulfate solutions with various antibiotics during simulated Y-site injection.
6650Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency.
6651Mag: !Mag The effect of Ureaplasma urealyticum on semen characteristics.
6652Mag: !Mag Massive blood transfusion causing hypomagnesemia.
6653Mag: !Mag An experimental histopathologic study of surgical glove powders.
6654Mag: !Mag PTH-like glucagon stimulation of Ca and Mg reabsorption in Henle's loop of the rat.
6655Mag: !Mag Studies of marginal zinc deprivation in rhesus monkeys. I. Influence on pregnant dams.
6656Mag: !Mag Studies on the solubility of Ca, Mg, Zn, and Cu in cereal products.
6657Mag: !Mag Iron, copper, zinc, calcium, and magnesium in human milk fat.
6658Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy for torsades de pointes.
6659Mag: !Mag Effect of treatment on rectal and sigmoid motility in chronically constipated children.
6660Mag: !Mag Organization of acetylcholine receptor clusters in cultured rat myotubes is calcium dependent.
6661Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalysis of spontaneously formed urinary calculi in a jaundiced strain of rat.
6662Mag: !Mag Effects of cytochalasin B and of deoxyglucose on phagocytosis-related changes in membrane potential in rat peritoneal macrophages.
6663Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesemic paralysis, digitalis, and acetylcholine release.
6664Mag: !Mag Magnesium enhances local anesthetic nerve block of frog sciatic nerve.
6665Mag: !Mag Reduced frequency of gestoses in beta-mimetic treated risk pregnancies with added magnesium therapy
6666Mag: !Mag Comparative analysis of intracellular electrolyte composition in the rat and man
6667Mag: !Mag Management of the stone former.
6668Mag: !Mag Evaluation of the urinary stone former.
6669Mag: !Mag The role of cilia and flagella in cell interactions.
6670Mag: !Mag Electric birefringence of eukaryotic ribosomes.
6671Mag: !Mag Metabolism of 14Cglucose by regenerating spheroplasts of Candida albicans.
6672Mag: !Mag Bacteriology of branched renal calculi and accompanying urinary tract infection.
6673Mag: !Mag Nutrient bioavailability from nasojejunally administered enteral formulas: comparison to solid food.
6674Mag: !Mag Pyocin R1 inhibits active transport in Pseudomonas aeruginosa and depolarizes membrane potential.
6675Mag: !Mag A highly sensitive photometric method for proton release or uptake: difference protometry.
6676Mag: !Mag Magnesium selectively inhibits N-methyl-aspartic acid-induced hypermotility after intra-accumbens injection.
6677Mag: !Mag The regulatory properties of yeast pyruvate kinase.
6678Mag: !Mag The value of magnesium in flush solutions for human cadaveric kidney preservation.
6679Mag: !Mag Rationales for micronutrient supplementation in diabetes.
6680Mag: !Mag The characterization of vanadate-trapped nucleotide complexes with spin-labelled myosins.
6681Mag: !Mag ATP inactivates hydrolysis of the K+-sensitive phosphoenzyme of kidney Na+,K+-transport ATPase and activates that of muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-transport ATPase.
6682Mag: !Mag Regulation of ion transport in mitochondria by respiratory chain enzymes and ATPase
6683Mag: !Mag Penetration of different human pathogenic viruses into sand columns percolated with distilled water, groundwater, or wastewater.
6684Mag: !Mag Null effect of adenosine on cyclic nucleotides of the corneal endothelium: possible implications for adenosine-stimulated corneal deturgescence.
6685Mag: !Mag Calcium balance and acid-base status of women as affected by increased protein intake and by sodium bicarbonate ingestion.
6686Mag: !Mag Extracellular calcium potentiates the inhibitory effects of magnesium on parathyroid function in dispersed bovine parathyroid cells.
6687Mag: !Mag Solubilization and reconstitution of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors from rat and calf brain.
6688Mag: !Mag The anecdotal antidotes.
6689Mag: !Mag Interaction of myosin filaments and minifilaments with actin: a comparative study.
6690Mag: !Mag Mg2+-dependent unwinding of DNA by nonhistone chromosomal protein HMG(1 + 2) from pig thymus as determined by DNA melting temperature analysis.
6691Mag: !Mag Osteomalacia and severe backache as a complication of long-term intake of Novalucol
6692Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a vanadate-sensitive nucleotide tri- and diphosphatase with acid pH optimum from rat bone.
6693Mag: !Mag Inhibition of brain glycolysis by aluminum.
6694Mag: !Mag Enzymatic measurement of cholesterol in high density lipoprotein in automatic analyzer.
6695Mag: !Mag Ca2+ transport in mitochondria of the ciliate protozoan Tetrahymena pyriformis.
6696Mag: !Mag Affinity of reverse transcriptase for some polynucleotide inhibitors.
6697Mag: !Mag Vulnerability of the rat gastric mucosa to injuries caused by adrenocortical hormone and its relation to ATPase
6698Mag: !Mag Comparison of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors and their regulation in rodent and porcine species.
6699Mag: !Mag Inactivation of acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase by ATP+Mg2+ in rat liver microsomes.
6700Mag: !Mag Adjuncts in the management of renal calculus disease.
6701Mag: !Mag Proton NMR studies of nucleotide and amine storage in the dense granules of pig platelets.
6702Mag: !Mag 31P NMR studies of nucleotide storage in the dense granules of pig platelets.
6703Mag: !Mag Fluorometric measurement of serum magnesium with a centrifugal analyzer.
6704Mag: !Mag Circular dichroism and nucleotide and phosphate-induced conformational changes of mitochondrial adenosinetriphosphatase.
6705Mag: !Mag Effect of heme on the activity of chick embryo liver mitochondrial delta-aminolevulinate synthase.
6706Mag: !Mag Characteristics of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase in the gills of bass
6707Mag: !Mag Diuretic therapy for mild hypertension: the "real" cost of treatment.
6708Mag: !Mag Pinene cyclases I and II. Two enzymes from sage (Salvia officinalis) which catalyze stereospecific cyclizations of geranyl pyrophosphate to monoterpene olefins of opposite configuration.
6709Mag: !Mag Spontaneous calcium release from sarcoplasmic reticulum. Assessment of other ionic influences.
6710Mag: !Mag Mechanisms of fatty acid effects on sarcoplasmic reticulum. I. Calcium-fatty acid interaction.
6711Mag: !Mag Effect of carbohydrate and metal ion binding on the reactivity of the essential thiol groups of lima bean lectin.
6712Mag: !Mag Interdependence of H+, Ca2+, and Pi (or vanadate) sites in sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase.
6713Mag: !Mag Inhibition of tubulin polymerization with ribose-modified analogs of GDP and GTP. Reduced inhibition with microtubule-associated proteins and magnesium.
6714Mag: !Mag Alcohol consumption and magnesium deficiency
6715Mag: !Mag Fluorescence of fluorescein attached to myosin SH1 distinguishes the rigor state from the actin-myosin-nucleotide state.
6716Mag: !Mag Repolarization alternans associated with alcoholism and hypomagnesemia.
6717Mag: !Mag Cardiovascular alterations in severe pregnancy-induced hypertension: acute effects of intravenous magnesium sulfate.
6718Mag: !Mag Adjunctive use of magnesium sulfate with ritodrine for preterm labor tocolysis.
6719Mag: !Mag Acute toxicosis in swine associated with excessive dietary intake of vitamin D.
6720Mag: !Mag Persistence of the effect of insulin on pyruvate dehydrogenase activity in rat white and brown adipose tissue during the preparation and subsequent incubation of mitochondria.
6721Mag: !Mag Digitoxin blood picture and renal elimination in long-term therapy with aluminum-magnesium hydroxide gel
6722Mag: !Mag Calcium release from sarcoplasmic reticulum of normal and dystrophic mice.
6723Mag: !Mag Role of calcium as an inhibitor of rat liver carbamylphosphate synthetase I.
6724Mag: !Mag Carboxyatractyloside-insensitive influx and efflux of adenine nucleotides in rat liver mitochondria.
6725Mag: !Mag Ca2+-stimulated, Mg2+-dependent ATPase activity in neutrophil plasma membrane vesicles. Coupling to Ca2+ transport.
6726Mag: !Mag Effect of insufficient magnesium supply on fertility in rabbits
6727Mag: !Mag Investigation of the role of the substrate metal ion in the yeast inorganic pyrophosphatase reaction.
6728Mag: !Mag Modulation of myosin filament conformation by physiological levels of divalent cation.
6729Mag: !Mag Covalent crosslinking of Escherichia coli phenylalanyl-tRNA and valyl-tRNA to the ribosomal A site via photoaffinity probes attached to the 4-thiouridine residue.
6730Mag: !Mag Role of the ATPase of sugar-cane vacuoles in energization of the tonoplast.
6731Mag: !Mag Quantum chemical studies of a model for peptide bond formation.  3.  Role of magnesium cation in formation of amide and water from ammonia and glycine.
6732Mag: !Mag Gas chromatographic analysis of volatiles in fluid and gas inclusions.
6733Mag: !Mag An archaebacterial ATPase from Halobacterium saccharovorum.
6734Mag: !Mag An evaluation of a water purification system for use in animal facilities.
6735Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary calcium on renal calcium, magnesium and phosphate excretion by the rabbit.
6736Mag: !Mag A simple method for measuring albumin-bound non-esterified fatty acid concentration in laying-hen plasma.
6737Mag: !Mag Maternal-fetal relationships in the parathyroidectomized rat. Intestinal calcium transport, serum calcium, immunoreactive parathyroid hormone and calcitonin.
6738Mag: !Mag Threatened premature labor in placenta praevia and magnesium deficiency
6739Mag: !Mag Contraction bands: differences between physiologically vs. maximally activated single heart muscle cells.
6740Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium in Greenland Eskimos.
6741Mag: !Mag Aspartate-induced dissociation of proximal from distal retinal activity in the mudpuppy.
6742Mag: !Mag Computed tomography and composition of renal calculi.
6743Mag: !Mag Pathogenesis of renal calculi.
6744Mag: !Mag Stress and urolithiasis
6745Mag: !Mag Cation consumption and blood pressure.
6746Mag: !Mag Effects of head-out water immersion on the urinary excretion of phosphate, calcium and magnesium in the awake dog.
6747Mag: !Mag Reduced renal phosphate threshold concentration in alcoholic cirrhosis.
6748Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary phosphorus on phosphate, calcium and magnesium homeostasis. Possible role of renal adaptation mechanism
6749Mag: !Mag Acral manifestations and latent tetany
6750Mag: !Mag The element distribution in ultrathin cryosections of cultivated fibroblast cells.
6751Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency
6752Mag: !Mag Interaction of brain megamodulin with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, phosphohistones and adenosine triphosphate.
6753Mag: !Mag Effects of folic acid upon filopodia of Dictyostelium discoideum vegetative amoebae.
6754Mag: !Mag Local regulation of blood flow.
6755Mag: !Mag Sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium metabolism in patients with allergic-infectious bronchial asthma
6756Mag: !Mag Treatment of duodenal ulcer with herbazol
6757Mag: !Mag Noninvolvement of histamine and prostaglandins in the dermatosis of magnesium-deficient hairless rats.
6758Mag: !Mag Enhancement of gentamicin nephrotoxicity by magnesium depletion in the rat.
6759Mag: !Mag Remarks on the metabolic evaluation of renal lithiasis
6760Mag: !Mag Role of H-2 and non-H-2 genes in the control of blood magnesium levels.
6761Mag: !Mag Verapamil pretreatment preserves mitochondrial function and tissue magnesium in the ischemic kidney.
6762Mag: !Mag The use of the writhing test in mice for screening different types of analgesics.
6763Mag: !Mag Biochemical evaluation of magnesium metabolism in infants and children. I. Metabolic balance of magnesium
6764Mag: !Mag Magnesium studies in hemodialysis patients before and after treatment with low dialysate magnesium.
6765Mag: !Mag Mineral and trace element content of vegetarian diets.
6766Mag: !Mag Diuretics and hypomagnesemia
6767Mag: !Mag Does magnesium excess play a role in renal osteodystrophy?
6768Mag: !Mag Magnesium load induced by ingestion of magnesium-containing antacids.
6769Mag: !Mag Magnesium homeostasis in patients with renal failure.
6770Mag: !Mag Trace elements in renal insufficiency. Symposium on Trace Elements in Renal Insufficiency, Bernried , March 10-12, 1983.
6771Mag: !Mag Urinary calcium and magnesium variations during sodium cellulose phosphate treatment.
6772Mag: !Mag Immobilization: a cause of resorptive hypercalciuria.
6773Mag: !Mag Urinary composition and supersaturation on a high protein diet.
6774Mag: !Mag Protoplast release from fungi capable of steroid transformation.
6775Mag: !Mag Pyruvate kinase from Aspergillus niger: a regulatory enzyme in glycolysis?
6776Mag: !Mag Specificity of subcellular distribution of alkaline phosphatase in Bacillus licheniformis 749/C.
6777Mag: !Mag Effects of thyroid status on renal calcium and magnesium handling.
6778Mag: !Mag Direct determination of calcium and magnesium in serum using flow-injection analysis and atomic absorption spectroscopy.
6779Mag: !Mag Magnesium infusion in decompensated hypomagnesemic patients.
6780Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in congestive heart failure.
6781Mag: !Mag Effect of local use of carbostimulin on the activity of energy metabolism enzymes in mandibular alveolar process tissue in the rat
6782Mag: !Mag Effect of carbostimulin on the concentration of tricarboxylic cycle metabolites, oxidative processes and antibody biosynthesis in the rat
6783Mag: !Mag Caffeine-induced calcium release from isolated sarcoplasmic reticulum of rabbit skeletal muscle.
6784Mag: !Mag Zinc, copper and magnesium kinetics during desferrioxamine treatment in uremic patients.
6785Mag: !Mag Ca2+ and Mg2+ requirements for growth are not concomitantly reduced during cell transformation.
6786Mag: !Mag Histochemical demonstration of cytoplasmic glycosaminoglycans in the macroneurons of the human central nervous system.
6787Mag: !Mag Calcium binding to calmodulin: effects of ionic strength, Mg2+, pH and temperature.
6788Mag: !Mag Lung calcification in long-term dialysed patients: a light and electronmicroscopic study.
6789Mag: !Mag alpha-D-mannosidase forms in chicken liver.
6790Mag: !Mag Characterization of calmodulin-activated protein kinase activity of rat adipocyte endoplasmic reticulum fraction.
6791Mag: !Mag Once-daily treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with choline magnesium trisalicylate.
6792Mag: !Mag Acid-neutralizing capacity and sodium content of antacid products from Belgium.
6793Mag: !Mag Contribution of the Mg2+-, ATP- AND Na+-dependent Ca2+-transport systems to the regulation of Ca2+ concentration in myometrial cells
6794Mag: !Mag The effect of verapamil and other calcium antagonists on chemotaxis of polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
6795Mag: !Mag Comparative studies on Ca2+- and Mg2+-binding of sarcoplasmic reticulum and chromaffin granule membranes.
6796Mag: !Mag Determination of minerals and trace elements in idiopathic scoliosis
6797Mag: !Mag Changes in the mineral metabolism of neuroses patients with autonomic crises
6798Mag: !Mag Mineral content of quail embryos cultured in mineral-rich and mineral-free conditions.
6799Mag: !Mag Stimulus effects on protein and electrolyte concentrations in parotid saliva.
6800Mag: !Mag Bimodal miniature and evoked end-plate potentials in adult mouse neuromuscular junctions.
6801Mag: !Mag Determination of LDL cholesterol and LDL apolipoprotein B following precipitation of VLDL in blood serum with phosphotungstic acid/MgCl2.
6802Mag: !Mag Conformational changes in cyclic (D-Phe-Pro-Gly-D-Ala-Pro) upon complexation with Mg++.
6803Mag: !Mag Electrokinetic and hydrodynamic properties of sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles: a study by laser Doppler electrophoresis and quasi-elastic light scattering.
6804Mag: !Mag In vitro ruminal fermentation of organic acids common in forage.
6805Mag: !Mag Mechanism of freeze-thaw instability of aluminum hydroxycarbonate and magnesium hydroxide gels.
6806Mag: !Mag Effect of various metals and calcium metabolism inhibitors on the growth of Bifidobacterium bifidum var. pennsylvanicus.
6807Mag: !Mag Thermal behavior of bone and synthetic hydroxyapatites submitted to magnesium interaction in aqueous medium.
6808Mag: !Mag Inhibition of calcium oxalate urolithiasis with pyridoxine and magnesium in an experiment
6809Mag: !Mag The effect of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug choline magnesium trisalicylate on gastric mucosal cell exfoliation.
6810Mag: !Mag Concentrations of lactate and pyruvate in maternal and neonatal blood with different intravenous fluids used for prehydration before epidural anesthesia.
6811Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate in the management of acute intrapartum fetal distress.
6812Mag: !Mag Concurrent renal hypomagnesemia and hypoparathyroidism with normal parathormone responsiveness.
6813Mag: !Mag Adult reference intervals for 12 chemistry analytes: influences of age and sex.
6814Mag: !Mag Vaccinia virus RNA polymerase associated with nuclei of infected HeLa cells.
6815Mag: !Mag Rapid death of infant rhesus monkeys injected with Clostridium difficile toxins A and B: physiologic and pathologic basis.
6816Mag: !Mag Variability of dietary assessment values among nutrition students.
6817Mag: !Mag Calcium is a competitive inhibitor of gentamicin-renal membrane binding interactions and dietary calcium supplementation protects against gentamicin nephrotoxicity.
6818Mag: !Mag Control of normal and transformed cell proliferation by growth factor-nutrient interactions.
6819Mag: !Mag Effect of menopause and estrogen substitutional therapy on magnesium metabolism.
6820Mag: !Mag Effects of primidone, phenobarbital and phenylethylmalonamide in the stimulated frog neuromuscular junction.
6821Mag: !Mag Interdependent regulation of epithelial cell replication by nutrients, hormones, growth factors, and cell density.
6822Mag: !Mag Apparent interlaboratory variation using different types of reference sera.
6823Mag: !Mag Improvements in the routine investigation of urinary calculi.
6824Mag: !Mag High density lipoprotein cholesterol and apoprotein A1 in healthy volunteers during long-term moderate alcohol intake.
6825Mag: !Mag Distribution and uptake of magnesium by developing deciduous bovine incisor enamel.
6826Mag: !Mag Mineral metabolism and in vivo uptake of 67 Gacitrate.
6827Mag: !Mag Variations in the mineral composition of human enamel on the level of cross-striations and striae of Retzius.
6828Mag: !Mag Alterations by Mg and F of the fermentative dissolution of F-varnished enamel by a streptococcal layer measured by a microhardness tester and a proton probe microanalysis.
6829Mag: !Mag Dielectric properties of glass ionomer cements--further studies.
6830Mag: !Mag The effect of some metal ions on the intradental sensory nerves of the cat.
6831Mag: !Mag Ca2+- and Mg2+-activated ATP hydrolysis in normal and carious human dentine.
6832Mag: !Mag Permeability of the rat oral mucosa to organic solutes measured in vivo.
6833Mag: !Mag On the intensity reversal of the "tropomyosin reflexions" in X-ray diffraction patterns from crab striated muscle.
6834Mag: !Mag Additional magnesium therapy in tocolysis: clinico-chemical monitoring parameters
6835Mag: !Mag Characterization of alternative pathway inhibition by a serum derived, low molecular weight complement inhibitor.
6836Mag: !Mag Treatment of gastric pyrosis with almagate in patients with and without endoscopically demonstrable duodenal ulcer. A multicentre clinical trial.
6837Mag: !Mag Radiotelemetric comparison of two antacids using the Heidelberg capsule.
6838Mag: !Mag Protective action of almagate against bile-facilitated gastric ulceration in the pylorus-ligated (Shay) rat.
6839Mag: !Mag Efficacy in vivo of almagate in neutralising histamine-induced acid secretion in a rat re-perfused stomach preparation.
6840Mag: !Mag Pharmacological studies with almagate, a potent new antacid compound.
6841Mag: !Mag Serum levels of aluminium and magnesium in animals and man after administration of high doses of almagate.
6842Mag: !Mag In vitro comparison of the antacid potencies of almagate in tablets and suspension with those of other commercially available antacid preparations.
6843Mag: !Mag Stability of almagate and pharmaceutical formulations prepared from it.
6844Mag: !Mag Characterization of a new crystalline synthetic gastric antacid, almagate.
6845Mag: !Mag Calcium and vitamin D metabolism in Guamanian Chamorros with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and parkinsonism-dementia.
6846Mag: !Mag Effect of agglutinating and diluent excipients on the quality of Trimag tablets
6847Mag: !Mag Magnesium in nutrition
6848Mag: !Mag The effects of citrate on fMLP-induced polymorphonuclear leukocyte stimulation and locomotion.
6849Mag: !Mag Magnesium and potassium deprivation and supplementation in animals and man: aspects in view of intestinal absorption.
6850Mag: !Mag Pharmacological and toxicological investigations of cesium.
6851Mag: !Mag Normal muscle energy metabolism.
6852Mag: !Mag Cis-platin induced hypermagnesiuria and hypercalciuria in rats.
6853Mag: !Mag Studies on the in vitro interactions of cimetidine with commercial antacid preparations and chemically pure components.
6854Mag: !Mag Cis-platinum-induced renal sodium wasting.
6855Mag: !Mag Biochemical evaluation of magnesium metabolism in infants and children. II. Magnesium level in 24-hour urine and hair
6856Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate in the treatment of variant angina.
6857Mag: !Mag Diurnal variation of urine composition in calcium oxalate stone disease during treatment with bendroflumethiazide.
6858Mag: !Mag Effect of different illumination conditions on circadian changes of Ca++ and Mg++ level in the cingulate gyrus of the limbic system of the mouse brain.
6859Mag: !Mag Studies on crystalluria in calcium oxalate stone formers.
6860Mag: !Mag Variations in urine composition during the day in patients with calcium oxalate stone disease.
6861Mag: !Mag Polycation as an alternative osmotic agent and phosphate binder in peritoneal dialysis.
6862Mag: !Mag Ca-antagonistic effect of Mg on cardiac muscle compared to synthetic Ca antagonists.
6863Mag: !Mag Intra-/extracellular shifts of potassium after the administration of Mg in patients with cardiovascular diseases.
6864Mag: !Mag Influence of intravenous Mg++ solutions on renal excretion of potassium, sodium, calcium, chloride, intraleukocytic potassium and peripheral vascular resistance: a metabolic and hemodynamic study in normal volunteers.
6865Mag: !Mag Interactions of magnesium and potassium in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease.
6866Mag: !Mag Potassium deficiency and cardiac function: experimental and clinical aspects.
6867Mag: !Mag Magnesium- and potassium-sparing effects of amiloride. Review and recent findings.
6868Mag: !Mag Influence of magnesium and potassium deficiency on renal elimination and cardiovascular function demonstrated by impedance cardiography.
6869Mag: !Mag Mode of action of conventional and potassium-sparing diuretics--aspects with relevance to Mg-sparing effects. Review of the present state of the art and recent findings.
6870Mag: !Mag Magnesium, potassium and hormonal regulation.
6871Mag: !Mag Interactions of magnesium and potassium on cardiac and vascular smooth muscle. International symposium, Montbazon, November 8-11, 1984.
6872Mag: !Mag Serological and biochemical factors in bovine ephemeral fever.
6873Mag: !Mag Lead, cadmium, arsenic, copper, zinc, iron and magnesium content of muscles of slaughterhouse animals. I. Muscle tissue of swine, 1975-1983
6874Mag: !Mag Effect of activated charcoal in 70% sorbitol in healthy individuals.
6875Mag: !Mag Role of electrolytes and digitalis-like activity in hypertension: effects of digitoxin, sodium, potassium and magnesium on blood pressure.
6876Mag: !Mag Comparative bacteriological and chemical analysis of kidney calculi. Apropos of 135 cases
6877Mag: !Mag Experimental magnesium ammonium phosphate lithiasis induced by Ureaplasma in the rat
6878Mag: !Mag Areas of magnesium ammonium phosphate nucleation in sterile, alkaline or acid urine
6879Mag: !Mag Appearance of 170,000 dalton phosphoprotein in rat cells transformed by the adenovirus E1A gene.
6880Mag: !Mag Prevention of stress ulcers in intensive care. Cimetidine and alkalines as prophylaxis of digestive hemorrhage
6881Mag: !Mag The magnesiuric effects of several single doses of xipamide in healthy adults.
6882Mag: !Mag Blood indices of high-production cows at various periods of pregnancy and after calving
6883Mag: !Mag Aminoplastic standards for quantitative X-ray microanalysis of thin sections of plastic-embedded biological material.
6884Mag: !Mag Data on the interrelations between a change in magnesium-phosphorus-calcium metabolism, accommodation function and the progression of myopia in children
6885Mag: !Mag Comparative effects of oral water load of different mineral compositions on the excretion of ions and oxalic acid
6886Mag: !Mag Mineral seal oil excreted in urine.
6887Mag: !Mag Formation and transformation of octacalcium phosphate, OCP: a preliminary report.
6888Mag: !Mag Cesium therapy in cancer patients.
6889Mag: !Mag Dental caries models: effects of sucrose modified by fluoride and magnesium.
6890Mag: !Mag Prolonged Q-Tc interval and decreased lymphocyte magnesium in congestive heart failure.
6891Mag: !Mag Polymorphism of the left-handed helix (Z form) of poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) induced by MgCl2, studied by infrared spectroscopy
6892Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium in propranolol-treated patients with acute myocardial infarction.
6893Mag: !Mag Studies on the selective chemical inhibition by urea of alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes in the reaction course.
6894Mag: !Mag Blue-green color and composition of Stejneger's beaked whale (Mesoplodon stejnegeri) milk.
6895Mag: !Mag Purification, catalytic and regulatory properties of Rana ridibunda erythrocyte pyruvate kinase.
6896Mag: !Mag Time course of the motion of bull sperm flagella.
6897Mag: !Mag Calcium effects on renal conservation of magnesium in cows.
6898Mag: !Mag The myopathy of experimental magnesium deficiency.
6899Mag: !Mag Effects of pH and sodium on phosphate transport across brush border membrane vesicles of small intestine.
6900Mag: !Mag The assessment of renal calcium reabsorption.
6901Mag: !Mag Effect of estrogen on the formation of struvite calculi in female rats.
6902Mag: !Mag Effects of desoxycorticosterone acetate on magnesium metabolism in potassium-depleted rats.
6903Mag: !Mag Reduction of the lethality and the nephrocalcinotic effect of single fluoride doses by magnesium in rats.
6904Mag: !Mag Sodium kinetics and membrane potential in aorta of magnesium-deficient rats.
6905Mag: !Mag Inhibition of calcium by magnesium in the contraction of rat aortic smooth muscle. I. Mathematical model of calcium and magnesium binding.
6906Mag: !Mag Skeletal myopathy and magnesium depletion: cellular mechanisms.
6907Mag: !Mag Effects of a brief treatment with saponin on the contractile and electrical activities of isolated uterine muscle of pregnant rat.
6908Mag: !Mag Assessment of magnesium and aluminum in erythrocytes by the laser microprobe mass analyzer (LAMMA).
6909Mag: !Mag Serum concentration of Na, K, Ca, Mg, P, Zn and Cu in patients with essential arterial hypertension.
6910Mag: !Mag The effect of changes in extracellular magnesium on the activity of the smooth muscles of vascular walls
6911Mag: !Mag The aortic content of glycosaminoglycans, hydroxyproline and calcium in experimental uraemia with special reference to parathyroidectomy and vitamin-D treatment.
6912Mag: !Mag Arterial calcifications in uraemic rats treated with 1-alpha-hydroxycholecalciferol and parathyroidectomy.
6913Mag: !Mag Diagnosis of relative hypomagnesurea in calcium lithiasis: reference values for a new parameter
6914Mag: !Mag Calcium homeostasis in morbid obesity.
6915Mag: !Mag Electrical and mechanical events through activation of muscarinic receptor in the smooth muscle of guinea-pig vas deferens.
6916Mag: !Mag Effects of external calcium reduction on biphasic potassium contractures and action of divalent cations on the calcium reduction in frog single twitch muscle fibers.
6917Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations on the inhibitory potentials in the duodenal smooth muscle cells of the guinea-pig.
6918Mag: !Mag Effect of aldosterone on the serum zinc, copper, and magnesium concentrations in the rat.
6919Mag: !Mag Effects of verapamil on doxorubicin-induced mortality and electrolyte changes in the mouse heart.
6920Mag: !Mag Comparison of serum total calcium, dialyzable calcium, and dialyzable magnesium in well and sick neonates.
6921Mag: !Mag Sequential determination by thermometric titration of Al3+, Ca2+ and Mg2+ in various antacid drugs
6922Mag: !Mag Effects of Maillard's reaction products on apparent mineral absorption in different parts of the digestive tract. The role of microflora.
6923Mag: !Mag Ionic distributions and volume maintenance in human lymphocytes.
6924Mag: !Mag On the therapeutic mechanism of Mg2+ in digitoxic arrhythmias and the role of cardiac glycosides in Mg depletion.
6925Mag: !Mag Role of dietary potassium and magnesium in diuretic-treated patients with cardiac insufficiency.
6926Mag: !Mag Effect of hypermagnesemia on circulating plasma parathyroid hormone in patients on regular hemodialysis therapy.
6927Mag: !Mag Impaired renal tubular reabsorption of magnesium (TRMg) in Ca-containing kidney stone formers.
6928Mag: !Mag Applicability of biosuppressin as an urease-inhibitor.
6929Mag: !Mag Inhibition of mitochondrial and soluble hexokinase from various rat tissues by glucose 1,6-bisphosphate.
6930Mag: !Mag Pyruvate kinase: a carnitine-regulated site of ATP production in Trypanosoma brucei brucei.
6931Mag: !Mag Prevention of hyperkalemia and muscular fasciculations induced by suxamethonium
6932Mag: !Mag EEG and clinical findings during pemoline treatment in children and adults with attention deficit disorder. An 8-week open trial.
6933Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in a pregnancy six years after jejunoileal bypass.
6934Mag: !Mag Differences between magnesium-activated and manganese-activated pyruvate kinase from the muscle of Concholepas concholepas.
6935Mag: !Mag Alkaline phosphatases of the mosquito, Culex tarsalis Coquillett.
6936Mag: !Mag An ultrastructural study of the effect of parasitism by larval Schistosoma mansoni on the calcium reserves of the host, Biomphalaria glabrata.
6937Mag: !Mag Metabolic effects of thiazide versus placebo in patients under long-term treatment for recurrent urolithiasis.
6938Mag: !Mag In vitro activation by dithiothreitol and thioredoxins of carbamyl phosphate synthetase-I in rat liver
6939Mag: !Mag Comparison of the antacid properties of almagate and aluminium hydroxide against pentagastrin-induced gastric secretion in healthy volunteers.
6940Mag: !Mag Evaluation of a new antacid, almagate.
6941Mag: !Mag Mg2+ mitigates Ca2+-dependent cell killing by ionophore A23187.
6942Mag: !Mag Regulation of the catalytic unit of adenylate cyclase system in rat brain.
6943Mag: !Mag The effect of steroid therapy on serum trace metal levels in sub-fertile males.
6944Mag: !Mag A microassay for serum dialyzable calcium and magnesium by ion chromatography.
6945Mag: !Mag Effects of feed-pairing and different doses of doxorubicin on mortality and electrolyte changes in the mouse heart.
6946Mag: !Mag Tyrosine-specific protein kinases of normal tissues.
6947Mag: !Mag Role of the capsule produced by Bacillus megaterium ATCC 19213 in the accumulation of metallic cations.
6948Mag: !Mag Lack of effects of 1,25- and 24,25-dihydroxy vitamin D on parathyroid hormone response to hypocalcemia in cattle.
6949Mag: !Mag Comparison of human acrosin, a trypsin-like sperm proteinase, with human pancreatic trypsin: temperature stability and effect of cations.
6950Mag: !Mag Effect of carbostimulin on indices of acid-base balance and lactate concentration in the blood of swimmer-athletes
6951Mag: !Mag Haemodynamics, blood gas and metabolic changes after anaesthesia with chloral hydrate and magnesium sulphate in camels (Camelus dromedarius).
6952Mag: !Mag Effect of sodium cromoglycate on tear film break-up time.
6953Mag: !Mag Total parenteral nutrition in surgical patients.
6954Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations and functionally related substances on the yeast to mycelium transition in Sporothrix schenckii.
6955Mag: !Mag Chromatin cleavage in apoptosis: association with condensed chromatin morphology and dependence on macromolecular synthesis.
6956Mag: !Mag Prolonged cimetidine therapy in ulcerated Barrett's columnar-lined esophagus.
6957Mag: !Mag Development and application of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the quantitation of alternative complement pathway activation in human serum.
6958Mag: !Mag Influence of culture conditions on expression of the mucoid mode of growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
6959Mag: !Mag The effects of alcohol on water, electrolytes and minerals.
6960Mag: !Mag The medical prophylaxis of renal calculi.
6961Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy in acute myocardial infarction--a double-blind study.
6962Mag: !Mag Magnesium and potassium in diabetes and carbohydrate metabolism. Review of the present status and recent results.
6963Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium and potassium in the pathogenesis of arteriosclerosis.
6964Mag: !Mag Potassium, magnesium and membranes. Review of present status and new findings.
6965Mag: !Mag Interactions of Mg and K on blood vessels--aspects in view of hypertension. Review of present status and new findings.
6966Mag: !Mag Legal requirements, quality criteria, therapeutic interest and dietetics of mineral waters: study of the case of the natural mineral water of Evian
6967Mag: !Mag The role of magnesium in the prevention and control of hypertension.
6968Mag: !Mag Magnesium and the heart
6969Mag: !Mag Interaction of bis- and mono-N-nitrosoureas with rat liver chromatin in vitro.
6970Mag: !Mag Platelet adhesion.
6971Mag: !Mag Structure of yeast tRNAPhe molecule
6972Mag: !Mag Renal osteodystrophy.
6973Mag: !Mag Bone mineralization in infants.
6974Mag: !Mag Piretanide, a potassium stable diuretic, in the treatment of essential hypertension.
6975Mag: !Mag Reversible retinal vasospasm in magnesium-treated hypertension despite no significant change in blood pressure.
6976Mag: !Mag Effect of proteolytic enzymes and polypeptides on the antacid activity of almagate and other antacids.
6977Mag: !Mag Interactions between MG and blood pressure.
6978Mag: !Mag Views on the mechanisms of development of coronary spasm
6979Mag: !Mag Biochemical studies in calcium oxalate stone formers, with special reference to the effects of thiazide treatment.
6980Mag: !Mag Comparison of diluents for serum magnesium estimation by atomic absorption spectrophotometry.
6981Mag: !Mag Magnesium transport across cell membranes.
6982Mag: !Mag Dermatosis of hairless rats fed a hypomagnesic diet--pathology and immunology.
6983Mag: !Mag Comparative studies of the therapeutic effect of a herbazol preparation with and without an antacid component in duodenal peptic ulcer patients
6984Mag: !Mag NMR studies of intracellular metal ions in intact cells and tissues.
6985Mag: !Mag The bacteriology of the urine and renal calculi.
6986Mag: !Mag Nephrolithiasis: current concepts in medical management.
6987Mag: !Mag NMR studies of muscle proteins.
6988Mag: !Mag Molecular aspects of idiopathic urolithiasis.
6989Mag: !Mag Effect of herbazin 50 on the course of suppurative surgical infection in sheep
6990Mag: !Mag Impaired tubular reabsorption of magnesium after renal transplantation.
6991Mag: !Mag Pyruvate carboxylase.
6992Mag: !Mag Studies of the catalytically-active form of hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase from yeast.
6993Mag: !Mag Inactivation of mitotic factors by ultraviolet irradiation of HeLa cells in mitosis.
6994Mag: !Mag Activation of yeast enolase by Cd(II).
6995Mag: !Mag Skeletal muscle disease in alcoholism.
6996Mag: !Mag Urinary cations and blood pressure--population studies.
6997Mag: !Mag Blocking of proton-activated sodium permeability of the membranes of trigeminal ganglion neurons in the rat by organic cations
6998Mag: !Mag Membrane alterations in magnesium-deficiency-induced malignant T cell lymphoma.
6999Mag: !Mag Calcium and calmodulin in cell growth and transformation.
7000Mag: !Mag Stepwise changes in crossbridge state and sarcomere length: do lattice constraints play a critical role?
7001Mag: !Mag Investigations on myelinogenesis in vitro: regulation of 5'-nucleotidase activity by thyroid hormone in cultures of dissociated cells from embryonic mouse brain.
7002Mag: !Mag Cytoplasmic inclusions and X-ray microprobe analysis in a case of prolymphocytic leukemia.
7003Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent regulation of cardiac adenyl cyclase by calmodulin
7004Mag: !Mag Structure-function problems with the adenylate cyclase system.
7005Mag: !Mag Hormone-adenylate cyclase coupling in osteosarcoma clonal cell lines.
7006Mag: !Mag Operation of internal Na-dependent Ca influx mechanism associated with catecholamine secretion in the adrenal chromaffin cells.
7007Mag: !Mag Particulate cyclic 3',5'-nucleotide phosphodiesterase and calmodulin of cardiac muscle.
7008Mag: !Mag Regulation of ATP-Mg-dependent protein phosphatase.
7009Mag: !Mag Adrenergic control of phosphofructokinase and glycolysis in rat heart.
7010Mag: !Mag Human phosphoribosylpyrophosphate (PRPP) synthetase requirements for subunit aggregation.
7011Mag: !Mag Cyclic AMP-stimulated protein kinase activity in rabbit peripheral myelin.
7012Mag: !Mag The influence of ready-to-eat cereal consumption at breakfast on nutrient intakes of individuals 62 years and older.
7013Mag: !Mag Calmodulin-induced feeding in the satiated cat: evidence for involvement of calcium and norepinephrine in the brain.
7014Mag: !Mag Problems with potassium and magnesium in diuretic-treated patients.
7015Mag: !Mag Potassium supplements or potassium-sparing agents.
7016Mag: !Mag Effect of arteparon on the formation of calcium phosphate and calcium pyrophosphate crystals--comparative experimental study
7017Mag: !Mag Effect of carbostimulin on reparative osteogenesis in rabbits of different ages
7018Mag: !Mag Magnesium ions potentiate the formation of adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate induced by depolarizing agents in the rat cerebral cortex in vivo.
7019Mag: !Mag Modulation of low calcium induced field bursts in the hippocampus by monoamines and cholinomimetics.
7020Mag: !Mag Effects of folic and kainic acids on synaptic responses of hippocampal neurones.
7021Mag: !Mag Adenylate cyclase and membrane fluidity. The repressor hypothesis.
7022Mag: !Mag Characteristics of cyclic nucleotide dependent regulation of cytoplasmic E2 binders in cultured endometrial and breast cells.
7023Mag: !Mag Modulation of protein synthesis in a cell-free system derived from rat brain by corticotropin (ACTH), magnesium, and spermine.
7024Mag: !Mag Evidence for a specific phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate phosphatase in human erythrocyte membranes.
7025Mag: !Mag Ultracytochemistry of transport Na, K-ATPase
7026Mag: !Mag Use of 3,3'-dipropylthiodicarbocyanine iodide diS-C3-(5) for the study of conformational changes and detection of Ca-binding proteins
7027Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent ions on basal and hormone-activated renal adenylate cyclase/cyclic AMP system.
7028Mag: !Mag Lithium administration and urinary electrolyte excretion in the rat.
7029Mag: !Mag Functional significance of electrogenic pumps in neurons.
7030Mag: !Mag Calcium-mediated inactivation of the calcium conductance in cesium-loaded frog heart cells.
7031Mag: !Mag Glucocorticoid activation of a calcium-dependent endonuclease in thymocyte nuclei leads to cell death.
7032Mag: !Mag Tetanic syndrome during year seasons. I. Ischemic and hyperventilation tests.
7033Mag: !Mag Phagocytosis by human monocyte-derived macrophages. Independent function of receptors for C3b (CR1) and iC3b (CR3).
7034Mag: !Mag Study of a lysis medium stabilizing microfilaments and microtubules in vitro and in vivo
7035Mag: !Mag Differences in calcium transport mechanism of the sarcoplasmic reticulum of the slow-twitch and fast-twitch muscle.
7036Mag: !Mag Role of Mg2+ ions in several steps of the sarcoplasmic reticulum-ATPase cycle.
7037Mag: !Mag Metabolic activity of liver mitochondria from magnesium-deficient rats.
7038Mag: !Mag Active calcium transport in normal and abnormal human erythrocytes.
7039Mag: !Mag Ca2+ metabolism of Plasmodia-infected erythrocytes.
7040Mag: !Mag Inhibition of erythrocyte membrane shape change by band 3 cytoplasmic fragment.
7041Mag: !Mag Calcium ion and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase in rod outer segment.
7042Mag: !Mag Changes in cardiac myofibrillar ATPase activity during development of hyperthyroidism in the rabbit.
7043Mag: !Mag Chick oviduct progesterone receptor: protein kinase activity of purified components.
7044Mag: !Mag Morphophysiological studies in experimental myocardial stress induced by isoproterenol. Note II. The myocardioprotector effect of magnesium ascorbate.
7045Mag: !Mag Effects of Mg2+ and adenine nucleotides on thymidylate synthetase from different mouse tumors.
7046Mag: !Mag A magnesium gas generator for the cultivation of anaerobic microorganisms
7047Mag: !Mag Uremic cardiomyopathy: potential role of vitamin D and parathyroid hormone.
7048Mag: !Mag Infusion therapy in the prehospital phase
7049Mag: !Mag Characterization of calcium uptake into rough endoplasmic reticulum of rat pancreas.
7050Mag: !Mag Safety and effects of potassium- and magnesium-containing low sodium salt mixtures.
7051Mag: !Mag Epidemiological studies on the relationship between sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium and arterial blood pressure.
7052Mag: !Mag Comparison of metastable phase behavior of the complexes of dipalmitoyl phosphatidylglycerol with Mg+2 and myelin basic protein.
7053Mag: !Mag Clinical evaluation of the results of studying duodenal contents
7054Mag: !Mag Forskolin, a new positive inotropic agent, and its influence on myocardial electrogenic cation movements.
7055Mag: !Mag Drugs in dentistry. Analgesics.
7056Mag: !Mag Effect of antacid and H2-receptor blocker treatment on gastric endocrine cells.
7057Mag: !Mag Effects of anesthesia on the electrolyte concentrations in blood and coelomic fluid of the earthworm, Pheretima communissima.
7058Mag: !Mag Electrophysiological aspects of synaptic transmission at the electromotor junction of Torpedo marmorata.
7059Mag: !Mag Silent intracellular calcium in sickle cell anemia red cells.
7060Mag: !Mag Ca2+-transport and Mg2+- and Ca2+-ATPase activity in the exocrine pancreas.
7061Mag: !Mag Ca2+-activated, fatty acid-dependent guanylate cyclase in synaptic plasma membranes and its requirement for Ca2+ and Mg-GTP in the activation.
7062Mag: !Mag Effect of potassium ions on the electrical activity of ampullae of Lorenzini in the skate
7063Mag: !Mag Effects of suppression of eggshell calcification and of 1,25(OH)2D3 on Mg2+, Ca2+ and Mg2+HCO-3 ATPase, alkaline phosphatase, carbonic anhydrase and CaBP levels--II. The laying hen intestine.
7064Mag: !Mag Effects of suppression of eggshell calcification and of 1,25(OH)2D3 on Mg2+, Ca2+ and Mg2+HCO-3 ATPase, alkaline phosphatase, carbonic anhydrase and CaBP levels--I. The laying hen uterus.
7065Mag: !Mag Drug-induced myasthenic syndromes.
7066Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in the Japanese quail.
7067Mag: !Mag The effect of osmotic and ion-osmotic stresses on the blood and urine composition and urine flow of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri).
7068Mag: !Mag Magnesium levels in the body fluids of dam and fetal rabbits during the reproductive phase.
7069Mag: !Mag Sensitivity to injected cholera toxin of the sodium efflux in single barnacle muscle fibers.
7070Mag: !Mag Distribution of cadmium, copper and zinc in the liver of spot salamander, Ambystoma maculatum and their binding to metallothionein.
7071Mag: !Mag Ultrastructure of juxtaglomerular cells correlated with biochemical parameters in a hibernator.
7072Mag: !Mag Mechanisms in the vectorial receptor-adenylate cyclase signal transduction.
7073Mag: !Mag The effect of acid water on the loss of divalent cations and primary amines from natural membranes.
7074Mag: !Mag Enzyme histochemistry of malignant T cell lymphoma due to chronic magnesium deficiency in rats.
7075Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of glutamine synthetase from chicken brain
7076Mag: !Mag Role of ouabain and diuretics on sodium, potassium and chloride retention in perfused rat kidney.
7077Mag: !Mag Direct effects of adriamycin on the rat heart sarcolemma.
7078Mag: !Mag Effects of amino acids on cat red nucleus neurons in vitro.
7079Mag: !Mag High-affinity 3Hoctopamine-binding sites in Drosophila melanogaster: interaction with ligands and relationship to octopamine receptors.
7080Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of maize leaf acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase.
7081Mag: !Mag Magnesium requirement for somatostatin inhibition of insulin secretion.
7082Mag: !Mag Efficacy of ipecac and activated charcoal/cathartic. Prevention of salicylate absorption in a simulated overdose.
7083Mag: !Mag Lenticular glutathione synthesis: rate-limiting factors in its regulation and decline.
7084Mag: !Mag Seasonal variation in urinary excretion of calcium, magnesium and phosphate in manic-melancholic patients.
7085Mag: !Mag The pX region of HTLV-I.
7086Mag: !Mag Brain amine metabolism is reflected in cerebral ventricular CSF.
7087Mag: !Mag Purification and some properties of protamine kinase from rabbit brain.
7088Mag: !Mag The effects of ionic concentration and light on the binding of enzymes to rod outer segment membranes.
7089Mag: !Mag A new sea urchin toxin and its effect on spontaneous transmitter release at frog neuromuscular junctions.
7090Mag: !Mag Mechanisms controlling mammalian fertilization.
7091Mag: !Mag Nmel, a restriction endonuclease from Neisseria meningitidis.
7092Mag: !Mag Influence of lithium on magnesium levels in the plasma, erythrocytes and brain of rats
7093Mag: !Mag Resolvase-mediated recombination intermediates contain a serine residue covalently linked to DNA.
7094Mag: !Mag Biochemical aspects of enkephalin participation in the regulation of adrenergic effects on myocardium
7095Mag: !Mag Relation between calcium phosphates and calcium oxalates in urinary calculi
7096Mag: !Mag Updated protocols and comments on the purification without use of activating ligands of the coupling proteins Ns and Ni of the hormone sensitive adenylyl cyclase.
7097Mag: !Mag The action of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and ethylenediamine (EDA) on Limulus and Helix central neurones and rat cerebellar and sympathetic ganglion neurones.
7098Mag: !Mag Calcium regulation of magnesium dependent phosphorylation of human erythrocyte ghost spectrin.
7099Mag: !Mag Characterization of prolactin receptors in human breast cancer.
7100Mag: !Mag Changes in intracellular cations during the cell cycle in HeLa cells.
7101Mag: !Mag The relationship between PTH secretion and cytosolic calcium concentration in bovine parathyroid cells.
7102Mag: !Mag Measurements of intracellular, free Ca2+ in parathyroid cells: evidence for a Ca2+-independent secretory pathway.
7103Mag: !Mag The possible role of magnesium in hypercalcemic hypertension.
7104Mag: !Mag Speculations on hormonal controls of magnesium homeostasis: a hypothesis.
7105Mag: !Mag New concepts in the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis
7106Mag: !Mag A central role for magnesium in the regulation of inhibitory adenosine receptors.
7107Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium and calcium ions on synaptic transmission block induced by adenosine in isolated slices of rat hippocampus
7108Mag: !Mag Ranitidine, cimetidine, antacids, and gastro-oesophageal reflux: results of a 20-hour oesophageal pH study.
7109Mag: !Mag Silicon dioxide calculi in humans in the absence of silicate antacid medication.
7110Mag: !Mag Calmodulin, a calmodulin acceptor protein, and calcimedins: unique antibody localizations in hamster sperm.
7111Mag: !Mag Effects of antidiuretic hormone on renal reabsorption of electrolytes.
7112Mag: !Mag Regulation of protein phosphatase activity by the deinhibitor protein.
7113Mag: !Mag Inhibitory characteristics of 3,5-dibromo-1-acetoxy-4-oxo-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-acetonitrile, a semisynthetic derivative of aeroplysinin-1 from sponges (Aplysinidae), on Na+ - K+-ATPase.
7114Mag: !Mag The role of fibronectin in monocyte/macrophage function.
7115Mag: !Mag Determination of calcium phosphate inhibitor activity. Critical assessment of the methodology.
7116Mag: !Mag Doctor Nehemiah Grew (1641-1712) and the Epsom salts.
7117Mag: !Mag Charge and size heterogeneity of C3d following in vivo and in vitro activation of the complement system.
7118Mag: !Mag Alkaline phosphatase activity of the mouse.
7119Mag: !Mag Vigilance states and cerebral monoamine metabolism in experimental magnesium deficiency.
7120Mag: !Mag Effect of parathyroid hormone and uremic sera on the autoagglutination and sedimentation of human red blood cells.
7121Mag: !Mag Concerted stimulation of PI-turnover, Ca2+-influx and histamine release in antigen-activated rat mast cells.
7122Mag: !Mag Solubility properties of alkaline phosphatase from matrix vesicles.
7123Mag: !Mag The total and free concentrations of Ca2+ and Mg2+ inside platelet secretory granules. Measurements employing a novel double null point technique.
7124Mag: !Mag Generation of free radical metabolites and superoxide anion by the calcium indicators arsenazo III, antipyrylazo III, and murexide in rat liver microsomes.
7125Mag: !Mag Ion competition and micrococcal nuclease digestion studies of spermidine-condensed calf thymus DNA. Evidence for torus organization by circumferential DNA wrapping.
7126Mag: !Mag Anion influence on the binding of divalent cations to phosphatidylcholine.
7127Mag: !Mag Nitrogenase reactivity: methyl isocyanide as substrate and inhibitor.
7128Mag: !Mag Elevated tonicity increases miniature end-plate potential frequency during tetanic stimulation at frog neuromuscular junction in low calcium and in manganese saline solutions.
7129Mag: !Mag Nerve growth factor-induced neurite outgrowth of rat pheochromocytoma PC 12 cells: dependence on extracellular Mg2+ and Ca2+.
7130Mag: !Mag Influence of the medium on the heat and acid denaturation of IgE.
7131Mag: !Mag Lead, cadmium, iron, zinc, copper, manganese, calcium and magnesium in SPF male rats exposed to a dilution of automotive exhaust gas throughout their lives.
7132Mag: !Mag Influence of sodium dodecyl sulphate quality on the electrophoretic mobility of the outer membrane proteins of mucoid and non-mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
7133Mag: !Mag Neuropeptide activation of an identifiable buccal ganglion motoneuron in Aplysia.
7134Mag: !Mag Low-energy Mg2+-induced temperature transitions in liver microsomes.
7135Mag: !Mag Sodium and potassium binding to parvalbumins measured by means of intrinsic protein fluorescence.
7136Mag: !Mag Distinct metal cofactor-induced conformational states in the NAD-specific malic enzyme of Escherichia coli as revealed by proteolysis studies.
7137Mag: !Mag Free energy coupling in the interactions between Ca2+, calmodulin, and phosphorylase kinase.
7138Mag: !Mag Crystallization and preliminary x-ray studies of spinach ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase complexed with activator and a transition state analogue.
7139Mag: !Mag Simultaneous 13C and 31P NMR studies of perfused rat liver. Effects of insulin and glucagon and a 13C NMR assay of free Mg2+.
7140Mag: !Mag Identification of a Ca2+ requirement for protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells.
7141Mag: !Mag Modulation by ADP and Mg2+ of the inactivation of the F1-ATPase from the thermophilic bacterium, PS3, with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide.
7142Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent cation bound to the ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum. Activation of phosphoenzyme hydrolysis by Mg2+.
7143Mag: !Mag Two ribonucleic acid-dependent nucleoside triphosphate phosphohydrolases from rat liver nuclei.
7144Mag: !Mag Quinolinic acid evokes 3Hacetylcholine release in striatal slices: mediation by NMDA-type excitatory amino acid receptors.
7145Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy in preeclampsia--eclampsia
7146Mag: !Mag Insulin action on cardiac glucose transport. Studies on the role of the Na+/K+ pump.
7147Mag: !Mag Hydrolysis of adenylyl imidodiphosphate in the presence of Na+ + Mg2+ by (Na+ + K+)-activated ATPase.
7148Mag: !Mag Polymerization of actin and actin-like systems: evaluation of the time course of polymerization in relation to the mechanism.
7149Mag: !Mag Direct observation of complexes of ssb and recA proteins with a fluorescent single-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid derivative.
7150Mag: !Mag Studies On Intestinal Trematodes In Korea: VIII. A Human Case Of Echinostoma Hortense Infection.
7151Mag: !Mag Effect of metallic magnesium and various magnesium salts on the oviposition of Biomphalaria glabrata (Say, 1818)
7152Mag: !Mag Wheat pasture poisoning. II. Tissue composition of cattle grazing cereal forages and related to tetany.
7153Mag: !Mag Effect of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 on calcium and magnesium absorption in the healthy human jejunum and ileum.
7154Mag: !Mag Effects of low medium magnesium concentration on bone resorption in response to parathyroid hormone and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in organ culture.
7155Mag: !Mag Incidence of endotoxemia in pigs with ischemic hepatic necrosis treated by hemodialysis. Prevention of endotoxemia with lactulose.
7156Mag: !Mag Investigations of trace metal content of normal and diseased nails.
7157Mag: !Mag In vitro 14C-leucine incorporation into nonsynaptic and synaptic rat brain mitochondria isolated by Ficoll gradients.
7158Mag: !Mag Concentration of coliphages from drinking water by Mg(OH)2 flocculation.
7159Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium levels in cases of acute myocardial infarction and its prognostic significance.
7160Mag: !Mag Effect of supplemented magnesium from magnesium oxide or dolomitic limestone upon digestion and absorption of minerals in sheep.
7161Mag: !Mag Wheat pasture poisoning. I. An evaluation of cereal pastures as related to tetany in beef cows.
7162Mag: !Mag Clinical significance of blood zinc, copper, cadmium and magnesium determinations in acute myocardial infarction
7163Mag: !Mag Effect of various ions on a model of experimental ventricular automatism
7164Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate and pain caused by succinylcholine
7165Mag: !Mag Serum zinc, magnesium and calcium status in the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome.
7166Mag: !Mag 3-Hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase in the liver mitochondria of rats and chickens
7167Mag: !Mag Dissolution of meprobamate from various tablet formulations.
7168Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary fatty acids and calcium levels on performance and mineral metabolism of broiler chickens.
7169Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary levels and types of fat on performance and mineral metabolism of broiler chicks.
7170Mag: !Mag Oral antacid treatment in clinical rumen acidosis.
7171Mag: !Mag Electron microprobe analysis of elemental distribution in excavated human femurs.
7172Mag: !Mag A wet chemistry method for the analysis of urinary calculi.
7173Mag: !Mag Thermodependence of basal and stimulated cardiac adenylate cyclase activity in normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats.
7174Mag: !Mag Effect of inorganic additives on solutions of nonionic surfactants V: Emulsion stability.
7175Mag: !Mag Foetal and maternal magnesium metabolism: effect of magnesium deficiency and isoproterenol.
7176Mag: !Mag A comparative assessment of a new antacid formulation based on magaldrate.
7177Mag: !Mag Failure of cyproheptadine to affect calcium homoeostasis and PTH levels in primary hyperparathyroidism.
7178Mag: !Mag Acute hypercalcemia and hypomagnesemia in a case of primary hyperparathyroidism
7179Mag: !Mag Maternal dietary magnesium effects on lactation success and on milk yield and composition in the rat.
7180Mag: !Mag Antacid use in an ambulatory elderly population. A report from Dunedin Program.
7181Mag: !Mag Tea and coffee as sources of some minerals in the New Zealand diet.
7182Mag: !Mag Assessment of nutritional status and in vivo immune responses in alcoholic liver disease.
7183Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemic torsades de pointes.
7184Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in cystic fibrosis.
7185Mag: !Mag Late postpartum eclampsia: an update.
7186Mag: !Mag Hemiacidrin irrigation in the management of struvite calculi: long-term results.
7187Mag: !Mag Establishing the need for nutrition education: IV. Evaluation of dietary intakes of elementary school children.
7188Mag: !Mag Determination of serum and urine magnesium with a centrifugal analyzer.
7189Mag: !Mag Quantification of high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol by precipitation with phosphotungstic acid/MgCl2.
7190Mag: !Mag Preeclampsia associated with hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets--an obstetric emergency?
7191Mag: !Mag Effect of adenosine triphosphate-magnesium chloride administration for post-ischemic acute renal failure (I)
7192Mag: !Mag Value of serum magnesium estimation in diagnosing myocardial infarction and predicting dysrhythmias after coronary artery bypass grafting.
7193Mag: !Mag Multiple sites of action of ethanol on adenylate cyclase.
7194Mag: !Mag Muscle intracellular electrolytes in patients with chronic uremia.
7195Mag: !Mag Effect of cimetidine on serum immunoreactive parathyroid hormone in primary hyperparathyroidism and in chronic hemodialysis patients.
7196Mag: !Mag Evidence for cross-bridge order in contraction of glycerinated skeletal muscle.
7197Mag: !Mag Casein kinase activity in rat mammary gland Golgi vesicles. Phosphorylation of endogenous caseins.
7198Mag: !Mag Characterization of endogenous phosphorylation in isolated cardiac sarcolemma.
7199Mag: !Mag Adherence of murine peripheral blood eosinophils and neutrophils to the different parasitic stages of Nematospiroides dubius.
7200Mag: !Mag Toxicological and pharmacological studies on magnesium deficiency in rats: histamine-metabolizing enzymes in some tissues of magnesium-deficient rats.
7201Mag: !Mag Role of ions in activation of human lymphocytes.
7202Mag: !Mag Decoupling of exocytotic membrane fusion from protein discharge in Paramecium cells.
7203Mag: !Mag Analysis of Hantaan virus RNA: evidence for a new genus of bunyaviridae.
7204Mag: !Mag Intracellular calcium measurements by 19F NMR of fluorine-labeled chelators.
7205Mag: !Mag Lead ion binding and RNA chain hydrolysis in phenylalanine tRNA.
7206Mag: !Mag Interaction of adenosine 5'-triphosphate with metal ions X-ray structure of ternary complexes containing Mg(II), Ca(II), Mn(II), Co(II), ATP and 2,2'-dipyridylamine.
7207Mag: !Mag The infant of the diabetic mother. Pathophysiology and management.
7208Mag: !Mag Magnesium cation induced conformational change of yeast tRNAPhe as studied by singlet-singlet energy transfer.
7209Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium deficiency on glucose stimulated insulin secretion in rats.
7210Mag: !Mag Genetic transformation of Bacillus brevis 47, a protein-secreting bacterium, by plasmid DNA.
7211Mag: !Mag Zinc as activating cation for muscle glycolysis.
7212Mag: !Mag Influence of sodium bicarbonate and magnesium oxide on digestion and metabolism in yearling beef steers abruptly changed from high forage to high energy diets.
7213Mag: !Mag Localization of neuronal Ca2+ buffering near plasma membrane studied with different divalent cations.
7214Mag: !Mag Simple shifts in the voltage dependence of sodium channel gating caused by divalent cations.
7215Mag: !Mag The nutritional composition of British bread: London area study.
7216Mag: !Mag cis-Platinum-induced hypomagnesemia and peripheral neuropathy.
7217Mag: !Mag Juvenile renal stone disease: a study of urinary promoting and inhibiting factors.
7218Mag: !Mag Are users of water softening devices more severely affected by alcohol?
7219Mag: !Mag The vanadate complex of the calcium-transport ATPase of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, its formation and dissociation.
7220Mag: !Mag The RNA moiety of ribonuclease P is the catalytic subunit of the enzyme.
7221Mag: !Mag Effective chemotherapy for advanced carcinoma of the cervix with bleomycin, cisplatin, vincristine, and methotrexate.
7222Mag: !Mag Preterm labour.
7223Mag: !Mag Noradrenaline-mediated synaptic inhibition in rat locus coeruleus neurones.
7224Mag: !Mag Regulation of activity of purified guanylate cyclase from liver that is unresponsive to nitric oxide.
7225Mag: !Mag Muscarinic receptors and guanylate cyclase in mammalian gastric glandular cells.
7226Mag: !Mag Release of endogenous and accumulated exogenous amino acids from slices of normal and climbing fibre-deprived rat cerebellar slices.
7227Mag: !Mag Angiotensin II receptors in resistance vessels.
7228Mag: !Mag Selective and reversible inhibition of heart sarcolemmal (Na+ + K+)-ATPase by p-bromophenyl isothiocyanate. Evidence for a sulfhydryl group in the ATP-binding site of the enzyme.
7229Mag: !Mag Measurement of the dissociation constant of MgATP at physiological nucleotide levels by a combination of 31P NMR and optical absorbance spectroscopy.
7230Mag: !Mag Effect of insulin on brain pyruvate dehydrogenase in the rat. (Preliminary note)
7231Mag: !Mag 4-nitrophenyl phosphatase activity of the red blood cell membrane in essential hypertension.
7232Mag: !Mag Acetylation-induced alteration of catalytic and regulatory properties of aspartase.
7233Mag: !Mag Cyclic nucleotide-independent protein kinases from rabbit reticulocytes. Purification and characterization of protease-activated kinase II.
7234Mag: !Mag Stereospecificity of amino acid hydroxamate inhibition of aminopeptidases.
7235Mag: !Mag Autophosphorylation of phosphorylase kinase. Divalent metal cation and nucleotide dependency.
7236Mag: !Mag Inhibition of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase by substrate ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate.
7237Mag: !Mag Regulation of the synthesis and hydrolysis of ATP by mitochondrial ATPase. Role of Mg2+.
7238Mag: !Mag Methylation of phospholipids in microsomes of the rat aorta.
7239Mag: !Mag Labeled norepinephrine uptake and release in rat globus pallidus.
7240Mag: !Mag Indapamide: a review.
7241Mag: !Mag Properties of a purified nuclear topoisomerase from L1210 cells.
7242Mag: !Mag Pharmacoprophylaxis of hemorrhage in stress ulcer
7243Mag: !Mag Ethanol consumption and blood pressure.
7244Mag: !Mag Cytosol Mg2+ modulates Ca2+ ionophore induced secretion from rabbit neutrophils.
7245Mag: !Mag Urinary magnesium output after a single dose of indapamide in healthy adults.
7246Mag: !Mag Extraction and separation of androstenedione from products of aromatase assays on micro-columns of magnesium oxide.
7247Mag: !Mag Inhibitory regulation of adenylyl cyclase in the absence of stimulatory regulation. Requirements and kinetics of guanine nucleotide-induced inhibition of the cyc- S49 adenylyl cyclase.
7248Mag: !Mag Hypocalcemia and inhibition of parathyroid hormone secretion after administration of WR-2721 (a radioprotective and chemoprotective agent).
7249Mag: !Mag Distance measurement between the active site and cysteine-177 of the alkali one light chain of subfragment 1 from rabbit skeletal muscle.
7250Mag: !Mag Magnesium and phosphorus--the forgotten electrolytes
7251Mag: !Mag Magnesium and deaths ascribed to ischaemic heart disease in South Africa. A preliminary report.
7252Mag: !Mag Is extracellular calcium buffering involved in regulation of transmitter release at the neuromuscular junction?
7253Mag: !Mag Cervical dilatation by Lamicel--studies on the mechanism of action.
7254Mag: !Mag Phosphorus bioavailability in the chick: effects of protein source and calcium level.
7255Mag: !Mag Effects of acetylcholine, norepinephrine, and serotonin on neurons of the septum in vitro.
7256Mag: !Mag Measurement of magnesium in the human sera with xylidyl-blue I. I. The effect of phosphate ion
7257Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary calcium on growth, calcium, magnesium and phosphorus contents and fatty acid composition of individual tissues in rats.
7258Mag: !Mag Bioavailability of indomethacin calcium and magnesium, and effect of the salts on drug metabolizing enzyme activities in rats.
7259Mag: !Mag Seminal plasma magnesium, calcium and inorganic phosphate concentration in normozoospermic and subfertile men.
7260Mag: !Mag Effects of selected therapeutic agents on urolithiasis induced by terephthalic acid in the male weanling Fischer 344 rat.
7261Mag: !Mag Reactivation of the partially phosphorylated pyruvate dehydrogenase complex from bovine adrenal glands
7262Mag: !Mag Gentamicin-induced hypercalciuria in the rat.
7263Mag: !Mag Fecal excretion of soluble magnesium by humans.
7264Mag: !Mag A method of preparing single renal tubules for electron microprobe analysis.
7265Mag: !Mag Changes in reactivities of scallop adductor myosin with 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoate) and with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonate accompanying dissociation and association of regulatory light chain.
7266Mag: !Mag Effects of external Mg2+ and Ca2+ on branchial osmotic water permeability and prolactin secretion in the teleost fish Sarotherodon mossambicus.
7267Mag: !Mag The choice of an antacid in therapy: use of in vivo methods
7268Mag: !Mag Bovine lens aldehyde dehydrogenase. Purification and preliminary characterization.
7269Mag: !Mag Several conditions of formation and isolation of violet pigment from culture fluid of Nocardia fructiferi var. ristomycin
7270Mag: !Mag Mineral status of grazing beef cattle in the warm climate region of Florida.
7271Mag: !Mag Distribution of trace elements and minerals in human and cow's milk.
7272Mag: !Mag Effect of nutrient depletion on the sensitivity of Pseudomonas cepacia to antimicrobial agents.
7273Mag: !Mag Spectral studies of magnesium porphyrin--apomyoglobin and apohemoglobin complexes.
7274Mag: !Mag Balance and urinary excretion of calcium, magnesium and phosphorus in response to high concentrate feeding and lactate infusion in lambs.
7275Mag: !Mag Photoreceptor disc shedding in eye cups. Inhibition by deletion of extracellular divalent cations.
7276Mag: !Mag Cimetidine - antacid combination as premedication for elective Caesarean section.
7277Mag: !Mag Dose-dependent reduction in renal magnesium clearance by amiloride during frusemide-induced diuresis in rats.
7278Mag: !Mag Gentamicin-induced hypomagnesemia.
7279Mag: !Mag Evaluation and medical management of the patient with calcium stone disease.
7280Mag: !Mag Dolomite toxicity.
7281Mag: !Mag High-dose intravenous phosphorus therapy for severe complicated hypophosphatemia.
7282Mag: !Mag Effect of a 5-year treatment program in patients with hyperoxaluric stones.
7283Mag: !Mag Cysteine feeding affects urinary zinc excretion in normal and ethanol-treated rats.
7284Mag: !Mag Nutrient intake of low-income pregnant women: laboratory analysis of foods consumed.
7285Mag: !Mag Composition of diets of low-income pregnant women: comparison of analyzed with calculated values.
7286Mag: !Mag Anchorage dependence and Ca2+ requirement are independently modulated by hydrocortisone hormone in rat C6 glioma cells.
7287Mag: !Mag Calcium-mediated changes in gap junction structure: evidence from the low angle X-ray pattern.
7288Mag: !Mag Downbeat nystagmus. Long-term therapy with moderate-dose lithium carbonate.
7289Mag: !Mag Effects of acute metabolic acid-base changes and furosemide on magnesium excretion in rats.
7290Mag: !Mag Polymerization of actin: mechanism of the Mg2+-induced process at pH 8 and 20 degrees C.
7291Mag: !Mag Determination of magnesium, copper and zinc in biological samples using plasma emission spectrophotometry
7292Mag: !Mag Relation between the mineral content of cow's milk, the quantity of milk and the fat content of the milk
7293Mag: !Mag Failure of Brucella abortus lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to activate the alternative pathway of complement.
7294Mag: !Mag Influence of nutrient limitation of growth on stability and production of virulence factors of mucoid and nonmucoid strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
7295Mag: !Mag In vitro study of cysteine oxidase in rat brain.
7296Mag: !Mag Kinetic and thermodynamic study of the tetramerization equilibrium of phosphorylase b.
7297Mag: !Mag Uncontrolled diabetes mellitus in adults: experience in treating diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperosmolar nonketotic coma with low-dose insulin and a uniform treatment regimen.
7298Mag: !Mag Stability of vitamin and mineral concentrations of a low-birth-weight infant formula during continuous enteral feeding.
7299Mag: !Mag Nutritional aspects of malabsorption syndromes.
7300Mag: !Mag Intracellular Mg2+ homeostasis of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.
7301Mag: !Mag von Willebrand factor binds to platelets and induces aggregation in platelet-type but not type IIB von Willebrand disease.
7302Mag: !Mag Effects of monovalent and divalent cations on Ca2+ fluxes across chromaffin secretory membrane vesicles.
7303Mag: !Mag Factors affecting the enumeration of coliphages in sewage and sewage-polluted waters.
7304Mag: !Mag Studies of activating and nonactivating metal ion binding to yeast enolase.
7305Mag: !Mag Opsonization of various capsular (K) E. coli by the alternative complement pathway.
7306Mag: !Mag Involvement of cholinergic mechanism in the action of allethrin in insect CNS.
7307Mag: !Mag How are the physical and chemical properties of chrysotile asbestos altered by a 10-year residence in water and up to 5 days in simulated stomach acid?
7308Mag: !Mag Stimulation and inhibition by magnesium ions of intrinsic protein phosphorylating systems in synaptosomal membrane fragments from rat brain.
7309Mag: !Mag Changes in threshold for calcium transients in frog skeletal muscle fibres owing to calcium depletion in the T-tubules.
7310Mag: !Mag Mammalian small intestinal phytase (EC 3.1.3.8).
7311Mag: !Mag Effects of cyclic AMP and protein kinase on calcium uptake in a microsomal fraction from guinea pig taenia caecum.
7312Mag: !Mag NAD+-dependent ADP-ribosyltransferase in renal brush-border membranes.
7313Mag: !Mag Two distinct solubilized benzodiazepine receptors: differential modulation by ions.
7314Mag: !Mag Human chorionic gonadotropin-induced heterologous desensitization of adenylyl cyclase from highly luteinized rat ovaries: attenuation of regulatory N component activity.
7315Mag: !Mag Characterization of the prolactin receptor in human prostate.
7316Mag: !Mag Cuprolinic Blue: a specific dye for single-stranded RNA in the presence of magnesium chloride. II. Practical applications for light microscopy.
7317Mag: !Mag Diuretic-induced hypokalemia in uncomplicated systemic hypertension: effect of plasma potassium correction on cardiac arrhythmias.
7318Mag: !Mag Calcium homeostasis in patients with acute pancreatitis.
7319Mag: !Mag Extracellular calcium ion concentration required for prolactin to express its actions on casein, ribonucleic acid, and lipid biosynthesis in mouse mammary gland explants.
7320Mag: !Mag Splicing of in vitro synthesized messenger RNA precursors in HeLa cell extracts.
7321Mag: !Mag The significance of betamimetics and magnesium for the outcome of pregnancy: II. The role of magnesium in the development of gestosis and fetal hypotrophy
7322Mag: !Mag The tightly bound divalent cation regulates actin polymerization.
7323Mag: !Mag Evidence for a divalent cation dependent catecholamine storage complex in chromaffin granules.
7324Mag: !Mag Drug-induced urinary lithiasis
7325Mag: !Mag Inhibition of (Na+,K+)-ATPase by magnesium ions and inorganic phosphate and release of these ligands in the cycles of ATP hydrolysis.
7326Mag: !Mag Binding of monovalent cations to phosphatidylserine and modulation of Ca2+- and Mg2+-induced vesicle fusion.
7327Mag: !Mag Plasma aluminium levels in patients on maintenance haemodialysis fall when oral aluminium hydroxide is withdrawn.
7328Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of the membrane (Na+ + Mg2+)-ATPase from Acholeplasma laidlawii B.
7329Mag: !Mag The elongation of mismatched primers by DNA polymerase alpha from calf thymus.
7330Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of the principal inhibitor of calcium oxalate monohydrate crystal growth in human urine.
7331Mag: !Mag Requirement of ATP for specific incision of ultraviolet-damaged DNA during excision repair in permeable human fibroblasts.
7332Mag: !Mag Crystallographic observations of the metal ion triple in the active site region of alkaline phosphatase.
7333Mag: !Mag ATP-dependent unwinding of the double helix and extensive supercoiling by Escherichia coli recA protein in the presence of topoisomerase.
7334Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of Lactobacillus casei folylpoly-gamma-glutamate synthetase.
7335Mag: !Mag Magnesium and sudden death.
7336Mag: !Mag The interaction of gamma-aminobutiric acid with hydrated Ca2+ and Mg2+. A pseudopotential ab initio study.
7337Mag: !Mag Zinc, magnesium and calcium in coronary and peripheral blood under extracorporeal circulation conditions. Comparative studies
7338Mag: !Mag S-adenosylmethionine synthetase in cultured normal and oncogenically-transformed human and rat cells.
7339Mag: !Mag ATP-dependent calcium sequestration and calcium/ATP stoichiometry in isolated microsomes from guinea pig parotid glands.
7340Mag: !Mag Stimulation of a sodium influx by cAMP in Helix neurons.
7341Mag: !Mag The effects of metal ions on the binding of a new alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist radioligand (3H)-RX 781094 in rat cerebral cortex.
7342Mag: !Mag A high-affinity, calmodulin-sensitive (Ca2+ + Mg2+)-ATPase and associated calcium-transport pump in the Ehrlich ascites tumor cell plasma membrane.
7343Mag: !Mag Differential regulation of high-affinity agonist binding to muscarinic sites in the rat heart, cerebellum, and cerebral cortex.
7344Mag: !Mag Localization of phosphoprotein PP 105 in cell lines of various species.
7345Mag: !Mag Regulation of muscarinic agonist binding by cations and guanine nucleotides.
7346Mag: !Mag Role of the deinhibitor protein in the interconversion of the ATP,Mg-dependent protein phosphatase.
7347Mag: !Mag Mg2+-, Ca2+-dependent unwinding of DNA by poly-L-glutamic acid.
7348Mag: !Mag Protoporphyrin IX activates the Mg dependent guanylate cyclase from rat liver plasma membranes.
7349Mag: !Mag Hypoparathyroidism in Wilson's disease.
7350Mag: !Mag Divalent cations in essential hypertension. Relations between serum ionized calcium, magnesium, and plasma renin activity.
7351Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium binding to myosin in controlling the state of cross-bridges in skeletal rabbit muscle.
7352Mag: !Mag Circular dichroism and ordered structure of bisnucleoside oligophosphates and their Zn2+ and Mg2+ complexes.
7353Mag: !Mag In vitro regulation of bovine adrenal cortical acyl-CoA: cholesterol acyltransferase and comparison with the rat liver enzyme.
7354Mag: !Mag Cell-free translation of calf type III collagen. Effect of magnesium on ribosome movement during elongation.
7355Mag: !Mag Characterization of tRNA precursor splicing in mammalian extracts.
7356Mag: !Mag Loss of positional specificity in the aminoacylation of Escherichia coli tRNAGly.
7357Mag: !Mag Agonist-induced regulation of pituitary receptors for gonadotropin-releasing hormone. Dissociation of receptor recruitment from hormone release in cultured gonadotrophs.
7358Mag: !Mag Quinacrine mustard inactivates the bovine heart mitochondrial F1-ATPase with the modification of the beta subunit.
7359Mag: !Mag Ca2+ and pH affect the neurite formation in cultured mollusc isolated neurones.
7360Mag: !Mag Death in ventricular fibrillation induced by isoproterenol in DOCA-salt pretreated rats preceded by changes in myocardial electrolytes.
7361Mag: !Mag Similar affinities of ADP and ATP for G-actin at physiological salt concentrations.
7362Mag: !Mag Detection of conformational changes in chloroplast coupling factor 1 by 8-anilino-1-naphthalene-sulphonate fluorescence changes.
7363Mag: !Mag Influence of Calcium and Manganese on Dechaining of Lactobacillus bulgaricus.
7364Mag: !Mag Determination of the chemical composition of urinary calculi by computerized tomography.
7365Mag: !Mag Induction of squamous metaplasia in organ cultures of hamster trachea by naturally occurring and synthetic fibers.
7366Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium and magnesium acetates on the carcinogenicity of cadmium chloride in Wistar rats.
7367Mag: !Mag Effect of herb medicines for urolithiasis on urinary oxalate excretion in rats.
7368Mag: !Mag Hydrolysis of Dicalcium phosphate dihydrate in presence of magnesium & fluoride ions in aqueous media.
7369Mag: !Mag Hemagglutination, autoagglutination and pathogenicity of Moraxella bovis strains.
7370Mag: !Mag Gastric stimulus response: Euphylline, theophylline, ethylenediamine and Riopan: gastric transmural potential difference (GPD)
7371Mag: !Mag Chemical composition of winged bean (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus) varieties.
7372Mag: !Mag Nutritive quality of leaf proteins coagulated at different pH.
7373Mag: !Mag The enhancement of reaggregation of sea urchin blastula cells by exogenous proteins.
7374Mag: !Mag Stabilizing effect of acetate salts and HCO-3 in digestors receiving high levels of glucose.
7375Mag: !Mag Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release from fragmented sarcoplasmic reticulum: Ca2+-dependent passive Ca2+ efflux.
7376Mag: !Mag 1-Desaminopenicillamine, 8-alpha-hydroxyisocaproic acid oxytocin. A selective inhibitor in rats of the uterine response to oxytocin.
7377Mag: !Mag A new mutant mouse with motor neuron disease.
7378Mag: !Mag Effect of fluoride, silicon, and magnesium on the mineralizing capacity of an inorganic medium and stone formers urine tested by a modified in vitro method.
7379Mag: !Mag Host cell invasion by Apicomplexa: an expression of the parasite's contractile system?
7380Mag: !Mag Correlation between divalent cation concentration and electrocardiogram in canine myocardial infarction.
7381Mag: !Mag Kinetic properties of arachidonoyl-coenzyme A synthetase in rat brain microsomes.
7382Mag: !Mag Microthrix parvicella, a filamentous bacterium isolated from activated sludge: cultivation in a chemically defined medium.
7383Mag: !Mag Kidney function of pullets and laying hens during outbreaks of urolithiasis.
7384Mag: !Mag Tissue mineral levels in victims of sudden infant death syndrome II. Essential minerals: copper, zinc, calcium, and magnesium.
7385Mag: !Mag Generalized seizures alter the cerebral and peripheral metabolism of essential metals in mice.
7386Mag: !Mag Mineral composition of 103 stones from Iran.
7387Mag: !Mag Taurine, hypotaurine, epinephrine and albumin inhibit lipid peroxidation in rabbit spermatozoa and protect against loss of motility.
7388Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate as a tocolytic agent.
7389Mag: !Mag Stability of mean assay values of magnesium and iron in lyophilized quality control serum: a study based on data from the quality assurance service (QAS) of the College of American Pathologists.
7390Mag: !Mag Meltzer-Lyon test simultaneous with fiberoptic gastroduodenoscopy.
7391Mag: !Mag Zinc transport by the heart lymphatic system after acute myocardial infarction.
7392Mag: !Mag Impairment of ascorbic acid synthesis in liver extracts of magnesium-deficient rats.
7393Mag: !Mag Severe zinc deficiency: effects on the distribution of nine elements (potassium, phosphorus, sodium, magnesium, calcium, iron, zinc, copper and manganese) in regions of the rat brain.
7394Mag: !Mag Elemental analysis in murine central nervous system: elevation of rubidium subsequent to Newcastle disease virus encephalopathy.
7395Mag: !Mag Uracil phosphoribosyltransferase from Acholeplasma laidlawii: partial purification and kinetic properties.
7396Mag: !Mag A "column-batch" method for separating MB and LD1 in a single fraction.
7397Mag: !Mag Quantitative x-ray microanalysis of the elemental composition of individual myocytes in hypoxic rabbit myocardium.
7398Mag: !Mag Prevention of esophageal hemorrhage in patients with portal hypertension
7399Mag: !Mag Altered activation state of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase in liver tumors.
7400Mag: !Mag Magnesium ion-dependent contraction of skinned frog muscle fibers in calcium-free solution.
7401Mag: !Mag Alterations in human natural killer cell activity and monocyte cytotoxicity induced by zinc deficiency.
7402Mag: !Mag Renal cortical adenylate cyclase: characterization of magnesium activation.
7403Mag: !Mag Plasma concentrations of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, and 25,26-dihydroxyvitamin D in the first year of life.
7404Mag: !Mag Post-obstructive diuresis.
7405Mag: !Mag Water softener influence on anions and cations.
7406Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium sulfate as an anticonvulsant in severe pregnancy toxemia and eclampsia
7407Mag: !Mag Biochemical and physical properties of the endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidases from Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus simulans, and Staphylococcus saprophyticus.
7408Mag: !Mag Ion interactions in the aggregation of Streptococcus mitis.
7409Mag: !Mag Relation of the levels of mineral substances in the blood of cows, the quantity of milk and the fat content of the milk
7410Mag: !Mag Fluorescence intensity and UV absorption changes accompanying dissociation and association of regulatory light chain of scallop adductor myosin.
7411Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent cations and chelators on metaphase to telophase progression and nuclear envelope formation in Chinese hamster cells.
7412Mag: !Mag Rate and equilibrium constants of the tetramerization process of phosphorylase b. Influence of AMP and Mg2+.
7413Mag: !Mag Failure of bovine complement levels measured by radial hemolysis to correlate with tube titration.
7414Mag: !Mag The binding of IgM to B lymphocytes: a comparison of the binding characteristics of IgM aggregates and EAB (IgM) complexes to normal and leukemic B lymphocytes.
7415Mag: !Mag Natural history of potassium-deficiency myopathy in the dog: role of adrenocorticosteroid in rhabdomyolysis.
7416Mag: !Mag The solution structure of yeast tRNAPhe as studied by nuclear Overhauser effects in NMR.
7417Mag: !Mag Magnesium ion induced proton release as a probe for the polyelectrolytic structure of ribosomal RNAs and subunits.
7418Mag: !Mag Endocrine regulation of calcium homeostasis during pregnancy.
7419Mag: !Mag Serum levels of magnesium after kidney transplantation in relation to the function of the transplanted kidney, renal excretion of Mg and treatment with antacids containing Mg
7420Mag: !Mag Partial dissolution of struvite calculus with oral acetohydroxamic acid.
7421Mag: !Mag Recurrent ulcer after successful treatment with cimetidine or antacid.
7422Mag: !Mag Current concepts of the pathogenesis and management of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA).
7423Mag: !Mag Cardiovascular diseases and clinical laboratory examination. (2). Electrical and mechanical disturbances in the ischemic myocardium-- modification by catecholamines and electrolytes
7424Mag: !Mag Genetic variation in beta-adrenergic receptors in mice: a magnesium effect determined by a single gene.
7425Mag: !Mag Reduced Mg/Ca ratio in the urine and risk of nephrolithiasis in essential hypertension
7426Mag: !Mag Phosphatidylglycerophosphate synthase activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
7427Mag: !Mag Fibronectin receptors on the surfaces of alveolar macrophages
7428Mag: !Mag The intracellular localization of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lectins.
7429Mag: !Mag Glucose-6-phosphatase: is activity regulated by phosphorylation-dephosphorylation?
7430Mag: !Mag Inhibition of nuclear-protein phosphorylation in vitro by beryllium.
7431Mag: !Mag Divalent cations and temperature dependent block of impulse propagation at the frog neuromuscular junction.
7432Mag: !Mag Progression of age changes in synaptic transmission at mouse neuromuscular junctions.
7433Mag: !Mag Effect of Mn2+ on fructose 2,6-bisphosphate inhibition of mouse liver, intestinal, and muscle fructose-1,6-bisphosphatases.
7434Mag: !Mag Antacid prophylaxis in the pregnant patient.
7435Mag: !Mag Effects of prostaglandins and divalent cations on cAMP production in isolated rat hepatocytes.
7436Mag: !Mag Effects of cations, phospholipases, and neuraminidase on calcium binding to "gas-dissected" membranes from cultured cardiac cells.
7437Mag: !Mag Herpes simplex virus non-structural proteins. IV. Purification of the virus-induced deoxyribonuclease and characterization of the enzyme using monoclonal antibodies.
7438Mag: !Mag Membrane-associated phosphatidylinositol kinase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
7439Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of the Neurospora crassa endoplasmic reticulum.
7440Mag: !Mag Mg2+-mediated change in lipid fluidity enhances the reconstituted H+-ATPase activity.
7441Mag: !Mag Generation of tension by glycerol-extracted vertebrate skeletal muscle fibres in the absence of calcium.
7442Mag: !Mag The effects of cyproterone acetate on the elements in the intraluminal fluids of the testis and epididymis of the rat.
7443Mag: !Mag Ionic movements through light-sensitive channels of toad rods.
7444Mag: !Mag Distribution of proteoglycans and hyaluronic acid in transverse sections of bovine thoracic aorta.
7445Mag: !Mag Modulation of the cytotoxicity of the antitumor antibiotic peplomycin by membrane-interacting drugs and by increased levels of calcium ions.
7446Mag: !Mag Stimulation of histamine release from human basophils by human platelet factor 4.
7447Mag: !Mag Elemental redistribution and ultrastructural changes in guinea pig epidermis after dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) exposure.
7448Mag: !Mag Brush border Mg2+-HCO-3-ATPase, supernatant carbonic anhydrase and other enzyme activities isolated from rat intestinal mucosa: effect of adrenalectomy and aldosterone administration.
7449Mag: !Mag Two-stage mechanism of the fluoride inhibition of inorganic pyrophosphatase using the fluoride ion
7450Mag: !Mag Effects of manganese on rat brain microsomal Mg2+-Na+-K+-ATPase: in vivo and in vitro studies.
7451Mag: !Mag Over indulgence in drinking tea
7452Mag: !Mag Chronic fructose intoxication after infancy in children with hereditary fructose intolerance. A cause of growth retardation.
7453Mag: !Mag Oxygen-exchange studies on the pathways for magnesium adenosine 5'-triphosphate hydrolysis by actomyosin.
7454Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of citrate lyase from Escherichia coli.
7455Mag: !Mag Vanadate binding to the gastric H,K-ATPase and inhibition of the enzyme's catalytic and transport activities.
7456Mag: !Mag Electron microscopy of scallop myosin. Location of regulatory light chains.
7457Mag: !Mag The subunits of the stimulatory regulatory component of adenylate cyclase. Resolution of the activated 45,000-dalton (alpha) subunit.
7458Mag: !Mag Probes of catalytic site cooperativity during catalysis by the chloroplast adenosine triphosphate and the adenosine triphosphate synthase.
7459Mag: !Mag A characterization of the low temperature structural transition of Escherichia coli 5 S RNA by partial enzymatic digestion.
7460Mag: !Mag Effect of the administration of intravenous magnesium in hyperparathyroidism secondary to liver cirrhosis
7461Mag: !Mag Causes of hypomagnesemia after kidney transplantation
7462Mag: !Mag Magnesium as a natural substitute for manganese in concanavalin A and other lectins.
7463Mag: !Mag Metabolic causes of urolithiasis in children and adolescents
7464Mag: !Mag Binding of N-acetyl-L-glutamate to rat liver carbamoyl phosphate synthetase (ammonia).
7465Mag: !Mag On the mechanism of citrate and isocitrate protective action on rat liver mitochondria.
7466Mag: !Mag Mechanism of o-phenanthroline mediated inhibition of E. coli DNA polymerase I : formation of template-primer-metal-phenanthroline complexes with resultant loss of catalytic activity.
7467Mag: !Mag Copolymerization of tubulin-colchicine complex and unliganded tubulin in a nonmicrotubular polymer.
7468Mag: !Mag Insertion of nucleotides opposite apurinic/apyrimidinic sites in deoxyribonucleic acid during in vitro synthesis: uniqueness of adenine nucleotides.
7469Mag: !Mag The interaction of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate and AMP with rat hepatic fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase.
7470Mag: !Mag Tyrosine protein kinase activity of rat spleen and other tissues.
7471Mag: !Mag Exonuclease VIII of Escherichia coli. I. Purification and physical properties.
7472Mag: !Mag Phosphoprotein phosphatases in human erythrocyte cytosol.
7473Mag: !Mag Thyroliberin receptor binding and adenylyl cyclase activation in cultured prolactin-producing rat pituitary tumor cells (GH cells).
7474Mag: !Mag Fibrinogen binding to human platelet plasma membranes. Identification of two steps requiring divalent cations.
7475Mag: !Mag Initiation of mammalian protein synthesis: dynamic properties of the assembly process in vitro.
7476Mag: !Mag A DNA topoisomerase activity copurifies with the DNA polymerase induced by herpes simplex virus.
7477Mag: !Mag Differential stimulation by polyamines of phage DNA-directed in vitro synthesis of proteins.
7478Mag: !Mag Adenylate cyclase inhibition by hormones. The Mg2+ hypothesis.
7479Mag: !Mag Diuretic therapy, magnesium deficiency and lipid metabolism.
7480Mag: !Mag Effet, sur quelques parametres sanguins, de l'addition de tourteau de canola CV. Tower a la ration des truies.
7481Mag: !Mag Relationship between small bowel transit time and absorption of a solid meal. Influence of metoclopramide, magnesium sulfate, and lactulose.
7482Mag: !Mag Interaction of creatine kinase from monkey brain with substrate: analysis of kinetics and fluorescence polarization.
7483Mag: !Mag Relationship between calcium accumulation and recovery of cat brain after prolonged cerebral ischemia.
7484Mag: !Mag Normal milk composition in lactating X-linked hypophosphatemic mice despite continued hypophosphatemia.
7485Mag: !Mag Diurnal variations of calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium in normal and calcium oxalate stone-forming urine.
7486Mag: !Mag Effects of atrial natriuretic factor on renal handling of water and electrolytes in rats.
7487Mag: !Mag Relationship of dietary crude protein to composition of uterine secretions and blood in high-producing postpartum dairy cows.
7488Mag: !Mag Direct measurement of critical concentrations and assembly rate constants at the two ends of an actin filament.
7489Mag: !Mag Pharmacologic inhibition of cerebral vasospasm in ischemia, hallucinogen ingestion, and hypomagnesemia: barbiturates, calcium antagonists, and magnesium.
7490Mag: !Mag Determination of trace metals in biological materials by iodides extraction and atomic absorption spectrometry
7491Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium and magnesium on the anticoagulant action of heparin.
7492Mag: !Mag Severe hypomagnesaemia and hypocalcaemia following gentamicin therapy.
7493Mag: !Mag Mechanism of actions involved in improved effects of calcium channel blockers on ischemic myocardial conduction delay
7494Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and congestive heart failure
7495Mag: !Mag Treatment of infectious renal lithiasis with acetohydroxamic acid
7496Mag: !Mag A comparison of liquid antacids
7497Mag: !Mag Amorphous calcium phosphate in casein micelles of bovine milk.
7498Mag: !Mag Influence of magnesium supplementation on bone turnover in the normal young mouse.
7499Mag: !Mag Treatment of Idiopathic calcium stone disease.
7500Mag: !Mag The relationship between stimulus-induced antidromic firing and twitch potentiation produced by paraoxon in rat phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparations.
7501Mag: !Mag Molecular mechanisms of interphase death of lymphoid cells. Distribution of nuclease attack sites in chromatin and kinetic complexity of DNA in PDN
7502Mag: !Mag Pseudogout with low values of magnesium and low alkaline phosphatase activity in synovial fluid.
7503Mag: !Mag The dermatosis of hairless rats fed a hypomagnesaemic diet. I. Course, clinical features and inhibition by drugs.
7504Mag: !Mag Inhibition by methylprednisolone treatment of the aortic mineral accumulation in rabbits with chronic renal failure.
7505Mag: !Mag The toxicity of Aristolochia bracteata in goats.
7506Mag: !Mag Effects of N-LAAM on 3Hetorphine binding in neuronal-enriched cell cultures.
7507Mag: !Mag Changes in elemental composition of single muscle fibers following tenotomy of the rat soleus muscle.
7508Mag: !Mag Intracellular elemental content of cardiac and skeletal muscle of normal and dystrophic hamsters.
7509Mag: !Mag The presence of cooperative structures in tryptic fragments of troponin C
7510Mag: !Mag Urinary excretion of calcium, magnesium, oxalate and citrate in duodenal ulcer patients. Preliminary results before and up to five years after highly selective vagotomy.
7511Mag: !Mag Differentiation between virulent and avirulent Yersinia enterocolitica isolates by using Congo red agar.
7512Mag: !Mag Effect of parenteral iron on serum electrolytes of the baby pig.
7513Mag: !Mag The accessory pancreatic ducts of the starling Sturnus vulgaris: an ultrastructural and light microscopic study.
7514Mag: !Mag Hygienic regulations on the minimal level of magnesium in drinking water
7515Mag: !Mag Differences between rabbit sinoatrial pacemakers in their response to Mg, Ca and temperature.
7516Mag: !Mag Adsorption of rat plasma phosphorylcholine-binding protein to synthetic lipid emulsions in the presence of divalent cations.
7517Mag: !Mag Stoichiometries of arsenazo III-Ca complexes.
7518Mag: !Mag Inhibition of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases by p-chloroamphetamine and its role in protein synthesis inhibition.
7519Mag: !Mag Calcium blockers in cerebral resuscitation.
7520Mag: !Mag Genetic regulation of plasma and red blood cell magnesium concentration in man. II. Segregation analysis.
7521Mag: !Mag A unified model for complex segregation analysis.
7522Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary aluminum on mineral metabolism of adult males.
7523Mag: !Mag Long-term result of aorto-coronary bypass surgery
7524Mag: !Mag Distribution of nuclease attack sites and complexity of DNA in the products of post-irradiation degradation of rat thymus chromatin.
7525Mag: !Mag Compounds alleviating the effects caused by fluoride intolerance
7526Mag: !Mag Disassembly and reconstitution of signal recognition particle.
7527Mag: !Mag The role of Mg2+ and Mn2+ in the enzyme-catalysed activation of nitrogenase Fe protein from Rhodospirillum rubrum.
7528Mag: !Mag The influence of poly(ethylene glycol) 6000 on the properties of skeletal-muscle actin.
7529Mag: !Mag Regulation of cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration in acinar cells of rat pancreas.
7530Mag: !Mag High calcium content in Streptomyces spores and its release as an early event during spore germination.
7531Mag: !Mag Heterogeneity of brush-border-membrane vesicles from rat small intestine prepared by a precipitation method using Mg/EGTA.
7532Mag: !Mag Isolation and study of the properties of Streptococcus pyogenes ribosomes
7533Mag: !Mag Preeclampsia--eclampsia: an overview.
7534Mag: !Mag Interaction of nitrogenase with nucleotide analogs of ATP and ADP and the effect of metal ions on ADP inhibition.
7535Mag: !Mag Involvement of the bacterial groM gene product in bacteriophage T7 reproduction. II. A reduced level of ion concentrations causes the blockage of T7 maturation in K-12-M cells.
7536Mag: !Mag Application of nuclear magnetic resonance to the study of liver physiology and disease.
7537Mag: !Mag Novel liposome composition for a rapid colorimetric test for systemic lupus erythematosus.
7538Mag: !Mag Inactivation of rat liver HMG-CoA reductase phosphatases by nucleotides.
7539Mag: !Mag Interaction between erythrocyte plasma membrane and silicate dusts.
7540Mag: !Mag Interaction of poly A with phospholipid membranes using IR-spectroscopy
7541Mag: !Mag Increase in the phosphotransferase specific activity of purified Rous sarcoma virus pp60v-src protein after incubation with ATP plus Mg2+.
7542Mag: !Mag Solubilization and separation of divalent cation dependent adenosinetriphosphatase in native gradient polyacrylamide slab gel.
7543Mag: !Mag A transient calcium-dependent chloride current in the immature Xenopus oocyte.
7544Mag: !Mag Upregulation of kidney adenylate cyclase in the egg-laying hen: role of estrogen.
7545Mag: !Mag Characterization of the rabbit ventricular myocardial receptor for angiotensin II. Evidence for two sites of different affinities and specificities.
7546Mag: !Mag Isolation of carbon monoxide dehydrogenase from Acetobacterium woodii and comparison of its properties with those of the Clostridium thermoaceticum enzyme.
7547Mag: !Mag Phosphoinositide metabolism in the retina: localization to horizontal cells and regulation by light and divalent cations.
7548Mag: !Mag Evidence for membrane-associated choline kinase activity in rat striatum.
7549Mag: !Mag Protein kinase activity associated with a phorbol ester receptor purified from mouse brain.
7550Mag: !Mag Transient activation of the Ca2+-ATPase from sarcoplasmic reticulum during thiol modification by 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoate).
7551Mag: !Mag A longitudinal study of crevicular fluid in periodontal disease in beagles. Clinical, histopathological and biochemical observations.
7552Mag: !Mag Characteristics of subunit composition of H+-ATPase from the anaerobic bacterium Lactobacillus casei
7553Mag: !Mag Ca-ATPase activity in bovine parathyroid cells.
7554Mag: !Mag The unsuspected soft tissue chondrosarcoma.
7555Mag: !Mag Effectiveness of antiarrhythmic agents in preventing death in ventricular fibrillation induced by isoprenaline in desoxycorticosterone-pretreated rats.
7556Mag: !Mag Effect of gamma radiation on enzymatic activity and sulphydryl groups of human erythrocyte membrane.
7557Mag: !Mag Treatment of preterm labour. A review of the therapeutic options.
7558Mag: !Mag Fluorescence energy transfer between the myosin subfragment-1 isoenzymes and F-actin in the absence and presence of nucleotides.
7559Mag: !Mag Hormonal regulation of mitochondrial function. Description of a system capable of mimicking several effects of glucagon.
7560Mag: !Mag Effect of experimental hyperthyroidism on the elemental content of rat hepatocytes.
7561Mag: !Mag The 60S ribosomal subunit is altered in the skeletal muscle of dystrophic hamsters.
7562Mag: !Mag A thermally driven interconversion of B and Z-dna.
7563Mag: !Mag Determination of base pairing in ribonucleic acid by Fourier-transform infrared spectrometry: yeast ribosomal 5S ribonucleic acid.
7564Mag: !Mag Essential requirement of magnesium ion for optimal activity of the NADPH oxidase of guinea pig polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
7565Mag: !Mag Incorporation of 3Hpalmitate into disaturated phosphatidylcholines in alveolar type II cells isolated by centrifugal elutriation.
7566Mag: !Mag The (Ca + Mg)-ATPase of reticulocytes.
7567Mag: !Mag Pathogenesis of arrhythmogenic changes due to magnesium depletion.
7568Mag: !Mag Improvement by super disintegrants of the properties of tablets containing lactose, prepared by wet granulation.
7569Mag: !Mag Purification of poly(A)-messenger ribonucleic acid by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography.
7570Mag: !Mag A DNA primase from mouse cells. Purification and partial characterization.
7571Mag: !Mag Forskolin-activated adenylate cyclase. Inhibition by guanyl-5'-yl imidodiphosphate.
7572Mag: !Mag Characterization of initial autophosphorylation events in rabbit skeletal muscle phosphorylase kinase.
7573Mag: !Mag The binding of ribosomal protein S1 to S1-depleted 30S and 70S ribosomes. A fluorescence anisotropy study of the effects of Mg2+.
7574Mag: !Mag The amino acid sequence of the polypeptide segment which regulates membrane adhesion (grana stacking) in chloroplasts.
7575Mag: !Mag Ribonucleotide reductase induced by herpes simplex type 1 virus. Characterization of a distinct enzyme.
7576Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a myosin I heavy chain kinase from Acanthamoeba castellanii.
7577Mag: !Mag Structure of partially denatured Escherichia coli 23 S ribosomal RNA determined by electron microscopy.
7578Mag: !Mag Polyamines stimulate the binding of hexokinase type II to mitochondria.
7579Mag: !Mag Prophylaxis and treatment of magnesium depletion.
7580Mag: !Mag Multiple chromatographic forms of ATP citrate lyase from rat liver.
7581Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependence of insulin receptor phosphorylation.
7582Mag: !Mag Mg2+-HCO-3-ATPase and carbonic anhydrase in rat intestinal mucosa.
7583Mag: !Mag Ligand exchange reactions of diol dehydrase-bound cobalamins and the effect of the nucleoside binding.
7584Mag: !Mag Kinetics of Ca2+ release shows interactions between the two classes of sites of troponin-C.
7585Mag: !Mag DNA topoisomerase II from Drosophila melanogaster. Relaxation of supercoiled DNA.
7586Mag: !Mag Metabolism of N-acylethanolamine phospholipids by a mammalian phosphodiesterase of the phospholipase D type.
7587Mag: !Mag Mg2+-dependent/poly(ADP-ribose)-sensitive endonuclease.
7588Mag: !Mag Properties of the Mg2+-induced low-affinity nucleotide binding site of (Na+ + K+)-activated ATPase.
7589Mag: !Mag The complete amino acid sequence of rabbit muscle phosphoglucomutase.
7590Mag: !Mag Angiotensin II inhibits adenylate cyclase from adrenal cortex glomerulosa zone.
7591Mag: !Mag Clinical evaluation of choline magnesium trisalicylate in rheumatoid arthritis.
7592Mag: !Mag Boron in Sillimanite.
7593Mag: !Mag Self-association of a high molecular weight subfragment-2 of myosin induced by divalent metal ions.
7594Mag: !Mag Structure of brain adenylate cyclase: proteolysis-dependent modifications.
7595Mag: !Mag Secondary structure features of ribosomal RNA species within intact ribosomal subunits and efficiency of RNA-protein interactions in thermoacidophilic (Caldariella acidophila, Bacillus acidocaldarius) and mesophilic (Escherichia coli) bacteria.
7596Mag: !Mag The role of Mg2+ in the regulation of the structural and functional steady-states in rat liver mitochondria.
7597Mag: !Mag Serum calcium and magnesium levels in chronic schizophrenics.
7598Mag: !Mag Urinary stone composition in North-East Thailand.
7599Mag: !Mag Effects of neuronal stimulation on mucosal transport in guinea pig ileum.
7600Mag: !Mag Retention of calcium in intestinal wall of the rabbit by treatment with a glucocorticoid.
7601Mag: !Mag Biochemical features of dietary chloride deficiency syndrome: a comparative study of 30 cases.
7602Mag: !Mag Urinary calcium excretion in familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia. Persistence of relative hypocalciuria after induction of hypoparathyroidism.
7603Mag: !Mag Inhibition of NS-protein-stimulated human-platelet adenylate cyclase by epinephrine and stable GTP analogs.
7604Mag: !Mag The role of magnesium in binding of the nucleotide polyphosphate chain to the active site of myosin subfragment-1.
7605Mag: !Mag Choice of a satisfactory evacuated blood-collection tube for magnesium and zinc assays.
7606Mag: !Mag Human placenta as a convenient source of creatine kinase BB.
7607Mag: !Mag Comparison of cimetidine (Tagamet) with antacid for safety and effectiveness in reducing gastric acidity before elective cesarean section.
7608Mag: !Mag PTH and vitamin D responses during treatment of hypomagnesaemic hypoparathyroidism.
7609Mag: !Mag Encystment of Acanthamoeba culbertsoni in non-nutrient inorganic media.
7610Mag: !Mag The influence of manganese on the distribution of essential trace elements. II. The tissue distribution of manganese, magnesium, zinc, iron, and copper in rats after chronic manganese exposure.
7611Mag: !Mag Evidence for a magnesium-sparing action by amiloride during renal clearance studies in rats.
7612Mag: !Mag Plasma copper, zinc and magnesium levels in patients with primary lung cancer
7613Mag: !Mag Factors predisposing dairy and beef cows to grass tetany.
7614Mag: !Mag RNA polymerase from Rhizobium japonicum.
7615Mag: !Mag Intracellular and extracellular acid-base and electrolyte status of submerged anoxic turtles at 3 degrees C.
7616Mag: !Mag Characterization of phosphate binding by alkaline phosphatase in rat kidney brush border membrane.
7617Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of a double-stranded RNA-specific nuclease from human placenta.
7618Mag: !Mag Experimental studies on hypomagnesemia in ruminants: effects of varying calcium content in low-magnesium diets on serum concentrations of magnesium and calcium, and heart rate in lactating ewes.
7619Mag: !Mag A calorimetric study of Ca2+- and Mg2+-binding by calmodulin.
7620Mag: !Mag Vasectomy in langur monkeys (Presbytis entellus entellus dufresne).
7621Mag: !Mag Composition of sweat of the horse during prolonged epinephrine (adrenaline) infusion, heat exposure, and exercise.
7622Mag: !Mag Metal ion-tetracycline interactions in biological fluids. 2. Potentiometric study of magnesium complexes with tetracycline, oxytetracycline, doxycycline, and minocycline, and discussion of their possible influence on the bioavailability of these antibiotics in blood plasma.
7623Mag: !Mag Role of progesterone on oocyte maturation in the egg-brooding hylid frog Gastrotheca riobambae (Fowler).
7624Mag: !Mag Site of magnesium and other macromineral absorption in steers fed high levels of potassium.
7625Mag: !Mag Surface structure of isolated metaphase chromosomes.
7626Mag: !Mag Aluminum inhibition of human serum cholinesterase.
7627Mag: !Mag Effect of preoperative colon preparation on serum potassium.
7628Mag: !Mag Zinc, copper, magnesium, and calcium in blood and plasma after phlebotomy.
7629Mag: !Mag Studies on the fluoride content of toothpastes
7630Mag: !Mag Tooth germ transplantation in the dog. Histopathological and physico-chemical observations
7631Mag: !Mag Laboratory evaluation of the serum dilution test in serious staphylococcal infection.
7632Mag: !Mag The action of lidocaine hydrochloride on Bacillus megaterium KM
7633Mag: !Mag Leukocytes, packed cell volume, glucose, urea, calcium, inorganic phosphorus and magnesium in the blood of dairy cows.
7634Mag: !Mag Effects of cardioplegic solutions on coronary and myocardial ultrastructure. Preliminary note
7635Mag: !Mag Study of in vivo cellular metabolism by phosphorus 31 nuclear magnetic resonance
7636Mag: !Mag Management of acute myocardial infarction with natural physiological agents.
7637Mag: !Mag The influence of dietary fat on jejunostomy output in patients with severe short bowel syndrome.
7638Mag: !Mag Rapidity of plasma 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D responses to hypo- and hypercalcemia in steers.
7639Mag: !Mag Cations and calmodulin in normal and neoplastic cell growth regulation.
7640Mag: !Mag Use of cimetidine as an oral antacid in obstetric anesthesia.
7641Mag: !Mag Changes of serum magnesium ions in open heart surgery.
7642Mag: !Mag An outbreak of struvite urinary calculi in rats subjected to radionuclide angiography.
7643Mag: !Mag Tegumental disruption with Triton X-100 and its effects on longitudinal muscle function in male Schistosoma mansoni.
7644Mag: !Mag Permeability changes induced by L-glutamate at the crayfish neuromuscular junction.
7645Mag: !Mag Exogenous versus endogenous acceptors in photosystem ii in inhibited chloroplasts.
7646Mag: !Mag Postsynaptic effects of magnesium and calcium at the mouse neuromuscular junction.
7647Mag: !Mag The nature of the electron spin resonance signal during aerobic uptake of Mn2+ in mitochondria from rat liver.
7648Mag: !Mag On the mechanism of inhibition of neutral liver fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase by fructose 2,6-bisphosphate.
7649Mag: !Mag Enzymatic treatment of long-term human marrow cultures reveals the preferential location of primitive hemopoietic progenitors in the adherent layer.
7650Mag: !Mag Alterations in renal cortex cation homeostasis during mercuric chloride and gentamicin nephrotoxicity.
7651Mag: !Mag Histochemical and biochemical characteristics of the transient hypertrophy of the denervated rat hemidiaphragm.
7652Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial carbamoyl phosphate synthetase activity in the absence of N-acetyl-L-glutamate. Mechanism of activation by this cofactor.
7653Mag: !Mag Protection of insulin secretion by magnesium during islet culture: independence of cAMP/or insulin accumulation.
7654Mag: !Mag Cuprolinic Blue: a specific dye for single-stranded RNA in the presence of magnesium chloride. I. Fundamental aspects.
7655Mag: !Mag Angiogenic and growth factors in human amnio-chorion and placenta.
7656Mag: !Mag Presynaptic uptake blockade hypothesis for LSD action at the lateral inhibitory synapse in Limulus.
7657Mag: !Mag Magnesium and calcium in the CSF of schizophrenic patients and healthy controls: correlations with cyclic GMP.
7658Mag: !Mag Receptors for bradykinin in intact cultured human fibroblasts. Identification and characterization by direct binding study.
7659Mag: !Mag Physical modification of purified Rous sarcoma virus pp60v-src protein after incubation with ATP/Mg2+.
7660Mag: !Mag Comparison of intravenous (3-amino-1-hydroxypropylidene)-1, 1-bisphosphonate and volume repletion in tumour-induced hypercalcaemia.
7661Mag: !Mag Laser Raman study of internally perfused muscle fibers. Effect of Mg2+, ATP and Ca2+.
7662Mag: !Mag Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate activates rabbit neutrophils without an apparent rise in the level of intracellular free calcium.
7663Mag: !Mag Role of Mg2+ in lipid-protein interaction in reconstituted procine heart mitochondrial H+-ATPase.
7664Mag: !Mag Calcium transport by bull spermatozoa plasma membranes.
7665Mag: !Mag Effect of Acanthamoeba profilin on the pre-steady state kinetics of actin polymerization and on the concentration of F-actin at steady state.
7666Mag: !Mag Glutamine- and N-acetyl-L-glutamate-dependent carbamoyl phosphate synthetase from Micropterus salmoides. Purification, properties, and inhibition by glutamine analogs.
7667Mag: !Mag Effects of 5 cytosine methylation on the B-Z transition in DNA restriction fragments and recombinant plasmids.
7668Mag: !Mag Dephosphorylation and reactivation of phosphorylated purified ox-kidney branched-chain dehydrogenase complex by co-purified phosphatase.
7669Mag: !Mag Effects of Mg2+ ions on the plasma membrane H+-ATPase of Neurospora crassa. II. Kinetic studies.
7670Mag: !Mag Effects of Mg2+ ions on the plasma membrane H+-ATPase of Neurospora crassa. I. Inhibition by N-ethylmaleimide and trypsin.
7671Mag: !Mag Reaction mechanism of Ca2+-dependent adenosine triphosphatase of sarcoplasmic reticulum. ATP hydrolysis with CaATP as a substrate and role of divalent cation.
7672Mag: !Mag Calmodulin-stimulated dephosphorylation of p-nitrophenyl phosphate and free phosphotyrosine by calcineurin.
7673Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency-induced spasms of umbilical vessels: relation to preeclampsia, hypertension, growth retardation.
7674Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent exocytosis in an in vitro secretory granule plasma membrane preparation from sea urchin eggs and the effects of some inhibitors of cytoskeletal function.
7675Mag: !Mag Effects of metal ion substitution on carboxypeptidase A catalyzed hydrolysis of O-trans-cinnamoyl-L-beta-phenyllactate.
7676Mag: !Mag Mechanism of action of forskolin on adenylate cyclase: effect on bovine sperm complemented with erythrocyte membranes.
7677Mag: !Mag Partial melting of the segment around pseudouridine in yeast 5S RNA.
7678Mag: !Mag The role of specific cations in regulation of cyanobacterial glutamine synthetase.
7679Mag: !Mag Properties and safety of cervical dilators.
7680Mag: !Mag Intracellular free Ca and Mg of human red blood cell ghosts measured with entrapped arsenazo III.
7681Mag: !Mag NAD+-induced inhibition of phosphate transport in canine renal brush-border membranes. Mediation through a process other than or in addition to NAD+ hydrolysis.
7682Mag: !Mag Calmodulin-dependent elevation of calcium transport associated with calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation in cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum.
7683Mag: !Mag Lithium attenuates dopamine depleting effects of reserpine and tetrabenazine but not that of alpha methyl-p-tyrosine.
7684Mag: !Mag Nuclear magnetic resonance studies on yeast tRNAPhe. II. Assignment of the iminoproton resonances of the anticodon and T stem by means of nuclear Overhauser effect experiments at 500 MHz.
7685Mag: !Mag Factors from wheat germ that enhance the activity of eukaryotic initiation factor eIF-2. Isolation and characterization of Co-eIF-2 alpha.
7686Mag: !Mag Spontaneous calcium release from sarcoplasmic reticulum. General description and effects of calcium.
7687Mag: !Mag A GDP/GTP exchange factor essential for eukaryotic initiation factor 2 cycling in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells and its regulation by eukaryotic initiation factor 2 phosphorylation.
7688Mag: !Mag Effects of oligomycin on the partial reactions of the sodium plus potassium-stimulated adenosine triphosphatase.
7689Mag: !Mag Vitamin and mineral provision during enteral nutrition.
7690Mag: !Mag Supplementation of nutritional fluid and electrolyte balance by perfusion of an isolated small bowel loop in a patient with Crohn's disease.
7691Mag: !Mag Regulation of Chloroplastic Carbonic Anhydrase : Effect of Magnesium.
7692Mag: !Mag Inhibition of human red cell sodium and potassium transport by divalent cations.
7693Mag: !Mag Dependence of noise-induced hearing loss upon perilymph magnesium concentration.
7694Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary zinc levels on mineral concentration in milk.
7695Mag: !Mag Alterations in the Ca2+ sensitivity of tension development by single skeletal muscle fibers at stretched lengths.
7696Mag: !Mag Studies on the nutrition of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri). Magnesium deficiency: the effect of feeding with a Mg-supplemented diet.
7697Mag: !Mag Effect of antacid on bioavailability of a sustained-release theophylline preparation.
7698Mag: !Mag Higher order structure of chromatin: orientation of nucleosomes within the 30 nm chromatin solenoid is independent of species and spacer length.
7699Mag: !Mag Electrolytes in slow and fast muscle fibers of humans at rest and with dynamic exercise.
7700Mag: !Mag Effect of changes in magnesium ion concentration on cat cerebral arterioles.
7701Mag: !Mag Kidney preservation failure using combined Collins' solution and plasma perfusion.
7702Mag: !Mag Use of quinine for self-induced abortion.
7703Mag: !Mag Effects of 4-aminopyridine on the cat superior cervical ganglion.
7704Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations and sulfhydryl reagents on the p-aminohippurate (PAH) transporter of renal basal-lateral membranes.
7705Mag: !Mag Influence of maternal magnesium deficiency on tissue lead content of rats.
7706Mag: !Mag The effect of interactions between dietary egg white protein and zinc on body weight, bone growth and tissue trace metals in the 30-day-old rat.
7707Mag: !Mag Epidemiological study of the relationship between calcium and blood pressure.
7708Mag: !Mag Ca2+ and Mg2+-dependent complex formation of tropomyosin with phosphotroponin (P1TI2C) or dephosphotroponin (TI2C).
7709Mag: !Mag Changes in ribonucleic acid polymerase activities in gonadotropin-treated Leydig cells: an estradiol-mediated process.
7710Mag: !Mag Effects of extracellular Ca++ and Mg++ on cytosolic Ca++ and PTH release in dispersed bovine parathyroid cells.
7711Mag: !Mag Parathyroid function and magnesium depletion in the rat.
7712Mag: !Mag Skin inflammation induced by hypomagnesaemia in the rat.
7713Mag: !Mag Effects of intrathecally administered pentobarbital and naloxone on the activity evoked in ascending axons of the rat spinal cord by stimulation of afferent A and C fibres. Further evidence for a tonic endorphinergic inhibition in nociception.
7714Mag: !Mag Effect of hypercalcaemia on adrenocortical and growth hormone secretion.
7715Mag: !Mag Nutritional factors in the etiology of the premenstrual tension syndromes.
7716Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency after ileal resections for Crohn's disease.
7717Mag: !Mag Intestinal bypass. A randomized, prospective clinical study of end-to-side and end-to-end jejunoileal bypass.
7718Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium in viral hepatitis.
7719Mag: !Mag Long-term clinical experiences with the cation exchanger UJOLYT as a metaphylactic in absorptive hypercalciuria and chronic recurring calcium oxalate lithiasis
7720Mag: !Mag Results of the determination of enteral calcium absorption and calcium kinetics with 47Ca in patients with chronic recurring urolithiasis
7721Mag: !Mag Clinical and animal experiment studies on the pathogenetic significance of small intestine diseases and resections for urolithiasis
7722Mag: !Mag Immunomodulating and cholesecretory effects of chloride-sulfate potassium-magnesium-sodium mineral water in chronic cholecystitis and hepatitis
7723Mag: !Mag Studies on flufenamic acid capsules and tablets.
7724Mag: !Mag Lipids and cholesterol esterifying enzyme changes by Anna Pavala Sindhooram therapy in experimental rat hyperlipaemia.
7725Mag: !Mag Effect of nutrient depletion on sensitivity of Pseudomonas cepacia to phagocytosis and serum bactericidal activity at different temperatures.
7726Mag: !Mag Inactivation of rat liver HMG-CoA reductase phosphatases by polycarboxylic acids.
7727Mag: !Mag In vivo evaluation of a composite sorbent for the treatment of paraquat intoxication by hemoperfusion.
7728Mag: !Mag Metabolic disposition of pyrithiones.
7729Mag: !Mag Effects of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in conventional dosage on glucose homeostasis in patients with diabetes.
7730Mag: !Mag Effect of diphosphonic acids on alkaline phosphatase activity
7731Mag: !Mag Influence of increasing dietary calcium and magnesium levels on performance, mineral metabolism, and egg mineral content of laying hens.
7732Mag: !Mag Paradoxical effect of isoproterenol on hamster hereditary polymyopathy.
7733Mag: !Mag Hypoparathyroidism in hypomagnesemia
7734Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalysis of proximal and distal tubule cells in the mouse kidney, and the influence of cadmium on the concentration of natural intracellular elements.
7735Mag: !Mag Purification and some properties of porcine kidney tropomyosin.
7736Mag: !Mag The effect of estrogen administration in vivo on the elemental composition of the intraluminal fluids of the seminiferous tubules, rete testis, and epididymis of the rat.
7737Mag: !Mag The binding of Ca2+ to solubilized band 3 protein of the human erythrocyte membrane.
7738Mag: !Mag On the temperature- and salt-dependent conformation change in human erythrocyte pyruvate kinase.
7739Mag: !Mag Establishment of the maximum permissible concentration of magnesium chlorate in the atmosphere
7740Mag: !Mag Photometric determination of magnesium oxide aerosols in the atmosphere
7741Mag: !Mag Ca2+, Mg2+, Zn2+ levels in histone fractions from normal and tumor cells
7742Mag: !Mag Absence of in vivo and in vitro interactions of an aluminum hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide containing antacid with cimetidine in patients with peptic ulcer.
7743Mag: !Mag Diffusible magnesium in frog skeletal muscle cells.
7744Mag: !Mag Initial-velocity kinetics of succinoyl-coenzyme A-3-oxo acid coenzyme A-transferase from sheep kidney.
7745Mag: !Mag Heat sensitivity of Azotobacter vinelandii genetic transformation.
7746Mag: !Mag Low dose antacid therapy for duodenal ulcer.
7747Mag: !Mag Regulation of muscle phosphorylase kinase by actin and calmodulin.
7748Mag: !Mag Production of delayed-release formulations based on hydrophilic matrix forms using polyvinyl alcohol
7749Mag: !Mag Direct lysis of erythrocytes by EGTA and calcium ions: implications for assessing complement activation by parasites.
7750Mag: !Mag Stimulation and inhibition of secretion in Paramecium: role of divalent cations.
7751Mag: !Mag Hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria in a critically ill patient.
7752Mag: !Mag Membrane skeletal dynamics: role in modulation of red cell deformability, mobility of transmembrane proteins, and shape.
7753Mag: !Mag Advances in mineral nutrition in ruminants.
7754Mag: !Mag The role of essential fatty acids and prostaglandins in the premenstrual syndrome.
7755Mag: !Mag Effects of intrarenal infusion of calcium entry blockers in anesthetized dogs.
7756Mag: !Mag Forskolin activation of an identified peptide-sensitive motoneurone in Aplysia.
7757Mag: !Mag The effect of wheat bran on the intake of energy and nutrients and on serum mineral levels in constipated geriatric patients.
7758Mag: !Mag Adenylate cyclase activity in Y1 mouse adrenocortical tumor cells: some properties of the enzyme associated with purified plasma membrane fractions.
7759Mag: !Mag Ontogeny of adenylate cyclase activity in the rat lung: guanine nucleotides and cytosolic factors.
7760Mag: !Mag The pathway of arginine catabolism in the parasitic flagellate Trichomonas vaginalis.
7761Mag: !Mag Presynaptic and postsynaptic actions of procainamide on neuromuscular transmission.
7762Mag: !Mag Solution Ca/P ratio affects calcium phosphate crystal phases.
7763Mag: !Mag Structural and functional analysis of synaptic transmission between identified leech neurones in culture.
7764Mag: !Mag Pertussis toxin substrate, the putative Ni component of adenylyl cyclases, is an alpha beta heterodimer regulated by guanine nucleotide and magnesium.
7765Mag: !Mag The pattern of spontaneous contraction and the effects of catecholamines on pregnant human isthmic myometrium
7766Mag: !Mag Altered turnover of polyphosphoinositides in the erythrocyte membrane of the spontaneously hypertensive rat.
7767Mag: !Mag Mineral balances of human subjects consuming spinach in a low-fiber diet and in a diet containing fruits and vegetables.
7768Mag: !Mag Metabolic effects of dietary fiber from dehulled soybeans in humans.
7769Mag: !Mag Changes in water proton relaxation times and in nuclear to cytoplasmic element gradients during meiotic maturation of Xenopus oocytes.
7770Mag: !Mag Structure of the erythrocyte membrane and metal ions
7771Mag: !Mag Comparison of high affinity Ca2+-ATPase and low affinity Ca2+-ATPase in rat liver plasma membranes.
7772Mag: !Mag Calcium/sodium exchange in purified secretory vesicles from bovine neurohypophyses.
7773Mag: !Mag Comparative studies of pregnancy associated plasma protein-A and alpha 2-macroglobulin using metal chelate chromatography.
7774Mag: !Mag Studies concerning the viability of the preserved kidney with perfusates other than plasma.
7775Mag: !Mag Actions of opiates, substance-P, and serotonin on the excitability of primary afferent terminals and observations on interneuronal activity in the neonatal rat's dorsal horn in vitro.
7776Mag: !Mag DNA sequesters endogenous mRNA during preparation of crude Escherichia coli extracts for protein synthesis; use of an S60 reduces the sequestered mRNA.
7777Mag: !Mag Proteolytic activation and solubilization of adenylate and guanylate cyclases.
7778Mag: !Mag The kinetics of Coxsackie B virus interaction with natural clay minerals
7779Mag: !Mag Serum levels of parathormone, calcium, magnesium and phosphorus in the perinatal period
7780Mag: !Mag A role of renal K+-stimulated phosphatase activity on elevation of urinary sodium excretion in fluoride-treated rats.
7781Mag: !Mag Factors influencing fibrin gel structure studied by flow measurement.
7782Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of mitochondrial membrane proteins: effect of the surface potential on monoamine oxidase.
7783Mag: !Mag Effects of salts, temperature, and stem length on supercoil-induced formation of cruciforms.
7784Mag: !Mag C3 convertase of the alternative complement pathway. Demonstration of an active, stable C3b, Bb (Ni) complex.
7785Mag: !Mag Reversible decatenation of kinetoplast DNA by a DNA topoisomerase from trypanosomatids.
7786Mag: !Mag Nuclease digestibility of chromatin is affected by nuclei isolation procedures.
7787Mag: !Mag A model for the reaction pathways of the K+-dependent phosphatase activity of the (Na+ + K+)-dependent ATPase.
7788Mag: !Mag Glycerolipid biosynthesis in rat adipose tissue. 11. Effects of polyamines on Mg2+-dependent phosphatidate phosphohydrolase.
7789Mag: !Mag Cardiac physiologic and tissue metabolic changes following chronic low-level cadmium and cadmium plus lead ingestion in the rat.
7790Mag: !Mag Magnesium levels of the serum and cerebrospinal fluid in various neurologic diseases
7791Mag: !Mag Purification and immunological characterization of DNA polymerase-alpha from human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells.
7792Mag: !Mag The bivalent-cation dependence of phosphatidylinositol synthesis in a cell-free system from lymphocytes.
7793Mag: !Mag Characterisation of a reconstituted Mg-ATP-dependent protein phosphatase.
7794Mag: !Mag The effects of octylglucoside on the interactions of chloroplast coupling factor 1 (CF1) with adenine nucleotides.
7795Mag: !Mag Effect of micromolar concentrations of manganese ions on calcium-ion cycling in rat liver mitochondria.
7796Mag: !Mag Norepinephrine-induced loss of phosphatidylinositol from isolated rat liver plasma membrane. Effects of divalent cations.
7797Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on blood pressure.
7798Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of chloroplast ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase small subunit by an envelope-bound protein kinase in situ.
7799Mag: !Mag Transport of ornithine carbamoyltransferase precursor into mitochondria. Stimulation by potassium ion, magnesium ion, and a reticulocyte cytosolic protein(s).
7800Mag: !Mag Characterization of a Mg2+-dependent phosphatase from turkey gizzard smooth muscle.
7801Mag: !Mag A potent nucleoside triphosphate hydrolase from the parasitic protozoan Toxoplasma gondii. Purification, some properties, and activation by thiol compounds.
7802Mag: !Mag Tb3+ binding to Ca2+ and Mg2+ binding sites on sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase.
7803Mag: !Mag A high-affinity (Ca2+ + Mg2+)-ATPase in plasma membranes of rat ascites hepatoma AH109A cells.
7804Mag: !Mag Heterogeneity of binding sites for the pyruvate dehydrogenase component on the dihydrolipoyl transacetylase core of bovine kidney pyruvate dehydrogenase complex.
7805Mag: !Mag Healing of benign gastric ulcer with low-dose antacid or cimetidine. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
7806Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium on 45Ca uptake and release at different sites in rabbit aortic smooth muscle.
7807Mag: !Mag Carcinogenesis from the standpoint of view of molecular geometry and synergism: relevance of oxygen and magnesium.
7808Mag: !Mag Hydrofluoric acid burns of the eye.
7809Mag: !Mag Availability of macro and microelements from edible domestic waste fed to sheep.
7810Mag: !Mag Polymorphism of phosphatidylethanolamine-phosphatidylserine model systems: influence of cholesterol and Mg2+ on Ca2+-triggered bilayer to hexagonal (HII) transitions.
7811Mag: !Mag Seminal plasma zinc and magnesium in infertile men.
7812Mag: !Mag Schistosoma mansoni: changes in elemental composition in relation to the age and sexual status of the worms.
7813Mag: !Mag Brief report: trace elements in the hair of autistic and control children.
7814Mag: !Mag Mg2+-dependent compactness of heterochromatic chromosome segments.
7815Mag: !Mag Effect of antacids on the plasma concentration of phenoperidine.
7816Mag: !Mag Evidence for a carbanion intermediate in catalysis by spinach ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase.
7817Mag: !Mag Alcohol and the heart.
7818Mag: !Mag Neutralizing capacity of particulate antacids.
7819Mag: !Mag Vigorous supplementation of a hypocaloric diet prevents cardiac arrhythmias and mineral depletion.
7820Mag: !Mag Four urinary cations and blood pressure. A population study in two Belgian towns.
7821Mag: !Mag Vitreous humor magnesium in alcoholics.
7822Mag: !Mag Magnesium stores and anemia in young Japanese quail.
7823Mag: !Mag Bilirubin interferes in the aca determination of Mg2+ in serum.
7824Mag: !Mag Is there a role for routine estimations of plasma magnesium?
7825Mag: !Mag Evaluation of high-energy phosphate metabolism during cardioplegic arrest and reperfusion: a phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance study.
7826Mag: !Mag Catheter encrustation by struvite.
7827Mag: !Mag Dietary cholesterol decreases the serum level of zinc: further evidence for the positive relationship between serum zinc and high-density lipoproteins.
7828Mag: !Mag The relationship of blood pressure to diet and lifestyle in two religious populations.
7829Mag: !Mag Magnesium in cardiology
7830Mag: !Mag The effects of calcium channel inhibitors and other procedures affecting calcium translocation on drug-induced rhythmic contractions in the rat vas deferens.
7831Mag: !Mag Erythrocyte contents of electrolytes (Na, K, Mg, Zn) in healthy male controls and offspring to established hypertensive patients: a follow-up study.
7832Mag: !Mag Transient (borderline) states in newborn infants
7833Mag: !Mag Experimental study on the efficacy of the combined use of Young's solution in myocardial protection by asanguinous cardioplegia
7834Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium levels in pregnant women with the symptoms of EPH-gestosis and prolonged pregnancy
7835Mag: !Mag Hypothermia and chloropent anesthesia differentially affect the flash evoked potentials of hooded rats.
7836Mag: !Mag Magnesium in tumoral tissues, in the muscle and serum of subjects suffering from neoplasia.
7837Mag: !Mag Magnesium therapy for intractable ventricular tachyarrhythmias in normomagnesemic patients.
7838Mag: !Mag Neonatal hypocalcemia in 2 twins revealing maternal hyperparathyroidism. A review of the literature
7839Mag: !Mag The role of magnesium adenosine triphosphate in the contractile kinetics of insect fibrillar flight muscle.
7840Mag: !Mag Changes in actin-related gelation of crude cell extracts during differentiation of myeloid leukemia cells.
7841Mag: !Mag Intravenous vs. intramuscular magnesium sulfate for preeclampsia.
7842Mag: !Mag Reduction of low weight birth, premature amniotic rupture and premature labor following additional magnesium therapy in high risk pregnancy treated with beta mimetics and cerclage
7843Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial phenylalanyl t-RNA synthetase from yeast: formation of enzyme-substrate complexes shown by heat or SH reagent inactivation.
7844Mag: !Mag Modulation of membrane conductance in rods of Bufo marinus by intracellular calcium ion.
7845Mag: !Mag High resolution 1H n.m.r. studies of vertebrate blood and plasma.
7846Mag: !Mag Serum calcium decline after intravenous administration of thyrotropin-releasing hormone in man.
7847Mag: !Mag Decreased serum concentration of ionized calcium in insulin-dependent human diabetes mellitus.
7848Mag: !Mag Activation of the alternative pathway of complement by monosodium urate monohydrate crystals and other inflammatory particles.
7849Mag: !Mag Teratocarcinoma stem cell adhesion: the role of divalent cations and a cell surface lectin.
7850Mag: !Mag Results of transplantation of the kidneys preserved by the method designed by the All-Union Scientific Center of Surgery
7851Mag: !Mag Stoichiometry of GTP breakdown during peptide synthesis on the ribosome. Stoichiometry of GTP hydrolysis during elongation of polyphenylalanine on polyuridylic acid
7852Mag: !Mag Analysis of progress curves. Interaction of pyruvate kinase from Escherichia coli with fructose 1,6-bisphosphate and calcium ions.
7853Mag: !Mag Double-blind comparison of liquid antacid and placebo in the treatment of symptomatic reflux esophagitis.
7854Mag: !Mag The effects of calciferol and its metabolites on patients with chronic renal failure. II. Calcitriol, 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3, and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
7855Mag: !Mag Interactions between magnesium and calcium in beta-cell-rich pancreatic islets.
7856Mag: !Mag Neuromuscular transmission and correlative morphology in young and old mice.
7857Mag: !Mag The role of 5-hydroxytryptamine as a transmitter between identified leech neurones in culture.
7858Mag: !Mag Peripubertal decline in ovarian LHRH receptor content: characterization and distribution.
7859Mag: !Mag Evidence against an involvement of Na+, K+-ATPase in antiarrhythmic mechanism of phenytoin.
7860Mag: !Mag Intracellular forms of simian virus 40 nucleoprotein complexes. V. Enrichment for "active" simian virus 40 chromatin by differential precipitation with Mg2+.
7861Mag: !Mag Comparative hydrolysis of sphingomyelin and 2-N-(hexadecanoyl)-amino-4-nitrophenyl-phosphorylcholine by normal human brain homogenate at acid and neutral pH.
7862Mag: !Mag ATP serves two distinct roles in protein degradation in reticulocytes, one requiring and one independent of ubiquitin.
7863Mag: !Mag Calcium as a branching signal in Neurospora crassa.
7864Mag: !Mag Studies on the flagellar ATPase of bull spermatozoa: extraction and characterization.
7865Mag: !Mag Functions and localization of nucleotide-binding sites of CF1-ATPase using dialdehyde derivatives of ADP and ATP
7866Mag: !Mag Insulin is a physiological inhibitor of urinary zinc excretion in anesthetized dogs.
7867Mag: !Mag Aortic valve replacement in cardioplegic heart arrest
7868Mag: !Mag Regulation of hydroxylations in biosynthesis of bile acids: modulation of reconstituted 12 alpha-hydroxylase activity by protein fractions from rabbit liver cytosol and microsomes.
7869Mag: !Mag Decreased micrococcal nuclease sensitivity of nuclei from nerve growth factor-treated PC12 cells.
7870Mag: !Mag Ligand-induced variations in subunit associations in bovine heart F1 ATPase.
7871Mag: !Mag Disparity in antiserum avidity as measured by nephelometry, radial immunodiffusion, and column-binding strength.
7872Mag: !Mag Stimulation of Ca2+ uptake in the human liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini by praziquantel.
7873Mag: !Mag The ionic requirements for regulation by molluscan thin filaments.
7874Mag: !Mag Magnesium oxide as cause of metal fume fever
7875Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate and digitalis-toxic arrhythmias.
7876Mag: !Mag A simple alternative pathway for hemolytic assay of human complement component C3 using methylamine-treated plasma.
7877Mag: !Mag The ADP- and Mg2+-reactive calcium complex of the phosphoenzyme in skeletal sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase.
7878Mag: !Mag Two Ca2+ functions are demonstrated by the substitution of specific divalent and lanthanide cations for the Ca2+ required by the aggregation factor complex from the marine sponge, Microciona prolifera.
7879Mag: !Mag Melting of local ordered structures in yeast 5S ribosomal RNA in aqueous salts.
7880Mag: !Mag Dependence on Ca2+ and tropomyosin of the actin-activated ATPase activity of phosphorylated gizzard myosin in the presence of low concentrations of Mg2+.
7881Mag: !Mag Supramolecular regulation of the actin-activated ATPase activity of filaments of Acanthamoeba Myosin II.
7882Mag: !Mag High affinity Ca2+-stimulated Mg2+-dependent ATPase in rat brain synaptosomes, synaptic membranes, and microsomes.
7883Mag: !Mag A phosphorylated conformational state of the (Ca2+-Mg2+)-ATPase of fast skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum can mediate rapid Ca2+ release.
7884Mag: !Mag Evoked transient intracellular free Ca2+ changes and secretion in isolated bovine adrenal medullary cells.
7885Mag: !Mag Requirements for antiribosomal activity of pokeweed antiviral protein.
7886Mag: !Mag Striatal 3HGTP binding in developing rats: involvement of sulfhydryl residues, Ca2+ and Mg2+.
7887Mag: !Mag Correlation of enzyme-induced cleavage sites on negatively superhelical DNA between prokaryotic topoisomerase I and S1 nuclease.
7888Mag: !Mag Isolation of a T-lymphotropic retrovirus from a patient at risk for acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).
7889Mag: !Mag Reversibility of self-phosphorylation of a histidine residue of adrenocortical cyclic nucleotide-independent protein kinase, SPK 380.
7890Mag: !Mag Preliminary evidence of the effect of calcium supplementation on blood pressure in normal pregnant women.
7891Mag: !Mag Eclampsia: critical considerations on its therapy
7892Mag: !Mag Zinc, copper, magnesium and cadmium levels in the amniotic fluid in physiological pregnancy and pregnancy toxemia
7893Mag: !Mag Selective disorder of renal tubular magnesium transport in diabetes mellitus
7894Mag: !Mag Changes in magnesium in acute myocardial infarction
7895Mag: !Mag Magnesium metabolism. Pathological states
7896Mag: !Mag Insulin action on the glucose transport system in isolated cardiocytes from adult rat.
7897Mag: !Mag Immunohistochemical and electron microscopic assessment of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma. Increased frequency of diagnosis over routine histologic methods.
7898Mag: !Mag Quantitation of cation binding to wheat germ ribosomes: influences on subunit association equilibria and ribosome activity.
7899Mag: !Mag Procollagen IV. Association to tetramers.
7900Mag: !Mag Probable helical conformation of poly(ADP-ribose). The effect of cations on spectral properties.
7901Mag: !Mag Arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase of guinea pig peritoneal polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Activation by adenosine 5'-triphosphate.
7902Mag: !Mag Structural changes required for activation of protein C are induced by Ca2+ binding to a high affinity site that does not contain gamma-carboxyglutamic acid.
7903Mag: !Mag Unreliability of enzymatic cholesterol analyses for the determination of electrophoretically separated lipoproteins: selective loss of HDL cholesterol.
7904Mag: !Mag Potassium, magnesium and zinc concentrations in the serum, granulocytes and lymphocytes of patients with arterial hypertension treated with hydrochlorothiazide
7905Mag: !Mag Role of phosphorylation on the maturation pathways of a 100 kDa nucleolar protein.
7906Mag: !Mag Mechanism of glucagon activation of adenylate cyclase in the presence of Mn2+.
7907Mag: !Mag Magnesium and milk fever.
7908Mag: !Mag Protein-mediated intermembrane contact specifically enhances Ca2+-induced fusion of phosphatidate-containing membranes.
7909Mag: !Mag Inorganic pyrophosphate-driven ATP-synthesis in liposomes containing membrane-bound inorganic pyrophosphatase and F0-F1 complex from Rhodospirillum rubrum.
7910Mag: !Mag Development and Characterization of Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate Carboxylase : Evidence Indicating a Lack of Carboxylase Function in CO(2) Fixation in Endosperm of Germinating Castor Bean Seedlings.
7911Mag: !Mag On the effect of food magnesium level on serum magnesium, molar Mg:Ca and potassium value in pigs.
7912Mag: !Mag Value of behavior scales and urinary homovanillic acid determinations in monitoring the combined treatment with vitamin B6 and magnesium of children displaying autistic behavior
7913Mag: !Mag Interactions of divalent metal ions with bovine, human, and goat alpha-lactalbumins.
7914Mag: !Mag Luminescence absorption properties of the olivomycin molecule and its complex with DNA
7915Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia in diabetic children.
7916Mag: !Mag The influence of the extracellular concentration of calcium, magnesium and sodium on the repolarizing phase of the receptor potential of the Limulus ventral nerve photoreceptor.
7917Mag: !Mag Serum progesterone, enzymes, and electrolytes of hens laying a low or high incidence of shell-less eggs.
7918Mag: !Mag Influence of increasing the calcium and magnesium content of the drinking water on performance and bone and plasma minerals of broiler chickens.
7919Mag: !Mag Micropuncture study of urate transport by superficial nephrons in avian (Sturnus vulgaris) kidney.
7920Mag: !Mag Anna Pavala Sindhooram--an antiatherosclerotic Indian drug.
7921Mag: !Mag The kidney and magnesium regulation.
7922Mag: !Mag Lactose enhances mineral absorption in infancy.
7923Mag: !Mag The effects of oral administration of salts of aspartic acid on the metabolic response to prolonged exhausting exercise in man.
7924Mag: !Mag The effects of intravenous and oral cimetidine in primary hyperparathyroidism.
7925Mag: !Mag Protective effects of dietary calcium and magnesium on platelet function and atherosclerosis in rabbits fed saturated fat.
7926Mag: !Mag Novel composite sorbent beads for paraquat removal by hemoperfusion.
7927Mag: !Mag Life span and tissue distribution of 111indium-labeled blood platelets in hypomagnesemic lambs.
7928Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary aluminum on magnesium status of cows.
7929Mag: !Mag A study of the sensitivity of erythrocytes to lysis by heterologous sera via the alternative complement pathway.
7930Mag: !Mag Convenient method of simultaneously analyzing aluminum and magnesium in pharmaceutical dosage forms using californium-252 thermal neutron activation.
7931Mag: !Mag A new approach to the design of internal fixation plates.
7932Mag: !Mag Effect of citric acid on inhibition of chlortetracycline activity by magnesium ions.
7933Mag: !Mag Effect of potassium level on site of absorption of magnesium and other macroelements in sheep.
7934Mag: !Mag Effect of dietary potassium on absorption of magnesium and other macroelements in sheep fed different levels of magnesium.
7935Mag: !Mag Dietary calcium and phosphorus levels for growing swine from 18 to 57 kilograms body weight.
7936Mag: !Mag Further studies of the concentration of magnesium ion (Mg++) in blood from patients with autoimmune diseases.
7937Mag: !Mag Influence of cations and albumin on human spermatozoa.
7938Mag: !Mag Fasting and ketogenic diet effects on audiogenic seizures susceptibility of magnesium deficient rats.
7939Mag: !Mag Lamicel: a new technique for cervical dilatation before first trimester abortion.
7940Mag: !Mag Nutritional consequences of reducing sodium intake.
7941Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium nutrition in human hypertension.
7942Mag: !Mag Hyperlactacidemia associated with acute ritodrine infusion.
7943Mag: !Mag Potential toxicity due to dolomite and bonemeal.
7944Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary magnesium deficiency on thallium-20 1 kinetics and distribution in rat myocardium: concise communication.
7945Mag: !Mag Relation between gastric secretion of acid and urinary excretion of calcium after oral supplements of calcium.
7946Mag: !Mag Ionized calcium in human milk determined with a calcium-selective electrode.
7947Mag: !Mag Creatine kinase response surfaces explored by use of factorial experiments and simplex maximization.
7948Mag: !Mag The unwinding of circular DNA by intercalating agents as determined by gel electrophoresis.
7949Mag: !Mag Calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium contents of human milk during early lactation.
7950Mag: !Mag Effects of a low-fat diet on mineral absorption in small-bowel disease.
7951Mag: !Mag Chronic constipation in infants and children.
7952Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium and consumed water magnesium levels in cases of acute myocardial infarction and in controls.
7953Mag: !Mag Sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, copper, iron and zinc levels in umbilical cord blood.
7954Mag: !Mag Relationship between hardness of drinking water and mortality of cardiovascular diseases
7955Mag: !Mag Quantitative analysis of formate in solutions containing phosphate.
7956Mag: !Mag Fibronectin binds to C1q: possible mechanisms for their co-precipitation in cryoglobulins from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.
7957Mag: !Mag Microsomal 5-ane-3 beta-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductase from pubertal rat Leydig cells: partial purification and characterization.
7958Mag: !Mag Effect of phosphorylation of the alpha-subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 on the function of reversing factor in the initiation of protein synthesis.
7959Mag: !Mag An inherited defect in the C3 convertase, C3b,Bb, associated with glomerulonephritis.
7960Mag: !Mag Clinical aspects and treatment of calf muscle cramps during pregnancy
7961Mag: !Mag Home study program. Magnesium, calcium, and phosphate imbalances; their clinical significance.
7962Mag: !Mag A preliminary report of early ECG changes in magnesium deficiency.
7963Mag: !Mag Macroelement contents of the synovial fluid in cattle with non-infectious and infectious arthritis
7964Mag: !Mag Mineral concentration in the synovial fluid of cattle with healthy joints
7965Mag: !Mag High-affinity dextromethorphan binding sites in guinea pig brain. I. Initial characterization.
7966Mag: !Mag Apparent amino acid absorption from feather meal by chicks.
7967Mag: !Mag The effects of the ionophore A23187 on pattern formation in the alga Micrasterias.
7968Mag: !Mag A comparison of mannitol and magnesium citrate preparations for double-contrast barium enema.
7969Mag: !Mag A reference method for measurement of alkaline phosphatase activity in human serum.
7970Mag: !Mag Calcium metabolism in the newborn infant
7971Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium in cardiac disease.
7972Mag: !Mag The effects of maternally administered magnesium sulfate on the neonate.
7973Mag: !Mag Respiratory muscle failure.
7974Mag: !Mag Demonstration of specific receptors for adenosine in guinea-pig myocardium.
7975Mag: !Mag Prolonged 13 c+post-tetanic depolarization of frog dorsal root fibers.
7976Mag: !Mag The effect of citrus pectin on the absorption of nutrients in the small intestine.
7977Mag: !Mag Salmon calcitonin and cGMP production by human kidney: studies in vivo and in vitro.
7978Mag: !Mag Stimulation of neutral, magnesium-stimulated sphingomyelinase activity in the neurohypophysis of the rat by hypertonic saline ingestion.
7979Mag: !Mag Single turnovers of the EcoRI restriction endonuclease.
7980Mag: !Mag Monovalent and divalent ions in vascular tissue.
7981Mag: !Mag Identification of high-affinity phorbol ester receptor in cytosol of EL4 thymoma cells: requirement for calcium, magnesium, and phospholipids.
7982Mag: !Mag Rapid changes in specific estrogen binding elicited by cGMP or cAMP in cytosol from human endometrial cells.
7983Mag: !Mag Modification of 5'-nucleotidase activity by divalent cations and nucleotides.
7984Mag: !Mag Presteady-state kinetics of ATP hydrolysis by chloroplast CF1-ATPASE
7985Mag: !Mag Apparent inhibition of the plasma membrane Ca2+ pump by oleic acid.
7986Mag: !Mag Plasma and erythrocyte electrolytes in affective disorders.
7987Mag: !Mag Canine mesenteric artery Na+,K+-ATPase: vasopressor receptor for digitalis?
7988Mag: !Mag Ultrastructural architecture of proteoglycans in the glomerular basement membrane. A cytochemical approach.
7989Mag: !Mag The importance of betamimetics and magnesium for the outcome of pregnancy: I. Reduction of intrauterine growth retardation, premature rupture of membranes and premature birth after supplemental magnesium therapy
7990Mag: !Mag Evidence for a glutamine synthetase-chromatophore association in the phototroph Rhodospirillum rubrum: purification, properties, and regulation of the enzyme.
7991Mag: !Mag The ontogeny of somatotropic binding sites in ovine hepatic membranes.
7992Mag: !Mag Physiology and main implications of magnesium in osteo-articular pathology
7993Mag: !Mag Synaptic activity mediates death of hypoxic neurons.
7994Mag: !Mag Metal content of DNA polymerase I purified from overproducing and wild type Escherichia coli.
7995Mag: !Mag Properties and sidedness of 5'-nucleotidase in rat red cell ghosts.
7996Mag: !Mag Reversibility of the phosphate transfer between ATP and phosphoproteins catalysed by a cyclic nucleotide independent (G type) casein kinase.
7997Mag: !Mag Catalytic specificity of yeast inorganic pyrophosphatase for magnesium ion as cofactor. An analysis of divalent metal ion and solvent isotope effects on enzyme function.
7998Mag: !Mag Calcium-evoked secretion from digitonin-permeabilized adrenal medullary chromaffin cells.
7999Mag: !Mag Activation of an islet cell plasma membrane (Ca2+ + Mg2+)-ATPase by calmodulin and Ca-EGTA.
8000Mag: !Mag Primary hypomagnesaemia, an autosomal recessive inherited disease?
8001Mag: !Mag Dual mechanism of ouabain action on noradrenaline output from guinea-pig vas deferens.
8002Mag: !Mag Adenine nucleotide transport in hepatoma mitochondria. Characterization of factors influencing the kinetics of ADP and ATP uptake.
8003Mag: !Mag Measurement of sodium ion concentration in the unstirred layer of rat small intestine by polymer Na+-sensitive electrodes.
8004Mag: !Mag The effect of streptomycin on the neuromuscular junction of the frog.
8005Mag: !Mag Resolution of an ATP-metal chelate from metal-free ATP by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography.
8006Mag: !Mag Stability of the Ca2+-specific and Ca2+-Mg2+ domains of troponin C. Effect of pH.
8007Mag: !Mag The role of parathyroid hormone and calcitonin in magnesium absorption in the rat small intestine.
8008Mag: !Mag Ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase in toluene-permeabilized Rhodospirillum rubrum.
8009Mag: !Mag Baker's yeast adenylate kinase. Evidence of conformational change from intrinsic fluorescence and difference spectra. Determination of the structure of enzyme-bound metal-nucleotide by use of phosphorothioate analogues of ATP.
8010Mag: !Mag Interrelationships in trace-element metabolism in metal toxicities in nickel-resistant strains of Neurospora crassa.
8011Mag: !Mag Cross-bridges and the mechanism of muscle contraction.
8012Mag: !Mag Aluminum interaction with calmodulin. Evidence for altered structure and function from optical and enzymatic studies.
8013Mag: !Mag Quantitation of metal cations bound to membranes and extracted lipopolysaccharide of Escherichia coli.
8014Mag: !Mag Physical properties of defined lipopolysaccharide salts.
8015Mag: !Mag Localized illumination of the Aplysia and Bulla eye reveals new relationships between retinal layers.
8016Mag: !Mag Proton exchange rates in transfer RNA as a function of spermidine and magnesium.
8017Mag: !Mag A phospholipase A1 from the hemolymph of the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta.
8018Mag: !Mag Properties of a Mr = 38,000 phosphoprotein phosphatase. Modulation by divalent cations, ATP, and fluoride.
8019Mag: !Mag Diadenosine tetraphosphatase from human leukemia cells. Purification to homogeneity and partial characterization.
8020Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium on the calcium-dependent transient kinetics of sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase, studied by stopped flow fluorescence and phosphorylation.
8021Mag: !Mag Calcium transport and phosphorylated intermediate of (Ca2+ + Mg2+)-ATPase in plasma membranes of rat liver.
8022Mag: !Mag Ca2+, Mg2+ and (adenosine diphosphate ribose)n in cellular response to irradiation.
8023Mag: !Mag Resting potential of the mouse neuroblastoma cells. II. Significant contribution of the surface potential to the resting potential of the cells under physiological conditions.
8024Mag: !Mag EEDQ probably reacts with the Mg2+-ATP catalytic sites of mitochondrial and bacterial F1-ATPases.
8025Mag: !Mag Eclampsia--a method of management. A preliminary report.
8026Mag: !Mag Correlation between manifestations of digoxin toxicity and serum digoxin, calcium, potassium, and magnesium concentrations and arterial pH.
8027Mag: !Mag Role of Magnesium in the Plasma Membrane ATPase of Red Beet.
8028Mag: !Mag Effects of ATP on calcium binding to synaptic plasma membrane.
8029Mag: !Mag Absorption of sulfate from orally administered magnesium sulfate in man.
8030Mag: !Mag Bilateral upper urinary tract stone.
8031Mag: !Mag Magnesium oxide induced metabolic alkalosis in cattle.
8032Mag: !Mag Effect of age and sex on the composition of muscle and skin from a commercial broiler strain.
8033Mag: !Mag Nutritional status and the serum levels of Mg, Ca, Zn and Cu.
8034Mag: !Mag "Is magnesium depletion the reason for ototoxicity caused by aminoglycosides?".
8035Mag: !Mag Hormone-sensitive magnesium transport in murine S49 lymphoma cells: characterization and specificity for magnesium.
8036Mag: !Mag Biochemical and haematological effects of phenylbutazone in horses.
8037Mag: !Mag Prescribing drugs in pregnancy.
8038Mag: !Mag Solubilization and partial characterization of rat epididymal delta 4-steroid 5 alpha-reductase (cholestenone 5 alpha-reductase).
8039Mag: !Mag Clinical practice of systemic hyperthermia therapy and physiological responses of the host
8040Mag: !Mag Force-velocity relation in chemically skinned rat portal vein. Effects of Ca2+ and Mg2+.
8041Mag: !Mag Pyrene actin: documentation of the validity of a sensitive assay for actin polymerization.
8042Mag: !Mag Data on the hygienic standard for magnesium chlorate in reservoir water
8043Mag: !Mag Nonspecific manifestations of inhalation exposure to magnesium oxide
8044Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium to increase sensitivity of Limulus amoebocyte lysate for detection of endotoxin.
8045Mag: !Mag Qualitative and quantitative analysis of otoconia in the normal and in the genetically deaf inner ear.
8046Mag: !Mag Properties of miniature post-synaptic currents at the Torpedo marmorata nerve-electroplate junction.
8047Mag: !Mag Failure of hair analysis to reflect excessive sodium chloride ingestion by Holstein heifers.
8048Mag: !Mag Parathyroid hormone secretion and responsiveness to parathyroid hormone in primary hypomagnesemia.
8049Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium deficiency and excess on bovine coronary artery tone and responses to agonists.
8050Mag: !Mag Factors affecting solubilized dopamine-sensitive adenylate cyclase.
8051Mag: !Mag The effect of spironolactone on the elemental composition of the intraluminal fluids of the seminiferous tubules, rete testis and epididymis of the rat.
8052Mag: !Mag The effect of oral acetohydroxamic acid on urinary saturation in stone-forming spinal cord patients.
8053Mag: !Mag Potentiation of magnesium sulfate--induced neuromuscular weakness by gentamicin, tobramycin, and amikacin.
8054Mag: !Mag Partial purification of some red cell enzymes utilizing hemoglobin precipitation by zinc salts.
8055Mag: !Mag Flow cytometric studies of oxidative product formation by neutrophils: a graded response to membrane stimulation.
8056Mag: !Mag Glucocorticoid hormone renders rat glioma cells dependent on high concentrations of external Ca2+ for growth.
8057Mag: !Mag Impaired renal function in diabetic chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes).
8058Mag: !Mag Correlation between gallbladder size and release of cholecystokinin after oral magnesium sulfate in man.
8059Mag: !Mag Transcriptional regulation of three double-stranded RNA segments of bacteriophage phi 6 in vitro.
8060Mag: !Mag Diet for patients with a short bowel: high fat or high carbohydrate?
8061Mag: !Mag Myocardial protection in cardiac surgery. Comparison of 2 cardioplegic solutions
8062Mag: !Mag Fluoride stimulation of microsomal benzene metabolism.
8063Mag: !Mag Accumulation and chemical forms of cadmium and its effect on essential metals in rat spleen and pancreas.
8064Mag: !Mag Extent of cadmium accumulation and its effect on essential metals in liver, kidney, and body fluids.
8065Mag: !Mag Catecholamine and divalent cation effects on frog liver adenylate cyclase.
8066Mag: !Mag The role of divalent cations in controlling amphibian lens membrane permeability; the mechanisms of toxic cataracts.
8067Mag: !Mag Copper in human subgingival calculus.
8068Mag: !Mag Arrestment of caries in rats by adding fluoride and magnesium to the diet.
8069Mag: !Mag Study of trace elements--zinc, copper, iron and magnesium in ulcerative colitis and dysenteries.
8070Mag: !Mag Daonil versus diovol.
8071Mag: !Mag influence of Mg++ and reserpine on the reactivity of rat seminal vesicle to 5-hydroxytryptamine.
8072Mag: !Mag Reversal of order of ecdysis in Haemonchus contortus (Nematoda).
8073Mag: !Mag Beta cell membrane potential and insulin release; role of calcium and calcium:magnesium ratio.
8074Mag: !Mag The Kenny-Caffey syndrome: growth retardation and hypocalcemia in a young boy.
8075Mag: !Mag Mutagenicity of bis- and mono-(2,3-dibromopropyl)phosphate, and their salts used as flame retardants, in the Salmonella/microsome system.
8076Mag: !Mag Effect of captopril on uterine blood flow and prostaglandin E synthesis in the pregnant rabbit.
8077Mag: !Mag Refined carbohydrates - a cause of suboptimal nutrient intake.
8078Mag: !Mag Contractile response of the rabbit aorta to maitotoxin, the most potent marine toxin.
8079Mag: !Mag Changes in cyclic AMP and electrolytes after parathyroidectomy in primary hyperparathyroidism.
8080Mag: !Mag Colorimetric assay for aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases.
8081Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium trisilicate and kaolin-pectin on the bioavailability of trimethoprim.
8082Mag: !Mag A quantitative study of the action of Centruroides sculpturatus toxins III and IV on the Na currents of the node of Ranvier.
8083Mag: !Mag Stimulation of neuronal Na+, K+-ATPase by calcium.
8084Mag: !Mag Loss of cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase activity in vitro in the presence of bivalent metal ions and by dialysis of rat liver microsomes.
8085Mag: !Mag Evidence for phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of rat liver acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase.
8086Mag: !Mag Neutral and acid sphingomyelinases of rat brain: somatotopographical distribution and activity following experimental manipulation of the dopaminergic system in vivo.
8087Mag: !Mag Purification of morphologically intact triad structures from skeletal muscle.
8088Mag: !Mag Cell type specific inhibition of cAMP phosphodiesterase activity during terminal differential in Dictyostelium discoideum.
8089Mag: !Mag Binding of radioiodinated bovine parathyroid hormone-(1-84) to canine renal cortical membranes.
8090Mag: !Mag Some functional properties of nonpolymerizable and polymerizable tropomyosin.
8091Mag: !Mag Binding of magnesium to myosin subfragment-1 ATPase.
8092Mag: !Mag Adenosine triphosphatases associated with bovine brain microtubules. II. Properties of ATPases I and II.
8093Mag: !Mag Studies on the properties of P1 site-specific recombination: evidence for topologically unlinked products following recombination.
8094Mag: !Mag Studies on the glycosomal orotate phosphoribosyl transferase of Trypanosoma cruzi.
8095Mag: !Mag IgE-mediated release of histamine from human cutaneous mast cells.
8096Mag: !Mag High-affinity Ca2+-stimulated and Mg2+-dependent ATPase from rat osteosarcoma plasma membranes.
8097Mag: !Mag Biochemical and pathological changes in experimental phycomycosis.
8098Mag: !Mag Unusual features of the Ca2+-ATPase activity of myosin from fast skeletal muscle of the frog: effect of actin and SH1 thiol group modification.
8099Mag: !Mag Desmethylimipramine enhances the release of endogenous GABA and other neurotransmitter amino acids from the rat thalamus.
8100Mag: !Mag Properties of the cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase from rat lung. Inhibition by unsaturated fatty acids.
8101Mag: !Mag Characterization of phosphoprotein phosphatases and phosphorylase phosphatase from yeast.
8102Mag: !Mag Chlortetracycline as a probe of membrane-associated calcium and magnesium: interaction with red cell membranes, phospholipids, and proteins monitored by fluorescence and circular dichroism.
8103Mag: !Mag Polymerization of the tubulin-colchicine complex: relation to microtubule assembly.
8104Mag: !Mag On the mechanism by which Mg2+ and adenine nucleotides restore membrane potential in rat liver mitochondria deenergized by Ca2+ and phosphate.
8105Mag: !Mag The binding of calcium to human fibronectin.
8106Mag: !Mag Kinetic study of the interaction between ribulosebisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase and inorganic fluoride.
8107Mag: !Mag Spontaneously active and ATPMg-dependent protein phosphatase activity in vascular smooth muscle.
8108Mag: !Mag Primary hypomagnesaemia, an X-borne allele?
8109Mag: !Mag GTP increases airway muscarinic antagonist binding sites: an effect regulated by Mg2+.
8110Mag: !Mag X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) determination of calcium sites of troponin C and parvalbumin.
8111Mag: !Mag On the enzymatic basis for mutagenesis by manganese.
8112Mag: !Mag Protein synthesis in brine shrimp embryos and rabbit reticulocytes. The effect of Mg2+ on binary (eukaryotic initiation factor 2 X GDP) and ternary (eukaryotic initiation factor 2 X GTP X met-tRNAf) complex formation.
8113Mag: !Mag DNA restriction--modification enzymes of phage P1 and plasmid p15B. Subunit functions and structural homologies.
8114Mag: !Mag (Na+ + K+)-dependent adenosine triphosphatase. Regulation of inorganic phosphate, magnesium ion, and calcium ion interactions with the enzyme by ouabain.
8115Mag: !Mag The interaction of carboxyl group reagents with the Rhodospirillum rubrum F1-ATPase and its isolated beta-subunit.
8116Mag: !Mag Studies on the effect of phosphorylation of the 20,000 Mr light chain of vertebrate smooth muscle myosin.
8117Mag: !Mag Calcium inhibition of the ATPase and phosphatase activities of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase.
8118Mag: !Mag The metabolism of CDP-diacylglycerol and phosphatidylinositol in the microsomal fraction of rat liver. Effects of chlorpromazine, magnesium and manganese.
8119Mag: !Mag Biophysical studies on molecular mechanisms of abortifacient action of prostaglandins. V. CNDO/2 estimation of the relative affinities of the cations Na+, Mg2+ and Ca2+ to the carboxylic group.
8120Mag: !Mag Effects of insulin upon ion transport.
8121Mag: !Mag A method for radioimmunoassay of plasma angiotensin II using florisil
8122Mag: !Mag Hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia induced by capreomycin
8123Mag: !Mag Polymorphic phase preferences of phosphatidic acid: A 31P and 2H NMR study.
8124Mag: !Mag Supply of magnesium in cattle
8125Mag: !Mag The preparation and properties of gel-filtered rabbit-reticulocyte lysate protein-synthesis systems.
8126Mag: !Mag Does the supply of magnesium affect the feed intake in ruminants?
8127Mag: !Mag Properties of PAF-acether-induced platelet aggregation and secretion. Studies in gel-filtered human platelets.
8128Mag: !Mag The site of action of La3+ in the reaction cycle of the human red cell membrane Ca2+-pump ATPase.
8129Mag: !Mag Review article. Magnesium deficiency provoked by diuretics.
8130Mag: !Mag Na+-K+-ATPase in rat vascular smooth muscle cell grown in vitro.
8131Mag: !Mag Accurate transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II in a soluble extract from isolated mammalian nuclei.
8132Mag: !Mag Characterization of a prokaryotic topoisomerase I activity in chloroplast extracts from spinach.
8133Mag: !Mag The kinetics of actin nucleation and polymerization.
8134Mag: !Mag Dissociation of the Pf1 nucleoprotein assembly complex and characterisation of the DNA binding protein.
8135Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation by ATP of sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase in the absence of calcium.
8136Mag: !Mag Occlusion of calcium in the ADP-sensitive phosphoenzyme of the adenosine triphosphatase of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
8137Mag: !Mag In squid axons intracellular Mg2+ is essential for ATP-dependent Na+ efflux in the absence and presence of strophanthidin.
8138Mag: !Mag Cationic polypeptide-induced fusion of acidic liposomes.
8139Mag: !Mag Comparative studies on thermostability of calmodulin, skeletal muscle troponin C and their tryptic fragments.
8140Mag: !Mag Biochemical functions of magnesium.
8141Mag: !Mag Absorption of magnesium chloride solution in small bowel disease.
8142Mag: !Mag Metabolic effects of four intravenous nutritional regimens after elective surgery. I. Clinical data and biochemistry.
8143Mag: !Mag Influence of Adenosine Phosphates and Magnesium on Photosynthesis in Chloroplasts from Peas, Sedum, and Spinach.
8144Mag: !Mag Efficacy of paromomycin sulfate against human cestodiasis and its pharmacological action on tapeworm in vitro
8145Mag: !Mag Separation of glycosylated haemoglobins using immobilized phenylboronic acid. Effect of ligand concentration, column operating conditions, and comparison with ion-exchange and isoelectric-focusing.
8146Mag: !Mag Primary hypomagnesaemia: case report.
8147Mag: !Mag Concentrations of morphologically normal, motile spermatozoa: Mg, Ca and Zn in the semen of infertile men.
8148Mag: !Mag Therapy of duodenal ulcers with antacids
8149Mag: !Mag Intragastric utilization of antacids following meals in relation to stomach emptying
8150Mag: !Mag Determination of neutralization capacity of antacids in gastric juice
8151Mag: !Mag Metabolic effects of antacids and interactions with other drugs
8152Mag: !Mag Effect of antacids on mineral metabolism
8153Mag: !Mag Effect of antacids on intestinal motility
8154Mag: !Mag Determination of HDL phosphatidyl choline by an enzymatic method.
8155Mag: !Mag Intracellular electrolytes and lipid metabolism in obesity.
8156Mag: !Mag Supramolecular forms of actin induced by polyamines; an electron microscopic study.
8157Mag: !Mag Time-dependent excretion of lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, magnesium and strontium in the urine of a multiple sclerosis patient.
8158Mag: !Mag 100% oxygen breathing during acute heat stress: effect on sweat composition.
8159Mag: !Mag Study of the endogenous cyclic nucleotide-dependent phosphorylation of synaptic membrane proteins
8160Mag: !Mag Intestinal absorption of fatty acids, and blood lipid composition in sheep.
8161Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of lipoprotein lipase activators from bovine blood serum.
8162Mag: !Mag Setting of dental polyelectrolyte cements--viscosity studies of model systems.
8163Mag: !Mag Influence of physicochemical parameters on adsorption of Actinomyces viscosus to hydroxyapatite surfaces.
8164Mag: !Mag Optimization of mammalian chromosome suspension preparations employed in a flow cytometric analysis.
8165Mag: !Mag Nutrition and immune responses.
8166Mag: !Mag Isolation and some structural and functional properties of macrophage tropomyosin.
8167Mag: !Mag Characterization of deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis in reconstituted nuclear systems.
8168Mag: !Mag Pathophysiology of ischemic cell death: I. Time of onset of irreversible damage; importance of the different components of the ischemic insult.
8169Mag: !Mag Dynamic changes in intact crystalline lens metabolism modulated by alkaline earth metals: I. Effects of magnesium.
8170Mag: !Mag Interaction of ADP and magnesium with the active site of myosin subfragment-1 observed by reactivity changes of the critical thiols and by direct binding methods at low and high ionic strength.
8171Mag: !Mag Polymorphism in high-affinity calcium-binding proteins from crustacean sarcoplasm.
8172Mag: !Mag Microsome-dependent binding of benzoapyrene to initiator tRNA from rat liver.
8173Mag: !Mag The GI drug column. The ACG committee on FDA related matters.
8174Mag: !Mag A high prevalence of hypomagnesemia and hypermagnesemia in hospitalized patients.
8175Mag: !Mag Maximal oxygen consumption as related to magnesium, copper, and zinc nutriture.
8176Mag: !Mag Metabolic acidosis in the alcoholic: a pathophysiologic approach.
8177Mag: !Mag Transport of histidine into synaptosomes of the rat central nervous system.
8178Mag: !Mag More on flow injection/atomic absorption analysis for electrolytes.
8179Mag: !Mag A peroxidase-coupled method for the colorimetric determination of serum triglycerides.
8180Mag: !Mag Ultrafiltrable calcium and magnesium in ultrafiltrates of serum prepared with the Amicon MPS-1 system.
8181Mag: !Mag Effect of cancer cachexia and amiloride treatment on the intracellular sodium content in tissue cells.
8182Mag: !Mag Benzoyl peroxide and epidermal wound healing.
8183Mag: !Mag Measurements of iron absorption from prenatal multivitamin--mineral supplements.
8184Mag: !Mag Identification of human natural killer soluble cytotoxic factors (NKCF) derived from NK-enriched lymphocyte populations: specificity of generation and killing.
8185Mag: !Mag Absence of metabolic bone disease in adult patients with the nephrotic syndrome and normal renal function.
8186Mag: !Mag The native structure of dinoflagellate chromosomes and their stabilization by Ca2+ and Mg2+ cations.
8187Mag: !Mag Study of trace elements (Zinc, Iron, Copper) and Magnesium in normal healthy population.
8188Mag: !Mag Organization of electrical coupling between frog lumbar motoneurons.
8189Mag: !Mag Studies on the reactivity of polyacrylic acid with metal oxides.
8190Mag: !Mag Hypertension in pregnancy.
8191Mag: !Mag The C3/C5 convertase of the alternative pathway of complement: stabilization and restriction of control by lanthanide ions.
8192Mag: !Mag Would you recognize this dangerous electrolyte imbalance?
8193Mag: !Mag A comparative double-blind trial of mannitol and magnesium citrate/bisacodyl (MCB) in the preparation of barium enema patients.
8194Mag: !Mag Calcium-stimulated, ATP-magnesium-dependent inactivation of pig liver glycogen synthase.
8195Mag: !Mag Isolation and regeneration of Streptomyces griseus protoplasts
8196Mag: !Mag Bacterial interaction with natural Cherkassy palygorskite at different pH values of the medium
8197Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies of the reaction mechanism of rat liver phosphoglycerate kinase in the direction of ADP utilization.
8198Mag: !Mag Epinephrine is a hypophosphatemic hormone in man. Physiological effects of circulating epinephrine on plasma calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, parathyroid hormone, and calcitonin.
8199Mag: !Mag Phosphate replacement during treatment of diabetic ketosis. Effects on calcium and phosphorus homeostasis.
8200Mag: !Mag Treatment of infection stones. I. Dissolution of experimental infection stones in rats
8201Mag: !Mag A double-blind evaluation of guar gum in patients with dyslipidaemia.
8202Mag: !Mag Adjuvant effects of glyceryl esters of acetoacetic acid on rectal absorption of insulin and inulin in rabbits.
8203Mag: !Mag Influence of growth temperature of Escherichia coli on K1 capsular antigen production and resistance to opsonization.
8204Mag: !Mag Drug-induced electrolyte disorders.
8205Mag: !Mag 3Hethylketocyclazocine binding to NCB-20 hybrid neurotumor cells.
8206Mag: !Mag Interactions of Ca2+, Mg2+, and Na+ in regulation of insulin release from rat islets.
8207Mag: !Mag Protection of the myocardium during cardiac surgery.
8208Mag: !Mag Magnesium and the calcium paradox: the occurrence of "spasmodic contractions" during Ca2+-Mg2+ -free perfusion of isolated rat heart.
8209Mag: !Mag The chemistry of antacids
8210Mag: !Mag Interaction of ribulose-1,5-diphosphate carboxylase with ribulose-1,5-diphosphate and with the magnesium ion by the spin label method
8211Mag: !Mag Pharmacological aspects of digoxin complex formation with calcium and magnesium cations
8212Mag: !Mag 3HOuabain binding and Na+, K+-ATPase in resealed human red cell ghosts.
8213Mag: !Mag Influence of buffering early lactation rations with sodium bicarbonate and magnesium oxide and subsequent withdrawal or addition effects.
8214Mag: !Mag Secretion of calcium into milk: review.
8215Mag: !Mag In vitro effect of pH variations on rumen fermentation, and in vivo effects of buffers in lambs before and after adaptation to high concentrate diets.
8216Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of a cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase that is active in only one cell type during the multicellular development of Dictyostelium discoideum.
8217Mag: !Mag Activation of adrenal adenylate cyclase by guanine nucleotides. Promotion of nucleotide binding by calcium but not by adrenocorticotropic hormone.
8218Mag: !Mag A calcium-activated protease which preferentially degrades the 160-kDa component of the neurofilament triplet.
8219Mag: !Mag Discrimination of multiple forms of phosphoprotein phosphatase in bovine thyroid.
8220Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary fibers on mineral status of chicks.
8221Mag: !Mag Formation of a persistent inhibitory state of brain adenylate cyclase by GTP analogs.
8222Mag: !Mag The effect of gentamicin on antidiuretic hormone-stimulated osmotic water flow in the toad urinary bladder.
8223Mag: !Mag Widespread foreign-body granulomas and elevated serum angiotensin-converting enzyme.
8224Mag: !Mag Environmental politics and science: the case of PBB contamination in Michigan.
8225Mag: !Mag The effect of chronic metabolic acidosis on the end organ responsiveness to parathyroid hormone in man.
8226Mag: !Mag Effect of nicotinamide on the sinoatrial node function of rabbits
8227Mag: !Mag Cation distributions in the hypertrophic myocardium (aortic constriction) of the rat.
8228Mag: !Mag Interaction of 4-azido-2-nitrophenyl phosphate, an inorganic phosphate photoreactive analogue, with chloroplast coupling factor 1.
8229Mag: !Mag Studies on the androgen-binding proteins in human benign prostatic hypertrophy
8230Mag: !Mag The fibrillar network in the cytoplasm of squid giant axon extracted with saponin.
8231Mag: !Mag Effect of drugs with acid-neutralizing and acid-suppressive effect on parietal cell function and on gastrin and somatostatin cell density of the stomach
8232Mag: !Mag Solubilisation of D-amino acid dehydrogenase of Escherichia coli K12 and its re-binding to envelope preparations.
8233Mag: !Mag A perfused in vitro preparation of hypothalamus for electrophysiological studies on neurosecretory neurons.
8234Mag: !Mag Pharmacology of labor.
8235Mag: !Mag Clathrin-coated vesicles contain an ATP-dependent proton pump.
8236Mag: !Mag Evidence for the existence of gonadotropin receptors in the nuclei isolated from rat ovary.
8237Mag: !Mag Partial purification of a calcium ionophore from human uremic plasma and normal urine.
8238Mag: !Mag Magnesium--distribution and basic metabolism.
8239Mag: !Mag DNA topoisomerases from rat liver: physiological variations.
8240Mag: !Mag Properties of the adenylate cyclase catalytic unit from caudate nucleus.
8241Mag: !Mag Ion-gated channel induced in planar bilayers by incorporation of (Na+,K+)-ATPase.
8242Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of rabbit liver calmodulin-dependent glycogen synthase kinase.
8243Mag: !Mag Regulation of polyamine-responsive protein kinase by certain highly specific polyamines and charged carbohydrates.
8244Mag: !Mag Calmodulin stimulates polyamine-responsive protein kinase in the absence of Ca2+.
8245Mag: !Mag Effect of polyamines on synthesis and degradation of guanosine 5'-diphosphate 3'-diphosphate.
8246Mag: !Mag Improved methods for calculating formation constants for nucleotide--cation complexes.
8247Mag: !Mag Inhibition of the dehydrogenase activity of sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase by magnesium ions.
8248Mag: !Mag Reconstitution of adenylate cyclase in Neurospora from two components of the enzyme.
8249Mag: !Mag Correlation between thylakoid stacking and cation-induced decrease in photosystem I electron transport at saturating light intensity.
8250Mag: !Mag A requirement for Ca2+ in the extraction of O2-evolving Photosystem 2 preparations from the cyanobacterium Anacystis nidulans.
8251Mag: !Mag Studies of calmodulin structure: laser raman spectroscopy of biomolecules.
8252Mag: !Mag Some properties of the Ca2+-stimulated ATPase of a rat liver microsomal fraction.
8253Mag: !Mag Characterization of an ATP-Mg2+-dependent guanine nucleotide-stimulated adenylate cyclase from Neurospora crassa.
8254Mag: !Mag The interaction between manganese and calcium fluxes in pancreatic beta-cells.
8255Mag: !Mag Determination of 20 alpha-hydroxy-9 beta,10 alpha-pregna-4,6-dien-3-one in plasma by selected ion monitoring.
8256Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of DNase VIII. A 5'-3' directed exonuclease from human placental nuclei.
8257Mag: !Mag The O2- generating oxidoreductase of human neutrophils: evidence of an obligatory requirement for calcium and magnesium for expression of catalytic activity.
8258Mag: !Mag Metabolism of minerals and vitamin D in the pregnant woman and the fetus
8259Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of yeast topoisomerase I.
8260Mag: !Mag Guanosine 5'-triphosphate, 3'-diphosphate 5'-phosphohydrolase. Purification and substrate specificity.
8261Mag: !Mag Determination of arsenite, arsenate and monomethylarsonic acid in aqueous samples by gas chromatography of their 2,3-dimercaptopropanol (bal) complexes.
8262Mag: !Mag Characterization of a K-Stimulated Adenosine Triphosphatase Associated with the Plasma Membrane of Red Beet.
8263Mag: !Mag Metabolism of Magnesium Protoporphyrin Monomethyl Ester in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.
8264Mag: !Mag Changes in the blood magnesium level in patients with chronic cor pulmonale during treatment
8265Mag: !Mag Osteomalacia in the metastatic region of prostatic origin resistant to vitamin and calcium therapy. Role of hypomagnesemia
8266Mag: !Mag Action of mercurials on the active and passive transport properties of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
8267Mag: !Mag Proton-cation translocation in tumor cell mitochondria.
8268Mag: !Mag Effects of cations and temperature on the binding of 3Hspiperone to sheep caudate nucleus.
8269Mag: !Mag The regulatory properties of rabbit muscle pyruvate kinase. The influence of substrate concentrations.
8270Mag: !Mag Calcium and fibrin gel structure.
8271Mag: !Mag Pathophysiology of obstructive nephropathy.
8272Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of the outer and cytoplasmic membranes of Pseudomonas cepacia.
8273Mag: !Mag Effects of blood and urine on lead analyzed by flameless atomic absorption.
8274Mag: !Mag Effects of hypophysectomy on the plasma ionic and osmotic balance in rainbow trout, Salmo gairdneri.
8275Mag: !Mag Effect of low salt, sodium, and chloride levels in poult rations on growth, bone development, and related factors.
8276Mag: !Mag Action potential of isolated human ureter recorded with sucrose gap technique.
8277Mag: !Mag Antacid effects on the gastrointestinal absorption of riboflavin.
8278Mag: !Mag Characterization of the hemolysin produced by haemophilus pleuropneumoniae.
8279Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium and lactose supplementation on bone metabolism in the X-linked hypophosphatemic mouse.
8280Mag: !Mag A study of some molecular and kinetic properties of two tRNA methyltransferases from mouse plasmocytoma.
8281Mag: !Mag Stimulation by antidiuretic hormone of electrolyte tubular reabsorption in rat kidney.
8282Mag: !Mag A survey of the available colorimetric indicators for Ca2+ and Mg2+ ions in biological experiments.
8283Mag: !Mag A survey of readily available chelators for buffering calcium ion concentrations in physiological solutions.
8284Mag: !Mag Disturbed formation of dental tissues due to magnesium deficiency
8285Mag: !Mag Hypocalcemia: a medical emergency.
8286Mag: !Mag Antimicrobial action of compound 48/80--II mechanism of action.
8287Mag: !Mag Changes in selected biochemical indicators in blood serum in anestrous gilts
8288Mag: !Mag Effect of antibody concentration on opsonic requirements for phagocytosis in vitro of Streptococcus pneumoniae types 7 and 19.
8289Mag: !Mag Home nasoenteric feeding for malabsorption and weight loss refractory to conventional therapy.
8290Mag: !Mag Cardiac muscle function: results from skinned fiber preparations.
8291Mag: !Mag Effect of Escherichia coli initiation factors on the kinetics of N-Acphe-tRNAPhe binding to 30S ribosomal subunits. A fluorescence stopped-flow study.
8292Mag: !Mag 31P-nmr studies of the effect of various metals on substrate binding to yeast enolase.
8293Mag: !Mag Diuretics in the treatment of heart failure.
8294Mag: !Mag History of calcium antagonists.
8295Mag: !Mag Endoscopic evaluation of the comparative effects of acetylsalicylic acid and choline magnesium trisalicylate on human gastric and duodenal mucosa.
8296Mag: !Mag Sodium and ouabain induce proliferation of rat thymic lymphocytes via calcium- and magnesium- dependent reactions.
8297Mag: !Mag Thermostability of the vaccination strain of infectious bursal disease virus
8298Mag: !Mag Unmasking of magnesium-dependent high-affinity binding sites for dAla2, dLeu5enkephalin after pretreatment of brain membranes with guanine nucleotides.
8299Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies of adenosine kinase from L1210 cells: a model enzyme with a two-site ping-pong mechanism.
8300Mag: !Mag Calcium dynamics in idiopathic calcium stone formers.
8301Mag: !Mag Polyoma virus minichromosomes: characterization of the products of in vitro DNA synthesis.
8302Mag: !Mag Self-assembly of simian virus 40 large T antigen oligomers by divalent cations.
8303Mag: !Mag Regulation of canine heart sarcolemmal Ca2+-pumping ATPase by cyclic GMP.
8304Mag: !Mag Influence of salts on electrostatic interactions between poliovirus and membrane filters.
8305Mag: !Mag Mechanism of haemolysis by chrysotile fibres.
8306Mag: !Mag Rotational motion of actin monomer at low and high salt concentration.
8307Mag: !Mag Mechanism of action of a yeast RNA ligase in tRNA splicing.
8308Mag: !Mag cAMP-dependent protein kinases from the insect Ceratitis capitata.
8309Mag: !Mag The role of antibody in the interaction of Salmonella and listeria with peritoneal macrophages.
8310Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of two forms of a low-affinity Ca2+-ATPase from erythrocyte membranes.
8311Mag: !Mag Comparison of the heat resistance of ATP-hydrolyzing enzymes in 2 species of frogs
8312Mag: !Mag Calmodulin levels and divalent cation pump activities in kidneys of streptozotocin-diabetic rats.
8313Mag: !Mag Ranitidine as an antacid before elective Caesarean section.
8314Mag: !Mag Role of inorganic electrolytes in bile acid-independent canalicular bile formation.
8315Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and diuretics.
8316Mag: !Mag Fractionation and partial characterization of the protein synthesis system of wheat germ. II. Initiation factors D1 (eucaryotic initiation factor 3), D2c (eucaryotic initiation factor 5), and D2d (eucaryotic initiation factor 4C).
8317Mag: !Mag Stimulation of maximal intracellular insulin action on glycogen synthase by preincubation of adipocytes with adenosine 5'-triphosphate.
8318Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of transfer RNA (guanine-1)methyltransferase from Escherichia coli.
8319Mag: !Mag Different regions of aminoacyl-tRNA regulate the function of elongation factor Tu.
8320Mag: !Mag A modified partition affinity ligand assay (PALA) for direct reading of gamma-labels without further separation or washing.
8321Mag: !Mag Role of fimbrin and villin in determining the interfilament distances of actin bundles.
8322Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a scallop sarcoplasmic calcium-binding protein.
8323Mag: !Mag Neutron scattering study of the binding of tRNAPhe to Escherichia coli phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase.
8324Mag: !Mag On the relationship between calcium and phosphate transport, transmembrane potential and acetoacetate-induced oxidation of pyridine nucleotides in rat-liver mitochondria.
8325Mag: !Mag Renal handling and acute urinary electrolyte effects of aminoglycoside antibiotics: use of a solitary renal autotransplant in the conscious sheep.
8326Mag: !Mag Calmodulin stimulation of adenylate cyclase of intestinal epithelium.
8327Mag: !Mag The chemical mediators of insulin action: possible targets for postreceptor defects.
8328Mag: !Mag Consequences of the N-B transition of albumin for the binding of warfarin in human serum.
8329Mag: !Mag Mechanisms of renal lithogenesis. (VIII) Therapeutic response of hyperoxaluric patients after 5 years' treatment
8330Mag: !Mag Interactions between basic proteins and stimulatory protein kinase modulator.
8331Mag: !Mag Evidence that glucagon acts on the liver to decrease mitochondrial calcium stores.
8332Mag: !Mag What does the minimal inhibitory concentration of an antibiotic hide from the clinician? Experimental examples
8333Mag: !Mag Effect of choline magnesium trisalicylate on prostacyclin production by isolated vascular tissue of the rat.
8334Mag: !Mag Stability differences of muscle F-actin in formamide in the presence of Mg2+ and Ca2+.
8335Mag: !Mag Dye binding probes of lipid-binding structures. An investigation of 2-p-toluidinylnaphthylene-6-sulfonate binding to human and bovine prothrombin and fragment 1 in the presence and absence of calcium and magnesium ions.
8336Mag: !Mag The mechanism of ether bond formation in O-alkyl lipid synthesis in Ehrlich ascites tumor. Unusual cleavage of the fatty acid moiety of acyl dihydroxyacetone phosphate.
8337Mag: !Mag Characterization of acid and alkaline phosphatase activity in preparations of tubulin and microtubule-associated proteins.
8338Mag: !Mag Dual modulation of hepatic and intestinal acyl-CoA: cholesterol acyltransferase activity by (de-)phosphorylation and substrate supply in vitro.
8339Mag: !Mag Ability of motoneurons to regulate quantal release and terminal growth after reduction in motor unit size.
8340Mag: !Mag 113Cd nuclear magnetic resonance of Cd(II) alkaline phosphatases.
8341Mag: !Mag 65Zn(II), 115mCd(II), 60Co(II), and mg(II) binding to alkaline phosphatase of Escherichia coli. Structural and functional effects.
8342Mag: !Mag Tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase: pyrophosphorylation of the enzyme in the course of adenylate formation?
8343Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesaemia in periparturient dairy cows.
8344Mag: !Mag Diuretic associated hypomagnesaemia.
8345Mag: !Mag Serum magnesium after maximal physical exertion and its relation to certain indicators of physical fitness
8346Mag: !Mag Glucose modulates Mg2+ fluxes in pancreatic islet cells.
8347Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies on the (Na+ + K+)-dependent ATPase evidence for coexisting sites for Na+, K+ and Mg2+.
8348Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium ions on the high-affinity binding of eosin to the (Na+ + K+)-ATPase.
8349Mag: !Mag Production of Rosamicin: Improvement of Synthetic Medium.
8350Mag: !Mag Blood constituents of farmed red deer (Cervus elaphus). II: biochemical values.
8351Mag: !Mag A cellular protein phosphorylated by the avian sarcoma virus transforming gene product is associated with ribonucleoprotein particles.
8352Mag: !Mag Catenation of DNA by eucaryotic topoisomerase II associated with simian virus 40 minichromosomes.
8353Mag: !Mag Translational systems prepared from the Ehrlich ascites tumor cell.
8354Mag: !Mag A simple ashing method for determination of Mg and Ca in laboratory animal feed and tissues.
8355Mag: !Mag Effect of weight reduction on circulating lipids: an integration of possible mechanisms.
8356Mag: !Mag Intravenous magnesium--potential hazard of inadequate mixing.
8357Mag: !Mag Role of mitochondria in ischemic acute renal failure.
8358Mag: !Mag Influence of the thyroid and parathyroid glands on magnesium metabolism during mineralocorticoid treatment (DOCA + NaCl) in the rat.
8359Mag: !Mag Parathyroid hormone in patients with diabetes mellitus and end-stage renal disease on chronic haemodialysis.
8360Mag: !Mag Calcitonin in chronic renal failure.
8361Mag: !Mag Plasma and tissue levels of magnesium in chronically hemodialyzed patients: effects of dialysate magnesium levels.
8362Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia in patients operated on under extracorporeal circulation
8363Mag: !Mag Modifications in blood zinc and lead concentrations and ALA-dehydratase activity in optic neuropathy from alcohol and tobacco abuse
8364Mag: !Mag Different estimates of the risk of calcium oxalate crystallization in urine.
8365Mag: !Mag X-ray diffractometric analysis of L-cystine stones in 12 patients.
8366Mag: !Mag Copper, zinc, magnesium and cadmium levels of breast milk of Indian women.
8367Mag: !Mag Crystalline composition of urinary stones in Norwegian patients.
8368Mag: !Mag Influence of diet composition on the weight gains of Wistar rat.
8369Mag: !Mag The effect of mixing time of magnesium stearate on the tableting properties of dried microcrystalline cellulose.
8370Mag: !Mag Possible decrease of nonspecific immunity in wounds contaminated by copper ore minerals
8371Mag: !Mag Elemental composition of the dense bodies of rat platelets determined by electron probe x-ray microanalysis of freeze-substituted sections.
8372Mag: !Mag Effect of diet on adjuvant-induced disease and mitogenic responses of Fisher rats.
8373Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of DNA-dependent RNA polymerases I and II from cherry salmon (Oncorhynchus masou).
8374Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium, oxytocin, and prostaglandin F2 alpha on the generation and propagation of excitation in the longitudinal muscle of rat myometrium during late pregnancy.
8375Mag: !Mag Effects of GTP on 3H-domperidone binding and its displacement by dopamine in rat striatal homogenates.
8376Mag: !Mag Calcium metabolism in subjects living with a permanent ileostomy.
8377Mag: !Mag Stimulatory protein kinase modulator, the cation-binding protein and megamodulin 2 preparation of cation complexes, occurrence of dissociated forms, interaction with basic protein, and probable modes of action.
8378Mag: !Mag X-537A ionophore-mediated calcium transport and calcium phosphate formation in Pressman cells.
8379Mag: !Mag Synthetic apatites containing Na, Mg, and CO3 and their comparison with tooth enamel mineral.
8380Mag: !Mag Tubular reabsorptive capacity for magnesium in the dog kidney.
8381Mag: !Mag Metabolic alkalosis due to absorption of "nonabsorbable" antacids.
8382Mag: !Mag A study of optimal reaction conditions for an assay of the human alternative complement pathway.
8383Mag: !Mag Effect of a moderate increase in dietary protein on the retention and excretion of Ca, Cu, Fe, Mg, P, and Zn by adult males.
8384Mag: !Mag Macromineral balances in premature infants fed their own mothers' milk or formula.
8385Mag: !Mag Potentiation of magnesium-induced neuromuscular weakness by gentamicin.
8386Mag: !Mag Frequency of hypomagnesemia in hypokalemic states.
8387Mag: !Mag 3hDexamethasone binding by rat liver microsomes: effects of age, sex, and adrenal status.
8388Mag: !Mag Effects of amiloride on tumor growth and intracellular element content of tumor cells in vivo.
8389Mag: !Mag Risk of myocardial infarction in Finnish men in relation to fluoride, magnesium and calcium concentration in drinking water.
8390Mag: !Mag Magnesium, calcium and evoked responses in the cat's cerebral cortex.
8391Mag: !Mag Effect of microflora and lactose on the absorption of calcium, phosphorus and magnesium in the hindgut of the rat.
8392Mag: !Mag Nutritional status of African populations predisposed to esophageal cancer.
8393Mag: !Mag Red blood cell, serum and tissue magnesium levels in subjects with laryngeal carcinoma.
8394Mag: !Mag Increased uptake of cholesterol and increased mineral content in the aorta of long-term uremic rabbits.
8395Mag: !Mag Stimulatory protein kinase modulator, the cation binding protein and megamodulin. 1. The binding cations in equilibrium dialysis.
8396Mag: !Mag Reduced faecal blood loss in patients receiving choline magnesium trisalicylate ('Trilisate') when compared with aspirin.
8397Mag: !Mag Hypophosphatemia in infant and adult spontaneously hypertensive rats.
8398Mag: !Mag Correlated physiochemical and age changes in embryonic bovine enamel.
8399Mag: !Mag Infrared analysis of renal calculi: a comparison with conventional techniques.
8400Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium, aluminium, magnesium and cholestyramine on hyperoxaluria in patients with jejunoileal bypass.
8401Mag: !Mag Different efficiency of Mn2+, Ca2+ and Mg2+ ions, in the reaction of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex of adrenal glands with thiamine pyrophosphate
8402Mag: !Mag Renal calcium and magnesium handling in water immersion in nephrotic patients.
8403Mag: !Mag Interaction of manganese with NB41A neuroblastoma adenylate cyclase.
8404Mag: !Mag DNA-polymerases in neuron and glial cells of developing and aging mouse brain.
8405Mag: !Mag Pulmonary edema associated with the use of hydrocortisone and a tocolytic agent for the management of premature labor.
8406Mag: !Mag Detection of Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent endonuclease in the nuclei of human peripheral blood lymphocytes and the inhibition of chromatin Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent endonucleolysis in chronic lympholeukemia
8407Mag: !Mag Activation of glucose isomerase by magnesium and cobalt ions
8408Mag: !Mag Chlorotetracycline fluorescence associated with plasma membranes of cockroach salivary gland cells.
8409Mag: !Mag Architecture of metaphase chromosomes and chromosome scaffolds.
8410Mag: !Mag Automated determination of crude protein, phosphorus, calcium, iron, and magnesium in feeds by using stopped-flow analyzer.
8411Mag: !Mag Turbidimetric assay of penicillin in feeds: addition of magnesium sulfate to eliminate chlortetracycline interference.
8412Mag: !Mag The effect of verapamil, a calcium antagonist, on the serum-dependent regulation of uridine uptake by cells in culture.
8413Mag: !Mag Twitch potentiation by organophosphate anticholinesterases in rat phrenic nerve diaphragm preparations.
8414Mag: !Mag Calcium oxalate urinary calculi: clinical and chemical aspects.
8415Mag: !Mag Urine composition following jejunoileal bypass.
8416Mag: !Mag Saturation kinetics of magnesium efflux across the rumen wall in heifers.
8417Mag: !Mag Interactions between bis(guanylhydrazones) and polyamines in isolated mitochondria.
8418Mag: !Mag The effect of exogenous adenosinetriphosphate on the choline-calcium stimulated release of 3H-norepinephrine in rat heart ventricle slices.
8419Mag: !Mag The influence of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol on the mineral content of foetal guinea pigs.
8420Mag: !Mag Effects of 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, 1,24,25-trihydroxyvitamin D3, and 1,25,26-trihydroxyvitamin D3 on mineral metabolism and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations in dairy cows.
8421Mag: !Mag Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of bemetizid in comparison with hydrochlorothiazide. A controlled human pharmacologic study of acute effects
8422Mag: !Mag Muscle performance, morphology and metabolic capacity during strength training and detraining: a one leg model.
8423Mag: !Mag Studies on the in vitro interaction of D-penicillamine with antacids.
8424Mag: !Mag The effect of divalent cations on Cloudman melanoma cells.
8425Mag: !Mag A ribosomal defect in dystrophic hamsters.
8426Mag: !Mag Serum and urine electrolyte behavior under therapeutic dosage of a potent magnesium and aluminum hydroxide containing antacid
8427Mag: !Mag Influence of decreased and increased magnesium supply on the cardiotoxic effects of epinephrine in rats.
8428Mag: !Mag Induced morphological changes in isolated microvilli: regulation of membrane topology in vitro by submembranous microfilaments.
8429Mag: !Mag Interaction of antacids with antiarrhythmics. V. Effect of aluminium hydroxide and magnesium oxide on the bioavailability of quinidine, procainamide and propranolol in dogs.
8430Mag: !Mag Bioavailability of zinc in coagulated soy protein (tofu) to rats and effect of dietary calcium at a constant phytate:zinc ratio.
8431Mag: !Mag Behavior of magnesium in pregnant women. I. Comparative study between normal pregnant women and those with pathology
8432Mag: !Mag The hemogram, serum biochemistry, and electrolyte profile of aged rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta).
8433Mag: !Mag Teratogenic effects of D-penicillamine in rats: relation to copper deficiency.
8434Mag: !Mag The effects of 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (APB) on the ERG and ganglion cell discharge of rabbit retina.
8435Mag: !Mag Chemoselective phosphorylation of N-unblocked nucleosides.
8436Mag: !Mag Thermal and Mg2+ dependent behavior of pseudouridines at 39th and 55th of yeast tRNAPhe.
8437Mag: !Mag Effect of experimental manganese chloride poisoning on the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) content and dopaminergic receptor D-2 of the rat brain. Preliminary report
8438Mag: !Mag Bicarbonate hemodialysis. Pharmaceutical aspects
8439Mag: !Mag Bicarbonate-containing dialysate: a critical study
8440Mag: !Mag Zinc in patients with chronic renal failure.
8441Mag: !Mag Experimental induction of crystalluria in rats using mini-osmotic pumps.
8442Mag: !Mag Myocardial intra- and extracellular calcium changes following cardioplegic cardiac arrest.
8443Mag: !Mag Acetohydroxamate in struvite stones: in vivo study.
8444Mag: !Mag Study of inhibitor and nucleator activities in calcium stone formers.
8445Mag: !Mag Dietary magnesium intake and the concentration of magnesium in plasma and erythrocytes of postpartum women.
8446Mag: !Mag Comparison of two separation techniques for the determination of blood mononuclear cell magnesium content.
8447Mag: !Mag The effect of hypomagnesemia with or without associated hypercalcemia on renal concentrating ability in rats.
8448Mag: !Mag A plasmodium protein kinase that is developmentally regulated, stimulated by spermine, and inhibited by quercetin.
8449Mag: !Mag The concentration of zinc in relation to fundamental elements in the diseased human prostate.
8450Mag: !Mag Enzymatic sulfation of glycolipids by human gastric mucosa.
8451Mag: !Mag Concentrations of lead, magnesium, calcium, zinc and cadmium in twenty rabbit tissues after exposure to low lead doses and atherogenic diet.
8452Mag: !Mag Low lead doses and atherogenic diet in rabbits: biochemical results in blood.
8453Mag: !Mag Renal function and 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 in rabbits with normal renal function and renal insufficiency.
8454Mag: !Mag Effect of thiazides on the urinary calcium oxalate stone-forming potential in normal males.
8455Mag: !Mag Methodological aspects of examination of 24 hour urinary excretions in outpatients with recurrent urolithiasis.
8456Mag: !Mag Biochemical evaluation of dietary magnesium and zinc intake in infants and children. Preliminary studies
8457Mag: !Mag Ca2+ binding to calmodulin.
8458Mag: !Mag Gastric-emptying characteristics of two glucose polymer-electrolyte solutions.
8459Mag: !Mag Restorative proctocolectomy with an ileal pouch. Functional and biochemical results
8460Mag: !Mag Release of cardiodepressants from the canine jejunum in irreversible hemorrhagic shock.
8461Mag: !Mag ATP-MgCl2 treatment prior to hypoxic-hypotension.
8462Mag: !Mag Effect of variations in fat and linoleic acid intake on the calcium, magnesium and iron balance of young men.
8463Mag: !Mag Some factors affecting the preservation of the cytoskeleton of cells in culture for scanning electron microscopy.
8464Mag: !Mag The authors' experience in treating acute paraquat poisoning
8465Mag: !Mag Interaction of alcohol and zinc in fetal dysmorphogenesis.
8466Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium and calcium on mitochondrial and cytosolic liver aldehyde dehydrogenases.
8467Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium on the membrane activity and contraction of the circular muscle of rat myometrium during late pregnancy.
8468Mag: !Mag Malacoplakia of the cervix and corpus uteri: a light microscopic, electron microscopic, and X-ray microprobe analysis of a case.
8469Mag: !Mag Effect of inversed illumination phases on circadian variations of Mg++ and K+ levels in the cingulate gyrus of the limbic system and on the locomotor activity in mice.
8470Mag: !Mag Urinary and plasma oxalate during ingestion of pure ascorbic acid: a re-evaluation.
8471Mag: !Mag Destructive effects of chlorotetracycline on DNA structure by combined fluorometry with ethidium bromide.
8472Mag: !Mag X-ray microanalysis of uremic nephrocalcinosis.
8473Mag: !Mag Use of bone mineral content determination in the evaluation of osteodystrophy among hemodialysis patients.
8474Mag: !Mag Milk and nutrient intake of breast-fed infants from 1 to 6 months: relation to growth and fatness.
8475Mag: !Mag Open safety-in-use trial of a new high-potency antacid product.
8476Mag: !Mag Nucleotide concentrations in cellular tissues during potassium and magnesium deficiency.
8477Mag: !Mag Serum HDL cholesterol in a high coronary risk population in eastern Finland.
8478Mag: !Mag Renal structural and functional changes after unilateral ureteral obstruction in rabbits.
8479Mag: !Mag Quantitative observations on the crystalline composition of urinary stones.
8480Mag: !Mag Renal function in idiopathic hydronephrosis.
8481Mag: !Mag Theoretical evaluation of the nutritive value of daily food rations in boarding schools based on the results of laboratory analysis. II. Calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, iron and potassium
8482Mag: !Mag Mouse alloantibodies capable of blocking cytotoxic T cell function. IV. Comparative analysis of the blocking effects of anti-Lyt-2 and anti-H-2 antibodies on allogeneic and PHA-mediated killing.
8483Mag: !Mag Indifference of the resting potential of frog muscle cells to external Mg++ in the face of high Mg++ permeability.
8484Mag: !Mag Ionic milieu and volume adjustments in detergent-extracted thymic nuclei.
8485Mag: !Mag Stationary characteristics of proton receptors in the somatic membrane of sensory neurons in the rat
8486Mag: !Mag Digoxin toxicity and electrolytes: a correlative study.
8487Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations on the hypersensitivity of frog photoreceptors.
8488Mag: !Mag Conformational changes of 4-carboxyglutamic acid-containing protein from bovine bone by binding of alkaline earth ions.
8489Mag: !Mag Public health/clinical significance of inorganic chemical elements.
8490Mag: !Mag Secondary ion mass spectrometry of human deciduous enamel. Distribution of Na, K, Mg, Sr, F and Cl.
8491Mag: !Mag The mineral content of human enamel studied by polarizing microscopy, microradiography and scanning electron microscopy.
8492Mag: !Mag The circadian rhythms of blood ionized calcium in humans.
8493Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium and fluoride on the fermentative dissolution of enamel by a streptococcal layer as measured by microhardness tester and a proton probe microanalysis.
8494Mag: !Mag Urinary stone analysis methods, materials and value.
8495Mag: !Mag Bovine enamel hardness and its Ca-, P-, Mg- and F-contents modified by the bacterium Streptococcus mutans, artificial dental plaque and fluoride.
8496Mag: !Mag Estrogen sulfotransferase activity in guinea pig uterus and chorion.
8497Mag: !Mag Electron microscopy of "Z-DNA".
8498Mag: !Mag Synthesis, intracellular transport and processing of mitochondrial urea cycle enzymes.
8499Mag: !Mag Depth profile analysis with glow discharge lamps.
8500Mag: !Mag On the noninvasive measurement of intracellular free magnesium by 31P NMR spectroscopy.
8501Mag: !Mag The effect of Merichlery mineral water on the contents of magnesium and manganese in the hepatic cells and blood in cases of continuous imbibition.
8502Mag: !Mag Step-like superprecipitation of actomyosin.
8503Mag: !Mag Evidence for bicarbonate-dependent magnesium reabsorption.
8504Mag: !Mag Extracellular water, electrolyte and nitrogen balance after postoperative parenteral nutrition and intracellular involvement in muscle.
8505Mag: !Mag Studies of eosinophil medusa cells by electron imaging modes.
8506Mag: !Mag Some endocrine & metabolic emergencies in infants & children.
8507Mag: !Mag A comparative study of several agents alone and combined in protection of the rodent kidney from warm ischaemia: methylprednisolone, propranolol, furosemide, mannitol, and adenosine triphosphate-magnesium chloride.
8508Mag: !Mag Demonstration of a sodium efflux stimulated by lithium in rat erythrocytes
8509Mag: !Mag Biochemical and hematological values in the blood of the nutria
8510Mag: !Mag Mineral levels of the arterial and venous blood in cows
8511Mag: !Mag Crystal formation induced by uropathogenic bacteria. An in vitro study in human urine.
8512Mag: !Mag Cerebral vasospasm. Part I. In cerebral vascular malformations.
8513Mag: !Mag Observations on clotting activity during pre-eclampsia.
8514Mag: !Mag Influence of divalent cations on rat apolipoprotein transfer to synthetic lipoproteinlike lipid emulsions in vitro.
8515Mag: !Mag Blood levels of leukocytes, glucose, urea, creatinine, calcium, inorganic phosphorus and magnesium in dairy heifers from three months of age to calving.
8516Mag: !Mag Possible mechanism of digoxin-induced convulsions.
8517Mag: !Mag Disorders of calcium and phosphorus metabolism after successful kidney transplantation.
8518Mag: !Mag Parenteral nutrition in anuria of infancy: evidence for sustained net protein synthesis.
8519Mag: !Mag Blood plasma minerals and vitamins and acid-base status of sheep raised under fluctuating or constant environment.
8520Mag: !Mag Phorbol myristate acetate-induced macrophage aggregation.
8521Mag: !Mag Stimulus-secretion coupling in isolated bovine adrenal medullary cells.
8522Mag: !Mag Elemental composition of the perivitelline fluid in early Drosophila embryos.
8523Mag: !Mag Some observations on the magnesium metabolism of the rabbit lens.
8524Mag: !Mag Carbamoylphosphate synthetase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Subunit composition, kinetic analysis and regulation.
8525Mag: !Mag Isolation, purification, and partial characterization of Brucella abortus matrix protein.
8526Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and diuretics.
8527Mag: !Mag Dielectric characterization of forespores isolated from Bacillus megaterium ATCC 19213.
8528Mag: !Mag Thrombin and ionophore A23187-induced dense granule secretion in storage pool deficient platelets: evidence for impaired nucleotide storage as the primary dense granule defect.
8529Mag: !Mag The role of trace elements in juvenile diabetes mellitus.
8530Mag: !Mag Biochemical basis of the regulatory role of polyadenosine diphosphoribose.
8531Mag: !Mag A study on the mutagenic effect of some Bulgarian drugs using the Salmonella/microsome test.
8532Mag: !Mag Characteristics of water-electrolyte metabolism in the neonatal period
8533Mag: !Mag Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase
8534Mag: !Mag NMR and electrophysiological studies of insulin action on cation regulation and endocytosis in the amphibian oocyte: possible role of membrane recycling in the meiotic divisions.
8535Mag: !Mag A controlled clinical trial with De-Nol (tripotassium dicitrato bismuthate) in patients with gastric ulcer.
8536Mag: !Mag Dialysis encephalopathy: a review.
8537Mag: !Mag Necessity for De Novo DNA synthesis for reversion of Escherichia coli spheroplasts to bacillary forms.
8538Mag: !Mag Binding of RecA protein to single-stranded nucleic acids: spectroscopic studies using fluorescent polynucleotides.
8539Mag: !Mag Left-handed Z-DNA regions are present in negatively supercoiled bacteriophage PM2 DNA.
8540Mag: !Mag The composition of animal cells: solutes contributing to osmotic pressure and charge balance.
8541Mag: !Mag Efficacy and safety of a non-acetylated salicylate, choline magnesium trisalicylate, in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
8542Mag: !Mag Megamodulin, a cation binding protein from Escherichia coli and its effect on bacterial RNA polymerase.
8543Mag: !Mag The renin system for long-term control over vasoconstriction and sodium-volume homeostasis in the spectrum of hypertension: three new frontiers in research.
8544Mag: !Mag Physiological responses to nutrient limitation.
8545Mag: !Mag Plasma protein interactions at biological interfaces.
8546Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of a tRNA(guanine-7-)-methyltransferase from Salmonella typhimurium.
8547Mag: !Mag Stimulatory protein kinase modulator, the cation-binding protein and megamodulin. 3. Isolation from baker's yeast.
8548Mag: !Mag An improved method for determination of cations in micro-sample volumes of gingival crevicular fluid in the dog.
8549Mag: !Mag Intracellular measurements of ion activities.
8550Mag: !Mag Whole organ metabolism studied by NMR.
8551Mag: !Mag Dynamics of tRNA.
8552Mag: !Mag Correlation between causes and composition of urinary stones.
8553Mag: !Mag Renal magnesium transport.
8554Mag: !Mag Percutaneous dissolution of renal calculi.
8555Mag: !Mag Ion binding to calmodulin. A comparison with other intracellular calcium-binding proteins.
8556Mag: !Mag Selective inhibition of transcription of the E. coli tufB operon by guanosine-5'-diphosphate-3'-diphosphate.
8557Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency.
8558Mag: !Mag An improved method for the preparation of mycobacterial spheroplasts and the mechanism involved in the reversion to bacillary form: electron microscopic and physiological study.
8559Mag: !Mag Limitations of a fluorescence assay for studies on tetracycline transport into Escherichia coli.
8560Mag: !Mag Calcium regulation of glycoproteins IIb and IIIa in human platelet membranes.
8561Mag: !Mag Location of RNase activity in nuclear residual structures.
8562Mag: !Mag The role of dephosphorylation by the ATP,Mg-dependent protein phosphatase in mammalian glycogen metabolism.
8563Mag: !Mag The barnacle muscle fibre as a model system for the investigation of the ouabain-insensitive sodium efflux and hormonal actions.
8564Mag: !Mag Vasopressin: mechanisms of receptor activation.
8565Mag: !Mag Alpha2-adrenergic receptor in bovine median eminence: influence of GTP and Mg++.
8566Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary magnesium on the development of hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rat.
8567Mag: !Mag Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent endonuclease and ADP-ribosylation.
8568Mag: !Mag Siliceous deposits in human urinary calculi--an E. M. study.
8569Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium on erythrocytic electrolytes in digitalis toxicity.
8570Mag: !Mag Use of NMR and EPR to study cAMP-dependent protein kinase.
8571Mag: !Mag Origins of the different sensitivities of (Na+ + K+)-dependent adenosinetriphosphatase preparations to ouabain.
8572Mag: !Mag GABA and lioresal actions on the identified Onchidium neuron.
8573Mag: !Mag Specific 3,3',5'-triiodothyronine (reverse T3) binding sites on rat liver plasma membranes: comparison with thyroxine (T4) binding sites.
8574Mag: !Mag Changes in the suppressive activity of splenic lymphocytes of mice induced in vitro by sodium periodate during magnesium deficiency
8575Mag: !Mag Familial benign hypercalcaemia. Study of a large family.
8576Mag: !Mag Electron microscopy studies of DNA complexes with restriction endonuclease SalGI
8577Mag: !Mag Short-term effect of thiazides on magnesium and calcium metabolism and secondarily on that of phosphorus, uric acid, oxalate and cyclic AMP
8578Mag: !Mag Aspartate kinase and homoserine dehydrogenase of Candida utilis.
8579Mag: !Mag Alterations in electron transport and cellular metabolism with shock and trauma.
8580Mag: !Mag On the relation between rapid light-induced Ca2+ release and proton uptake in rod outer segment disk membranes.
8581Mag: !Mag Presynaptic effect of Erythrosin B at the frog neuromuscular junction: ion and photon sensitivity.
8582Mag: !Mag The transforming gene of avian myeloblastosis virus (AMV): nucleotide sequence analysis and identification of its translational product.
8583Mag: !Mag Studies on slow cardiac action potentials occurring in potassium-rich media as a simulation of the early phase of myocardial infarction. Influence of potassium-conductance blockers and antiarrhythmic drugs.
8584Mag: !Mag Inhibition of vitamin D3-induced vascular calcification by carbocromen.
8585Mag: !Mag Interaction between calcium ions and surface charge as it relates to calcium currents.
8586Mag: !Mag Standardization of the assay for the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase using a synthetic peptide substrate.
8587Mag: !Mag Radiometric assay for thiamine pyrophosphokinase activity in human leukocytes.
8588Mag: !Mag In vitro studies of the effect of sodium and potassium ions on magnesium transport across the isolated rumen mucosa of sheep
8589Mag: !Mag Sea nettle (Chrysaora quinquecirrha) nematocyst venom: mechanism of action on muscle.
8590Mag: !Mag Resistance of the slow potential and inhibition of afferent input of the frog olfactory bulb to hypoxia and blockade of synaptic transmission by manganese, cobalt and magnesium ions
8591Mag: !Mag Characteristics of plasmalemma alkaline phosphatase of rat mesenteric artery.
8592Mag: !Mag Effect of pH and different substrates on the electrokinetic properties of (Na+, K+)-ATPase vesicles.
8593Mag: !Mag Post-tetanic potentiation of acetylcholine release at the frog neuromuscular junction develops after stimulation in Ca2+-free solutions.
8594Mag: !Mag 31P NMR study of erythrocytes from a patient with hereditary pyrimidine-5'-nucleotidase deficiency.
8595Mag: !Mag Disaggregation and reconstitution of oligomeric complexes of simian virus 40 large T-antigen.
8596Mag: !Mag RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity in murine coronavirus-infected cells.
8597Mag: !Mag Activation and inactivation of methanol: 2-mercaptoethanesulfonic acid methyltransferase from Methanosarcina barkeri.
8598Mag: !Mag Fatty acid-dependent benzo(a)pyrene oxidation in colonic mucosal microsomes: evidence for a distinct metabolic pathway.
8599Mag: !Mag Regulatory chains of skeletal muscle myosin
8600Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium deficiency and dietary overload in the male rat: magnesium levels in the various compartments of the reproductive system
8601Mag: !Mag Ca2+-dependent phosphatase and ATPase activities in eel gill plasma membranes--I. Identification of Ca2+-activated ATPase activities with non-specific phosphatase activities.
8602Mag: !Mag Seasonal occurrence of the tetanic syndrome.
8603Mag: !Mag Importance of magnesium for tooth development in Wistar rats
8604Mag: !Mag Temperature behavior of the gingiva after the administration magnesium compositum studied by intraoral liquid-crystal thermography
8605Mag: !Mag Maternal and fetal liver enzymes of mid-to-term pregnant rats chronically treated with magnesium sulphate.
8606Mag: !Mag Properties of the ATP-dependent Ca2+ transport system in the plasma membrane fraction of the myometrium cells
8607Mag: !Mag Isolation of a new retrovirus in a patient at risk for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
8608Mag: !Mag Hamster endogenous retrovirus (HaER)--distinct properties of structural proteins and DNA polymerase.
8609Mag: !Mag Experimental reproduction of lactic acidosis in the pony
8610Mag: !Mag Factors influencing human leukocyte adherence in vivo.
8611Mag: !Mag Brain serotonin and 5 hydroxyindolacetic acid and blood magnesium cation levels after cortical spreading depression.
8612Mag: !Mag Effect of spermine, ethylenediamine tetraacetate, urea, and high salt on the activity of ribonuclease SPL on Mg2+- containing undenatured total E. coli and rat liver RNAs.
8613Mag: !Mag Histochemical properties of cartilage proteoglycans.
8614Mag: !Mag A new assay and cellular localization for an inducible glucuronyltransferase in the embryonic chick liver.
8615Mag: !Mag The modulation of neurotransmitter release at synaptic junctions.
8616Mag: !Mag Organic cerebral reactions in alcoholism: psychobiological aspects of treatment.
8617Mag: !Mag Soft tissue potassium, magnesium, sodium and ash contents throughout the life span of highly inbred rats.
8618Mag: !Mag Effects of antiulcer agents on healing of mepirizole-induced duodenal ulcers in rats.
8619Mag: !Mag Pharmacotherapy of preterm labor.
8620Mag: !Mag Concerning the stimulation by injected cyclic AMP of the sodium efflux in barnacle muscle fibres and its transient nature.
8621Mag: !Mag The alpha 2-adrenergic receptor: multiple affinity states and regulation of a receptor inversely coupled to adenylate cyclase.
8622Mag: !Mag Calcitonin and insulin secretion in normal man: study with somatostatin and calcium.
8623Mag: !Mag Agonist binding to mammalian beta 1 and beta 2 adrenoceptors: modulation by guanine nucleotides and magnesium.
8624Mag: !Mag The effect of DDT and related insecticides on the mitochondrial ATPase of houseflies.
8625Mag: !Mag Cytochemical demonstration of guanylate cyclase activity in cardiac muscle. Preferential localization at sarcolemma and junctional sarcoplasmic reticulum.
8626Mag: !Mag Effects of acetylcholine and cholinolytics on the synaptic transmission in the ampullae of Lorenzini of the skate.
8627Mag: !Mag Increased sensitivity to injected 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate of the sodium efflux in barnacle muscle fibres preexposed to aldosterone.
8628Mag: !Mag Comparative studies of sheep liver and lung microsomal aniline 4-hydroxylase.
8629Mag: !Mag Cation and ATP content of ferret red cells.
8630Mag: !Mag Regional release of 3Hdopamine from rat brain in vitro: effects of opioids on release induced by potassium, nicotine, and L-glutamic acid.
8631Mag: !Mag Hibernation-hypothermia and metabolism in hedgehogs. Changes in water and electrolytes.
8632Mag: !Mag Structural changes during transmitter release at synapses in the frog sympathetic ganglion.
8633Mag: !Mag Mechanism of Ca2+ transport by Ca2+-Mg2+-ATPase pump: analysis of major states and pathways.
8634Mag: !Mag Characteristics of N-acetylglucosamine kinase isolated from various animal tissues.
8635Mag: !Mag Separation of the catalytic and stimulatory regulatory subunits of rat brain adenylate cyclase.
8636Mag: !Mag Factors that modify the molecular size of phospholamban, the 23,000-dalton cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum phosphoprotein.
8637Mag: !Mag Comparison of the actin binding and filament formation properties of phosphorylated and dephosphorylated Acanthamoeba myosin II.
8638Mag: !Mag Membrane-associated purine metabolizing enzyme activities of human peripheral blood cells.
8639Mag: !Mag A possible mechanism for the Ca-ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
8640Mag: !Mag Effects of norepinephrine and serotonin upon spontaneous activity and responses to mossy fiber stimulation of CA3 neurons in hippocampal slices.
8641Mag: !Mag Exercise-induced alterations of hepatic mitochondrial function.
8642Mag: !Mag Inhibition of the bioenergetic functions of isolated rat liver mitochondria by polyamines.
8643Mag: !Mag DNA polymerases alpha and gamma during pre-emergence and early larval development of Artemia.
8644Mag: !Mag Preliminary report on the treatment of severe preeclampsia-eclampsia with magnesium sulfate and volume expanders.
8645Mag: !Mag Effects of thrombin, acetyl salicylic acid and prostaglandins on spontaneous efflux of norepinephrine and beta-thromboglobulin from platelets in calcium/magnesium deficient environment.
8646Mag: !Mag Choline magnesium trisalicylate--a new formulation of salicylate.
8647Mag: !Mag Isolation of rabbit liver branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase and regulation by phosphorylation.
8648Mag: !Mag Separation and characterization of factors mediating accurate transcription by RNA polymerase II.
8649Mag: !Mag Human factor XIII--metal ion interactions. A luminescence and nuclear magnetic resonance study.
8650Mag: !Mag Protein phosphorylation/dephosphorylation and stimulus-secretion coupling in wild type and mutant Paramecium.
8651Mag: !Mag Photoaffinity labeling of the beta subunit of phosphorylase kinase by 8-azidoadenosine 5'-triphosphate and its 2',3'-dialdehyde derivative.
8652Mag: !Mag Modulation of sodium-sensitive GTPase by partial opiate agonists. An explanation for the dual requirement for Na+ and GTP in inhibitory regulation of adenylate cyclase.
8653Mag: !Mag Daily plans for dietary treatment of essential hypercholesterolemia
8654Mag: !Mag Purification and characteristics of a mitochondrial endonuclease from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
8655Mag: !Mag Interaction of fatty acids with the calcium-magnesium ion dependent adenosinetriphosphatase from sarcoplasmic reticulum.
8656Mag: !Mag Glutamine synthetase from ovine brain is a manganese(II) enzyme.
8657Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent liberation of gamma-hydroxybutyrate after depolarization of rat brain slices
8658Mag: !Mag Divalent ion-dependent reversible swelling of tomato bushy stunt virus and organization of the expanded virion.
8659Mag: !Mag Intracellular electrolytes and serum lipids in relation to dietary fatty acid intake
8660Mag: !Mag Synchronized bursting of CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells in the absence of synaptic transmission.
8661Mag: !Mag Characterization of the excitatory amino acid receptor-mediated release of 3Hacetylcholine from rat striatal slices.
8662Mag: !Mag Localization of the Proton Pump of Corn Coleoptile Microsomal Membranes by Density Gradient Centrifugation.
8663Mag: !Mag Exopolysaccharide Distribution of and Bioemulsifier Production by Acinetobacter calcoaceticus BD4 and BD413.
8664Mag: !Mag Studies On Intestinal Trematodes In Korea: V. A Human Case Infected By Fibricola Seoulensis (Trematoda: Diplostomatidae).
8665Mag: !Mag A study on the function of some subcellular systems of the sheep myocardium during gousiekte. II. The contractile protein system.
8666Mag: !Mag Effect of temperature acclimatisation of cockroaches on the binding of Ca2+ & Mg2+ to the coxal muscle mitochondria as visualised by fluorescent probe chlorotetracycline.
8667Mag: !Mag Parvalbumins and muscle relaxation: a computer simulation study.
8668Mag: !Mag Studies on the active ingredient of Curcuma aromatica Salisb and its effects
8669Mag: !Mag Visualization of the spread of electrical activity in rat hippocampal slices by voltage-sensitive optical probes.
8670Mag: !Mag Carbohydrate content of lipoproteins after sequential precipitation with phosphotungstate magnesium chloride
8671Mag: !Mag The technic of infrared spectroscopy analysis of urinary calculi
8672Mag: !Mag Magnesium-losing nephropathy due to gentamicin
8673Mag: !Mag Progesterone and glucose metabolism in the female rat adipocyte: effect on hexokinase activity.
8674Mag: !Mag Mg2+-sensitive alterations in Ca2+ regulation associated with cell transformation.
8675Mag: !Mag Plasma electrolyte concentrations in women and the effects of oestrogen administration.
8676Mag: !Mag Tetrapyrrole utilization of Bacteroides fragilis.
8677Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in chronic alcoholic patients uncovered by an intravenous loading test.
8678Mag: !Mag Plasma parathyroid hormone and divalent cation response to induction of acute metabolic acidosis.
8679Mag: !Mag Zn2+, Mg2+, and H+ binding to D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate studied by 31P and 1H NMR.
8680Mag: !Mag Effect of a combined use of Young's solution for cardioplegia in intermittent hypothermic coronary perfusion
8681Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of plasma membranes containing LH sensitive adenylate cyclase from a Leydig cell tumour.
8682Mag: !Mag Study of serum calcium, phosphorus and magnesium levels in newborns.
8683Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and cardiac arrhythmias.
8684Mag: !Mag Structure and polymerization of Acanthamoeba myosin-II filaments.
8685Mag: !Mag Sweat composition in exercise and in heat.
8686Mag: !Mag Effect of exogenous nucleotides on Ca2+ dependence and V antigen synthesis in Yersinia pestis.
8687Mag: !Mag Withdrawal of magnesium enhances coronary arterial spasms produced by vasoactive agents.
8688Mag: !Mag Effect of potassium depolarization and preganglionic nerve stimulation on the metabolism of 3H-choline in rat isolated sympathetic ganglia.
8689Mag: !Mag Potassium activation of 3H-choline accumulation by isolated sympathetic ganglia of the rat.
8690Mag: !Mag Micropuncture of superficial nephrons in avian (Sturnus vulgaris) kidney.
8691Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a Ca2+- and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase from rat brain.
8692Mag: !Mag Anatomically-related variations in trace-metal concentrations in hair.
8693Mag: !Mag Hypocitraturia in calcium nephrolithiasis.
8694Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium binding to thin and thick filaments in skinned muscle fibres: electron probe analysis.
8695Mag: !Mag A case of stomatitis venenata
8696Mag: !Mag What does hair analysis show us? Application of hair analysis in the dental field
8697Mag: !Mag Internal dialysis of Limulus ventral photoreceptors.
8698Mag: !Mag Evidence for cross-bridge attachment in relaxed muscle at low ionic strength.
8699Mag: !Mag C3 convertase of human complement: enhanced formation and stability of the enzyme generated with nickel instead of magnesium.
8700Mag: !Mag Enzymatic formation of nerolidol in cell-free extract of Rhodotorula glutinis.
8701Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium and magnesium on the aggregation and the release reaction produced by thrombin and calcium ionophores in rabbit washed platelets.
8702Mag: !Mag Relaxing and metabolic inhibitory action of X537A (Lasalocid) on the taenia of the guinea-pig caecum.
8703Mag: !Mag Free magnesium in sheep, ferret and frog striated muscle at rest measured with ion-selective micro-electrodes.
8704Mag: !Mag Parathyroid function in persistent hyperparathyroidism: relationship to gland size.
8705Mag: !Mag Infantile malnutrition in the tropics.
8706Mag: !Mag Angiotensin II binding sites on isolated rat renal brush border membranes.
8707Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesia investments in the dental casting of pure titanium or titanium alloys.
8708Mag: !Mag A report on the safety of an intravenous compound calcium solution and the levels of plasma total and ionized calcium following injection.
8709Mag: !Mag Isolation and kinetic properties of pyruvate kinase activated by fructose-1,6-biphosphate from Salmonella typhimurium LT-2.I.
8710Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in children
8711Mag: !Mag Metal ion artifact in cold trichloroacetic acid precipitation assays.
8712Mag: !Mag Successful 24-hour preservation of the ischemic canine kidney with Euro-Collins solution.
8713Mag: !Mag Involvement of spectrin and ATP in infection of resealed erythrocyte ghosts by the human malarial parasite, Plasmodium falciparum.
8714Mag: !Mag Treatment of chronic portal--systemic encephalopathy with vegetable and animal protein diets. A controlled crossover study.
8715Mag: !Mag Eclampsia.
8716Mag: !Mag Patterns of proteoglycan degradation by a neutral protease from human growth-plate epiphyseal cartilage.
8717Mag: !Mag The effect of temperature on the in vitro transcriptase reaction of bluetongue virus, epizootic haemorrhagic disease virus and African horsesickness virus.
8718Mag: !Mag Hysteretic behavior of rat liver fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase induced by zinc ions.
8719Mag: !Mag Phosphatidate phosphatase activity in the blood fluke, Schistosoma mansoni.
8720Mag: !Mag Flow-correlated influx of K, Ca, P, and Mg during continuous microperfusion of the loop of Henle in the rat.
8721Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial oscillation and activation of H+/cation exchange.
8722Mag: !Mag Participation of calcium in the induction of phosphodiesterase by cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate in Dictyostelium discoideum.
8723Mag: !Mag Functional reconstitution of beta-adrenergic receptors and the stimulatory GTP-binding protein of adenylate cyclase.
8724Mag: !Mag Cyclic AMP dependent protein kinase in human placenta.
8725Mag: !Mag Gastric cytoprotection by antacids and papaverine in rats.
8726Mag: !Mag Sodium pump-mediated ATP:ADP exchange. The sided effects of sodium and potassium ions.
8727Mag: !Mag Pre- and postjunctional blocking effects of aminoglycoside, polymyxin, tetracycline and lincosamide antibiotics.
8728Mag: !Mag Biological maturation and beta-adrenergic effectors: pre- and postnatal development of the adenylate cyclase system in the rabbit heart.
8729Mag: !Mag Increased Ca++, Mg++, and Na+ + K+ ATPase activities in erythrocytes of sickle cell anemia.
8730Mag: !Mag Nickel toxicity to fungi: influence of environmental factors.
8731Mag: !Mag Stimulation of tubulin-dependent ATPase activity in microtubule proteins from porcine brain by vinblas tine.
8732Mag: !Mag Interaction between polyamines and nucleic acids or phospholipids.
8733Mag: !Mag Ca2+-Mg2+-ATPase activity in brain coated microvesicles purified on immunosorbents.
8734Mag: !Mag Twice-a-day dosage of cimetidine in the short-term treatment of peptic ulcer.
8735Mag: !Mag Treatment of jejunal peptic ulcer with cimetidine or an antacid? Results of a long-term study
8736Mag: !Mag Ornithine transcarbamylase in liver mitochondria.
8737Mag: !Mag Solubilization and Characterization of Histamine H1 receptors in brain.
8738Mag: !Mag Guanylate cyclase from bovine lung. A kinetic analysis of the regulation of the purified soluble enzyme by protoporphyrin IX, heme, and nitrosyl-heme.
8739Mag: !Mag Transbilayer redistribution of phosphatidylethanolamine during fusion of phospholipid vesicles. Dependence on fusion rate, lipid phase separation, and formation of nonbilayer structures.
8740Mag: !Mag Nuclear overhauser effect study of yeast aspartate transfer ribonucleic acid.
8741Mag: !Mag Activation of magnesium ion specific adenosinetriphosphatase in chloroplast coupling factor 1 by octyl glucoside.
8742Mag: !Mag Possible role of non-bilayer lipids in the structure of mitochondria. A freeze-fracture electron microscopy study.
8743Mag: !Mag Calcium-dependent adenylate cyclase of pituitary tumor cells.
8744Mag: !Mag Evidence of an abnormal stearoyl-CoA hydrolysis in a membrane pellet from trembler sciatic nerves.
8745Mag: !Mag Electrotonic depolarization of nerve terminals causes a normorphine-resistant release of transmitter.
8746Mag: !Mag Kinetic anticooperativity in pre-steady-state formation of tryptophanyl adenylate by tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase from beef pancreas. A consequence of the tryptophan anticooperative binding.
8747Mag: !Mag The use of N-methylprotoporphyrin dimethyl ester to inhibit ferrochelatase in Rhodopseudomonas sphaeroides and its effect in promoting biosynthesis of magnesium tetrapyrroles.
8748Mag: !Mag Increase of fidelity of polypeptide synthesis by spermidine in eukaryotic cell-free systems.
8749Mag: !Mag Binding and exchange of nucleotides on the chloroplast coupling factor CF1. The role of magnesium.
8750Mag: !Mag Isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase from Escherichia coli MRE 600. Different pathways of the aminoacylation reaction depending on presence of pyrophosphatase, order of substrate addition in the pyrophosphate exchange, and substrate specificity with regard to ATP analogs.
8751Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency and diuretics.
8752Mag: !Mag Non-competitive interaction between normorphine and calcium on the release of noradrenaline.
8753Mag: !Mag Action potential repolarization may involve a transient, Ca2+-sensitive outward current in a vertebrate neurone.
8754Mag: !Mag Effect of ebrantil, a new antihypertensive agent, on lipid metabolism and electrolyte balance
8755Mag: !Mag Nuclear magnetic resonance studies on yeast tRNAPhe I. Assignment of the iminoproton resonances of the acceptor and D stem by means of Nuclear Overhauser Effect experiments at 500 MHz.
8756Mag: !Mag Drosophila topoisomerase I: isolation, purification and characterization.
8757Mag: !Mag Specific inhibition of glucokinase by long chain acyl coenzymes A below the critical micelle concentration.
8758Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of bull seminal plasma Ca2+,Mg2+-dependent endonuclease.
8759Mag: !Mag On the relative roles of Ca2+ and Mg2+ in regulating the endogenous K+/H+ exchanger of rat liver mitochondria.
8760Mag: !Mag Chemical modification of spinach plastocyanin: separation and characterization of four different forms.
8761Mag: !Mag Phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance studies of the two phosphoserine residues of hen egg white ovalbumin.
8762Mag: !Mag Adenosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate dependent protein kinase: kinetic mechanism for the bovine skeletal muscle catalytic subunit.
8763Mag: !Mag High-resolution phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of transfer ribonucleic acids: multiple conformations in the anticodon loop.
8764Mag: !Mag Studies on ouabain-complexed (Na+ +K+)-ATPase carried out with vanadate.
8765Mag: !Mag Some Properties of the Chloroplast Envelope as Revealed by Electrophoretic Mobility Studies of Intact Chloroplasts.
8766Mag: !Mag Fatty liver in dairy cows.
8767Mag: !Mag Untractable fecalith's and hypercalcemia, both associated with Fuller's earth therapy in fatal case of paraquat poisoning.
8768Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia during extracorporeal circulation
8769Mag: !Mag Observation on myocardial ultrastructure in myocardial protection with cold potassium-magnesium-energy cardioplegic solution
8770Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations on the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin and fibrin polymerization.
8771Mag: !Mag New Li+-selective ionophores with the potential ability to mediate Li+-transport in vivo. Ionic selectivity and relative potencies, studied in model membranes.
8772Mag: !Mag Urolithiasis in rats with diabetes insipidus (Brattleboro strain rats).
8773Mag: !Mag Cs+ loading reveals Na+-dependent persistent inward current and negative slope resistance region in Aplysia giant neurons.
8774Mag: !Mag Lens epithelial cell adhesion to lens capsule: a model system for cell-basement membrane interaction.
8775Mag: !Mag Effects of cations on taurine, hypotaurine, and GABA uptake in mouse brain slices.
8776Mag: !Mag Light-induced changes of the millisecond afterglow of the pea chloroplasts
8777Mag: !Mag Electrophysiologic effects of magnesium chloride on the Purkinje fibers of the dog
8778Mag: !Mag Aphosphorosis in North Yemen cattle.
8779Mag: !Mag Altered sensorium in neurological infections and the homeostasis of Mg, Zn, Cu and Ca.
8780Mag: !Mag Selective effects of an essential sulfhydryl group on the activation of dopamine- and guanine nucleotide-sensitive adenylate cyclase.
8781Mag: !Mag Recurrent urolithiasis--analysis of its etiology and treatment
8782Mag: !Mag Eclampsia in the first half of pregnancy. A report of three cases and review of the literature.
8783Mag: !Mag The changes in heat capacity and entropy of troponin C induced by calcium binding.
8784Mag: !Mag Sea urchin fertilization envelope: uncoupling of cortical granule exocytosis from envelope assembly and isolation of an envelope intermediate from Strongylocentrotus purpuratus embryos.
8785Mag: !Mag Characteristics of the action of different doses of panangin and isoptin on the collateral blood supply to the heart in coronarogenic myocardial lesion
8786Mag: !Mag Analysis of the salts of cartilage proteoglycan aggregates
8787Mag: !Mag Posttranslationally modified ornithine decarboxylase may regulate RNA polymerase I activity.
8788Mag: !Mag Evaluation of antacid suspensions containing aluminum hydroxide and magnesium hydroxide.
8789Mag: !Mag Red cell lithium-sodium countertransport and sodium-potassium cotransport in patients with essential hypertension.
8790Mag: !Mag 113Cd NMR of Cd(II)-substituted Zn(II) metalloenzymes.
8791Mag: !Mag Hazardous practices currently recommended in intestinal analysis.
8792Mag: !Mag Effect of synaptic blockade on thermosensitive neurons in hypothalamic tissue slices.
8793Mag: !Mag Effect of differing concentrations of parathyroid hormone on rat renal electrolyte excretion.
8794Mag: !Mag ECG changes in early stage of magnesium deficiency.
8795Mag: !Mag Bone matrix and mineral abnormalities in postmenopausal osteoporosis.
8796Mag: !Mag Experimental evaluation of magnesium cardioplegia.
8797Mag: !Mag Composition of native american fruits in the Pacific Northwest.
8798Mag: !Mag Urinary stones in subjects with a permanent ileostomy.
8799Mag: !Mag Interactions between fresh human blood monocytes and tumor targets at the single cell level: binding and morphological characteristics.
8800Mag: !Mag Pathophysiology and therapy of magnesium deficiency in pregnancy
8801Mag: !Mag Magnesium aspartate as a cardioprotective agent and adjuvant in tocolysis with betamimetics. Animal experiments on the kinetics and calcium antagonist action of orally administered magnesium aspartate with special reference to simultaneous vitamin B administration
8802Mag: !Mag Influence of modified protein diets on electrolyte, acid base, and divalent ion balance in dogs with experimentally induced chronic renal failure.
8803Mag: !Mag Genetic regulation of plasma and red blood cell magnesium concentrations in man. I. Univariate and bivariate path analyses.
8804Mag: !Mag Effects of calcium and magnesium on in vitro fertilization in human
8805Mag: !Mag Serum zinc, copper and magnesium levels in normal Chinese adults
8806Mag: !Mag Effect of calcium, magnesium, and zinc on ticarcillin and tobramycin alone and in combination against Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
8807Mag: !Mag Lithium effects on calcium, magnesium and phosphate in man: effects on balance, bone mineral content, faecal and urinary excretion.
8808Mag: !Mag Copper, zinc and magnesium plasma levels in epilepsy.
8809Mag: !Mag Purification and Mn2+ activation of Rhodospirillum rubrum nitrogenase activating enzyme.
8810Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesemic periodic paralysis: treatment with digitalis and lithium carbonate.
8811Mag: !Mag A comparative study of the chemical analysis of ribs and femurs in Woodland populations.
8812Mag: !Mag Increased permeability of the intracellular membranes in the dehydration and rehydration of Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeasts
8813Mag: !Mag Divalent cation transport in isolated tubules.
8814Mag: !Mag Heterogeneity in enzymatic sites of heavy meromyosin shown by measuring F-actin-inactivated hydrolysis of beta-naphthyl triphosphate.
8815Mag: !Mag Antacid aspiration.
8816Mag: !Mag Thick ascending limb of Henle's loop.
8817Mag: !Mag Mechanisms involved in irreversible anoxic damage to the in vitro rat hippocampal slice.
8818Mag: !Mag Polyphosphoinositide synthesis in rabbit erythrocyte membranes.
8819Mag: !Mag Effects of temperature and salinity on Vibrio cholerae growth.
8820Mag: !Mag Calcium-activated potassium conductance noise in snail neurons.
8821Mag: !Mag 1H-NMR studies on nucleotide binding to the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase. Determination of the conformations of bound nucleotides by the measurement of proton-proton transferred nuclear Overhauser enhancements.
8822Mag: !Mag Effect of pyridines on phenotypic properties of Bordetella pertussis.
8823Mag: !Mag Characterization of an adenosine 5'-triphosphate- and deoxyadenosine 5'-triphosphate-activated nucleotidase from human malignant lymphocytes.
8824Mag: !Mag Acetylcholine release from isolated synaptic vesicles related to ionic permeability changes: continuous detection with a chemiluminescent method.
8825Mag: !Mag Angiotensin II receptors in human isolated renal glomeruli.
8826Mag: !Mag Effects of insecticides on the metal-activated hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate by bluegill liver mitochondria.
8827Mag: !Mag Enzymic synthesis of 1-O-indol-3-ylacetyl-beta-D-glucose and indol-3-ylacetyl-myo-inositol.
8828Mag: !Mag Comparative study of the mechanism of action of biologically active substances on the membrane-bound mitochondrial monoamine oxidase and Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent ATPase of the sarcoplasmic reticulum
8829Mag: !Mag Effect of hypomineralized mineral water containing organic substances on the sympathetic-adrenal system in toxic hepatitis (experimental study)
8830Mag: !Mag Human liver plasma membrane Ca-ATPase: identification and sensitivity to calcium antagonists.
8831Mag: !Mag Functional heterogeneity of chromatin fractions isolated by limited hydrolysis of endogenous Ca 2+, Mg 2+ -dependent endonuclease of rat liver nuclei
8832Mag: !Mag HDL cholesterol quantitation by phosphotungstate-Mg2+ and by dextran sulfate-Mn2+-polyethylene glycol precipitation, both with enzymic cholesterol assay compared with the lipid research method.
8833Mag: !Mag Substrate interactions with brain (Ca + Mg)-ATPase.
8834Mag: !Mag Cytosolic 3-hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme a synthase in rat brain: properties and developmental change.
8835Mag: !Mag Pharmacological properties of triton X-100 and deoxycholate and their interaction with snake toxins.
8836Mag: !Mag Myoneural actions of Org NC 45.
8837Mag: !Mag Inhibition of Ca2+ stimulated ion losses from mitochondria by inhibitors of calmodulin.
8838Mag: !Mag Fibrosomes: "liposome-like" vesicle formation by fibronectin.
8839Mag: !Mag A differentiation-dependent polyisoprenol kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum.
8840Mag: !Mag Effect of polyamines and cations on the in vitro methylation of histones.
8841Mag: !Mag Localization of neutral magnesium-stimulated sphingomyelinase in plasma membrane of cultured neuroblastoma cells.
8842Mag: !Mag Aggregation equilibria of Escherichia coli RNA polymerase: evidence for anion-linked conformational transitions in the protomers of core and holoenzyme.
8843Mag: !Mag Binding of 5,5'-bis8-(phenylamino)-1-naphthalenesulfonate by the regulatory subunits of adenosine cyclic 3',5'-phosphate dependent protein kinase.
8844Mag: !Mag Metal ion binding to alpha-lactalbumin species.
8845Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of human lymphoid poly(adenosine diphosphate ribose) polymerase.
8846Mag: !Mag Protein kinases from spinach chloroplasts. II. Protein substrate specificity and kinetic properties.
8847Mag: !Mag The subunit structure and function of the propionyl coenzyme A carboxylase of Mycobacterium smegmatis.
8848Mag: !Mag Influence of the activation state on the sedimentation properties of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase from Alcaligenes eutrophus.
8849Mag: !Mag S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase of Escherichia coli. Studies on the covalently linked pyruvate required for activity.
8850Mag: !Mag Copies of protein S6 in Escherichia coli ribosomes.
8851Mag: !Mag Diuretic-associated hypomagnesaemia.
8852Mag: !Mag Effect of antacids on mineral metabolism in persons with healthy kidneys. Double-blind study using an antacid containing magnesium aluminum silicate hydrate
8853Mag: !Mag Studies of the nucleotide-binding sites on the mitochondrial F1-ATPase through the use of a photoactivable derivative of adenylyl imidodiphosphate.
8854Mag: !Mag The regulatory role of Mg2+ on rabbit skeletal muscle phosphorylase kinase.
8855Mag: !Mag Studies on the binding of nucleotides by rat brain hexokinase.
8856Mag: !Mag Kinetic differences between two interconvertible forms of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
8857Mag: !Mag Apparent equilibrium constant of the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase-catalyzed IMP-GMP exchange.
8858Mag: !Mag Anthranilate synthase of Neurospora crassa: reaction and labeling with glutamine analogs.
8859Mag: !Mag Fluorescence detection of increased local flexibility induced by coenzyme A in succinyl-coA synthetase from Escherichia coli.
8860Mag: !Mag Tryptic fragments of calmodulin. Ca2+- and Mg2+-induced conformational changes.
8861Mag: !Mag Follitropin binding to receptors in testis. Modulation by monovalent salts and divalent cations.
8862Mag: !Mag The reactivity of Mg-substituted horseradish peroxidases.
8863Mag: !Mag The guanine nucleotide activating site of the regulatory component of adenylate cyclase. Identification by ligand binding.
8864Mag: !Mag Hyperexcitable states of the motor unit.
8865Mag: !Mag High dose of antacid (Mylanta II) reduces bioavailability of ranitidine.
8866Mag: !Mag Synergistic Action of Potassium Chloride and Magnesium Sulfate on Parasitoid Wasp Oviposition.
8867Mag: !Mag Orthopyroxene Exsolution in Augite: A Two-Step, Diffusion-Transformation Process.
8868Mag: !Mag A study on the exchange rate of magnesium with ATP.
8869Mag: !Mag Kinetic characterization and substrate requirement for the Ca2+ uptake system in platelet membrane.
8870Mag: !Mag A therapeutic trial in patients with spasmophilia
8871Mag: !Mag Sites and mechanisms of action of lidocaine upon the isolated spinal cord of the frog.
8872Mag: !Mag Clinical importance of magnesium metabolism
8873Mag: !Mag Insulin resistance and hypomagnesaemia.
8874Mag: !Mag Crystal Site Location of Iron and Trace Elements in a Magnesium-Iron Olivine by a New Crystallographic Technique.
8875Mag: !Mag In Vitro Synthesis of the Chlorophyll Isocyclic Ring : Transformation of Magnesium-Protoporphyrin IX and Magnesium-Protoporphyrin IX Monomethyl Ester into Magnesium-2,4-Divinyl Pheoporphyrin A(5).
8876Mag: !Mag Successful treatment of paraquat poisoning: activated charcoal per os and "continuous hemoperfusion".
8877Mag: !Mag Metal binding by pharmaceuticals. Part 2. Interactions of Ca(II), Cu(II), Fe(II), Mg(II), Mn(II) and Zn(II) with the intracellular hydrolysis products of the antitumour agent ICRF 159 and its inactive homologue ICRF 192.
8878Mag: !Mag Electrolytes, their physiological action and interaction: a review.
8879Mag: !Mag Submaximal endurance exercise and the indicators of magnesium and zinc metabolism in sportsmen
8880Mag: !Mag Ethanol and some tetrahydroisoquinolines alter the discharge of cortical and hippocampal neurons: relationship to endogenous opioids.
8881Mag: !Mag The influence of dietary magnesium on reduction of nephrocalcinosis in rats fed purified diet.
8882Mag: !Mag Elimination of GTP biphasic regulation of synaptosomal adenylate cyclase by manganese and solubilization.
8883Mag: !Mag Relationship of cerebrospinal fluid and serum magnesium in liver cirrhosis and hepatic coma.
8884Mag: !Mag Metal-peptide interactions: enkephalin rigidifications.
8885Mag: !Mag Twitch activation in Ca2+ -free solutions in the myotomes of the lancelet (Branchiostoma lanceolatum).
8886Mag: !Mag Divalent ion transport in dogs with experimental chronic renal failure.
8887Mag: !Mag Effect of hypercalcemia on renal tubular handling of calcium and magnesium.
8888Mag: !Mag L-Phenylalanine inhibition of muscle pyruvate kinase.
8889Mag: !Mag Regulation of protein synthesis in rabbit reticulocyte lysates: effect of of Ca2+, Mg2+, and Mn2+ on self-phosphorylation and heterophosphorylation catalyzed by the heme-regulated and double-stranded-RNA-activated protein kinases.
8890Mag: !Mag Postoperative hypomagnesemia in a very low birth weight premature infant
8891Mag: !Mag Disposition, intestinal absorption and drug metabolizing enzyme activities after multiple doses of indomethacin in rat and effect of antacid and dicyclomine on the parameters.
8892Mag: !Mag Nail calcium, phosphate and magnesium in hyperthyroidism.
8893Mag: !Mag The influence of calcium on the control of fluid secretion in the cockroach salivary gland.
8894Mag: !Mag Plasma electrolytes and enzymes in country liquor poisoning.
8895Mag: !Mag Magnesium excretion and calcium oxalate urolithiasis.
8896Mag: !Mag Involvement of calmodulin in granulocyte chemotaxis: the effect of calmodulin inhibitors.
8897Mag: !Mag Specific binding of threo 1-(1-2-(1,4-benzodioxane-2-yl)-2-hydroxyethyl4-piperidyl)-2-benzimidazolinone (R 29814), to rat brain membranes.
8898Mag: !Mag Interaction of calcium with 3H-morphine binding to synaptosomes of the guinea-pig ileum.
8899Mag: !Mag Solid-state stability of aspirin in the presence of excipients: kinetic interpretation, modeling, and prediction.
8900Mag: !Mag Adhesion of human platelets to immobilized trimeric collagen.
8901Mag: !Mag Calcium antagonism and reversibility of gentamicin-induced loss of cochlear microphonics in the guinea pig.
8902Mag: !Mag Control of vitamin D metabolism in preterm infants: feto-maternal relationships.
8903Mag: !Mag The toxicity of Cassia occidentalis to goats.
8904Mag: !Mag Total calcium and magnesium determined in serum with an automated stopped-flow analyzer.
8905Mag: !Mag Biochemical indices of nutritional status in maternal, cord, and early neonatal blood.
8906Mag: !Mag Temporal alterations of intracellular Na, K, Ca, Mg, and PO4 in muscle beneath the burn wound.
8907Mag: !Mag Relationship between membrane depolarization, calcium influx and norepinephrine release in sympathetic neurons maintained in culture.
8908Mag: !Mag Zinc, copper, calcium, and magnesium in human milk.
8909Mag: !Mag Biosynthesis of biopterin by rat brain.
8910Mag: !Mag Optical measurements of intracellular pH and magnesium in frog skeletal muscle fibres.
8911Mag: !Mag Effects of veratrine and tetrodotoxin on the frog lens potential in normal and calcium-free media.
8912Mag: !Mag The correlation between serum digoxin and electrolytes in saliva and erythrocytes in digitalized patients.
8913Mag: !Mag Caries reduction in rats through F + Mg supplementation of dietary sucrose with observations on bone mineral density and soft and hard tissue minerals.
8914Mag: !Mag Magnesium requirements in human nutrition.
8915Mag: !Mag Symptomatic hypocalcemia and hypomagnesemia due to gentamicin therapy in an 8-year-old girl.
8916Mag: !Mag The significance of zinc, copper and magnesium levels of maternal, cord and newborns' sera in hyperbilirubinemia of unknown etiology.
8917Mag: !Mag Changes in pH sensitivity of adenylate cyclase specifically induced by fluoride and vanadate.
8918Mag: !Mag Modulation of classical C3 convertase of complement by tear lactoferrin.
8919Mag: !Mag Muscle calcium and magnesium content in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
8920Mag: !Mag Study of trace elements in patients with rheumatoid arthritis stage I-II, before and after treatment.
8921Mag: !Mag The role of magnesium deficiency in convulsive syndromes in children
8922Mag: !Mag Shortening induced deactivation of skinned fibres of frog and mouse striated muscle.
8923Mag: !Mag The synergism and antagonism of cations.
8924Mag: !Mag Ion-binding properties of S-layer proteins from Bacillus subtilis.
8925Mag: !Mag Effect of ionophore A23187 on basal and insulin-stimulated sugar transport by rat soleus muscle.
8926Mag: !Mag Principals of parenteral nutrition.
8927Mag: !Mag Cytoplasmic pH and free Mg2+ in lymphocytes.
8928Mag: !Mag An assessment of the masked message hypothesis: sea urchin egg messenger ribonucleoprotein complexes are efficient templates for in vitro protein synthesis.
8929Mag: !Mag TRH mobilizes membrane calcium in thyrotropic cells as monitored by chlortetracycline.
8930Mag: !Mag Transformation-deficient mutants of Bacillus subtilis impaired in competence-specific nuclease activities.
8931Mag: !Mag Role of dietary factors in the pathogenesis of calcium urolithiasis
8932Mag: !Mag Calcium control of Saccharomyces cerevisiae actin assembly.
8933Mag: !Mag Effect of different magnesium levels in kidney preservation perfusate.
8934Mag: !Mag Phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetases from hen liver cytoplasm and mitochondria, yeast cytoplasm and mitochondria, and from Escherichia coli: substrate specificity relationship with regard to ATP analogs.
8935Mag: !Mag Plasma magnesium levels as influenced by cold exposure in fed or fasted sheep.
8936Mag: !Mag Gel model for measuring crystallization inhibitor activity
8937Mag: !Mag Magnesium restores high K-induced inactivation of the fast Na channel in guinea pig ventricular muscle.
8938Mag: !Mag A shuttle mechanism for DNA-protein interactions. The regulation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase.
8939Mag: !Mag Promotion of benign hyperplastic lesions by calcium, magnesium and cAMP, and inhibition of tumor progression by magnesium in hamster cheek pouch.
8940Mag: !Mag Purification, characterization, substrate and inhibitor specificity of adenosine kinase from several Eimeria species.
8941Mag: !Mag Pathophysiology of human proximal tubular transport defects.
8942Mag: !Mag Inactivation and reactivation of rat liver 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA-reductase phosphatases: effect of phosphate, pyrophosphate and divalent cations.
8943Mag: !Mag Inactivation and phosphorylation of yeast fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase.
8944Mag: !Mag The use of low concentrations of divalent cations to demonstrate a role for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in synaptic transmission in amphibian spinal cord.
8945Mag: !Mag The effects of monovalent and divalent cations on the alpha-adrenoceptor of intact human platelets.
8946Mag: !Mag Regulation of smooth muscle contractile proteins by calmodulin and cyclic AMP.
8947Mag: !Mag Prolactin binding sites on human chorion-decidua tissue.
8948Mag: !Mag Enrichment and partial enzyme characterization of ATPase activity associated with the outward-facing membrane complex and inward-facing membrane of the surface epithelial syncytium of Schistosoma mansoni.
8949Mag: !Mag Cooperative behavior of smooth muscle myosin.
8950Mag: !Mag The role of phosphate in the regulation of the independent calcium-efflux pathway of liver mitochondria.
8951Mag: !Mag Testosterone metabolism by homogenates of human prostates with benign hyperplasia: effect of tissular concentrations of zinc, magnesium and copper.
8952Mag: !Mag Effect of substance-P on colonic mechanoreceptors, motility, and sympathetic neurons.
8953Mag: !Mag Induction and control of the autolytic system of Escherichia coli.
8954Mag: !Mag Characterization of the cytolytic reaction mechanism of the human natural killer (NK) lymphocyte: resolution into binding, programming, and killer cell-independent steps.
8955Mag: !Mag Controlled clinical trial of duodenal ulcer healing with antacid tablets.
8956Mag: !Mag Neurotransmitter release and its facilitation in crayfish. IV. The effect of Mg2+ ions on the duration of facilitation.
8957Mag: !Mag Activation of tubulinyl-tyrosine carboxypeptidase by spermine, spermidine and putrescine.
8958Mag: !Mag Preliminary characterization of adenosine deaminase from Bacillus cereus.
8959Mag: !Mag A novel protamine kinase activity in human promyelocytic leukemia cells.
8960Mag: !Mag Changes in the adenosinetriphosphatase activity in plasma membranes incubated in vitro in the presence of 4-hydroxy-2,3-nonenal
8961Mag: !Mag Orientation of nucleosomes in the thirty-nanometer chromatin fiber.
8962Mag: !Mag Influence of metal ions on prothrombin self-association. Demonstration of dimer formation by intermolecular cross-linking with dithiobis(succinimidylpropionate).
8963Mag: !Mag The effect of cations on the activity of human urinary kallikrein.
8964Mag: !Mag Conformational change accompanying transition of ADP-sensitive phosphoenzyme to potassium-sensitive phosphoenzyme of (Na+,K+)-ATPase modified with N-p-(2-benzimidazolyl)phenylmaleimide.
8965Mag: !Mag Role of Mg2+ in the Ca2+-Ca2+ exchange mediated by the membrane-bound (Ca2+, Mg2+)-ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.
8966Mag: !Mag Escherichia coli B membrane stability related to cell growth phase. Measurement of temperature dependent physical state change of the membrane over a wide range.
8967Mag: !Mag Synergistic effect of Ca2+ and Mg2+ upon the interaction of phosphorylase kinase with glycogen.
8968Mag: !Mag Role of GTP in CTP synthetase from Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.
8969Mag: !Mag Clot retraction does not require Ca ions and depends on continuous contractile activity.
8970Mag: !Mag Gluconolactonase: a zinc containing metalloprotein.
8971Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies on the interaction of chain initiation factor 3 with 70 S Escherichia coli ribosomes and subunits.
8972Mag: !Mag Characterization of the DNA polymerases induced by a group of herpes simplex virus type I variants selected for growth in the presence of phosphonoformic acid.
8973Mag: !Mag Use of percollTM in the isolation and purification of rabbit small intestinal brush border membranes.
8974Mag: !Mag Histological osteomalacia due to dietary calcium deficiency in children.
8975Mag: !Mag Photodissociation of water by p- and n-type polycrystalline iron oxides by using visible light (</=2.7 eV) in the absence of external potential.
8976Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia in relation to diabetic retinopathy.
8977Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium on the vasoconstrictor responses to norepinephrine and potassium chloride in the rat mesenteric artery.
8978Mag: !Mag Myocardial metal content in patients who expired from cyanotic congenital heart disease and acute rheumatic heart disease.
8979Mag: !Mag Distribution of Na, K, Mg, and Ca in skeletal muscles of various representatives of the Alectoridonithes order
8980Mag: !Mag Chemical composition of human milk. Influence of the nutritional status of the nursing mother
8981Mag: !Mag Treatment of 3 cases of serious cardiac arrhythmia by magnesium salt
8982Mag: !Mag Effect of chlorothiazide on renal calcium and magnesium handling in the hamster.
8983Mag: !Mag The size and conformation of Artemia (brine-shrimp) ribosomal RNA free in solution.
8984Mag: !Mag Magnesium and the treatment by repeated hemodialysis
8985Mag: !Mag Evaluation of a detoxification regimen for fat stored xenobiotics.
8986Mag: !Mag The Ca-releasing action of halothane on fragmented sarcoplasmic reticulum.
8987Mag: !Mag Electron microscopic studies of myosin molecules from chicken gizzard muscle I: the formation of the intramolecular loop in the myosin tail.
8988Mag: !Mag Characterization of the Ca2+ binding sites of calmodulin from bovine testis using 43Ca and 113Cd NMR.
8989Mag: !Mag Growth of Legionella pneumophila in defined media: requirement for magnesium and potassium.
8990Mag: !Mag Study of cation binding to myosin subfragment I using the fluorescent probe Eu3+
8991Mag: !Mag Electrolytes in diabetic fetopathy
8992Mag: !Mag Kinetic analysis of P-700 photoconversion: effect of secondary electron donation and plastocyanin inhibition.
8993Mag: !Mag Kinetic evidence for a dual cation role for muscle pyruvate kinase.
8994Mag: !Mag Lysolecithin:lysolecithin acyltransferase from rabbit lung: enzymatic properties and kinetic study.
8995Mag: !Mag Physiology of turkey embryos during pipping and hatching. V. Plasma total calcium, magnesium concentrations, and total calcium to magnesium ratios.
8996Mag: !Mag Lidocaine reversibly inhibits fertilization in Chlamydomonas: a possible role for calcium in sexual signalling.
8997Mag: !Mag Inhibition of chlortetracycline activity by magnesium ions.
8998Mag: !Mag Renal function and magnesium clearance in young and old cows given potassium chloride and sodium citrate.
8999Mag: !Mag Changes in plasma calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and hydroxyproline concentrations in ewes from twelve weeks before until three weeks after lambing.
9000Mag: !Mag Ultrasonic tissue-equivalent materials using inorganic gel mixtures.
9001Mag: !Mag Variation in the composition of breast milk during the first 5 weeks of lactation: implications for the feeding of preterm infants.
9002Mag: !Mag Liver pathology in fatal drug addiction.
9003Mag: !Mag Effect of maternal fluorine intake on breast milk fluorine content.
9004Mag: !Mag Comparative study of platelet dense granule constituents.
9005Mag: !Mag Computer simulation of metabolism of glucose-perfused rat heart in a work-jump.
9006Mag: !Mag Calcium-induced spongiform and necrotizing myelopathy.
9007Mag: !Mag Elemental distribution in guinea-pig skin as revealed by X-ray microanalysis in the scanning transmission microscope.
9008Mag: !Mag Diet and ethanol intake during pregnancy.
9009Mag: !Mag Calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus balance in human and experimental hypertension.
9010Mag: !Mag Severe copper deficiency due to excessive use of an antacid combined with pyloric stenosis.
9011Mag: !Mag Effect of nipecotic acid, a gamma-aminobutyric acid transport inhibitor, on the turnover and release of gamma-aminobutyric acid in rat cortical slices.
9012Mag: !Mag Mechanism of increase in steatorrhea with calcium and magnesium in exocrine pancreatic insufficiency: an animal model.
9013Mag: !Mag Glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in rats with normal plasma calcium levels: effects of calcium deficiency.
9014Mag: !Mag Enolase activity and levels of various salivary components in subjects living in areas with optimal and trace amounts of fluorides in the drinking water
9015Mag: !Mag In vitro modulation of cell-mediated immunity by prostaglandin E2. I. Enhancing-inhibitory effects on antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity.
9016Mag: !Mag Renal stones and urinary pH.
9017Mag: !Mag Are lysophosphatidic acids or phosphatidic acids involved in stimulus activation coupling in platelets?
9018Mag: !Mag Mineral homeostasis during lactation- relationship to serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, parathyroid hormone and calcitonin.
9019Mag: !Mag Healing of bone lesions with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in the young X-linked hypophosphatemic male mouse.
9020Mag: !Mag Persistent hypomagnesemia following cisplatin chemotherapy for testicular cancer.
9021Mag: !Mag Growth failure due to uremia and congenital nephrosis: growth enhancement by aggressive nutritional therapy.
9022Mag: !Mag Serum calcitonin concentrations in premature infants during the first 12 weeks of life.
9023Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium infusions on magnesium and nitrogen balance during parenteral nutrition.
9024Mag: !Mag Artifactual hypercalcemia in multiple myeloma.
9025Mag: !Mag Glucosyldiphosphoundecaprenol, the mannose acceptor in the synthesis of the O9 antigen of Escherichia coli. Biosynthesis and characterization.
9026Mag: !Mag Trace minerals and atherosclerosis.
9027Mag: !Mag The effect of the functional status of the thyroid gland on adenosine triphosphatase activity in the right atrium and ventricle of the myocardium in the rabbit
9028Mag: !Mag Partial purification and properties of mevalonate kinase from neonatal chick liver.
9029Mag: !Mag Electron probe x-ray microanalysis of various effector cells in three types of the human lymphocytic cytotoxicities against Chang liver cells and the human hepatoma cell line--the significance of calcium and magnesium in various effector cells
9030Mag: !Mag Mg++ antagonism of a prejunctional opiate receptor mediated effect at the frog neuromuscular junction.
9031Mag: !Mag Effect of diets with different content of polyunsaturated fatty acids on ATPase activity in different rat tissues
9032Mag: !Mag Occlusion of rubidium ions by the sodium-potassium pump: its implications for the mechanism of potassium transport.
9033Mag: !Mag Magnesium regulation of the beta-receptor-adenylate cyclase complex. II. Sc3+ as a Mg2 antagonist.
9034Mag: !Mag Magnesium regulation of the beta-receptor-adenylate cyclase complex. I. Effects of manganese on receptor binding and cyclase activation.
9035Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of magnesium- and manganese-dependent ribonucleases H from chick embryo.
9036Mag: !Mag Studies on bacterial cell wall inhibitors. X. Properties of phosph-N-acetylmuramoyl-pentapeptide-transferase in peptidoglycan synthesis of Bacillus megaterium and its inhibition by amphomycin.
9037Mag: !Mag Activity of cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase in permeabilised cells of Bakers' yeast.
9038Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations on the activity of ribulosebisphosphate carboxylase: interactions with pH and with D2O as solvent.
9039Mag: !Mag The effect of hyperoxia on superoxide production by lung submitochondrial particles.
9040Mag: !Mag Hormone receptor modulates the regulatory component of adenylyl cyclase by reducing its requirement for Mg2+ and enhancing its extent of activation by guanine nucleotides.
9041Mag: !Mag Combined effects of calcium and dibutyryl cyclic AMP on germinal vesicle breakdown in the mouse oocyte.
9042Mag: !Mag The effect of wheat bran on the absorption of minerals in the small intestine.
9043Mag: !Mag Forskolin stimulation of thyroid adenylate cyclase and cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate accumulation.
9044Mag: !Mag Fibrinogen-binding properties of the human platelet glycoprotein IIb-=IIIa complex: a study using crossed-radioimmunoelectrophoresis.
9045Mag: !Mag Opiate receptor: multiple effects of metal ions.
9046Mag: !Mag Complement: activation, consequences, and control.
9047Mag: !Mag Stimulation of Ca++ binding and ATPase activity of dog cardiac myofibrils by AR-L 115BS, a novel cardiotonic agent.
9048Mag: !Mag Developmental changes in composition of cats milk: trace elements, minerals, protein, carbohydrate and fat.
9049Mag: !Mag Identification and properties of an ATPase in vacuolar membranes of Neurospora crassa.
9050Mag: !Mag The effects of substance-P on histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine release in the rat.
9051Mag: !Mag The role of the outer membrane of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the uptake of aminoglycoside antibiotics.
9052Mag: !Mag Prostaglandin-generating factor of anaphylaxis. II. Characterization of activity.
9053Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of inorganic pyrophosphatase of rat liver and hepatoma 3924A.
9054Mag: !Mag ANS fluorescence as an indicator of ANS-dependent Mg2+ transport in energized mitochondrial particles.
9055Mag: !Mag The determinants of the changes in fluorescence of 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonic acid induced in particle systems.
9056Mag: !Mag Evidence for the regulation of the branched chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase multienzyme complex by a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation mechanism.
9057Mag: !Mag Binding of fluoride by yeast enolase.
9058Mag: !Mag Cyclic AMP-dependent phosphorylation of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase in yeast.
9059Mag: !Mag The effect of high hydrostatic pressure on eukaryotic protein synthesis.
9060Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent metal ions on the calcium pump and membrane phosphorylation in human red cells.
9061Mag: !Mag Polycation-induced fusion of negatively-charged vesicles.
9062Mag: !Mag Role of the divalent metal cation in the pyruvate oxidase reaction.
9063Mag: !Mag Quinine inhibition of Na+ and K+ transport provides evidence for two cation/H+ exchangers in rat liver mitochondria.
9064Mag: !Mag NMR evidence for the existence of two native conformations of 5S RNA.
9065Mag: !Mag Neutral salt effects on the polymorphism of tobacco mosaic virus protein. A contribution to the understanding of its mechanism of aggregation and virus reassembly.
9066Mag: !Mag In vitro recording of raphe unit activity: evidence for endogenous rhythms in presumed serotonergic neurons.
9067Mag: !Mag Insulin resistance and hypomagnesaemia.
9068Mag: !Mag Purification and reconstitution of the 32Pi-ATP exchange activity of bovine chromaffin granule membrane.
9069Mag: !Mag Total automated method for determination of cholesterol concentration in high density lipoprotein by heparin-magnesium-albumin precipitation.
9070Mag: !Mag Interactions between the mitochondrial adenosinetriphosphatase and periodate-oxidized adenosine 5'-triphosphate, an affinity label for adenosine 5'-triphosphate binding sites.
9071Mag: !Mag Lipid selectivity of the calcium and magnesium ion dependent adenosinetriphosphatase, studied with fluorescence quenching by a brominated phospholipid.
9072Mag: !Mag Neutron diffraction studies of oriented photosynthetic membranes.
9073Mag: !Mag Similarity of rat intestinal and hepatic microsomal 7-hydroxycoumarin-UDP-glucuronyltransferase: in vitro activation by triton-X100, UDP-N-acetylglucosamine and MgCl2.
9074Mag: !Mag Clinical and clinicopathologic features of transport tetany of feedlot lambs.
9075Mag: !Mag Trace elements and lipid parameters in arteriosclerotic circulatory disorders by polyene fatty acids
9076Mag: !Mag Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia: the relation to primary parathyroid hyperplasia.
9077Mag: !Mag Crystallization patterns of membrane-bound (Na+ +K+)-ATPase.
9078Mag: !Mag Skeletal muscle injury after magnesium depletion in the dog.
9079Mag: !Mag Eukaryotic ternary transcription complexes. I. The release of ternary transcription complexes of RNA polymerases I and II by the endogenous nucleases of rat liver nuclei.
9080Mag: !Mag The stereochemical course of nucleotidyl transfer catalyzed by ATP sulfurylase.
9081Mag: !Mag Membrane bound guanylate cyclase in rat fat cell plasma membranes: influence of divalent cations on calcium activation.
9082Mag: !Mag Demonstration of distinct forms of testicular adenylate cyclases associated with germinal and Leydig cell fractions.
9083Mag: !Mag The concentration and subcellular localisation of zinc, magnesium and calcium in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
9084Mag: !Mag Biosynthesis, nonenzymatic synthesis, and purification of the intermediate in synthesis of sepiapterin in Drosophila.
9085Mag: !Mag The influence of nupercaine on Ca2+ transport by rat liver and Ehrlich ascites cell mitochondria.
9086Mag: !Mag Progress in the studies on the mechanism of neuromuscular block by streptomycin
9087Mag: !Mag Serum copper, zinc, magnesium and calcium levels in various human diseases.
9088Mag: !Mag Copper, iron, magnesium and zinc contents in hair of peasants in high and low incidence areas of esophageal cancer
9089Mag: !Mag Study of Cu, Zn, Mg, Cd in grade III-IV malnutrition (PEM).
9090Mag: !Mag Urinary calculi composed of magnesium hydrogen phosphate in a kangaroo.
9091Mag: !Mag Plasma ion balance of submerged anoxic turtles at 3 degrees C: the role of calcium lactate formation.
9092Mag: !Mag Preparation of an insoluble fraction of ox brain and its affinity for Na+ and K+.
9093Mag: !Mag "Nutritional insurance" supplementation and corticosteroid toxicity.
9094Mag: !Mag Toxicological and pharmacological studies on the magnesium deficiency in rats. I. Histamine contents in some tissues of magnesium deficient rats
9095Mag: !Mag In vitro experiments on chloroquine and pyrimethamine absorption in the presence of antacid constituents or kaolin.
9096Mag: !Mag Blood changes of spontaneously ketotic cows before and four hours after administration of glucose, xylitol, 1,2-propanediol, or magnesium propionate.
9097Mag: !Mag Absence of effect of potassium-magnesium aspartate on physiologic responses to prolonged work in aerobically trained men.
9098Mag: !Mag The mechanism of inorganic phosphate-mediated inhibition of calf thymus DNA polymerase beta and Rauscher leukemia virus dna polymerase.
9099Mag: !Mag Effects of Mg2+, Ca2+ and Mn2+ on sheep liver cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase.
9100Mag: !Mag The use of diuretics in hypertension.
9101Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency in pregnancy. A case report.
9102Mag: !Mag Xanthine phosphoribosyltransferase in Leishmania: divalent cation activation.
9103Mag: !Mag Isolation of human serum HDL1 by zonal ultracentrifugation.
9104Mag: !Mag Acid rebound: fact or fiction.
9105Mag: !Mag Mechanism of synthesis of adenosine(5')tetraphospho(5')adenosine (AppppA) by aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases.
9106Mag: !Mag Interaction of isozymes I and II of hexokinase with a microsomal fraction of skeletal muscle of rats
9107Mag: !Mag Photooxygenation of meso-tetraphenylporphyrin metal complexes.
9108Mag: !Mag Calcium requirement and virulence of Yersinia enterocolitica.
9109Mag: !Mag Intracellular Ca release in skinned smooth muscle.
9110Mag: !Mag Activation of Barnea candida (Mollusca, Pelecypoda) oocytes by sperm of KCl, but not by NH4Cl, requires a calcium influx.
9111Mag: !Mag Influence of sodium on major diffusion barriers to passive intestinal uptake.
9112Mag: !Mag Effects of acute acid-base disturbances on renal tubule reabsorption of magnesium in the rat.
9113Mag: !Mag Role of calcium-phosphate ratio of milk formulae on calcium balance in low weight infants during the first three days of life.
9114Mag: !Mag Solubility product of magnesium ammonium phosphate hexahydrate at various temperatures.
9115Mag: !Mag Water hardness and urinary stone disease.
9116Mag: !Mag 26Mg as a probe in research on the role of magnesium in nutrition and metabolism.
9117Mag: !Mag Effects of synthesized hard water and of cadmium in the drinking water upon lipid metabolism and cholelithiasis in rabbits.
9118Mag: !Mag Noninvasive cardiac evaluation in chronic alcoholic patients with alcohol withdrawal syndrome.
9119Mag: !Mag Antacid bezoar in a premature infant.
9120Mag: !Mag Review of trends in food use in the United States, 1909 to 1980.
9121Mag: !Mag Advances in the use of stable isotopes of minerals in human studies.
9122Mag: !Mag Influence of temperature upon contractile activation and isometric force production in mechanically skinned muscle fibers of the frog.
9123Mag: !Mag Evaluation of bone mass and growth in young diabetics.
9124Mag: !Mag Premenstrual tension and prostaglandin E2.
9125Mag: !Mag Therapy of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia
9126Mag: !Mag Kinetic properties of exchangeable calcium in guinea-pig heart mitochondria measured at low concentrations of free calcium and in the presence of Mg2+, ATP4- and inorganic phosphate.
9127Mag: !Mag A comparison of the effects of lactose and of two chemically modified waxy maize starches on mineral metabolism in the rat.
9128Mag: !Mag Effects of erythromycin in combination with penicillin, ampicillin, or gentamicin on the growth of Listeria monocytogenes.
9129Mag: !Mag Conglutination and haemolysis of unsensitized human erythrocytes by bovine serum complement.
9130Mag: !Mag Mutagenesis by alkylating agents: coding properties for DNA polymerase of poly (dC) template containing 3-methylcytosine.
9131Mag: !Mag Fidelity in transcription assessed by DNA-dependent RNA polymerases.
9132Mag: !Mag DNA-dependent RNA polymerases for Schneider 2-L cells of Drosophila. I. Preliminary characterization.
9133Mag: !Mag The interaction of lithium and time-of-day on calcium, magnesium, parathyroid hormone, and calcitonin in rats.
9134Mag: !Mag Mineral metabolism during prolonged oral calcium substitution after jejuno-ileal bypass for morbid obesity.
9135Mag: !Mag Selection of nonmucoid derivatives of mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa is strongly influenced by the level of iron in the culture medium.
9136Mag: !Mag Repetitive propagation of action potentials destabilizes the structure of the myelin sheath. A dynamic x-ray diffraction study.
9137Mag: !Mag Protein kinase and specific phosphate acceptor proteins associated with tupaia herpesvirus.
9138Mag: !Mag Skeletal changes associated with copper deficiency.
9139Mag: !Mag Transport across plant roots.
9140Mag: !Mag HLA and Bw35. Possible influence of Mg metabolism.
9141Mag: !Mag Effect of metabolic activation on the cytotoxicity and mutagenicity of 1,2-dibromoethane in the CHO/HGPRT system.
9142Mag: !Mag Circular dichroism (CD) studies on yeast enolase: activation by divalent cations.
9143Mag: !Mag Changes in chrysotile in vivo
9144Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium trisilicate and kaolin on the in vivo absorption of chloroquine.
9145Mag: !Mag Mechanism and function of the Ca2+-gated cation channel in sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.
9146Mag: !Mag Characterization of the Ca2+-gated cation channel in sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.
9147Mag: !Mag Heparin inhibition and polyamine stimulation of a glycogen synthase kinase (PC0.7) from rabbit skeletal muscle.
9148Mag: !Mag Effects of stimulation on the steroid profile formed by rat adrenal capsule tissue incubated in vitro.
9149Mag: !Mag The role of DNA polymerase in base substitution mutagenesis on non-instructional templates.
9150Mag: !Mag Effect of chromatin decondensation on the intranuclear matrix.
9151Mag: !Mag Synexin facilitates fusion of specific phospholipid membranes at divalent cation concentrations found intracellularly.
9152Mag: !Mag Localization of phosphatase activities on mouse teratocarcinoma embryoid bodies.
9153Mag: !Mag Phospholipids stimulate phosphorylation of vinculin by the tyrosine-specific protein kinase of Rous sarcoma virus.
9154Mag: !Mag Calmodulin alters the cation requirement of membrane-bound guanylate cyclase in Tetrahymena.
9155Mag: !Mag Changes in Mg+2-ATPase and taurine levels in Mg+2- deficient rats.
9156Mag: !Mag GTP-preferring protein phosphorylation systems in brain membranes: possible role in adenylate cyclase regulation.
9157Mag: !Mag Regulation of diacylglycerol metabolism and arachidonic acid release in human amnionic tissue.
9158Mag: !Mag Divalent cation-nucleotide complex at the exchangeable nucleotide binding site of tubulin.
9159Mag: !Mag Specific site inhibitors of NAD-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase from bovine heart.
9160Mag: !Mag Template directed reactions of 2-aminoadenylic acid derivatives.
9161Mag: !Mag Insulin resistance and hypomagnesaemia: case report.
9162Mag: !Mag Carbon-13 NMR relaxation studies of pre-melt structural dynamics in 4-13C-uracil labeled E. coli transfer RNAIVal.
9163Mag: !Mag High resolution phosphorus NMR spectroscopy of transfer ribonucleic acids.
9164Mag: !Mag The effect of pH on the rate of relaxation of isolated barnacle myofibrillar bundles.
9165Mag: !Mag Fluorescence anisotropy of labeled F-actin: influence of divalent cations on the interaction between F-actin and myosin heads.
9166Mag: !Mag The Mg2+-activated phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-specific phosphomonoesterase of erythrocyte membrane.
9167Mag: !Mag Regulation of antagonist binding to cardiac muscarinic receptors.
9168Mag: !Mag An improved method for the routine biochemical evaluation of patients with recurrent calcium oxalate stone disease.
9169Mag: !Mag Pruning of axonal trees results in increased efficacy of surviving nerve terminals.
9170Mag: !Mag Magnesium sulfate and uterine inversion.
9171Mag: !Mag Breast milk magnesium and calcium concentrations following magnesium sulfate treatment.
9172Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium sulfate in premature labor that fails to respond to beta-mimetic drugs.
9173Mag: !Mag Early events in calcium-induced liposome fusion.
9174Mag: !Mag Intestinal maturation: the effect of glucocorticoids on in vivo net magnesium and calcium transport in the rat.
9175Mag: !Mag Eukaryotic ribosomal subunit anti-association activity of calf liver is contained in a single polypeptide chain protein of Mr = 25,500 (eukaryotic initiation factor 6).
9176Mag: !Mag Histone acetylation increases the solubility of chromatin and occurs sequentially over most of the chromatin. A novel model for the biological role of histone acetylation.
9177Mag: !Mag A study of the mechanism of T4 DNA polymerase with diastereomeric phosphorothioate analogues of deoxyadenosine triphosphate.
9178Mag: !Mag Transcription and precursor processing of normal and mutant human tRNAiMet genes in a homologous cell-free system.
9179Mag: !Mag Reactivity and metal-dependent stereospecificity of the phosphorothioate analogs of ATP in the arginine kinase reaction. Structure of the metal-nucleoside triphosphate substrate.
9180Mag: !Mag A structural role for the Ca2+-Mg2+ sites on troponin C in the regulation of muscle contraction. Preparation and properties of troponin C depleted myofibrils.
9181Mag: !Mag Direct fluorescence measurements of Mg2+ binding to sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase.
9182Mag: !Mag Diagnosis and pathogenetic aspects of the Kartagener syndrome based on nasal mucosa biopsies
9183Mag: !Mag Deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis in isolated chloroplasts and chloroplast extracts of maize.
9184Mag: !Mag Rapid-quench and isotope-trapping studies on fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase.
9185Mag: !Mag Relationship between red blood cell magnesium level and immune response in the mouse
9186Mag: !Mag Intracellular sodium+ and magnesium2+ concentrations in diets containing fats of various degrees of saturation
9187Mag: !Mag Conformation of cyclo(-L-Pro-Gly-)(3) and its Ca and Mg complexes.
9188Mag: !Mag Study of crystalluria as a method of evaluation of preventive medical treatment of renal calculosis
9189Mag: !Mag Spontaneous retinal detachment in the light of clinical studies and determination of mineral components and free fatty acids in the subretinal fluid
9190Mag: !Mag Sodium-lithium exchange and sodium-potassium cotransport in human erythrocytes. Part 1: Evaluation of a simple uptake test to assess the activity of the two transport systems.
9191Mag: !Mag Serum and cerebrospinal fluid magnesium levels in pyogenic and tubercular meningitis in children.
9192Mag: !Mag Metabolic studies in patients with urinary calculi
9193Mag: !Mag The reserpinized rat in the study of cystic fibrosis: x-ray microanalysis of submandibular gland and pancreas.
9194Mag: !Mag Hypocalcemia in infants of diabetic mothers. Studies in circulating calciotropic hormone concentrations.
9195Mag: !Mag Multiparametric evaluation of the toxic responses of normal human cells treated in vitro with different classes of environmental toxicants.
9196Mag: !Mag Palatability study of two proprietary liquid antacids.
9197Mag: !Mag Binding of Mg ions with alpha-lactalbumin studied by fluorescent spectroscopy
9198Mag: !Mag Accelerated recovery of single nephron function by the postischemic infusion of ATP-MgCl2.
9199Mag: !Mag Formation of hydrotalcite in mixtures of aluminum hydroxycarbonate and magnesium hydroxide gels.
9200Mag: !Mag Mechanism of action of Acanthamoeba profilin: demonstration of actin species specificity and regulation by micromolar concentrations of MgCl2.
9201Mag: !Mag Application of gel permeation chromatography and nonaqueous reverse phase chromatography to high performance liquid chromatographic determination of retinyl palmitate and alpha-tocopheryl acetate in infant formulas.
9202Mag: !Mag Plasma parathyroid hormone levels and intestinal calcium binding protein in magnesium deficient rats.
9203Mag: !Mag Dietary choices of recovering alcoholics.
9204Mag: !Mag Regulation of glucose metabolism in rat lung: subcellular distribution, isozyme pattern, and kinetic properties of hexokinase.
9205Mag: !Mag Role of ATP in regulating the oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex of the adrenal cortex
9206Mag: !Mag 2-hydroxyethynyloestradiol as a substrate for catechol-O-methyltransferase--implications in the metabolism of ethynyloestradiol.
9207Mag: !Mag The dissolution of calcium oxalate kidney stones. A kinetic study.
9208Mag: !Mag Mineral profile of blood plasma of lactating dairy cows.
9209Mag: !Mag A dietary survey of 14 Wisconsin nursing homes.
9210Mag: !Mag Decreased serum alkaline phosphatase activity in hypothyroidism: possible relationship to low serum zinc and magnesium.
9211Mag: !Mag Positive correlation between calmodulin content and hepatoma growth rates.
9212Mag: !Mag Increased calcium permeability of cold-stored erythrocytes.
9213Mag: !Mag Epidermal growth factor modifies Ca2+, Mg2+ and 2-oxocarboxylic acid, but not K+ and phosphate ion requirement for multiplication of human fibroblasts.
9214Mag: !Mag The cardiac hazard of tocolysis and antagonizing possibilities. II. Communication: protection of the myocardium by means of substitution of magnesium
9215Mag: !Mag Oral magnesium load test for the assessment of intestinal magnesium absorption. Application in control subjects, absorptive hypercalciuria, primary hyperparathyroidism, and hypoparathyroidism.
9216Mag: !Mag Contribution to the study of immune hemolysis by toad complement.
9217Mag: !Mag Relationship between urine color and urinary creatinine in dairy cows
9218Mag: !Mag Calcium mobilisation in hypomagnesaemic cattle.
9219Mag: !Mag Smooth muscle tropomyosin paracrystals.
9220Mag: !Mag Intestinal and renal loss of infused minerals in patients with severe short bowel syndrome.
9221Mag: !Mag Effects of cardioplegic solutions on conductive coronary arteries.
9222Mag: !Mag RNA polymerase of Myxococcus xanthus: purification and selective transcription in vitro with bacteriophage templates.
9223Mag: !Mag Influence of phosphate supply on teichoic acid and teichuronic acid content of Bacillus subtilis cell walls.
9224Mag: !Mag Treatment of hypertensive emergencies of pregnancy.
9225Mag: !Mag Improved catecholamine histofluorescence in the developing brain based on the magnesium and aluminum (ALFA) perfusion techniques: methodology and anatomical observations.
9226Mag: !Mag Enolases
9227Mag: !Mag Peripherally administered cations do not modify febrile responses induced in chickens by Escherichia coli.
9228Mag: !Mag Isoproterenol, norepinephrine and phosphodiesterase inhibitors are blockers of the depressed fast Na+-system in ventricular muscle fibers.
9229Mag: !Mag Preformed magnesium hydroxide precipitate for second-step concentration of enteroviruses from drinking and surface waters.
9230Mag: !Mag The effect of pneumoxide on Na+-K+ stimulated ATPase activity in the brain of rats of various ages
9231Mag: !Mag Silicon overdosage in man.
9232Mag: !Mag Interaction of sodium and potassium ions with Na+,K+-ATPase. II. General properties of ouabain-sensitive K+ binding.
9233Mag: !Mag Activation of wheat chloroplast sedoheptulose bisphosphatase: a continuous spectrophotometric assay.
9234Mag: !Mag Adhesion of Entamoeba histolytica trophozoites to human erythrocytes.
9235Mag: !Mag Effect of the maternal vitamin D status at parturition on the vitamin D status of the neonatal calf.
9236Mag: !Mag Effects of alterations in calcium levels on cat small intestinal slow waves.
9237Mag: !Mag Regulatory properties of a fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase from the cyanobacterium Anacystis nidulans.
9238Mag: !Mag Pituitary LHRH receptors during puberty in the female rat: is the proestrous decline in receptor content due to occupancy?
9239Mag: !Mag Multiple supramolecular structures formed by interaction of actin with protamine.
9240Mag: !Mag ATPase activity and ATP-dependent accumulation of Ca2+ in skeletal muscle nuclei. Effects of denervation and electric stimulation
9241Mag: !Mag On the mechanism of histamine release from sodium fluoride-activated mouse mast cells.
9242Mag: !Mag Effects of chloral hydrate, gamma-butyrolactone, and equithesin on the efflux of dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolites into cerebroventricular perfusates of rats.
9243Mag: !Mag Ca2+-Dependent activities of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase.
9244Mag: !Mag Effect of hyperthermia and ionizing radiation on the erythrocyte membrane.
9245Mag: !Mag Alpha-Amanitin-sensitive DNA-dependent RNA polymerase I from cherry salmon (Oncorhynchus masou) liver nuclei.
9246Mag: !Mag Influence of glycosaminoglycans on endogenous DNA synthesis in isolated normal and cancer cell nuclei. Differential effect of heparin.
9247Mag: !Mag Titration of the nucleotide binding sites of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ -ATPase with 2',3'-O-(2,4,6-trinitrophenyl) adenosine 5'-triphosphate and 5'-diphosphate.
9248Mag: !Mag Substrate specificity of the erythrocyte Ca2+-ATPase.
9249Mag: !Mag Sulfhydryl content of bovine eye lens leucine aminopeptidase. Determination of the reactivity of the sulfhydryl groups of the zinc metalloenzyme, of the enzyme activated by Mg2+, Mn2+, and Co2+, and of the metal-free apoenzyme.
9250Mag: !Mag Active calcium uptake by islet-cell endoplasmic reticulum.
9251Mag: !Mag Purification and characterization of a wheat germ protein kinase.
9252Mag: !Mag A membrane-bound protein inhibitor of the high affinity Ca ATPase in rat liver plasma membranes.
9253Mag: !Mag Increased permeability of mitochondria during Ca2+ release induced by t-butyl hydroperoxide or oxalacetate. the effect of ruthenium red.
9254Mag: !Mag The binding of actin to phosphorylated and dephosphorylated myosin.
9255Mag: !Mag Regulation and biochemical characterization of the glutamine synthetase of azotobacter vinelandii.
9256Mag: !Mag Differential inhibition by progesterone of the adenylate cyclase of oocytes and follicle cells of Xenopus laevis.
9257Mag: !Mag Transcription in nuclei isolated from carrot protoplasts: effects of exogenous DNA.
9258Mag: !Mag Role of calcium in trypanocidal drug action.
9259Mag: !Mag Synthetic laminaria for cervical dilatation prior to vacuum aspiration in midtrimester pregnancy.
9260Mag: !Mag Pregnancy termination in patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension or eclampsia at less than 22 weeks' gestation.
9261Mag: !Mag Stimulation of bull seminal Ca2+, Mg2+-dependent endonuclease by various DNA-binding proteins.
9262Mag: !Mag Kinetic studies on the interactions of two forms of inorganic pyrophosphatase of heart mitochondria with physiological ligands.
9263Mag: !Mag Serum concentration of various trace elements in patients with acute and chronic hepatitis
9264Mag: !Mag Effect of pH, mono- and divalent cations on the mixing of phosphatidylglycerol with phosphatidylcholine. A monolayer (pi, delta V) and fluorescence study.
9265Mag: !Mag Analgesia in myocardial infarction. A recent approach
9266Mag: !Mag Utilization of primers and primer-templates by wheat germ RNA polymerase II.
9267Mag: !Mag Divalent cation regulation of adenylyl cyclase. An allosteric site on the catalytic component.
9268Mag: !Mag Gonadotropin receptor binding regulators in serum. Characterization and separation of follitropin binding inhibitor and lutropin binding stimulator.
9269Mag: !Mag 31P nuclear magnetic resonance study of phosphoribosyldiphosphate and its interaction with magnesium ions.
9270Mag: !Mag Polymerization of the tubulin-colchicine complex and guanosine 5'-triphosphate hydrolysis.
9271Mag: !Mag Role of lipid phase separations and membrane hydration in phospholipid vesicle fusion.
9272Mag: !Mag Energetics of the equilibrium between two nucleotide-free myosin subfragment 1 states using fluorine-19 nuclear magnetic resonance.
9273Mag: !Mag The effects of countercation screening on the electrostatic potential of DNA. The r??of the nucleic acid conformation.
9274Mag: !Mag Fine Particles in the Soufriere Eruption Plume.
9275Mag: !Mag Convulsant actions of 4-aminopyridine on the guinea-pig olfactory cortex slice.
9276Mag: !Mag N-methyl-C-aspartate-type receptors mediate striatal 3H-acetylcholine release evoked by excitatory amino acids.
9277Mag: !Mag Divalent cations and fast axonal transport in chemically desheathed (Triton X-treated) frog sciatic nerve.
9278Mag: !Mag Life-threatening hypocalcemia and hypomagnesemia associated with cisplatin chemotherapy.
9279Mag: !Mag Review of present knowledge on the evaluation of the nutritional status of mineral elements. I. Major elements
9280Mag: !Mag Metabolic balance studies and dietary protein requirements in patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
9281Mag: !Mag Ketone-body utilization by homogenates of adult rat brain.
9282Mag: !Mag A comparison of magnesium sulfate and terbutaline for the arrest of premature labor. A preliminary report.
9283Mag: !Mag Filament formation from gizzard myosin for calcium sensitizing effect of skeletal troponin on the contractile activities of gizzard myosin.
9284Mag: !Mag Is there a risk for kidney stone formation in cystic fibrosis?
9285Mag: !Mag Stereo electron microscope studies of mitotic chromosomes from Chinese hamster ovary cells.
9286Mag: !Mag Serum and urinary cation changes on acute induction to high altitude (3200 and 3771 metres).
9287Mag: !Mag Complexes of group IIA cations with adenosine 5'-triphosphate.
9288Mag: !Mag Protein and glycoprotein antifreezes in the intestinal fluid of polar fishes.
9289Mag: !Mag New sintered thermoluminescent dosimeters for personnel and environmental dosimetry.
9290Mag: !Mag Relationship of bone and plasma magnesium in magnesium-deficient cirrhosis patients.
9291Mag: !Mag Polydispersion in the diameter of fibers in fibrin networks: consequences on the measurement of mass-length ratio by permeability and turbidity.
9292Mag: !Mag Evidence for electrogenic Na-Cl symport in the in vitro frog stomach.
9293Mag: !Mag Treatment of refractory hypophosphatemia.
9294Mag: !Mag Superoxide dismutase plus catalase enhances the efficacy of hypothermic cardioplegia to protect the globally ischemic, reperfused heart.
9295Mag: !Mag Cardioplegic infusion: the safe limits of pressure and temperature.
9296Mag: !Mag Functional evidence for the presence of cholinergic nerve endings in the colonic mucosa of the rat.
9297Mag: !Mag Effects of increased calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D intake on bone mineralization in very low-birth-weight infants fed formulas with Polycose and medium-chain triglycerides.
9298Mag: !Mag Magnesium requirement of fingerling channel catfish and signs of magnesium deficiency.
9299Mag: !Mag Mineral contents of selected pre-prepared food sampled in a hospital food service line.
9300Mag: !Mag Interrelations between cerebrospinal fluid and plasma inorganic ions and glucose in patients with chronic renal failure.
9301Mag: !Mag Control of renal function in freshwater and marine teleosts.
9302Mag: !Mag Effects of dietary tin on zinc, copper, iron, manganese, and magnesium metabolism of adult males.
9303Mag: !Mag Isolation, properties, and reassembly of outer sheath carrying a polygonal array from an oral treponeme.
9304Mag: !Mag Properties of oxaloacetate decarboxylase from Veillonella parvula.
9305Mag: !Mag Amiloride in Bartter's syndrome.
9306Mag: !Mag Fluorescein effect on magnesium and total protein determinations.
9307Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium cations in the yeast orotate phosphoribosyltransferase catalyzed reaction. Mechanism of the inhibition by Cu++ and Ni++ ions.
9308Mag: !Mag Drinking water composition and blood pressure: a review of the epidemiology.
9309Mag: !Mag Replication of a low-copy-number plasmid by a plasmid DNA-membrane complex extracted from minicells of Escherichia coli.
9310Mag: !Mag Health effect of occupational exposure to steady magnetic fields.
9311Mag: !Mag Microcalorimetric study of magnesium-adenosine triphosphate ternary complex.
9312Mag: !Mag Inhibition of fibrinogen binding to human platelets by the tetrapeptide glycyl-L-prolyl-L-arginyl-L-proline.
9313Mag: !Mag Minerals, vitamin D, and parathyroid hormone in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
9314Mag: !Mag Behavior of calcium, phosphorus and magnesium in rats subjected to malnutrition in different stages of the gestational period
9315Mag: !Mag Effect of food on antacid neutralizing capacity in man.
9316Mag: !Mag Efficiency of light-driven metabolite transport in the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodospirillum rubrum.
9317Mag: !Mag Cation-dependent binding of substrate to the folate transport protein of Lactobacillus casei.
9318Mag: !Mag A cell-free system for Streptococcus faecium for studies on the biosynthesis of triterpenoid carotenoids.
9319Mag: !Mag Reduction in cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase activity in exudate and cultured mouse peritoneal macrophages.
9320Mag: !Mag Phasic bursting activity of rat paraventricular neurones in the absence of synaptic transmission.
9321Mag: !Mag Electrophysiological analysis of neuronal thermosensitivity in rat preoptic and hypothalamic tissue cultures.
9322Mag: !Mag Effect of polyamines on two types of reaction of purified poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase.
9323Mag: !Mag Biosynthesis of CDP-diacylglycerol in hog mesenteric lymph node lymphocytes.
9324Mag: !Mag Studies on CDP-choline:1,2-diacylglycerol cholinephosphotransferase activity in rat arterial wall.
9325Mag: !Mag Haemodynamics and myocardial metabolism of phosphorus depleted dogs: effects of catecholamines and angiotensin II.
9326Mag: !Mag Physical and kinetic properties of sheep liver pyridoxine kinase.
9327Mag: !Mag Characterization of two RNA polymerase activities induced by mouse hepatitis virus.
9328Mag: !Mag Dietary wheaten bran in baboons: long-term effect on the morphology of the digestive tract and aorta, and on tissue mineral concentrations.
9329Mag: !Mag The blocking action of baclofen on excitatory transmission in the rat hippocampal slice.
9330Mag: !Mag Pancreatic enzyme replacement: the effect of antacids or cimetidine.
9331Mag: !Mag K, Na, Ca and Mg contents in the diet of Nanjing workers (author's transl)
9332Mag: !Mag Isolation and study of a liver alpha-amylase. Comparison with glycogen phosphorylase activity.
9333Mag: !Mag Mg2+ restores membrane potential in rat liver mitochondria deenergized by Ca2+ and phosphate movements.
9334Mag: !Mag Alterations in activity and ultrastructural localization of several phosphatases on the surface of adult rat hepatocytes in primary monolayer culture.
9335Mag: !Mag Some features of methylpyrophosphate hydrolysis by yeast inorganic pyrophosphatase
9336Mag: !Mag Preterm labor: cause and management.
9337Mag: !Mag Ionic shift in cerebral ischemia.
9338Mag: !Mag Fractionation of chromatin, released by nuclease digestion, on ECTHAM-cellulose. Separation of active and inactive chromatin.
9339Mag: !Mag Substrate-dependent inhibition of yeast enolase by fluoride.
9340Mag: !Mag Stabilization of 30 S ribosomal subunits of Bacillus subtilis W168 by spermidine and magnesium ions.
9341Mag: !Mag The influence of Mg2+ on the phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of myosin by an actomyosin preparation from vascular smooth muscle.
9342Mag: !Mag Diagnosis and treatment for Mg homeostasis disorders after surgical treatment of hyperparathyroidism (author's transl)
9343Mag: !Mag Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase activity in midpiece and tail of buffalo spermatozoa and its role in sperm motility.
9344Mag: !Mag Dimerization of the myosin heads in solution.
9345Mag: !Mag Osmotic pressures of solutions of ATP and catecholamines relating to storage in chromaffin granules.
9346Mag: !Mag Protein-bound adenosine 5'-triphosphate: properties of a key intermediate of the magnesium-dependent subfragment 1 adenosinetriphosphatase from rabbit skeletal muscle.
9347Mag: !Mag The cardiomyopathy of primary hypoparathyroidism. A case report.
9348Mag: !Mag Nucleation of actin polymerization from profilactin. Opposite effects of different nuclei.
9349Mag: !Mag Structural preferences of phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylinositol-phosphatidylethanolamine model membranes. Influence of Ca2+ and Mg2+.
9350Mag: !Mag Myocardial protection over the last 20 years
9351Mag: !Mag Molecular properties and kinetic studies on sphingomyelinase of Bacillus cereus.
9352Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of plasma membranes from krebs II ascite cells using Percoll gradient.
9353Mag: !Mag Exchange between inorganic phosphate and adenosine triphosphate in (Na+,K+)-ATPase.
9354Mag: !Mag Solvent effects on ouabain binding to the (Na+,K+)-ATPase of rat brain.
9355Mag: !Mag Effect of a fiber-containing dietary formula on metabolism
9356Mag: !Mag ATP-dependent phosphate transport in sarcoplasmic reticulum and reconstituted proteoliposomes.
9357Mag: !Mag Clinical evaluation of various screening tests for alcoholism
9358Mag: !Mag Promotion by Mg2+ of guanosine 5'-(beta, gamma-imido) triphosphate activation of adenylate cyclase in rat lung and heart membranes.
9359Mag: !Mag Nucleomeric organization of chromatin.
9360Mag: !Mag The effect of activated dimethicone, other antacid constituents, and kaolin on the absorption of propranolol.
9361Mag: !Mag Aging of the erythrocyte. XIV. ATP content does decrease.
9362Mag: !Mag Preparation of inside-out membrane vesicles from neutrophils capable of actively transporting calcium.
9363Mag: !Mag Magnesium in serum of patients with coronary heart disease (author's transl)
9364Mag: !Mag Submicromolar free calcium modulates dexamethasone binding to the glucocorticoid receptor.
9365Mag: !Mag The effect of Mg2+ and Ca2+ on the excitability of Pacinian corpuscles.
9366Mag: !Mag Polymorphism and conformational dynamics of F1-ATPases from bacterial membranes. A model for the regulation of these enzymes on the basis of molecular plasticity.
9367Mag: !Mag Kinetics of acyl transfer ribonucleic acid complexes of Escherichia coli phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase. A conformational change is rate limiting in catalysis.
9368Mag: !Mag A phosphorus 31 nuclear magnetic resonance study of the intermediates of the Escherichia coli succinyl coenzyme A synthetase reaction. Evidence for substrate synergism and catalytic cooperativity.
9369Mag: !Mag Divalent cation modulation of fibronectin binding to heparin and to DNA.
9370Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of sarcoplasmic reticulum ATPase by orthophosphate in the absence of Ca2+ gradient. Contribution of water activity to the enthalpy and the entropy changes.
9371Mag: !Mag Leukotriene B4 and phosphatidic acid are calcium ionophores. Studies employing arsenazo III in liposomes.
9372Mag: !Mag Cystamine-Sepharose. A probe for the active site of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase.
9373Mag: !Mag Incidence of clinical and subclinical hypomagnesaemia in dairy cows in England and Wales.
9374Mag: !Mag Upwelling of Hydrothermal Solutions Through Ridge Flank Sediments Shown by Pore Water Profiles.
9375Mag: !Mag Effect of adenylate cyclase activators and Mg2+ on the binding and the electron spin resonance spectra of N-methylmaleimide nitroxide in membrane particles from the liver fluke Fasciola hepatica.
9376Mag: !Mag Activation and inactivation of purified acetylcholinesterase from Electrophorus electricus by lanthanum (III).
9377Mag: !Mag 3H-dopamine binding to rat striatal D-2 and D-3 sites: enhancement by magnesium and inhibition by guanine nucleotides and sodium.
9378Mag: !Mag Influence of Calcium and Magnesium on Ethylene Production by Apple Tissue Slices.
9379Mag: !Mag Seasonal variation and diagnostic value of plasmatic levels of 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (author's transl)
9380Mag: !Mag Renal excretion of magnesium and trace elements during cisplatin treatment.
9381Mag: !Mag The structure of the EF-Tu . GDP . Me2+ complex.
9382Mag: !Mag Acute nephrotoxicity following cis-dichlorodiammine-platinum.
9383Mag: !Mag Use of magnesium sulfate to control status epilepticus.
9384Mag: !Mag Analysis of urinary calculi collected from 1,020 patients
9385Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and other changes in mineral metabolism in hyperthyroidism
9386Mag: !Mag Osteoporosis and halo traction in scoliosis patients (author's transl)
9387Mag: !Mag The effect of thyroxine, the antithyroid drug propylthiouracil and thyroidectomy on mineral metabolism in rat tissues.
9388Mag: !Mag Major minerals in blood of West African dwarf goats during lactation.
9389Mag: !Mag Modulation of synapse RC1-R15 of Aplysia californica by fiber(s) of the right connective.
9390Mag: !Mag Effect of growth conditions on heat resistance of Arizona bacteria grown in a chemostat.
9391Mag: !Mag Properties of adenylate cyclase of plasma membrane from the rabbit myometrium
9392Mag: !Mag Stray light correction for microspectrophotometric determination of intracellular ion concentration.
9393Mag: !Mag The inorganic constituents of milk. IV. Diffusible calcium and magnesium concentrations in goat's milk and the effect of starvation.
9394Mag: !Mag Participation of core histone "tails" in the stabilization of the chromatin solenoid.
9395Mag: !Mag Dry ashing, hydride generation atomic absorption spectrometric determination of arsenic and selenium in foods.
9396Mag: !Mag Effect of low-salinity drinking water on population health
9397Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of terminally differentiated chicken and rat skeletal muscle myoblasts.
9398Mag: !Mag Urine cortisol levels after burn injury.
9399Mag: !Mag Subunit interactions in luciferase from the firefly Luciola mingrelica. Their role in the manifestation of enzyme activity and during thermoinactivation
9400Mag: !Mag Enzymatic system transforming chlorophyllide into chlorophyll in etiolated leaves using exogenous substrates
9401Mag: !Mag Effects of ionic composition of the environment on quenching of 9-aminoacridine and atebrin fluorescence in chloroplasts
9402Mag: !Mag 18O-exchange reactions in skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscle myosin
9403Mag: !Mag Bone mineral homeostasis, bone growth, and mineralisation during years of pubertal growth: a unifying concept.
9404Mag: !Mag A comparative study of the binding of aldolase and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase to the human erythrocyte membrane.
9405Mag: !Mag Effect of recent food on estimation of high-density lipoprotein and total cholesterol in normal subjects.
9406Mag: !Mag Isolation of a retrovirus from cultured equine sarcoid tumor cells.
9407Mag: !Mag Two cases of tetany in the horse (author's transl)
9408Mag: !Mag Effect of cimetidine and antacid on gastric microbial flora.
9409Mag: !Mag Changes of intracellular and externally bound cations accompanying serum stimulation of mouse BALB/c 3T3 cells.
9410Mag: !Mag Preparation of ATP-MgCl2 and precautions for its use in the study and treatment of shock and ischemia.
9411Mag: !Mag Ca2+ dependence of calcium uptake by rat myometrium plasma membrane-enriched fraction.
9412Mag: !Mag Pica and mineral status in the mentally retarded.
9413Mag: !Mag Energy-rich phosphagens, electrolytes and free amino acids in leg skeletal muscle of patients with chronic obstructive lung disease.
9414Mag: !Mag Left-sided colonoscopy in screening programs. What preparation?
9415Mag: !Mag Serum calcitonin response to administration of calcium in newborn infants during exchange blood transfusion.
9416Mag: !Mag Aryl-L-aminoacylamidase activities in extracts of Streptococcus durans.
9417Mag: !Mag Specific high-affinity binding of L-3Haspartate to rat brain membranes.
9418Mag: !Mag Oxalate stone prophylaxis by alkalinizing therapy (author's transl)
9419Mag: !Mag Reproducible in vitro preparation of intermediate C3d coated red blood cells.
9420Mag: !Mag Functional conservation near the 3' end of eukaryotic small subunit RNA: photochemical crosslinking of P site-bound acetylvalyl-tRNA to 18S RNA of yeast ribosomes.
9421Mag: !Mag Phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of cardiac and skeletal muscles.
9422Mag: !Mag Clinical review: the clinical importance of hypomagnesemia.
9423Mag: !Mag Membrane-associated alkaline phosphatase from Bacillus licheniformis that requires detergent for solubilization: lactoperoxidase 125I localization and molecular weight determination.
9424Mag: !Mag Sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium distribution in the oocytes of the common frog based on x-ray microanalysis data
9425Mag: !Mag Magnesium increases rate of onset of desensitization in frog muscle.
9426Mag: !Mag Mechanisms of immune lysis. III. Characterization of the nature and kinetics of the cytotoxic T lymphocyte-induced nuclear lesion in the target.
9427Mag: !Mag Magnesium
9428Mag: !Mag Activation and release of a trypsin-like proteinase from bovine lens alpha-crystallin.
9429Mag: !Mag Alterations of mammalian oocyte meiosis I with divalent cations and calmodulin.
9430Mag: !Mag Different doses and routes of magnesium sulfate administration in treating severe preeclamptic and eclamptic patients.
9431Mag: !Mag Changes in mitochondrial respiration during the development of Xenopus laevis.
9432Mag: !Mag Inhibition of the serum-dependent, amiloride-sensitive sodium transport pathway in human fibroblasts by extracellular divalent cations.
9433Mag: !Mag Hypoparathyroidism and hypocalcaemia during treatment for acute leukaemia.
9434Mag: !Mag Uptake of metals into the cadmium and zinc resistant Shigella flexneri
9435Mag: !Mag Evidence for an opiomelanotropin acetyltransferase in the rat pituitary neurointermediate lobe.
9436Mag: !Mag Dual type of facilitation at the neuromuscular junction of the frog.
9437Mag: !Mag Enhancement of delta- but not mu-opiate agonist binding by calcium.
9438Mag: !Mag Differential modification of the interaction of cardiac muscarinic cholinergic and beta-adrenergic receptors with a guanine nucleotide binding component(s).
9439Mag: !Mag Vitamin D3 toxicity in dairy cows.
9440Mag: !Mag Neutralization of acid in the rumen by magnesium oxide and magnesium carbonate.
9441Mag: !Mag Dietary sodium bicarbonate and magnesium oxide for early postpartum lactating dairy cows: effects on production, acid-base metabolism, and digestion.
9442Mag: !Mag The effect of chelating agents on the excretion of endogenous metals.
9443Mag: !Mag Studies on the incorporation of membrane proteins into liposomes: --effect of "boundary lipids" on reconstitution of pig heart mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase into liposomes.
9444Mag: !Mag Tonic contraction and the control of relaxation in a chemically skinned molluscan smooth muscle.
9445Mag: !Mag Physiological effects of fibre-rich types of bread. 1. The effect of dietary fibre from bread on the mineral balance of young men.
9446Mag: !Mag Renal cortex ion composition and Na-K-ATPase activity in gentamicin nephrotoxicity.
9447Mag: !Mag Calcium and tension regulation in skinned skeletal muscle fibers.
9448Mag: !Mag Adenine nucleotide and lysine transport in Chlamydia psittaci.
9449Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium content on density-dependent regulation of the onset of DNA synthesis in transformed 3T3 cells.
9450Mag: !Mag Monocyte aggregationaggregation and superoxide anion release in response to formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP) and platelet-activating factor (PAF).
9451Mag: !Mag End-organ response to adrenocorticotropin, thyrotropin, gonadotropin-releasing hormone, and glucagon in hypocalcemic magnesium deficient patients.
9452Mag: !Mag ATPases of the cat carotid body and of the neighbouring ganglia.
9453Mag: !Mag Equilibrium constants for some steps of the reaction cycle of the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium pump.
9454Mag: !Mag Reversible changes in the state of phosphorylation of gizzard myosin, in that of gizzard myosin assembly, in the ATPase activity of gizzard myosin, in that of actomyosin and in the superprecipitation activity.
9455Mag: !Mag Acid-base and electrolyte abnormalities due to capreomycin.
9456Mag: !Mag Multiple actions of acetylcholine on hippocampal pyramidal cells in organotypic explant cultures.
9457Mag: !Mag Neurotransmitter release and its facilitation in crayfish. III. Amplitude of facilitation and inhibition of entry of calcium into the terminal by magnesium.
9458Mag: !Mag Calorimetric assay of yeast inorganic pyrophosphatase interaction with magnesium and phosphate ions
9459Mag: !Mag Deficient autolytic enzyme activity in antibiotic-tolerant lactobacilli.
9460Mag: !Mag Interactions among the effects of normorphine, calcium and magnesium on transmitter release in the mouse vas deferens.
9461Mag: !Mag Ca2+ and calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation of endogenous synaptic vesicle tubulin by a vesicle-bound calmodulin kinase system.
9462Mag: !Mag The importance of magnesium in therapy
9463Mag: !Mag Electric pulse-induced fusion of 3T3 cells in monolayer culture.
9464Mag: !Mag Chemical modification analysis of ion-dependent changes in the solution structure of yeast phenylalanine transfer ribonucleic acid.
9465Mag: !Mag Acquisition of native conformation of ribosomal 5S ribonucleic acid from Escherichia coli. Hydrodynamic and spectroscopic studies on the unfolding and refolding of ribonucleic acid.
9466Mag: !Mag Mechanistic studies of ribonucleic acid renaturation by a helix-destabilizing protein.
9467Mag: !Mag Retinoic acid 5,6-epoxidase. Properties and biological significance.
9468Mag: !Mag Identification of 2-keto-4-methylthiobutyrate as an intermediate compound in methionine synthesis from 5'-methylthioadenosine.
9469Mag: !Mag Initiation of protein synthesis in eukaryotes. Nature of ternary complex dissociation factor.
9470Mag: !Mag The regulation of actin polymerization and the inhibition of monomeric actin ATPase activity by Acanthamoeba profilin.
9471Mag: !Mag Genome-length copies of poliovirion RNA are synthesized in vitro by the poliovirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.
9472Mag: !Mag Reactivation of glutamine synthetase from Escherichia coli after auto-inactivation with L-methionine-S-sulfoximine, ATP, and Mn2+.
9473Mag: !Mag The isolation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae nuclear membranes with nuclease and high-salt treatment.
9474Mag: !Mag On the substrate specificity of the red cell calcium pump.
9475Mag: !Mag Evidence for the existence of a monovalent cation-stimulated, magnesium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase activity in the isolated plasma membranes of amoebas of the slime mold dictyostelium discoideum.
9476Mag: !Mag Aspartate-induced changes in extracellular free calcium in 'in vitro' hippocampal slices of rats.
9477Mag: !Mag All-or-none response of the Ca2+-dependent K+ channel in inside-out vesicles.
9478Mag: !Mag Intracellular magnesium crystallized in the arteries and myocardium: new chemical-physical hypothesis.
9479Mag: !Mag Arsenazo III, a resonance Raman indicator with high selectivity for Ca2+.
9480Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation and activation of poly (A)-endoribonuclease from calf thymus gland.
9481Mag: !Mag Effect of pH and divalent cations on the release and re-entry of RNA in isolated nuclei.
9482Mag: !Mag An oligomycin-resistant Mg2+-dependent ATPase in rabbit bone marrow mitochondria.
9483Mag: !Mag The activation of bovine factor X by bovine factor Xa.
9484Mag: !Mag Free Ca2+ and cytoplasmic streaming in the alga Chara.
9485Mag: !Mag Acute vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol) toxicosis in horses: case report and experimental studies.
9486Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial ATPase inactivation by interaction with its substrate.
9487Mag: !Mag Binding of nucleotides to parvalbumins.
9488Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of a transketolase responsible for formaldehyde fixation in a methanol-utilizing yeast, candida boidinii (Kloeckera sp.) No. 2201.
9489Mag: !Mag Fragmentation of actin filaments.
9490Mag: !Mag Noncovalent binding of 7 beta, 8 alpha-dihydroxy-9 alpha, 10 alpha-epoxytetrahydrobenzoapyrene to deoxyribonucleic acid and its catalytic effect on the hydrolysis of the diol epoxide to tetrol.
9491Mag: !Mag Multiple activities on phosphorylase kinase. 1. Characterization of three partial activities by their response to calcium ion, magnesium ion, pH, and ammonium chloride and effect of activation by phosphorylation and proteolysis.
9492Mag: !Mag Coupling factor for photophosphorylation labeled with eosin isothiocyanate: activity, size, and shape in solution.
9493Mag: !Mag Magnesium reduces affinities of antagonists at rat cortex alpha 2-adrenergic receptors labeled with 3H-clonidine: evidence for heterogeneity of alpha 2-receptor conformations with respect to antagonists.
9494Mag: !Mag 2-Bromoacetylaminopentitol 1,5-bisphosphate as an affinity label for ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase from Rhodospirillum rubrum.
9495Mag: !Mag Kinetic effects of Ca2+ and Mg2+ on ATP hydrolysis by the purified ATP diphosphohydrolase.
9496Mag: !Mag Cardiac phosphorylase kinase. Modulation of the activity by cAMP-dependent and cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of the alpha- subunit.
9497Mag: !Mag Ca2+-mediated activation of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase occurs via release of Fe2+ from rat liver mitochondria.
9498Mag: !Mag Venus: Chemical Weathering of Igneous Rocks and Buffering of Atmospheric Composition.
9499Mag: !Mag Neuromuscular transmission at terminals of sprouted mammalian motor neurones.
9500Mag: !Mag Perforant pathway activation of hippocampal CA1 stratum pyramidale neurons: electrophysiological evidence for a direct pathway.
9501Mag: !Mag Affinity labeling of rabbit skeletal muscle phosphorylase kinase by 5'-(p-fluorosulfonylbenzoyl) adenosine.
9502Mag: !Mag Isolation and solubilization of casein kinase from Golgi apparatus of bovine mammary gland and phosphorylation of peptides.
9503Mag: !Mag Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase activities in rat erythrocytes.
9504Mag: !Mag Separation and preconcentration of trace amounts of several metals in magnesium metal and nitrate, with activated carbon as a collector.
9505Mag: !Mag Water-electrolyte balance in goldfish Carassius auratus, under constant and diurnally cycling temperature conditions.
9506Mag: !Mag Dietary factors affecting the incidence of dietary fat-induced myocardial lesions.
9507Mag: !Mag Primary hypomagnesemia with hypocalcemia. A cause of disease in a child
9508Mag: !Mag Adenylate cyclase from term human placenta and its regulation.
9509Mag: !Mag Calcium and the action of adrenaline, adenosine triphosphate and carbachol on guinea-pig taenia caeci.
9510Mag: !Mag Factor V binding to human platelets: the role of divalent cations and of platelet preparatory methods.
9511Mag: !Mag Factors affecting the calcium, magnesium and phosphorus content of beef cow milk.
9512Mag: !Mag Metabolism of cytokinin: phosphoribosylation of cytokinin bases by adenine phosphoribosyltransferase from wheat germ.
9513Mag: !Mag Genitourinary calcification: an overview.
9514Mag: !Mag The intranuclear distribution of rat uterine estrogen receptors determined after nuclease treatment and chromatin fractionation.
9515Mag: !Mag Zinc, the brain and behavior.
9516Mag: !Mag Intestinal maturation: in vivo magnesium transport.
9517Mag: !Mag Magnesium transport in the cortical thick ascending limb of Henle's loop of the rabbit.
9518Mag: !Mag Advice on limiting intake of bonemeal.
9519Mag: !Mag Kinetic assay of beta-hydroxybutyrate in plasma with a COBAS-BIO centrifugal analyzer.
9520Mag: !Mag Simple, direct measurement of lipoprotein X in serum.
9521Mag: !Mag Activity of serum cytidine deaminase during pregnancy.
9522Mag: !Mag The effect of culture media on the production and measurement of luminol-dependent chemiluminescence.
9523Mag: !Mag Comparable serum salicylate concentrations from choline magnesium trisalicylate, aspirin, and buffered aspirin in rheumatoid arthritis.
9524Mag: !Mag Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in the treatment of hemophilic arthropathy.
9525Mag: !Mag Effects of divalent cations and normorphine on spontaneous excitatory junction potentials in the mouse vas deferens.
9526Mag: !Mag The effect of activated dimethicone and a proprietary antacid preparation containing this agent on the absorption of phenytoin.
9527Mag: !Mag The use of magnesium sulfate as the primary tocolytic agent to prevent premature delivery.
9528Mag: !Mag Binding of 3Htetrahydroleucomycin A3 to Escherichia coli ribosomes and the effect of 3"-O-acyl derivatives of leucomycins on the binding.
9529Mag: !Mag Corticosteroid-induced osteopenia and vitamin D metabolism. Effect of vitamin D2, calcium phosphate and sodium fluoride administration.
9530Mag: !Mag Electron microscopic visualization of recA-DNA filaments: evidence for a cyclic extension of duplex DNA.
9531Mag: !Mag The effects of cations and trypsin on extraction of chlorophyll-protein complexes by octyl glucoside.
9532Mag: !Mag The waters of Epsom Spa.
9533Mag: !Mag Arginyl-tRNA synthetase from Escherichia coli K12: specificity with regard to ATP analogs and their magnesium complexes.
9534Mag: !Mag External calcium and contractile activation during potassium contractures in twitch muscle fibres of the frog.
9535Mag: !Mag Regulation of binding of myosin subfragments with regulated actin by calcium ions in the presence of magnesium ATP.
9536Mag: !Mag Intermembrane contact affects calcium binding to phospholipid vesicles.
9537Mag: !Mag Effect of cadmium on calcium, magnesium and phosphorus content of rat molars.
9538Mag: !Mag Chemical composition of sheep bones as influenced by molybdenum supplementation.
9539Mag: !Mag Factors affecting the lytic susceptibility of some marine and terrestrial bacteria.
9540Mag: !Mag Lymphokine-induced macrophage aggregation: studies on the involvement of Mg2+.
9541Mag: !Mag In vitro repair of gamma-irradiated transforming Bacillus subtilis DNA by extracts of blue-green algae
9542Mag: !Mag Factors influencing human polymorphonuclear leukocyte chemiluminescence.
9543Mag: !Mag Toxoplasma gondii: calcium ionophore A23187-mediated exit of trophozoites from infected murine macrophages.
9544Mag: !Mag The influence of glucose, ammonium and magnesium availability on the production of protease and bacitracin by Bacillus licheniformis.
9545Mag: !Mag Isomorphus ionic replacement: experimental evidence for the hypothesis proposed to explain gallium-67 accumulation.
9546Mag: !Mag Ca2+ coupling in vascular smooth muscle: Mg2+ and buffer effects on contractility and membrane Ca2+ movements.
9547Mag: !Mag Extracellular divalent cations in excitation--contraction coupling: hypertonic solution effects.
9548Mag: !Mag Roles of extracellular and "trigger" calcium ions in excitation--contraction coupling in skeletal muscle.
9549Mag: !Mag The role of free calcium ion in calcium release in skinned muscle fibers.
9550Mag: !Mag The SalGI restriction endonuclease. Mechanism of DNA cleavage.
9551Mag: !Mag Resistance to phosphatase of thiophosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor in A431 membranes.
9552Mag: !Mag Radioimmunoassay for gonadoliberin with active florisil (author's transl)
9553Mag: !Mag Immunological alterations in the mouse following injection or inhalation of silica and olivine dusts.
9554Mag: !Mag Effect of parathyroid hormone on osmotic fragility of human erythrocytes.
9555Mag: !Mag Calcium and ATP regulation of the oscillatory torsional movement in a triton model of Physarum plasmodial strands.
9556Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of 40-S ribosomal subunits by cAMP-dependent, cGMP-dependent and protease-activated protein kinases.
9557Mag: !Mag 5'-Nucleotidase activity enhanced by manganese and magnesium ions with inosine monophosphate substrate.
9558Mag: !Mag Hepatic gluconeogenic enzymes, plasma insulin and glucagon response to magnesium deficiency and fasting.
9559Mag: !Mag Sodium, divalent cations, and guanine nucleotides regulate the affinity of the rat mesenteric artery angiotensin II receptor.
9560Mag: !Mag Kinetics of Mg2+-dependent CF1-ATPase in the presence of stimulators
9561Mag: !Mag Structural and enzymatic comparison of human cardiac muscle myosins isolated from infants, adults, and patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
9562Mag: !Mag Histamine release from isolated rat mast cells by neurotensin and other peptides.
9563Mag: !Mag High-affinity Ca-Mg-ATPase along the rabbit nephron.
9564Mag: !Mag Adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase and the regulation of parathyroid hormone release by divalent cations and agents elevating cellular cAMP in dispersed bovine parathyroid cells.
9565Mag: !Mag Inorganic pyrophosphatase activity in oral streptococci: purification and properties of the enzyme from Streptococcus salivarius.
9566Mag: !Mag Monoclonal antibodies that immunoreact with a cation-stimulated plant membrane ATPase.
9567Mag: !Mag Clinical and urinary characteristics of urolithiasis in ulcerative colitis.
9568Mag: !Mag Reactions of thio analogues of adenosine 5'-triphosphate catalyzed by methionyl-tRNA synthetase from Escherichia coli and metal dependence of stereospecificity.
9569Mag: !Mag Specificity of the catalytic interaction of human DNA polymerase beta with nucleic acid substrates.
9570Mag: !Mag Silica stones in the urinary bladder.
9571Mag: !Mag Residual nucleotide and tubulin's ability to polymerize with nucleotide analogs.
9572Mag: !Mag Studies on the intercellular adhesion of rat and chicken hepatocytes. Conditions for stimulation by liver plasma membranes.
9573Mag: !Mag The Mg2+-induced conformational change in rabbit skeletal muscle G-actin.
9574Mag: !Mag Studies on the intercellular adhesion of rat and chicken hepatocytes. Conditions affecting cell-cell specificity.
9575Mag: !Mag Exploring the adenine nucleotide binding sites on mitochondrial F1-ATPase with a new photoaffinity probe, 3'-O-(4-benzoyl)benzoyl adenosine 5'-triphosphate.
9576Mag: !Mag The high mobility group proteins HMG 14 and 17, do not prevent the formation of chromatin higher order structure.
9577Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency - an often missed diagnosis
9578Mag: !Mag 3H-noradrenaline release potentiated in a clonal nerve cell line by low-intensity pulsed magnetic fields.
9579Mag: !Mag Conformational effects of cation binding to myosin and their relation to phosphorylation.
9580Mag: !Mag A method for obtaining high recovery of purified subcellular fractions of rat liver homogenate.
9581Mag: !Mag In vivo inactivation by acivicin of carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase II in rat hepatoma.
9582Mag: !Mag Relevance of ferritin-binding sites on isolated mitochondria to the mobilization of iron from ferritin.
9583Mag: !Mag Interferent ion effects on the Orion SS-20 Calcium Ion Analyser.
9584Mag: !Mag Metabolism of phosphoinositides in the rat erythrocyte membrane. A reappraisal of the effect of magnesium on the 32P incorporation into polyphosphoinositides.
9585Mag: !Mag A high affinity Ca2+-ATPase in enriched nerve-ending plasma membranes.
9586Mag: !Mag On the nature of Pi-induced, Mg2+-prevented Ca2+ release in rat liver mitochondria.
9587Mag: !Mag A membrane potential-modulated pathway for Ca2+ efflux in rat liver mitochondria.
9588Mag: !Mag Release of the surface coat from the plasma membrane of intact bloodstream forms of Trypanosoma brucei requires Ca2+.
9589Mag: !Mag Studies on the Ca2+ transport mechanism of human erythrocyte inside-out plasma membrane vesicles. V. Chlortetracycline fluorescence.
9590Mag: !Mag Digestion of chromatin to H1-depleted 166 basepair particles by Ca2+/Mg2+-dependent endonuclease.
9591Mag: !Mag Hypoparathyroidism and hypocalcaemia during treatment for acute leukaemia.
9592Mag: !Mag Does the magnesium(II) ion interact with the alpha-phosphate of adenosine triphosphate? An investigation by oxygen-17 nuclear magnetic resonance.
9593Mag: !Mag Fluorescence method for measuring the kinetics of Ca2+-induced phase separations in phosphatidylserine-containing lipid vesicles.
9594Mag: !Mag Potentiated state of the tropomyosin actin filament and nucleotide-containing myosin subfragment 1.
9595Mag: !Mag Modes of Ethylene Action in the Release of Amylase from Barley Aleurone Layers.
9596Mag: !Mag The influence of intravenous infusion of electrolytes on the diurnal excretory rhythms.
9597Mag: !Mag Antacid aspiration in rabbits: a comparison of Mylanta and Bicitra.
9598Mag: !Mag Is the perinuclear position of the centriole maintained by the intermediate filament network?
9599Mag: !Mag Evaluation of activated charcoal and magnesium citrate in the prevention of aspirin absorption in humans.
9600Mag: !Mag Changes in calcium-phosphorus homeostasis in the critically ill patient
9601Mag: !Mag Role of serum magnesium in development of spontaneous atherosclerosis in pigs.
9602Mag: !Mag The effect of magnesium sulphate on convulsions induced by annual ryegrass toxicity.
9603Mag: !Mag Junctions in rat neocortical explants cultured in TTX-, GABA-, and Mg++-environments.
9604Mag: !Mag Command neuron participation in pneumostome response as a defense reflex component in Helix pomatia
9605Mag: !Mag Effect of acetylcholine, noradrenaline and serotonin on septal neurons in vitro
9606Mag: !Mag Synthetic medium for culturing Clostridium sporogenes
9607Mag: !Mag Mineral accretion during prenatal growth of cattle.
9608Mag: !Mag Dietary calcium and phosphorus levels for weanling swine.
9609Mag: !Mag Mineral composition of muscles of 1- to 6-year-old steers.
9610Mag: !Mag Hemodynamic effects of ATP-MgCl2 following shock.
9611Mag: !Mag Hypophyseal-thyroid system function of animals in the early periods after tumor transplantation
9612Mag: !Mag Characterization of DNAse from rat brain
9613Mag: !Mag Chemotaxis of radiolabeled equine neutrophils.
9614Mag: !Mag Molecular arrangement of protochlorophyll aggregated forms in solid films
9615Mag: !Mag Factors affecting in vitro DNA ejection of the Lactobacillus lactis bacteriophage LL-H.
9616Mag: !Mag Magnesium levels of plasma, erythrocyte and urine in patients with diabetes mellitus.
9617Mag: !Mag The effect of immobilization on the number and function of osteoblasts
9618Mag: !Mag Measurement of magnesium by continuous-flow colorimetry.
9619Mag: !Mag Micellar improvement of the calmagite compleximetric measurement of magnesium in plasma.
9620Mag: !Mag 25Mg-NMR investigations of the magnesium ion-DNA interaction.
9621Mag: !Mag Contractility of isolated stratum granulosum cells.
9622Mag: !Mag Dogfish pressor response to potassium blocked by magnesium and phentolamine.
9623Mag: !Mag Ionomycin stimulates secretion of catecholamines from cat adrenal gland and spleen.
9624Mag: !Mag Effects of ATP on lysosomes: inhibition of the loss of latency caused by cooling.
9625Mag: !Mag Relation of myocardial magnesium deficiency to sudden death in ischemic heart disease.
9626Mag: !Mag Eclampsia: treatment and referral.
9627Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium deficiency on intratubular calcium oxalate formation and crystalluria in hyperoxaluric rats.
9628Mag: !Mag Role of magnesium in glutathione metabolism of rat erythrocytes.
9629Mag: !Mag Can vasectomy reduce the incidence of prostatic tumor?
9630Mag: !Mag Diagnostic importance of determining intraduodenal proteolytic activity in the exacerbation of chronic pancreatitis
9631Mag: !Mag Diurnal profiles of plasma magnesium and blood glucose in diabetes.
9632Mag: !Mag Chemical factors influencing adsorption of bacteriophage MS2 to membrane filters.
9633Mag: !Mag Disorders of calcium homeostasis in the fetus and neonate.
9634Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia: implications for the critical care specialist.
9635Mag: !Mag Neuromuscular manifestations of electrolyte disorders.
9636Mag: !Mag Diagnostic strategies in disorders of fluid, electrolyte and acid-base homeostasis.
9637Mag: !Mag Disorders of calcium and magnesium homeostasis.
9638Mag: !Mag Self-normalization of highly transformed 3T3 cells through maximized contact interaction.
9639Mag: !Mag Leukocyte elastase release during blood coagulation. A potential mechanism for activation of the alternative fibrinolytic pathway.
9640Mag: !Mag The activation of the alternative pathway C3 convertase by human plasma kallikrein.
9641Mag: !Mag Minerals in the hair and nutrient intake of autistic children.
9642Mag: !Mag In vitro transcription of viroid RNA into full-length copies by RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from healthy tomato leaf tissue.
9643Mag: !Mag Ethidium bromide stimulation of DNA polymerase activity by stabilization of the primer-template duplex.
9644Mag: !Mag Isolation and characterization of isocitrate lyase of castor endosperm.
9645Mag: !Mag ATP-ADP exchange reaction by fragmented sarcoplasmic reticulum from bullfrog skeletal muscle.
9646Mag: !Mag DNA polymerases of Tetrahymena pyriformis. II. Does an N-ethylmaleimide-resistant polymerase exist in Tetrahymena?
9647Mag: !Mag A simple photometric method for determination of the activity of pyrocin R1.
9648Mag: !Mag Evaluation of Streptococcus pneumoniae type XIV opsonins by phagocytosis-associated chemiluminescence and a bactericidal assay.
9649Mag: !Mag Isolation of a stable enzyme.14CO2.Mg2+.carboxyarabinitol bisphosphate complex with ribulosebisphosphate carboxylase from Chromatium vinosum.
9650Mag: !Mag Adenylate cyclases in vertebrate retina: enzymatic characteristics in normal and dystrophic mouse retina.
9651Mag: !Mag Properties of the hormonally responsive rabbit luteal adenylyl cyclase: effects of guanine nucleotides and magnesium ion on stimulation by gonadotropin and catecholamines.
9652Mag: !Mag Oxalic acid, epsom salt and the poison bottle.
9653Mag: !Mag Influence of ATP on sarcoplasmic reticulum function of vascular smooth muscle.
9654Mag: !Mag Localization and properties of ATPase activity in pea stems and wheat coleoptiles.
9655Mag: !Mag Experimental study of the effect of nonachlazine on the metabolism of the ischemic myocardium
9656Mag: !Mag Mechanism of chromatin degradation in the thymocytes of irradiated rats. 3. Postradiation activation of autolytic disintegration of DNA in isolated thymocyte nuclei
9657Mag: !Mag Structural factors influencing the ability of compounds to inhibit hydroxyapatite formation.
9658Mag: !Mag Role of membrane-bound 5'-nucleotidase in nucleotide uptake by the moderate halophile Vibrio costicola.
9659Mag: !Mag Effect of sodium oleate on oxidative metabolism of isolated mitochondria and submitochondrial particles.
9660Mag: !Mag Rate-limiting steps in the tension development of freeze-glycerinated vascular smooth muscle.
9661Mag: !Mag Permeabilized cells.
9662Mag: !Mag Catecholamines, serotonin and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid in the brain and suprarenals, liver tryptophanpyrolase activity and serum Mg after beta-sympathotropic compounds in rats.
9663Mag: !Mag High voltage electron microscopy studies of axoplasmic transport in neurons: a possible regulatory role for divalent cations.
9664Mag: !Mag Study on the conformational state of Escherichia coli tRNA-Phe in solution by ESR-spectometry without modulation
9665Mag: !Mag In vitro RNA synthesis by infectious pancreatic necrosis virus-associated RNA polymerase.
9666Mag: !Mag Taurine activation of a bicarbonate-dependent, ATP-supported calcium uptake in frog rod outer segments.
9667Mag: !Mag The stoichiometry of the Ca2+ pump in human erythrocyte vesicles: modulation by Ca2+, Mg2+ and calmodulin.
9668Mag: !Mag Magnesium-dependent inhibition of beef heart soluble mitochondrial adenosine triphosphatase by tricyclic antipsychotics.
9669Mag: !Mag Differences between smooth and skeletal muscle myosins in their interactions with F-actin.
9670Mag: !Mag The effects of L-glutamate and its analogues upon the membrane conductance of central murine neurones in culture.
9671Mag: !Mag Effects of extracellular calcium on low frequency induced potentiation and habituation in the in vitro hippocampal slice preparation.
9672Mag: !Mag The influence of detergents on the Ca2+- and Mg2+-dependent adenosine triphosphatase of the sarcoplasmic reticulum.
9673Mag: !Mag Drug effects on uterine activity and labor.
9674Mag: !Mag Preterm labor.
9675Mag: !Mag MG2+ or Ca2+-activated ATPase in squid giant fiber axoplasm.
9676Mag: !Mag Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome in anorexia (author's transl)
9677Mag: !Mag Na+, K+-ATPase: evidence for the binding of ATP to the phosphoenzyme.
9678Mag: !Mag Purification and properties of two endonucleases specific for apurinic/apyrimidinic sites in DNA from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
9679Mag: !Mag Stimulation of RNA synthesis in nucleoli by inorganic phosphate in vitro.
9680Mag: !Mag Control of juvenile hormone biosynthesis. Evidence for phosphorylation of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase of insect corpus allatum.
9681Mag: !Mag The Ca2+ and Mg2+ dependence of Ca2+ uptake and respiratory function of porcine heart mitochondria. Probable physiological significance during the cardiac contraction-relaxation cycle.
9682Mag: !Mag Mechanism of translocation. Binding equilibria between the ribosome, mRNA analogues, and cognate tRNAs.
9683Mag: !Mag Interaction between yeast beta-(1 goes to 3)glucan synthetase and activating phosphorylated compounds. A kinetic study.
9684Mag: !Mag Divalent cation, ATP-dependent 3Hleu-enkephalin uptake by synaptic vesicle fraction isolated from bovine caudate nucleus.
9685Mag: !Mag The mechanism of sodium efflux in yeast.
9686Mag: !Mag On the mechanism of NADP+-linked isocitrate dehydrogenase from heart mitochondria. I. The kinetics of dissociation of NADPH from its enzyme complex.
9687Mag: !Mag Diuretics, magnesium, potassium and sodium.
9688Mag: !Mag Pyridoxylation of essential lysine residues of mitochondrial adenosine triphosphatase.
9689Mag: !Mag Carnitine acyltransferase activities in rat liver and heart measured with palmitoyl-CoA and octanoyl-CoA. Latency, effects of K+, bivalent metal ions and malonyl-CoA.
9690Mag: !Mag Activated charcoal is as effective as fuller's earth or bentonite in paraquat poisoning.
9691Mag: !Mag Vasoactive effect of sera from preeclamptic patients.
9692Mag: !Mag Binding of Escherichia coli RNA polymerase holoenzyme to bacteriophage T7 DNA. Measurements of the rate of open complex formation at T7 promoter A.
9693Mag: !Mag Intestinal bypass in the treatment of obesity. Results of 14 cases (author's transl)
9694Mag: !Mag Susceptibility of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to aminoglycosides: effect of free calcium and magnesium
9695Mag: !Mag Biospecific inactivation of aspartase by L-aspartic-beta-semialdehyde.
9696Mag: !Mag Osteopenia. A problem of long-term dialysis
9697Mag: !Mag Study on conformational states of Escherichia coli tRNAPhe in solution by a modulation-free ESR-spectrometer.
9698Mag: !Mag Chloroplast biogenesis. Detection of monovinyl magnesium-protoporphyrin monoester and other monovinyl magnesium-porphyrins in higher plants.
9699Mag: !Mag Several nucleoside-3' and/or 5'-polyphosphates stimulate beta-galactosidase induction in Escherichia coli.
9700Mag: !Mag Mechanism of cadmium-induced blockade of neuromuscular transmission.
9701Mag: !Mag Synaptic and non-synaptic components of the dorsal horn potential in isolated hamster spinal cord.
9702Mag: !Mag Partial purification and characterization of N-acetylmuramyl-L-alanine amidase from human and mouse serum.
9703Mag: !Mag Binding of calcium and magnesium to myosin in skeletal muscle myofibrils.
9704Mag: !Mag The interactions of tropolone with magnesium ions and tubulin.
9705Mag: !Mag Dosage update.
9706Mag: !Mag Neurobehavioral effects of neonatal hypermagnesemia.
9707Mag: !Mag Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and parkinsonian syndromes in high incidence among the Auyu and Jakai people of West New Guinea.
9708Mag: !Mag Aldehyde dehydrogenases in rat brain. Subcellular distribution and properties.
9709Mag: !Mag Post-tetanic depolarization in sympathetic neurones of the guinea-pig.
9710Mag: !Mag Effect of the ionic environment on the incorporation of the intermediate-sized filament protein vimentin into residual cell structures upon treatment of Ehrlich ascites tumour cells with triton X-100. II. Ultrastructural analysis.
9711Mag: !Mag Effect of the ionic environment on the incorporation of the intermediate-sized filament protein vimentin into residual cell structures upon treatment of Ehrlich ascites tumour cells with triton X-100. I. Biochemical analysis.
9712Mag: !Mag Chemolysis of calculi.
9713Mag: !Mag Plasma spectrometric analysis for Na, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, and Cu in Schistosoma mansoni and S. japonicum.
9714Mag: !Mag Dietary Calcium and phosphorus levels for reproducing sows.
9715Mag: !Mag Peritoneal dialysis using bicarbonate-containing dialysate produced by automated dialysate delivery machine.
9716Mag: !Mag Effect of guanine nucleotides on histamine-sensitive adenylate cyclase from the parietal cells of guinea pig.
9717Mag: !Mag A comparison of the alkali light chain subunits of vertebrate skeletal muscle myosin in free and heavy chain associated states.
9718Mag: !Mag Effect of glucagon on magnesium renal reabsorption in the rat.
9719Mag: !Mag Semen analyses in men with asymptomatic genital gonorrhoea.
9720Mag: !Mag Preliminary observations on the neuromelanic pigment in the substantia nigra nucleus of the cat.
9721Mag: !Mag Comparison of mechanical and chemical properties of extra- and intralobar canine pulmonary arteries.
9722Mag: !Mag Calcium transport in the ileum of uremic rats.
9723Mag: !Mag Disappearance of calcium and other electrolytes from microvolume samples.
9724Mag: !Mag Interrelation of duodenal motility and pancreatic enzyme activity in pancreatitis
9725Mag: !Mag The constituents of fresh frozen plasma stored with citrate phosphate dextrose and their clinical implications.
9726Mag: !Mag Effect of albumin conformation on binding of phenylbutazone and oxyphenbutazone to human serum albumin.
9727Mag: !Mag Homeostasis of the retinal micro-environment. I. Magnesium, potassium and calcium distributions in the avian eye.
9728Mag: !Mag Chromatin structure studied by linear dichroism at different salt concentrations.
9729Mag: !Mag Differences in the composition of preterm and term human milk during early lactation.
9730Mag: !Mag The role of postnatal age and magnesium on parathyroid hormone responses during "exchange" blood transfusion in the newborn period.
9731Mag: !Mag Neonatal manifestations of severe maternal hypertension occurring before the thirty-sixth week of pregnancy.
9732Mag: !Mag Ferrisiderophore reductase activity in Agrobacterium tumefaciens.
9733Mag: !Mag Environmental zinc and cadmium pollution associated with generalized osteochondrosis, osteoporosis, and nephrocalcinosis in horses.
9734Mag: !Mag Comparison of the effects of ATP, Mg2+, and MgATP on the release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone from isolated hypothalamic granules.
9735Mag: !Mag Mineral concentrations in hair as indicators of mineral status: a review.
9736Mag: !Mag Culture conditions for screening of new antibiotics.
9737Mag: !Mag Effect of whole-body gamma radiation on some metals of rat plasma.
9738Mag: !Mag Effect of trace metals on growth of Streptococcus mutans in a teflon chemostat.
9739Mag: !Mag Intracolonic formation of struvite crystals in a patient with congenital megacolon.
9740Mag: !Mag Stability of hexokinase II in vitro and in ascites tumor cells.
9741Mag: !Mag Serum-induced lysis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
9742Mag: !Mag Effects of inhibitors of ornithine and S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylases on L6 myoblast proliferation.
9743Mag: !Mag Renal hypomagnesaemia in human diabetes mellitus: its relation to glucose homeostasis.
9744Mag: !Mag Fractionation and characterization of the phosphoenolpyruvate: fructose 1-phosphotransferase system from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
9745Mag: !Mag Essential role of calcium in cellular internalization of Pseudomonas toxin.
9746Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and ventricular tachycardia: a complication of ulcerative colitis and parenteral hyperalimentation in a nondigitalized noncardiac patient.
9747Mag: !Mag Amounts and distribution of intracellular magnesium and calcium in pancreatic beta-cells.
9748Mag: !Mag Pharmacologic and gastrointestinal tolerance study of an acetylsalicylic acid-based product
9749Mag: !Mag Adenine nucleotide binding sites in normal and mutant adenosine triphosphatases of Escherichia coli.
9750Mag: !Mag Desensitization to Mg2+ of the phosphoenzyme in sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase by the addition of a nonionic detergent and the restoration of sensitivity after its removal.
9751Mag: !Mag A biochemical and ultrastructural study on the endogenous protein kinase activity of secretory granule membranes of prostatic origin in human seminal plasma.
9752Mag: !Mag Oxytocin receptors and mammary myoepithelial cells.
9753Mag: !Mag Isolation and partial characterization of a 5'-nucleotidase specific for orotidine-5'-monophosphate.
9754Mag: !Mag Occupational hygiene in the production of potassium fertilizers
9755Mag: !Mag Expression and structures of human placental hormone genes as a function of placental development.
9756Mag: !Mag Postsynaptic inhibitory effects of Met- and Leu-enkephalin on endocrine and adjacent neurones in the preoptic-septal region of the guinea pig.
9757Mag: !Mag Concerning the coidentity of phosphatidic acid phosphohydrolase and phosphatidylglycerophosphate phosphohydrolase in rat lung lamellar bodies.
9758Mag: !Mag Magnesium promotes both parathyroid hormone secretion and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate production in rat parathyroid tissues and reverses the inhibitory effects of calcium on adenylate cyclase.
9759Mag: !Mag Guanine nucleotide and magnesium ion regulation of the interaction of gonadotropic and beta-adrenergic receptors with their hormones: a comparative study using a single membrane system.
9760Mag: !Mag Evaluation of the accuracy of precipitation methods for HDL cholesterol determination
9761Mag: !Mag Effect of the pH-zero point of charge relationship on the interaction of ionic compounds and polyols with aluminum hydroxide gel.
9762Mag: !Mag Magnesium ferrite as a marker in absorption trials with chicks.
9763Mag: !Mag Nutritional value of feather-meal protein for chicks.
9764Mag: !Mag Antibody-independent complement activation by myelin via the classical complement pathway.
9765Mag: !Mag Chemical transmission between individual Retzius and sensory neurones of the leech in culture.
9766Mag: !Mag Specific association of bromocresol purple anions with a magnesium complex of a phosphorylated intermediate during steady-state hydrolysis of ATP by the Mg2+ + Ca2+-dependent ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum.
9767Mag: !Mag Steady-state plasma desmethyldiazepam during long-term clorazepate use: effects of antacids.
9768Mag: !Mag 25Mg NMR study of Mg2+-ATP, ADP-creatine kinase complexes.
9769Mag: !Mag The effects of magnesium ions on the hydrodynamic shape, conformation, and stability of the ribosomal 23S RNA from E. coli.
9770Mag: !Mag A bacteriophage-induced 5-methyldeoxycytidine 5'-monophosphate kinase.
9771Mag: !Mag Effects of magnesium and N-ethylmaleimide on the binding of 3H-hydroxybenzylisoproterenol to beta-adrenergic receptors.
9772Mag: !Mag Composition of urinary calculi collected in the Durban area.
9773Mag: !Mag Divalent cations and chlorpromazine can induce non-bilayer structures in phosphatidic acid-containing model membranes.
9774Mag: !Mag Determination of the number of superhelical turns by the hyperchromicity of partially denatured covalently-closed DNA molecules.
9775Mag: !Mag Polymorphic phase behaviour of cardiolipin from bovine heart and from Bacillus subtilis as detected by 31P-NMR and freeze-fracture techniques. Effects of Ca2+, Mg2+, Ba2+ and temperature.
9776Mag: !Mag Phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance studies of the methylene and fluoro analogues of adenine nucleotides. Effects of pH and magnesium ion binding.
9777Mag: !Mag Chloroplast biogenesis: biosynthesis of protochlorophyll(ide) via acidic and fully esterified biosynthetic branches in higher plants.
9778Mag: !Mag Magnesium adenosine 5'-diphosphate influences proteolytic susceptibility of myosin in myofibrils.
9779Mag: !Mag 31P nuclear magnetic resonance of phosphonic acid analogues of adenosine nucleotides as functions of pH and magnesium ion concentration.
9780Mag: !Mag Functional groups at the catalytic site of BF1 adenosinetriphosphatase from Escherichia coli.
9781Mag: !Mag Microanalysis of lactose in tissue culture medium using an enzymatic-fluorometric method.
9782Mag: !Mag Biosynthesis of platelet-activating factor. I. Evidence for an acetyl-transferase activity in murine macrophages.
9783Mag: !Mag Properties of thymidylate synthetase from Ehrlich ascites carcinoma cells. Effect of Mg2/ and MgATP2-.
9784Mag: !Mag The control by Ca2+ of the polyphosphoinositide phosphodiesterase and the Ca2+-pump ATPase in human erythrocytes.
9785Mag: !Mag Alpha-thioglycerol sensitive excitatory oxytocin receptors in fowl rectum.
9786Mag: !Mag Regulation of adrenergic stimulation of hepatic adenylate cyclase by divalent cations.
9787Mag: !Mag Model for parathyroid hormone secretion and metabolism in calves.
9788Mag: !Mag Analysis of the Escherichia coli ribosome-ribosomal subunit equilibrium using pressure-induced dissociation.
9789Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial bioenergetics during the initiation of mercuric chloride-induced renal injury. I. Direct effects of in vitro mercuric chloride on renal mitochondrial function.
9790Mag: !Mag Epinephrine activation of phosphofructokinase in perfused rat heart. Properties of the activated and nonactivated forms and the interconverting reactions.
9791Mag: !Mag Reaction mechanism of (Ca2+, Mg2+)-ATPase of sarcoplasmic reticulum. The role of Mg2+ that activates hydrolysis of the phosphoenzyme.
9792Mag: !Mag Catalytic cycle of the biosynthetic reaction catalyzed by adenylylated glutamine synthetase from Escherichia coli.
9793Mag: !Mag Determination of the free-energy coupling for binding of calcium ions and troponin I to calmodulin.
9794Mag: !Mag Magnesium ion inner sphere complex in the anticodon loop of phenylalanine transfer ribonucleic acid.
9795Mag: !Mag Phosphorylation of calcium adenosinetriphosphatase by inorganic phosphate: reversible inhibition at high magnesium ion concentrations.
9796Mag: !Mag The affinity of rabbit muscle fructose-bisphosphatase for fructose bisphosphate.
9797Mag: !Mag A comparative study of plasma membrane Mg2+ -ATPase activities in normal, regenerating and malignant cells.
9798Mag: !Mag Solubilization of Microsomal-Associated Phosphatidylinositol Synthase from Germinating Soybeans.
9799Mag: !Mag In vitro effect of haloperidol, chlorpromazine, imipramine and lithium on the erythrocyte catechol-O-methyltransferase.
9800Mag: !Mag Variation in selected hematological parameters of captive red-tailed hawks.
9801Mag: !Mag Urinary magnesium leak complicating treatment of choriocarcinoma.
9802Mag: !Mag Experimental and clinical studies concerning the influence of natural substances on the crystallization of calcium oxalate (author's transl)
9803Mag: !Mag Factors affecting excretion of human urinary Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein.
9804Mag: !Mag The influence of parathyroid hormone and calcitonin on urinary excretion of calcium, magnesium and inorganic phosphorus in chronically catheterized foetal lambs in utero.
9805Mag: !Mag The effect of sodium intake on zinc excretion in patients with sickle cell anemia.
9806Mag: !Mag Myocardial K kinetics in rats on Mg-deficient diet.
9807Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia in 1,000 treated ambulatory hypertensive patients.
9808Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency following jejunoileal bypass operations for obesity.
9809Mag: !Mag Auto-immune complications of D-penicillamine--a possible result of zinc and magnesium depletion and of pyridoxine inactivation.
9810Mag: !Mag Magnesium treatment of diuretic-induced hyponatremia with a preliminary report of a new aldosterone-antagonist.
9811Mag: !Mag Mineral metabolism in the aging and the aged.
9812Mag: !Mag Eclampsia, thrombocytopenia and acute renal failure. Clinical case and bibliographic review
9813Mag: !Mag The pathology of an inherited cataract of sheep.
9814Mag: !Mag Mineralization of human aortas with coarctation: quantitative electron probe microanalysis.
9815Mag: !Mag Effect of UV-irradiated autologous blood on various morphological and biochemical blood indices and phagocytic activity of the leukocytes in cattle
9816Mag: !Mag Evolution of renal osteodystrophy in patients treated by continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.
9817Mag: !Mag Renal handling of divalent cations and phosphate during water immersion in the awake dog.
9818Mag: !Mag Characterization of three subclasses of DNA-dependent RNA polymerases C from calf thymus.
9819Mag: !Mag Various features of vegetative-humoral regulation in neuroses and neurotic development
9820Mag: !Mag Principles and results of treating the hypertension-hydrocephalic syndrome in children
9821Mag: !Mag Reduction of exogenous oxalate in urine of rats by binding with aluminium-oxyhydrate (Andursil) and an anion-exchanger (Colestid) in the intestinal tract.
9822Mag: !Mag Circadian rhythm of lithogenic substances in the urine.
9823Mag: !Mag Intrauterine mineral supply of the ruminant fetus. Possibilities of placental blood circulation measurement
9824Mag: !Mag An in vitro model for the study of human parathyroid gland tissue: single cell suspensions and monolayer cultures.
9825Mag: !Mag Effect of fluorine on development of experimental atherosclerosis
9826Mag: !Mag Hemodynamic alterations in ischaemic acute renal failure.
9827Mag: !Mag Comparative study of the effect of Cd on the oxidative phosphorylation of liver and kidney mitochondria of rat.
9828Mag: !Mag Effect of propranolol on hypophosphatemia in overweight.
9829Mag: !Mag Hardness and calcium-magnesium ratio of bottled waters and their possible effect on ischemic cardiopathies
9830Mag: !Mag Scanning electron microscopic study of endothelial damage resulting from vein graft contraction during preparation.
9831Mag: !Mag Comparative measurement of transmural gastric potential difference after administration of Euphyllin solution, theophylline solution, ethylenediamine dihydrochloride solution and Riopan, buffered theophylline
9832Mag: !Mag Effects of infrared laser damage to the Euglena photoreceptor on the control of flagellar motility.
9833Mag: !Mag No beneficial effect of ATP-MgCl2 on impaired transmembrane potential and protein synthesis in liver ischemia.
9834Mag: !Mag Effect of Black Sea algae on chicken egg production and on chick embryo development
9835Mag: !Mag Calcium and magnesium in exocrine secretion--an X-ray microanalytical study.
9836Mag: !Mag X-ray absorption spectroscopy (EXAFS and XANES) a structural tool for calcium binding proteins: effect of Mg2+ on Ca2+ binding sites of troponin-C.
9837Mag: !Mag Effect of preventive treatment of acute hypomagnesemia on the biochemical and morphological indicators in cows during the grazing period
9838Mag: !Mag Effect of calcium and magnesium on parathyroid hormone release from human parathyroid tissue in vitro
9839Mag: !Mag Influence of mineral diet of the sow on the sex ratio of the newborn
9840Mag: !Mag Partial characterization of hepatic aldehyde dehydrogenase from the baboon.
9841Mag: !Mag Modulation of peripheral lymphocyte and alveolar macrophage activity by magnesite emissions.
9842Mag: !Mag Hard teeth tissues in rats with experimental rickets. Examinations in electron scanning microscope and microanalyser.
9843Mag: !Mag Use of alizarin red S for histochemical staining of Ca2+ in the mouse; some parameters of the chemical reaction in vitro.
9844Mag: !Mag Regulation of PEP-carboxylase of the facultative methylotrop Acetobacter sp. MB 58
9845Mag: !Mag Microbial flora in the digestive tract and action of lactose on mineral metabolism.
9846Mag: !Mag Re: the use of magnesium-containing phosphate binders in patients with end-stage renal disease on maintenance haemodialysis.
9847Mag: !Mag Blood electrolyte levels in long-term occupational exposure to carbon disulphide.
9848Mag: !Mag Patterns of mid-to-term placental enzymes in rats treated with magnesium sulphate.
9849Mag: !Mag A comparison between Gastrils and Aludrox in the treatment of gastric hyperacidity in general practice.
9850Mag: !Mag Increased noise trauma in guinea pigs through magnesium deficiency.
9851Mag: !Mag Nutritive value of daily diets of adolescents living in boarding schools. II. Calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, iron and potassium contents
9852Mag: !Mag Bartter's syndrome--observations on the pathophysiology.
9853Mag: !Mag Interaction of tablet disintegrants and magnesium stearate during mixing. II. Effect on dissolution rate.
9854Mag: !Mag A new method for cytochemical demonstration of calcium in heart muscle.
9855Mag: !Mag Plasma calcium homeostasis in the guinea pig during the perinatal period.
9856Mag: !Mag Restoration of hepatocellular function and blood flow following hepatic ischemia with ATP-MgCl2.
9857Mag: !Mag Changes in serum phosphate and calcitonin concentrations during elective surgery of the knee.
9858Mag: !Mag An investigation of the effect of an antacid mucosal protective on gastric mucus.
9859Mag: !Mag Development and properties of malignant lymphoma induced by magnesium deficiency in rats.
9860Mag: !Mag Cryptotetany: a lesser known neurophysiological and clinical entity
9861Mag: !Mag The probable binding between cations and stimulatory protein kinase modulator and subsequent stimulation on cerebellar modulator-dependent protein kinases.
9862Mag: !Mag Electrolyte balance during hemofiltration treatment.
9863Mag: !Mag Mitochondrial NADH oxidase activity of adult Hymenolepis diminuta (Cestoda).
9864Mag: !Mag Response of calcium-sensitive cells in the pars intermedia of the goldfish adapted to diluted sea water with different calcium and magnesium contents.
9865Mag: !Mag Calcium-sensitive cells of the pars intermedia and osmotic balance in the eel. II. Response to calcium-free sea water.
9866Mag: !Mag Clinical and biological effects of high doses of vitamin B6 and magnesium on autistic children.
9867Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency contributing to ventricular tachycardia. Two case reports.
9868Mag: !Mag Stimulation of sperm progressive motility by organelles in human seminal plasma.
9869Mag: !Mag Comparison of radioimmunological and conventional acid phosphatase assays in the serum of prostatic cancer patients.
9870Mag: !Mag Pathological mineralization of soft tissues in experimental animals
9871Mag: !Mag Citrate in urine and serum and associated variables in subgroups of urolithiasis. Results from an outpatient stone clinic.
9872Mag: !Mag Chemical modification of myosin by active-site trapping of metal-nucleotides with thiol crosslinking reagents.
9873Mag: !Mag Sodium-calcium ion exchange in skeletal muscle sarcolemmal vesicles.
9874Mag: !Mag Metal contents in duodenal aspirates of normal subjects during pancreozymin-secretin test.
9875Mag: !Mag Intracellular electrolytes and hypertension.
9876Mag: !Mag An assessment of dialysis-associated osteodystrophy in long-term peritoneal dialysis.
9877Mag: !Mag Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis - 1981.
9878Mag: !Mag Rapid and sensitive single-step radiochemical assay for catechol-O-methyltransferase.
9879Mag: !Mag Morphological studies on the epiphyseal growth plate combined with biochemical and X-ray microprobe analyses.
9880Mag: !Mag The behaviour of basal gastric secretion during exercise and restitution in chronic gastric and duodenal ulcer patients (author's transl)
9881Mag: !Mag Effects of low magnesium diet on rat renal ammoniagenesis.
9882Mag: !Mag Biochemical studies of tick embryogenesis. V. Purification and partial characterization of isocitrate lyase from eggs of the tick Hyalomma dromedarii.
9883Mag: !Mag Introduction: the control of ciliary activity.
9884Mag: !Mag Studies on calcium regulation in relation to sodium-potassium balance in the rabbit lens.
9885Mag: !Mag The use of magnesium-containing phosphate binders in patients with end-stage renal disease on maintenance hemodialysis.
9886Mag: !Mag Relation between mineral fertilization and supply of potassium, calcium, magnesium and phosphorus to the population under conditions of intensive plant production in East Germany
9887Mag: !Mag Interaction between ATP, metal ions, glycine, and several minerals.
9888Mag: !Mag A method for estimating free Ca within human red blood cells, with an application to the study of their Ca-dependent K permeability.
9889Mag: !Mag Impairment of reticuloendothelial function following thermal injury and its restoration with ATP-MgCl2 administration.
9890Mag: !Mag Modified axonemes and ciliary membranes in three polychaete species.
9891Mag: !Mag Elevated magnesium excretion in hydronephrotic kidneys.
9892Mag: !Mag Physiology of turkey embryos during pipping and hatching II. selected blood parameters.
9893Mag: !Mag Quantitative determination of lipoprotein-X by phosphotungstate/Mg2+ precipitation method (author's transl)
9894Mag: !Mag Circulatory shock associated with magnesium depletion.
9895Mag: !Mag Precipitation of thiamine and tannic acid by calcium and magnesium cations.
9896Mag: !Mag Prececal and postileal digestibility of elements (Ca, P, Mg) and trace elements (Cu, Zn, Mn) in the horse
9897Mag: !Mag Effects of nutrients present in bold's basal medium on the green alga Stigeoclonium pascheri.
9898Mag: !Mag Mineral requirements of the rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri R.)
9899Mag: !Mag Ion concentrations in serum and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with neuromuscular diseases.
9900Mag: !Mag Cimetidine as an oral antacid before elective Caesarean section.
9901Mag: !Mag Control of the effect of treatment in late threatened abortions using the DU-1 Dynamo-uterograph
9902Mag: !Mag Calcium-phosphate metabolism in chronic polyarthritis
9903Mag: !Mag Effect of therapeutic levels of magnesium sulphate, methyldopa, hydralazine and phenobarbitone on normal term human trophoblast in vitro.
9904Mag: !Mag The microanatomy of the distal tubules, collecting tubules and collecting ducts of the starling kidney.
9905Mag: !Mag Hemodynamic adjusted treatment of hypertension in pregnancy. Part II: Hypotensive drugs.
9906Mag: !Mag Electrocardiographic evidence for a cardioprotective effect of nifedipine during experimental hypercalcemia.
9907Mag: !Mag Treatment of magnesium deficiency after intestinal bypass for obesity.
9908Mag: !Mag Desorption of atropine sulphate and hyoscyamine hydrobromide by various antacids in vitro.
9909Mag: !Mag Isocitrate lyase of conifers (Pinus pinea).
9910Mag: !Mag Cytotoxicity and mutagenicity of dimethylnitrosamine in mammalian cells (CHO/HGPRT system); enhancement by calcium phosphate.
9911Mag: !Mag Effect of macrocyclic esters on mitochondrial and phosphatidylcholine membranes
9912Mag: !Mag Age determination by teeth
9913Mag: !Mag Use of FM01 membrane filters for blood serum ultrafiltration
9914Mag: !Mag Construction, mathematical study and numerical simulation of a calcium turnover model during skeletal muscle contraction.
9915Mag: !Mag Nigeran production in some Aspergillus and Penicillium species.
9916Mag: !Mag Photometric determination of magnesium chlorate in the atmosphere
9917Mag: !Mag Hematologic and trace element alterations following chronic maternal ingestion of propylthiourea.
9918Mag: !Mag Effect of cations on the acetylation of chromatin in vitro.
9919Mag: !Mag Muscle tissue electrolytes in burned subjects.
9920Mag: !Mag Atomic absorption spectrophotometric and X-ray studies of respirable dusts in Indian coal mines.
9921Mag: !Mag Effect of increased magnesium on recovery from ischemia in rat and rabbit hearts.
9922Mag: !Mag Contraction of arterial smooth muscle induced by magnesium ions.
9923Mag: !Mag The serum levels of some trace and bulk elements in cancer patients.
9924Mag: !Mag The effects of diltiazem in dystrophic hamsters.
9925Mag: !Mag Hereditary polymyopathy and cardiomyopathy in the Syrian hamster. II. Development of heart necrotic changes in relation to defective mitochondrial function.
9926Mag: !Mag Comparison of effects of cyanide and acetylcholine on renal hemodynamics and sodium excretion.
9927Mag: !Mag Increasing serum calcium and magnesium concentrations in breast-fed infants: Longitudinal studies of minerals in human milk and in sera of nursing mothers and their infants.
9928Mag: !Mag Influence of osmolality and ionic environment on the secretion of prolactin by human decidua in vitro.
9929Mag: !Mag Rapid method for determining cholesteryl ester transitions of apoB-containing lipoproteins.
9930Mag: !Mag 31P-NMR analysis of synaptic vesicles. Status of ATP and internal pH.
9931Mag: !Mag Magnesium reduces calcium oxalate crystal formation in human whole urine.
9932Mag: !Mag Hypermagnesaemia and anaesthetic management.
9933Mag: !Mag Hypomagnesemia.
9934Mag: !Mag Activation of the guinea pig alternative complement pathway by mouse IgA immune complexes.
9935Mag: !Mag Spontaneous protoplast formation in Methanobacterium bryantii.
9936Mag: !Mag Release of endotoxic lipopolysaccharide by sensitive strains of Escherichia coli submitted to the bactericidal action of human serum.
9937Mag: !Mag Inflammation and resistance of mice against "Plasmodium berghei" (author's transl)
9938Mag: !Mag Drug-receptor interaction on plasmid elimination by phenothiazines and imipramine in Escherichia coli.
9939Mag: !Mag Electron probe and electron energy loss analysis in biology.
9940Mag: !Mag The lipid solubility of fixative, staining and embedding media, and the introduction of LX-112 and poly/bed-812 as dehydrants for epoxy resin embedment.
9941Mag: !Mag Mineral aspects of dentistry.
9942Mag: !Mag Structure of the active center of transketolase.
9943Mag: !Mag Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex from Azotobacter vinelandii: structure, function, and inter-enzyme catalysis.
9944Mag: !Mag The pathogenicity of Yersinia enterocolitica strains isolated from various sources in four test systems.
9945Mag: !Mag Activation of yeast hexokinase by chelators and the enzymic slow transition due to metal-nucleotide interactions.
9946Mag: !Mag Discrimination between activity of (alpha 2-3)-sialyltransferase and (alpha 2-6)-sialyltransferase in human platelets using p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-galactoside as acceptor.
9947Mag: !Mag Orthotopic transplantation of the baboon heart after 20 to 24 hours' preservation by continuous hypothermic perfusion with an oxygenated hyperosmolar solution.
9948Mag: !Mag Mineral metabolism in Rana temporaria L. during the annual cycle. Sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and chloride levels in the serum and lymph.
9949Mag: !Mag Changes in morphology and physiology of olfactory receptor cilia during development.
9950Mag: !Mag Activation of midbrain tryptophan hydroxylase by MgATP. Absence during early postnatal development.
9951Mag: !Mag Experience of an active regimen in the treatment of massive upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage.
9952Mag: !Mag Magnesium and magnesium adenosine triphosphate activation of human propionyl CoA carboxylase and beta-methylcrotonyl CoA carboxylase.
9953Mag: !Mag Induction of antigen-specific lymphocyte unresponsiveness in vitro: possible role of divalent cations and defective function of human T-cell-activating factor (TAF).
9954Mag: !Mag A field trial of cimetidine as the sole oral antacid in obstetric anaesthesia.
9955Mag: !Mag Chromatin-associated deoxyribonuclease activity in liver nuclei isolated from Rana catesbeiana froglets and premetamorphic and T3-induced tadpoles.
9956Mag: !Mag Effects of hypophysectomy and replacement therapy with pituitary homogenates or ovine prolactin on serum calcium, sodium, and magnesium concentrations in bullfrog tadpoles.
9957Mag: !Mag Differences in PH fall, phosphorus content and dissolution of enamel in layers of the oral bacterium Streptococcus mutans deposited in vitro on bovine enamel granules with and without fluoride varnish.
9958Mag: !Mag The value of hair analysis in the assessment of the nutritional status of dental patients.
9959Mag: !Mag Methods in infant nutrition research: balance and growth studies.
9960Mag: !Mag Potassium and magnesium balance in thiazide-treated cardiac patients with special reference to diet.
9961Mag: !Mag Studies on the cellular and subcellular reactions in epidermis at irritant and allergic dermatitis.
9962Mag: !Mag Minimum nutritional requirements for cellular growth and extracellular slime polysaccharide production by the human dental plaque bacterial mutant Actinomyces viscosus T14Av.
9963Mag: !Mag Atomic absorption spectrometric evidence of relationships between some cationic elements in human dentine.
9964Mag: !Mag Spontaneous formation of bladder stones in diabetes insipidus rats (Brattleboro strain).
9965Mag: !Mag Magnesium and primary hyperparathyroidism.
9966Mag: !Mag Magnesium in endocrinology.
9967Mag: !Mag Magnesium deficiency - guidelines for diagnosis and substitution therapy.
9968Mag: !Mag Effect of moduretic and aldactone on electrolytes in skeletal muscle in patients on long-term diuretic therapy.
9969Mag: !Mag The importance of the magnesium ion. Magnesium deficiency-symptomatology and occurrence.
9970Mag: !Mag Magnesium in cardiology.
9971Mag: !Mag Magnesium in Crohn's disease.
9972Mag: !Mag Magnesium problems in gastroenterology.
9973Mag: !Mag The magnesium ion - clinical aspects. Proceedings of a symposium at the annual meeting of the Swedish Society of Medical Sciences, Stockholm, December 1981.
9974Mag: !Mag Antacid side-effects on bowel habits.
9975Mag: !Mag Intragastric and intraduodenal investigations.
9976Mag: !Mag Principles for development of antacids.
9977Mag: !Mag Thermal behavior of phosphate-bonded investment. Part 2. Reactions in the systems of MgO-MgNH4PO4.6H2O and MgO-NH4H2PO4 (author's transl)
9978Mag: !Mag Thermal behavior of phosphate-bonded investment. Part 1. Thermal behavior of MgNH4PO4.6H2O (author's transl)
9979Mag: !Mag Fluoride accumulation by Streptococcus mutans from a low ionic medium.
9980Mag: !Mag Comparative study on glycosaminoglycan-sulfotransferases in rat costal cartilage and chick embryo cartilage.
9981Mag: !Mag The medical treatment of dentin
9982Mag: !Mag Effect of magnesium sulfate on maternal and fetal hemodynamics and fetal brain function and metabolism.
9983Mag: !Mag Diet therapy in hypertension
9984Mag: !Mag Comparison of the hydrolysis patterns of several tRNAs by cobra venom ribonuclease in different steps of the aminoacylation reaction.
9985Mag: !Mag Study of copper, zinc, magnesium and cadmium in ICC patients, parents and siblings.
9986Mag: !Mag Magnesium and zinc deficiency and growth retardation in offspring of alcoholic rats.
9987Mag: !Mag Prophylaxis against hypomagnesaemia induced by cis-platinum combination chemotherapy.
9988Mag: !Mag Effect of divalent cations and pH changes on the presynaptic activity of the alpha-latrotoxin from the venom of the Lathrodectus mactans tredecimguttatus spider
9989Mag: !Mag Taurine-calcium interactions in frog rod outer segments: taurine effects on an ATP-dependent calcium translocation process.
9990Mag: !Mag Weak-base induced lysosomal secretion by macrophages: an alternative trigger mechanism that is independent of complement activation.
9991Mag: !Mag Directional protrusive pseudopodial activity and motility in macrophages induced by extracellular electric fields.
9992Mag: !Mag Disintegration of retroviruses by chelating agents.
9993Mag: !Mag Calcium dependence and contraction in somite formation.
9994Mag: !Mag A role for calmodulin in the activation of adenylate cyclase by vasopressin.
9995Mag: !Mag Activation and assay of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase.
9996Mag: !Mag Glycosphingolipid biosynthesis in rat bone marrow cells.
9997Mag: !Mag Thermostability of the rabies virion. Optical density measurement technique applications.
9998Mag: !Mag The effect of colostral immunoglobulins on hematological and biochemical indicators in calves
9999Mag: !Mag The determination of ultrafiltrable calcium and magnesium in serum.
10000Mag: !Mag Supranucleosomal organization of chromatin. Electron microscopic visualization of long polynucleosomal chains.
1Mig: !Mig The effect of self-regulatory treatment on pain behavior in chronic headache.
2Mig: !Mig Migraine and depression: association and familial transmission.
3Mig: !Mig A case of isolated cerebral angiitis with sequential angiographic changes
4Mig: !Mig A case of ophthalmoplegic migraine with cerebral aneurysm
5Mig: !Mig Unclear disease of the papilla with unusual findings in retinal and choroidal circulation
6Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia after mild head injury in childhood.
7Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia: pathogenesis and prognosis.
8Mig: !Mig Psychological factors and self-reports of muscle pain.
9Mig: !Mig Self-medication of migraine headaches with freebase cocaine.
10Mig: !Mig Migraine and defense mechanisms: psychophysiological relationships in young females.
11Mig: !Mig Migrainous stroke.
12Mig: !Mig Clinical and experimental evidence for a role of calcium entry blockers in the treatment of migraine.
13Mig: !Mig Reduction of the painful sequelae of migraine headache by use of the occlusal diagnostic splint: an hypothesis.
14Mig: !Mig Stress-coping in migraine.
15Mig: !Mig Hypertensive response to levonordefrin in a patient receiving propranolol: report of case.
16Mig: !Mig Calcium channel blockers.
17Mig: !Mig Diagnostic factors in pediatric primary headache.
18Mig: !Mig Referrals and notifications by British optometrists.
19Mig: !Mig Psychological aspects of people with headache undergoing percutaneous electrostimulation: preliminary data.
20Mig: !Mig A neuro-epidemiologic survey in a Limousin town
21Mig: !Mig Epidemiology of headache in the Republic of San Marino.
22Mig: !Mig Disturbances of cerebral blood flow in interictal phase of complicated migraine.
23Mig: !Mig Immune status in patients with Meniere's disease.
24Mig: !Mig Electromyographic and vasomotor activity in tension, migraine, and combined headache patients: the influence of postural variation.
25Mig: !Mig Neurologic evaluation of the fitness for vocational training of students of the school of fashion. The qualifying criteria
26Mig: !Mig Sudden death from cerebral cysticercosis.
27Mig: !Mig Stimulation of inositol phosphate production by propranolol in human neutrophils.
28Mig: !Mig Cheiro-oral syndrome: does it have a specific localizing value?
29Mig: !Mig Chronic ergotamine abuse: evidence of functional impairment of long ascending spinal tracts.
30Mig: !Mig The relationship between headaches and mood.
31Mig: !Mig The construct validity of the MMPI alexithymia scale with psychiatric inpatients.
32Mig: !Mig Acute confusional migraine. Case report and review of literature.
33Mig: !Mig The classification of calcium antagonists by the WHO expert committee: relevance in neurology.
34Mig: !Mig Flunarizine i.v. in the acute treatment of the migraine attack. A double-blind placebo-controlled study.
35Mig: !Mig Spectral EEG analysis and flunarizine treatment in migraine patients.
36Mig: !Mig Flunarizine vs. pizotifen in migraine prophylaxis: a review of comparative studies.
37Mig: !Mig Flunarizine vs. propranolol in the prophylaxis of migraine: two double-blind comparative studies in more than 400 patients.
38Mig: !Mig Onset of action of various migraine prophylactics.
39Mig: !Mig Flunarizine in the treatment of migraine: state of the art. Symposium to the 3rd congress of the International Headache Society. Florence, September 23, 1987. Proceedings.
40Mig: !Mig IgG and IgM anticardiolipin antibodies in patients with lupus with anticardiolipin antibody associated clinical syndromes.
41Mig: !Mig Pulmonary changes induced by tolfenamic acid
42Mig: !Mig A structural imbalance/muscular hyperactivity interactional theory of common migraine pain.
43Mig: !Mig Flunarizine increases PRL secretion in normal and in migraineous women.
44Mig: !Mig Antiphospholipid antibodies--autoantibodies with a difference.
45Mig: !Mig The Nottingham Health Profile: an analysis of its sensitivity in differentiating illness groups.
46Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological reactivity of migraine sufferers in conditions of stress and relaxation.
47Mig: !Mig Benefits and risk of migraine drugs containing ergotamine
48Mig: !Mig Progressive relaxation and propranolol in migraine therapy
49Mig: !Mig Physical therapy of primary headache
50Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with controlled reflex methods and stimulation therapy
51Mig: !Mig Pharmacotherapy of migraine--indications and experiences
52Mig: !Mig Diagnostic considerations in headache
53Mig: !Mig Sleep disorders in children.
54Mig: !Mig Headaches in childhood.
55Mig: !Mig Flunarizine (Sibelium) in the prophylaxis of migraine. An open, long-term, multicenter trial.
56Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine and arterial cervico-cephalic malformations: apropos of a case report
57Mig: !Mig Responsibilities and possibilities of pain consultation
58Mig: !Mig Life events in neurological patients with headache and low back pain (in relation to diagnosis and persistence of pain).
59Mig: !Mig On the pathogenesis of migraine
60Mig: !Mig Therapeutic applications of drugs acting on alpha-adrenoceptors.
61Mig: !Mig Clinical neuropsychiatric and neuromuscular manifestations in systemic lupus erythematosus.
62Mig: !Mig Prevalence of neurologic diseases in Belisario Porras municipality, District of San Miguelito, Panama, 1986
63Mig: !Mig Feverfew--an antithrombotic drug?
64Mig: !Mig Vascular effects of calcium antagonists. Uses in some cerebrovascular disorders.
65Mig: !Mig Epilepsy and headache.
66Mig: !Mig A review of treatment modalities for periodic migrainous neuralgia.
67Mig: !Mig Birth stress, autoimmune diseases, and handedness.
68Mig: !Mig Exteroceptive suppression of temporalis muscle activity in chronic headache.
69Mig: !Mig Risk factors in headache in children from 7 to 15
70Mig: !Mig Effect of increased stimulus rate on brainstem auditory evoked potentials
71Mig: !Mig Physical and mental symptoms of migraine patients in West Germany. Development and use of a Turkish version of the Zerssen health complaint survey
72Mig: !Mig Relief of common migraine by exercise.
73Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania, episodic cluster headache and classic migraine in one patient.
74Mig: !Mig Cluster headache and chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: how to classify borderline cases?
75Mig: !Mig Serotonin in tension headache.
76Mig: !Mig Essential tremor and flunarizine: description of a case.
77Mig: !Mig Flunarizine and migraine in childhood. An evaluation of endocrine function.
78Mig: !Mig Pupillary sympathetic hypofunction and asymmetry in muscle contraction headache and migraine.
79Mig: !Mig Pericranial tenderness in tension headache. A blind, controlled study.
80Mig: !Mig Asymmetric cerebral blood flow patterns in migraine.
81Mig: !Mig Personality inventory for children and childhood migraine. A case-controlled study.
82Mig: !Mig Raynaud's phenomenon in a female population: prevalence and association with other conditions.
83Mig: !Mig Menstrual migraine: a possible pathogenic implication of platelet function.
84Mig: !Mig What is an adequate length of baseline in research and clinical practice with chronic headache?
85Mig: !Mig Migrainous olfactory hallucinations.
86Mig: !Mig Classic migraine: effective prophylaxis with metoprolol.
87Mig: !Mig CO2 gas injection--indications and results
88Mig: !Mig Thyroid-stimulating hormone and prolactin responses to thyrotropin-releasing hormone in common migraine.
89Mig: !Mig Platelet activation in muscle contraction headache and migraine.
90Mig: !Mig An unusual bone defect in the frontal bone
91Mig: !Mig Migraine and oral contraception.
92Mig: !Mig Use of flunarizine in the therapy of hemicrania. Clinical evaluation in 25 patients
93Mig: !Mig Study into classical migraine.
94Mig: !Mig Betablocker vs placebo in vasomotor headache. A double-blind crossover study
95Mig: !Mig On diagnosing "migraine".
96Mig: !Mig Transient cortical contrast enhancement on CT scan in migraine.
97Mig: !Mig Elevated frequency of HLA shared-haplotypes in migraine families.
98Mig: !Mig The thermographically observed effects of hyperoxia on vascular headache patients and non-headache individuals.
99Mig: !Mig Investigation of possible genetoxic effects of feverfew in migraine patients.
100Mig: !Mig Cerebral blood flow asymmetries in headache-free migraineurs.
101Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine causing definitive homonymous lateral hemianopsia in a 19-year-old girl
102Mig: !Mig Headache and migraine in pediatric and adolescent psychiatric patients
103Mig: !Mig Peripheral vascular reactivity in patients with variant angina.
104Mig: !Mig Migraine crisis and neurological focal signs of slow or absent resolution (complicated migraine)
105Mig: !Mig Headache in childhood with special reference to migraine. Discussion of a personal case material of 94 subjects
106Mig: !Mig Food allergy and psychosomatic medicine. New frontiers
107Mig: !Mig Differential effects of 1,4-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers: therapeutic implications.
108Mig: !Mig Five year prospective follow-up on the treatment of chronic headache with biofeedback and/or relaxation.
109Mig: !Mig Behavioral research on headaches: a coded bibliography.
110Mig: !Mig 'Second generation' dihydropyridine calcium antagonists. Greater vascular selectivity and some unique applications.
111Mig: !Mig Extracranial vertebral artery dissections: a review of 13 cases.
112Mig: !Mig Beta-adrenergic blockade in children.
113Mig: !Mig Dental mutilations in exotic civilizations and their significance
114Mig: !Mig Myocardial ischemia with normal coronary vessels. Indication of a vasospastic etiology
115Mig: !Mig Status migrainosus, a separate variant of migraine?
116Mig: !Mig Migraine with muscular aura.
117Mig: !Mig TIA's, migraine and platelets.
118Mig: !Mig Pentazocine in migraine: subjective and pupillary abnormal effects.
119Mig: !Mig Seizures in migraine: warning of an underlying cerebral infarction?
120Mig: !Mig Internal ophthalmoplegia in complicated migraine: a case report.
121Mig: !Mig A case of hemiplegic migraine treated with flunarizine.
122Mig: !Mig Treatment of complicated migraine with sublingual nifedipine.
123Mig: !Mig Migraine and other diseases in women of reproductive age. The influence of smoking on observed associations.
124Mig: !Mig Neurophysiological findings in headache patients. Psychogalvanic reflex investigation in migraineurs and tension headache patients.
125Mig: !Mig Ergotism revealing Horton's disease
126Mig: !Mig Neurobehavioral investigation as a tool for revealing preclinical disorders.
127Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and relaxation training: the effect on headache and associated symptoms.
128Mig: !Mig Recurrent abdominal pain in childhood: an approach to common disorders.
129Mig: !Mig Case records of the Massachusetts General Hospital. Weekly clinicopathological exercises. Case 38-1987. A 22-year-old woman with a pulmonary mass and lesions in the bones and brain.
130Mig: !Mig Therapy for migraine-the current state of the art and perspectives.
131Mig: !Mig Problems in and approaches to the design and evaluation of therapeutic studies in patients with headache.
132Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic mapping in migraine during the critical and intercritical periods
133Mig: !Mig Migraine, migrainous, migrainoid ...
134Mig: !Mig Sublingual flunarizine may still be effective management for acute migraine headache.
135Mig: !Mig Whiplash and its relationship to migraine.
136Mig: !Mig Marijuana and migraine.
137Mig: !Mig Aseptic inflammatory meningeal reaction manifesting as a migrainous syndrome.
138Mig: !Mig Platelet fibrinogen receptors in migraine patients.
139Mig: !Mig Headache may arise from perturbation of brain.
140Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine. Differential diagnosis of transitory ischemic attacks 
141Mig: !Mig The development of a comprehensive headache diary--verbal descriptor scales.
142Mig: !Mig Headaches. Evaluation and therapy.
143Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: a case report. Long-lasting remission in the chronic stage.
144Mig: !Mig Episodic paroxysmal hemicrania?
145Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania in a South African black. A case report.
146Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: orbital phlebography and steroid treatment. A case report.
147Mig: !Mig "Hemicrania continua": a third Norwegian case.
148Mig: !Mig "Hemicrania continua": a case report.
149Mig: !Mig "Hemicrania continua": the first bilateral case?
150Mig: !Mig "Hemicrania continua": a new clinical entity or a further development from cluster headache? A case report.
151Mig: !Mig "Hemicrania continua"--new developments.
152Mig: !Mig The benefits of being sick.
153Mig: !Mig Significance of hormonal changes in migraine and cluster headache.
154Mig: !Mig Cerebral vasospasm.
155Mig: !Mig Value of the study of contingent negative variation in migraine and tension headache
156Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine with flunarizine and acetylsalicylic acid. A double-blind study
157Mig: !Mig Comparative efficacy of nadolol and propranolol in the management of migraine.
158Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: recent developments.
159Mig: !Mig Post-epileptic headache and migraine.
160Mig: !Mig Ergotamine dependency--a review.
161Mig: !Mig EEG studies in bruxism with headache patients
162Mig: !Mig Indications for L-5-hydroxytryptophan in neurology
163Mig: !Mig Recurrent scintillating scotoma and homonymous hemianopia due to metastatic melanoma.
164Mig: !Mig Migraine headache: a call for humane treatment.
165Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine wrongly attributed to measles immunization.
166Mig: !Mig Unilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia, migraine, and supratentorial arteriovenous malformation.
167Mig: !Mig Oculomotor nerve palsy in childhood.
168Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological correlates of induced headaches.
169Mig: !Mig Phenelzine in migraine headaches.
170Mig: !Mig Focal ischaemia caused by instability of cerebrovascular tone during attacks of hemiplegic migraine. A regional cerebral blood flow study.
171Mig: !Mig Migraine-related strokes. Clinical profile and prognosis in 20 patients.
172Mig: !Mig Serotonergic neuron stimulation modulates thalamocortical glucose use in the conscious rat.
173Mig: !Mig Clonidine in neuropsychiatric disorders: a review.
174Mig: !Mig The spectrum of neurologic disease associated with antiphospholipid antibodies. Lupus anticoagulants and anticardiolipin antibodies.
175Mig: !Mig "H response" to photic stimulation in migraine: study with the EEG spectral analysis.
176Mig: !Mig EEG spectral analysis in migraine: effects of hyperventilation.
177Mig: !Mig Syncopal headache. New guidelines
178Mig: !Mig Prolactin, a marker of essential headache?
179Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal migraine: a new entity or a transient form? Apropos of 3 new clinical cases
180Mig: !Mig Confusional migraine
181Mig: !Mig Classic migraine: outlines and related syndromes
182Mig: !Mig Migraine and prolapse of the mitral valve
183Mig: !Mig Use of calcium-antagonist drugs in the preventive therapy of migraine. Experience with verapamil
184Mig: !Mig Flunarizine in the therapy of headache
185Mig: !Mig Flunarizine in the prevention of the migraine crisis of classic and common headache
186Mig: !Mig Treatment of essential headache
187Mig: !Mig Clinical otoneurologic study in migraine patients with symptoms caused by the involvement of the vestibular structures
188Mig: !Mig Visual potentials evoked by flicker and pattern reversal in children with migraine
189Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal vertigo of childhood and migraine. Prognostic study
190Mig: !Mig Forehead and neck electromyographic findings at rest in subjects with muscle-contraction headache. Comparison with migraine subjects and healthy volunteers
191Mig: !Mig Correlation between migraine, infarct lesion and epilepsy. Considerations on a clinical case
192Mig: !Mig Personality profile in migraine patients
193Mig: !Mig Inapparent eye diseases as a cause of headache
194Mig: !Mig Migraine and arterial pressure gradients
195Mig: !Mig Role of blood platelet aggregation in menstrual migraine
196Mig: !Mig Study of blood platelet activation in migraine in childhood
197Mig: !Mig Possibilities and limitations of the therapy of headache
198Mig: !Mig Platelet release of dopamine in the common migraine attack
199Mig: !Mig Pilot studies with a serotonin agonist (AH 25086 B). Efficacy and tolerance in acute migraine attacks.
200Mig: !Mig Demonstration, by the cartographic test, of an unusual reaction to intermittent light stimulation in patients with migraine
201Mig: !Mig Migraine is not a platelet disorder.
202Mig: !Mig Oculomotor ophthalmoplegic migraine in an infant.
203Mig: !Mig Stroke in migraine as a consequence of propranolol.
204Mig: !Mig New aspects of differential vertigo diagnosis in childhood
205Mig: !Mig Herbal therapy for migraine. An unconventional approach.
206Mig: !Mig Migrainous neurologic dysfunction in Hodgkin's disease.
207Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with intramuscular chlorpromazine.
208Mig: !Mig High resolution images of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF).
209Mig: !Mig Investigation of some biological trait markers in migraine: deuterated tyramine challenge test, monoamine oxidase, phenolsulfotransferase and plasma and urinary biogenic amine and acid metabolite levels.
210Mig: !Mig Coexistence of idiopathic spontaneous nocturnal enuresis and migraine in children
211Mig: !Mig Migraine-epilepsy relationships.
212Mig: !Mig The platelet and migraine: a nonspecific association.
213Mig: !Mig Atenolol in migraine prophylaxis a double-blind cross-over multicentre study.
214Mig: !Mig St. Anthony's fire, then and now: a case report and historical review.
215Mig: !Mig Increased prolactin response to thyrotropin releasing hormone during migraine attacks.
216Mig: !Mig Multiple sclerosis and possible relationship to cocoa: a hypothesis.
217Mig: !Mig Psychotropic drugs in internal medicine. III. Uses and indications in non-psychiatric patients
218Mig: !Mig Headache and epilepsy in childhood: analysis of a series of 620 children.
219Mig: !Mig This is how patients can feel ... Pain, don't even mention it
220Mig: !Mig Use of verapamil in the treatment of migraine
221Mig: !Mig Pharmacological treatment of primary headache: analysis of current practice from a drug utilization study.
222Mig: !Mig Migraine, large pupils, mitral valve prolapse and emotional disturbances: an autonomic disorder.
223Mig: !Mig A short-term trial of an analogue of eel-calcitonin in headache.
224Mig: !Mig The role of MRI in the evaluation of a migraine population: preliminary data.
225Mig: !Mig Advances in the treatment of headache.
226Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia and migraine in twin sisters.
227Mig: !Mig Effect of a carbohydrate-rich diet, low in protein-tryptophan, in classic and common migraine.
228Mig: !Mig Site of action of contrast media on cerebral vessels.
229Mig: !Mig "Cervicogenic headache": clinical manifestation.
230Mig: !Mig Psychophysiologic response patterns in migraine before and after temperature biofeedback. Prediction of treatment outcome.
231Mig: !Mig MMPI profiles in migraine before and after biofeedback treatment. Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory.
232Mig: !Mig Mianserin pharmacokinetics and behavior in hyperkinetic children.
233Mig: !Mig Headaches in children and adolescents. Classification and recommendations.
234Mig: !Mig Muscle contraction headache. Overview and update of a common affliction.
235Mig: !Mig Headache in cerebrovascular disease. A common symptom of stroke.
236Mig: !Mig Migraine headache. Working for the best outcome.
237Mig: !Mig Anxiety and life events in childhood migraine.
238Mig: !Mig Management of headaches in children.
239Mig: !Mig Multiaxial characterization of depressive patients.
240Mig: !Mig Late-life migraine accompaniments: a case presentation and literature review.
241Mig: !Mig Left-handedness and immune disorders in familial dyslexics.
242Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal vertigo and migraine.
243Mig: !Mig Pharmacologic management of migraine headaches.
244Mig: !Mig Quincke edema as a manifestation of food allergy
245Mig: !Mig Menstrual migraine: differential diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment.
246Mig: !Mig The epidemiology and social impact of premenstrual symptoms.
247Mig: !Mig Dihydroergotamine nasal spray during migraine attacks. A double-blind crossover study with placebo.
248Mig: !Mig Migraine and the lupus anticoagulant. Case reports and review of the literature.
249Mig: !Mig Bilateral cerebral occipital calcifications and migraine-like headache.
250Mig: !Mig Drug treatment of headache: changing concepts and treatment strategies.
251Mig: !Mig Piribedil test in cephalalgic syndromes. Diagnostic and therapeutic usefulness
252Mig: !Mig Migraine: diagnosis, pathophysiology and therapy
253Mig: !Mig Approaches to chronic headache.
254Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine. A commonly misdiagnosed disorder.
255Mig: !Mig Change of cerebrovascular reactivity after cortical spreading depression in cats and rats.
256Mig: !Mig Headache: the status of the problem and its treatment
257Mig: !Mig Changes in platelet function in patients with migraine
258Mig: !Mig Unusual visual phenomenon during acephalgic migraine.
259Mig: !Mig Subcutaneous blood flow in the temporal region of migraine patients.
260Mig: !Mig Role of high thoracic sympathetic neurotomy in the treatment of migraine. Apropos of 125 cases
261Mig: !Mig Migraine
262Mig: !Mig Histamine-release and migraine
263Mig: !Mig The "migraine personality"--more than a myth?
264Mig: !Mig Migraine. Pharmacologic commentary on drugs for the treatment of migraine
265Mig: !Mig Prolactin and migraine.
266Mig: !Mig Comparative study of migraines in relation to their duration of evolution.
267Mig: !Mig Migraine headache and atrial fibrillation.
268Mig: !Mig Exercise-induced migraine prodrome symptoms.
269Mig: !Mig Platelets (again)
270Mig: !Mig Can transient ischaemic attacks and classical migraine always be distinguished?
271Mig: !Mig Migraine prophylaxis. A comparison of propranolol and amitriptyline.
272Mig: !Mig Ischemic stroke in adults younger than 30 years of age. Cause and prognosis.
273Mig: !Mig Symptoms of amaurosis fugax in atherosclerotic carotid artery disease.
274Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia: clinical characteristics and prognosis.
275Mig: !Mig The role of food allergy in migraine: a review.
276Mig: !Mig Anti-cardiolipin antibodies in neurological disorders: cross-reaction with anti-single stranded DNA activity.
277Mig: !Mig A clinical approach: 3. Chronic head and facial pain ii.
278Mig: !Mig Fenoprofen in the prophylaxis of migraine: a double-blind, placebo controlled study.
279Mig: !Mig Controlled study of exclusion of dietary vasoactive amines in migraine.
280Mig: !Mig Acute dizziness
281Mig: !Mig Drugs in migraine
282Mig: !Mig The piribedil test in the diagnosis of migraine
283Mig: !Mig Enhancement of vasoconstrictor and attenuation of vasodilator effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine by the calcium channel blockers nimodipine and nifedipine in the pig.
284Mig: !Mig Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency: adult onset of severe symptoms.
285Mig: !Mig Comparison of self-hypnosis and propranolol in the treatment of juvenile classic migraine.
286Mig: !Mig Headache following spinal anesthesia: also a problem of the local anesthetic used?
287Mig: !Mig On specific behavior of migraine patients in an anger-provoking situation.
288Mig: !Mig Trigger factors in migraine: a study conducted by the Belgian Migraine Society.
289Mig: !Mig Tolosa-Hunt painful ophthalmoplegia. Apropos of a case in a 10-year-old girl
290Mig: !Mig Somnambulism and migraine in children. A non-fortuitous association
291Mig: !Mig Mitral valve prolapse and platelet aggregation in patients with hemiplegic and non-hemiplegic migraine.
292Mig: !Mig Loss of migraine: when, why and how.
293Mig: !Mig Can migraine cause multiple segmental cerebral artery constrictions?
294Mig: !Mig Laterality of pain in migraine distinguished by interictal rates of habituation of electrodermal responses to visual and auditory stimuli.
295Mig: !Mig Migraine and its equivalents in childhood.
296Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of stroke in young adults.
297Mig: !Mig Temperature-biofeedback treatment of migraine headache. Specific effects and the effects of "generalization training".
298Mig: !Mig Alveolar cavitational osteopathosis.
299Mig: !Mig Oral behavioral patterns in common migraine.
300Mig: !Mig Flunarizine, a calcium-entry blocker, in childhood migraine, epilepsy, and alternating hemiplegia.
301Mig: !Mig Recurrent headaches in children: diagnosis and treatment.
302Mig: !Mig Unmasking latent dysnociception in healthy subjects.
303Mig: !Mig Identification of blood leukotrienes in classical migraine.
304Mig: !Mig Ergotismus as a consequence of migraine prevention
305Mig: !Mig ABC of 1 to 7 (revised). Recurrent headache.
306Mig: !Mig Drugs for migraine.
307Mig: !Mig Migraine. A biobehavioral disorder.
308Mig: !Mig The ischemic hypotheses of migraine.
309Mig: !Mig Migraine and sudden sensorineural hearing loss.
310Mig: !Mig Clinical features and mechanism of occipital infarction.
311Mig: !Mig More on sublingual flunarizine.
312Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and the treatment of migraine.
313Mig: !Mig What can precipitating factors teach us about the pathogenesis of migraine?
314Mig: !Mig Somnambulism, migraine and propranolol.
315Mig: !Mig Spatial distribution of head pain as a factor in migraine experience.
316Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania
317Mig: !Mig Do migrainous headaches become more consistently lateralized?
318Mig: !Mig MMPI patterns in chronic muscle pain, tension headache, and migraine.
319Mig: !Mig Acute confusional migraine: clinical and electroencephalographic aspects.
320Mig: !Mig Drug abuse in chronic headache: a clinico-epidemiologic study.
321Mig: !Mig A treatment for the acute migraine attack.
322Mig: !Mig Efficacy of nimodipine in comparison with pizotifen in the prophylaxis of migraine.
323Mig: !Mig The effectiveness of nalbuphine and hydroxyzine for the emergency treatment of severe headache.
324Mig: !Mig Migraine and cerebrospinal fluid alterations: are they an expression of viral meningoencephalitis?
325Mig: !Mig Episodic vertigo in basilar artery migraine.
326Mig: !Mig New anticonvulsants in pediatrics: carbamazepine and valproate.
327Mig: !Mig Whole blood and plasma histamine in common migraine.
328Mig: !Mig Role of spasm in cerebral circulatory pathology
329Mig: !Mig Migraine: diagnosis, pathophysiology and therapy
330Mig: !Mig Drugs in migraine
331Mig: !Mig Sensitivity to PAF is increased in migraine patients.
332Mig: !Mig The 5-hydroxytryptamine system of blood platelets: physiology and pathophysiology.
333Mig: !Mig Ischemia may be the primary cause of the neurologic deficits in classic migraine.
334Mig: !Mig Food allergy and adult migraine.
335Mig: !Mig Sanmigran
336Mig: !Mig Cluster analysis of Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) profiles in a chronic headache population.
337Mig: !Mig Pupil diameter in migraine and tension headache.
338Mig: !Mig Headache classification and factor analysis with a pediatric population.
339Mig: !Mig Geomagnetic activity and the severity of the migraine attack.
340Mig: !Mig EEG features in basilar artery migraine.
341Mig: !Mig Serendipity and food sensitivity: a case study.
342Mig: !Mig Benign recurrent transient monocular blindness: a possible variant of acephalgic migraine.
343Mig: !Mig Transformed or evolutive migraine.
344Mig: !Mig Clinical effectiveness of occlusal splint therapy in patients with classical migraine.
345Mig: !Mig Timolol maleate, a beta blocker, in the treatment of common migraine headache.
346Mig: !Mig Nimodipine versus flunarizine in common migraine: a controlled pilot trial.
347Mig: !Mig Long-acting propranolol in the prophylaxis of migraine.
348Mig: !Mig Computer diagnosis of primary headaches in children.
349Mig: !Mig Transparently blinded trials of methysergide.
350Mig: !Mig Receptor pharmacology of calcium entry blocking agents.
351Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine using flunarizine (results of a pilot study using Amalium)
352Mig: !Mig Somnambulism and migraine: a nonfortuitous association
353Mig: !Mig Discussion, ideas abound in migraine research; consensus remains elusive.
354Mig: !Mig Migraine: many things to many patients.
355Mig: !Mig Oral allergy syndrome (OAS): symptoms of IgE-mediated hypersensitivity to foods.
356Mig: !Mig Effects of beta blockade on contingent negative variation in migraine.
357Mig: !Mig The effect of ergotamine and dihydroergotamine on cerebral blood flow in man.
358Mig: !Mig Methylergometrine antagonizes 5 HT in the temporal artery.
359Mig: !Mig Are there long lasting effects on migraine headache after one series of acupuncture treatments?
360Mig: !Mig Agency and structure in the sociology of sickness.
361Mig: !Mig Problems in childhood migraine.
362Mig: !Mig Drug trials in migraine. The clinician's view on end points.
363Mig: !Mig Some comments on the use of statistics in the evaluation of drug trials in migraine.
364Mig: !Mig Patient numbers needed in prophylactic migraine trials.
365Mig: !Mig Clinical trials in migraine: parallel versus crossover studies.
366Mig: !Mig Migraine trials: crossover or parallel group?
367Mig: !Mig Multi-centre versus single-centre trials in migraine.
368Mig: !Mig Analysis of higher nervous functions in migraine and cluster headache.
369Mig: !Mig Random dominance and childhood migraine: a new marker? A controlled study of laterality in children with migraine.
370Mig: !Mig Syndrome-specific descriptor profiling: a psychophysiological and psychophysical approach.
371Mig: !Mig Impairment of consciousness in migraine.
372Mig: !Mig Headache and the influence of stress. A personal view.
373Mig: !Mig Relief of the migraine pain attack by using the L?r apparatus
374Mig: !Mig Food allergy facts.
375Mig: !Mig Migraine manifestations and lymphocyte pleocytosis of the cerebrospinal fluid
376Mig: !Mig Various aspects of the pathogenesis, clinical picture and treatment of migraine
377Mig: !Mig The nasal patho-physiology of headaches and migraines. Diagnosis and treatment of the allergy, infection and nasal septal spurs that cause them.
378Mig: !Mig Headache and acute illness in children.
379Mig: !Mig Occlusion of the central retinal vein with occlusion of a cilioretinal artery: apropos of 7 cases
380Mig: !Mig Abnormal movements in migraine: a new case
381Mig: !Mig Definitive monocular deficit after ophthalmic migraine
382Mig: !Mig Cutaneous pain threshold in classic and common migraine.
383Mig: !Mig Horton's syndrome
384Mig: !Mig Scalp tenderness and sensitivity to pain in migraine and tension headache.
385Mig: !Mig Cardiovascular reflexes and plasma noradrenaline levels in migraine patients before and during nimodipine medication.
386Mig: !Mig Auditory brainstem evoked potentials in patients with migraine.
387Mig: !Mig Personality and behavioural characteristics in pediatric migraine.
388Mig: !Mig The association between migraine and cerebral vascular events: an analytical review.
389Mig: !Mig The effect of intravenous verapamil on acute migraine headache.
390Mig: !Mig Impairment of consciousness and memory in migraine: a review.
391Mig: !Mig Intramuscular treatment of migraine attacks using diclofenac sodium: a crossover clinical trial.
392Mig: !Mig Scintillating scotoma as the first symptom of systemic lupus erythematosus.
393Mig: !Mig 123I-amphetamine-SPECT in classical migraine and migraine accompagn?
394Mig: !Mig New diagnostic possibilities in nuclear neurology
395Mig: !Mig Focal chronic ischemia and concomitant migraine: an atypical form of Sturge-Weber angiomatosis?
396Mig: !Mig Migraine.
397Mig: !Mig A psychosomatic maelstrom: a case study of a patient with multiple deleterious clinical psychophysiological manifestations.
398Mig: !Mig Effects of sleep duration on classic migraine and depression headache pain: case reports.
399Mig: !Mig Characteristics of spreading depression and of its propagation. Their possible role in migraine.
400Mig: !Mig The EEG background activity in children with migraine.
401Mig: !Mig Autonomic nervous system imbalance in migraineurs.
402Mig: !Mig Sympathergic/neuroendocrine reactivity as a marker of adaptive processes underlying migraine susceptibility.
403Mig: !Mig Naloxone test in primary headache sufferers.
404Mig: !Mig Different forms of migraine in childhood and adolescence: notes on personality traits.
405Mig: !Mig Tardive long lasting hyperemia in classic migraine (migraine with aura).
406Mig: !Mig Use of peripheral dopamine receptor antagonist in gynaecology in certain borderline cases.
407Mig: !Mig Migraine accompagn?in childhood and adolescence
408Mig: !Mig Brainstem auditory evoked potentials with and without increased stimulus rate as diagnostic tool in brainstem minor transient changes.
409Mig: !Mig Chronic illness and contraception
410Mig: !Mig Cerebral blood flow in migraine and cortical spreading depression.
411Mig: !Mig The future for antidepressants: treatment of pain.
412Mig: !Mig Placebo effect and clinical trials in migraine therapy.
413Mig: !Mig Selection of patients--critical aspects.
414Mig: !Mig Selection of patients for clinical drug trials in migraine.
415Mig: !Mig Comparative efficacy of cyclandelate versus flunarizine in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
416Mig: !Mig Cerebral circulatory and metabolic effects of perivascular neurotransmitters.
417Mig: !Mig A case-control study of cerebrovascular disease in Western Australia.
418Mig: !Mig Effect of flunarizine on pituitary secretion by healthy men and in woman with migraine.
419Mig: !Mig CO2 gas insufflation in headache
420Mig: !Mig Regional cerebral blood flow during cortical spreading depression in rat brain: increased reactive hyperperfusion in low-flow states.
421Mig: !Mig Monotherapy or polytherapy in migraine.
422Mig: !Mig Effects of glucagon on plasma cyclic AMP in headache sufferers.
423Mig: !Mig Inhibitory action of methysergide bimaleate on the collagenase of Clostridium histolyticum
424Mig: !Mig The effect of beta-blockade on platelet function and fibrinolytic activity.
425Mig: !Mig Reduced platelet turnover of serotonin in diet restricted migraine patients.
426Mig: !Mig Pathophysiological relevance of serotonin.
427Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal migraine. A review and presentation of 4 new cases
428Mig: !Mig The fortification spectra of migraine.
429Mig: !Mig A case from practice (69). Female patient: E.-M., U., born 1955, restaurant kitchen helper (basilar migraine)
430Mig: !Mig Focal migraine and pregnancy.
431Mig: !Mig Prevention of menstrual migraine by percutaneous oestradiol.
432Mig: !Mig The use of simulated patients in the assessment of actual clinical performance in general practice.
433Mig: !Mig 'Migraine and the TMJ: the final answer?
434Mig: !Mig Prevention of migrainous headaches by tamoxifen.
435Mig: !Mig Migraine in children and reflexotherapy
436Mig: !Mig Effects of extracellular calcium and of the calcium entry blockers flunarizine and nimodipine on contractile responses in human temporal arteries.
437Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine: a childhood syndrome defined.
438Mig: !Mig Vertebral artery angiography and migraine-like symptoms: Hauge's studies reconsidered.
439Mig: !Mig Cervicogenic headache, C2 rhizopathy, and occipital neuralgia: a connection?
440Mig: !Mig The pill.
441Mig: !Mig Computerized telethermographic assessment in migraine, with particular reference to the prodromal phase.
442Mig: !Mig Relationship of migraine headache and stroke to oral contraceptive use.
443Mig: !Mig Calcium antagonists in cardiovascular therapeutics.
444Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate
445Mig: !Mig The difference between non-selective and beta 1-selective beta-blockers in their effect on platelet function in migraine patients.
446Mig: !Mig Effects of L-5HTP with and without carbidopa on plasma beta-endorphin and pain perception. Possible implications in migraine prophylaxis.
447Mig: !Mig Calcium deficiency and supraorbital headache: a clinical study of adult subjects.
448Mig: !Mig Contingent negative variation and efficacy of beta-blocking agents in migraine.
449Mig: !Mig Urinary 5-HIAA in migraine: evidence of lowered excretion in young adult females.
450Mig: !Mig Mechanism of action of calcium antagonists in the treatment of vascular diseases
451Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine with retard dihydroergotamine. Results of a multicenter study in 643 patients
452Mig: !Mig 'Migraine and the TMJ: the final answer?'.
453Mig: !Mig Drug treatment of pain. 4: Headache and migraine, drug interactions, contra-indications, use of analgesics in pregnancy and lactation
454Mig: !Mig Sublingual flunarizine.
455Mig: !Mig Migraine-induced epistaxis.
456Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine after uncomplicated whiplash injuries.
457Mig: !Mig Migrainous olfactory hallucinations.
458Mig: !Mig Migraine and intercalated seizures with occipital EEG paroxysms: observations on a family.
459Mig: !Mig Idiopathic headaches: relationship to life events.
460Mig: !Mig The time relationships of migraine and cluster headache when occurring in the same patient.
461Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine: a new case.
462Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal vertigo in childhood: a longitudinal study.
463Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine attacks in children with dihydroergotamine Spofa and lysenyl
464Mig: !Mig Prevalence of migraine in the southern area of Madrid. Preliminary study
465Mig: !Mig The Pain Behaviour Checklist: factor analysis and validation.
466Mig: !Mig Left atrial myxoma presenting with migraine-like episodes.
467Mig: !Mig Pattern of neurological outpatient practice: implications for undergraduate and postgraduate training.
468Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia and the amnestic syndrome.
469Mig: !Mig Catastrophic migraine.
470Mig: !Mig Benign sexual headache within a family.
471Mig: !Mig Dyslipoproteinemia and migraine.
472Mig: !Mig Desernil-Sandoz
473Mig: !Mig Nadolol and propranolol in migraine management.
474Mig: !Mig Common migraine: a review and proposal for a non-vascular aetiology.
475Mig: !Mig Effect of reserpine on regional cerebral glucose metabolism in control and migraine subjects.
476Mig: !Mig Antibodies to phospholipids and nuclear antigens in patients with repeated abortions.
477Mig: !Mig Food allergy, science and reason.
478Mig: !Mig Neurology of sex steroids and oral contraceptives.
479Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and treatment of headache disorders.
480Mig: !Mig Neuropeptides and their role in nociception and analgesia.
481Mig: !Mig Analysis of the EEG spectrum in attacks of classical migraine
482Mig: !Mig Analysis of the EEG spectrum in attacks of common migraine
483Mig: !Mig Visual disorders as key symptoms of ocular migraine
484Mig: !Mig On migraine, the pill, and stroke.
485Mig: !Mig Unusual angiographic appearance during an attack of hemiplegic migraine.
486Mig: !Mig Piribedil test in migraine: neuroendocrinological aspects.
487Mig: !Mig Treatment of vascular headaches.
488Mig: !Mig A quantitative assessment of photophobia in migraine and tension headache.
489Mig: !Mig Pattern-shift visual evoked responses and EEG in migraine.
490Mig: !Mig The non-epileptiform basilar artery migraine.
491Mig: !Mig Cardiovascular reflex responses during migraine attack.
492Mig: !Mig Treatment of patients with vertebrobasilar occlusive disease.
493Mig: !Mig Stroke and migraine in the Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project.
494Mig: !Mig Hypersensitivity reactions after barium studies of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract.
495Mig: !Mig Childhood migraine. Differential diagnosis and treatment.
496Mig: !Mig Vertebral artery dissection and alternating hemiparesis in an adolescent.
497Mig: !Mig Migraine related to ocular stroke.
498Mig: !Mig Decision analysis of the management of incidental intracranial saccular aneurysms.
499Mig: !Mig Immunoglobulin and complement levels in migraine
500Mig: !Mig Migraine and epilepsy: a retrospective view.
501Mig: !Mig Aura and post-ictal headache in epileptic patients treated with flunarizine.
502Mig: !Mig Methodology of drug trials in migraine.
503Mig: !Mig A role for anticonvulsants in migraine.
504Mig: !Mig Visual hallucinations and migraine.
505Mig: !Mig Transitory isolated, global blindness and headache the possible relationship to migraine.
506Mig: !Mig Impairment of memory and consciousness in migraine: clinical and EEG study.
507Mig: !Mig Pain reflexes in the clinical assessment of migraine syndromes.
508Mig: !Mig Possible role of gonadal hormones as triggering factors in migraine.
509Mig: !Mig Changes in interhemispheric functional balance in epileptic and migraine patients.
510Mig: !Mig Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) studies in migraine and epilepsy.
511Mig: !Mig Spreading depression.
512Mig: !Mig Bulbo-cortical pathways and their possible relevance to migraine and epilepsy.
513Mig: !Mig Migraine and epilepsia: neural basis and calcium modulation. Proceedings of the International Congress. Rome, May 29-31, 1986.
514Mig: !Mig A severe ophthalmologic complication of migraine
515Mig: !Mig A review and clinical perspective on the use of EMG and thermal biofeedback for chronic headaches.
516Mig: !Mig Historical aspects of migraine.
517Mig: !Mig Differential effects of training in relaxation and stress-coping in patients with migraine.
518Mig: !Mig Relaxation skills for the patient, dentist, and auxiliaries.
519Mig: !Mig A possible relationship between migraine and coronary artery spasm.
520Mig: !Mig Is there a common pharmacological link between migraine and epilepsy?
521Mig: !Mig Trigger factors and natural history of migraine.
522Mig: !Mig Migraine and epilepsy.
523Mig: !Mig Malignant migraine: the syndrome of prolonged classical migraine, epilepsia partialis continua, and repeated strokes; a clinically characteristic disorder probably due to mitochondrial encephalopathy.
524Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic alterations in migraine as an expression of "self-deafferentation": a hypothesis.
525Mig: !Mig Partial seizures and migraine.
526Mig: !Mig Non-vascular action of calcium blockers in migraine: pupillopharmacological study.
527Mig: !Mig Pattern of plasma opioids in menstrually-related migraine and epilepsy.
528Mig: !Mig Ocular pseudomigraine after posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation.
529Mig: !Mig Migraine and the temporomandibular joint: the final answer?
530Mig: !Mig Nimodipine-induced changes in the distribution of carotid blood flow and cardiac output in pentobarbitone-anaesthetized pigs.
531Mig: !Mig Transient blood-brain barrier (BBB) damage in migraine.
532Mig: !Mig Can we reliably differentiate Tolosa-Hunt syndrome from ophthalmoplegic migraine?
533Mig: !Mig Autonomic dysfunction in adult migraineurs.
534Mig: !Mig Cardiovascular reflexes in young migraine patients.
535Mig: !Mig The platelet and migraine.
536Mig: !Mig ATP hyposecretion from platelet dense bodies--evidence for the purinergic hypothesis and a marker of migraine.
537Mig: !Mig Immunological studies in cluster headache and migraine.
538Mig: !Mig Cephalic hyperemia during migraine headaches. A prospective study.
539Mig: !Mig Tolerability of naproxen sodium.
540Mig: !Mig Responsiveness of the visual system in childhood migraine studied by means of VEPs.
541Mig: !Mig The uptake, storage, and efflux of serotonin in platelets from migraine patients.
542Mig: !Mig Cluster headache: are we only seeing the tip of the iceberg?
543Mig: !Mig Stroke, migraine and intracranial aneurysm: a case report.
544Mig: !Mig Drug prescribing for chronic medical disorders during pregnancy: an overview.
545Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine: polarity-dependent alteration of brainstem auditory evoked potential.
546Mig: !Mig Psychological comparisons of irritable bowel syndrome to chronic tension and migraine headache and nonpatient controls.
547Mig: !Mig Antidepressants in chronic pain: a review of efficacy.
548Mig: !Mig A randomized general practice group-comparative study of femoxetine and placebo in the prophylaxis of migraine.
549Mig: !Mig L-5-hydroxytryptophan versus placebo in childhood migraine prophylaxis: a double-blind crossover study.
550Mig: !Mig Late-life migraine accompaniments--further experience.
551Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of migraine attacks with a calcium-channel blocker: flunarizine versus methysergide.
552Mig: !Mig Domperidone, a new dopamine antagonist.
553Mig: !Mig Demonstration in children of oligoclonal IgG bands in unconcentrated CSF using agarose isoelectric focusing and immunolabeling.
554Mig: !Mig EEG in migraine
555Mig: !Mig Effects of L-5HTP with and without carbidopa on plasma beta-endorphin and pain perception: possible implications in migraine prophylaxis.
556Mig: !Mig Platelet activity in cluster headache.
557Mig: !Mig Methysergide-induced lower extremity arterial insufficiency.
558Mig: !Mig Compounds extracted from feverfew that have anti-secretory activity contain an alpha-methylene butyrolactone unit.
559Mig: !Mig Migraine provoked by aspartame.
560Mig: !Mig Acupuncture for pain in the cranial region and for blepharospasm without organic cause
561Mig: !Mig Head and neck pain in the elderly.
562Mig: !Mig The posterior cerebral artery syndrome.
563Mig: !Mig Migraine.
564Mig: !Mig Brachial artery stenosis secondary to ergotism and responsive to nifedipine.
565Mig: !Mig Nonhemorrhagic cerebral infarction in young adults.
566Mig: !Mig Dietary treatment of childhood migraine.
567Mig: !Mig Pattern of intracranial and extracranial projections of trigeminal ganglion cells.
568Mig: !Mig Cerebral aneurysms and the 'missed' hemorrhage.
569Mig: !Mig Vascular changes in sporadic ergotism. Epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical picture and diagnosis with particular consideration of angiographic documentation
570Mig: !Mig Desynchronization of noradrenaline and hemodynamic equilibrium in migraine subjects
571Mig: !Mig Desynchronization of serotonin, hemodynamic equilibrium and the recurrence of migraine crises
572Mig: !Mig Chronobiology of dynamic equilibrium and recurrence of migraine crises
573Mig: !Mig Blood gastrin levels in the blood in patients with migraine headaches
574Mig: !Mig Intermittent pupillary dilation in a young woman.
575Mig: !Mig Cerebral infarcts as a complication of migraine
576Mig: !Mig Marital conflicts and exacerbation of headache: some clinical observations.
577Mig: !Mig Neuropsychologic alterations in classic and common migraine.
578Mig: !Mig Management of migraine.
579Mig: !Mig Recognition and treatment of arterial insufficiency from cafergot.
580Mig: !Mig Cardiovascular and biochemical assessment in migraine patients submitted to tilt test.
581Mig: !Mig Transient post-traumatic cortical blindness: brief v prolonged syndromes in childhood.
582Mig: !Mig Propranolol and somnambulism
583Mig: !Mig Cluster headache: a review.
584Mig: !Mig Repetitive intravenous dihydroergotamine as therapy for intractable migraine.
585Mig: !Mig Visual seizures and benign epilepsy in children with paroxysmal occipital discharges
586Mig: !Mig Anorectal ulcers as a complication of migraine therapy.
587Mig: !Mig The short metyrapone test in chronic headache patients.
588Mig: !Mig Platelet activation and migraine: a study with flunarizine.
589Mig: !Mig Pizotifen, an antimigraine drug with venoconstrictor activity in vivo.
590Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic findings in unmedicated, neurologically and intellectually intact Tourette syndrome patients.
591Mig: !Mig Migraine, food and additives
592Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine as a manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus. Presentation of 2 cases
593Mig: !Mig Migraine and diet
594Mig: !Mig Rare pathomorphologic findings in complicated migraine
595Mig: !Mig Pressure-pain threshold in human temporal region. Evaluation of a new pressure algometer.
596Mig: !Mig Results of a controlled, experimental, outcome study of nondrug treatments for the control of migraine headaches.
597Mig: !Mig Acute confusional migraine attacks resolved by sleep: lack of significant abnormalities in post-ictal polysomnograms.
598Mig: !Mig The utilization of the Rorschach test in a case-controlled study.
599Mig: !Mig Use of headache rating scales: a multiaxial approach.
600Mig: !Mig Certain central effects of calcitonin and parathormone
601Mig: !Mig Behavior disorders and body perception in migraine accompagn?in adolescence. Case report and theoretical reflections
602Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia and migraine: familial incidence.
603Mig: !Mig Psychosocial precursors and correlates of migraine headache.
604Mig: !Mig The LA-PF4/PF4 ratio reflects the augmentation of in vivo blood blood platelet activity in migraine patients.
605Mig: !Mig Unusual angiographic appearance during attack of hemiplegic migraine.
606Mig: !Mig Plasma methionine enkephalin. Increased levels during a migraine episode.
607Mig: !Mig An unusual case of migraine accompaniments with permanent sequela--a case report.
608Mig: !Mig The dizzy child.
609Mig: !Mig Chronic headaches in adolescents: treatment in a school setting with relaxation training as compared with information-contact and self-registration.
610Mig: !Mig Segregation analysis of migraine in 128 families.
611Mig: !Mig Is migraine due to a deficiency of pineal melatonin?
612Mig: !Mig Migraine and platelet aggregation in patients treated with low dose acetylsalicylic acid.
613Mig: !Mig Dyschromatopsia following cataract surgery.
614Mig: !Mig Comparison of pharmacodynamic effects and plasma levels of oral and rectal ergotamine.
615Mig: !Mig Selected factors and stroke in young adults, 15-40 years of age.
616Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. X. On the autonomic involvement.
617Mig: !Mig Migrainous central retinal artery occlusion.
618Mig: !Mig Migraine and neurological disorders
619Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal hemicrania with homolateral mydriasis
620Mig: !Mig Results of neurophysiologic studies in ophthalmic migraine
621Mig: !Mig Migraine and its management.
622Mig: !Mig Subjective distress accompanying headache attacks: evidence for a cognitive shift.
623Mig: !Mig Cluster headache and chronic paroxysmal hemicrania--effectiveness of oxygen inhalation
624Mig: !Mig Copper as a factor in the dietary precipitation of migraine.
625Mig: !Mig Glucose and diet in the fasting migraineur.
626Mig: !Mig Differential responsivity of the vasomotor response system to a "novel" stressor.
627Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine: EEG and evoked potential patterns during acute stage.
628Mig: !Mig Observations on prodromes of classic migraine in a headache clinic population.
629Mig: !Mig Prevention of classic migraine headache by digital massage of the superficial temporal arteries during visual aura.
630Mig: !Mig Loss of consciousness in migraine: clinical and EEG findings during an attack.
631Mig: !Mig Evaluation and treatment of headache. Practical approach to a common symptom.
632Mig: !Mig Migraine with tardy pleocytosis.
633Mig: !Mig Comparison of mefenamic acid and propranolol with placebo in migraine prophylaxis.
634Mig: !Mig Cognitive and relaxation treatment of paediatric migraine.
635Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of migraine: a comparison between naproxen sodium and pizotifen.
636Mig: !Mig A combination drug treatment for acute common migraine.
637Mig: !Mig The migraine syndrome in children and adolescents.
638Mig: !Mig Sublingual flunarizine: a new effective management of the migraine attack. A comparison versus ergotamine.
639Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
640Mig: !Mig Ergotism with cerebral complications. Case report and review of the literature
641Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular complications of oral contraceptives. Review of the literature; report of 2 cases
642Mig: !Mig Migraine and low-tension glaucoma. A case control study.
643Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia triggered by mild head trauma.
644Mig: !Mig A case of hemiplegic migraine treated with low-dose aspirin
645Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine with tolfenamic acid, propranolol and placebo.
646Mig: !Mig Classic migraine. A prospective recording of symptoms.
647Mig: !Mig Subjective stress sensitivity and physiological responses to an aversive auditory stimulus in migraine and control subjects.
648Mig: !Mig Calcitonin and migraine.
649Mig: !Mig Classic and common migraine suggestive clinical evidence of two separate entities.
650Mig: !Mig Propranolol in the prophylaxis of migraine.
651Mig: !Mig A controlled study of dihydroergotamine in the treatment of acute migraine headache.
652Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and relaxation-response training in the treatment of pediatric migraine.
653Mig: !Mig Samuel Auguste Tissot (1728-1797). His research on migraine.
654Mig: !Mig High-intensity transcutaneous nerve stimulation at the Hoku acupuncture point for relief of muscular headache pain. Literature review and clinical trial.
655Mig: !Mig Acephalgic migraine.
656Mig: !Mig Simultaneous determination of radio-immunoassayable methionine-enkephalin and radioreceptor-active opiate peptides in CSF of chronic pain suffering and non suffering patients.
657Mig: !Mig Metoclopramide--a review.
658Mig: !Mig Activity of blood platelets and total cholesterol level in the blood of patients with migraine
659Mig: !Mig The gynecologist and the headache
660Mig: !Mig Primary headache (vasomotor headache, migraine, cluster headache) and its relation to EEG and epilepsy
661Mig: !Mig Rare migraine and migraine equivalents: is migraine a pineal syndrome?
662Mig: !Mig Diet and headache. Is there a link?
663Mig: !Mig Migraine in children: association with primary and familial dyslipoproteinemias.
664Mig: !Mig Familial migraine and coronary artery spasm in two siblings.
665Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and cerebral ischemia in young adults
666Mig: !Mig Analysis of clinical and electroencephalographic findings in common vasomotor headache
667Mig: !Mig Confusional state and infantile migraine: report of a case
668Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine: apropos of 3 cases
669Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine by acupuncturing through xuanlu or taiyang to shuaigu.
670Mig: !Mig Significance probability mapping of brain electrical activity--its problem and specified z-statistic mapping
671Mig: !Mig Migraine, mitral valve prolapse and platelet function in the pediatric age group.
672Mig: !Mig A correlative study of immunoglobulin isotype expression in common migraine.
673Mig: !Mig Clinical features of stroke in migraine: a review.
674Mig: !Mig The diagnostic value of high resolution computerized tomography in post-traumatic head pain patients.
675Mig: !Mig Headache clinics: their role in health care systems and science.
676Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: the first possible bilateral case.
677Mig: !Mig Changes in the dopaminergic control of prolactin secretion and in ovarian steroids in migraine.
678Mig: !Mig Methylergometrine, an active metabolite of methysergide.
679Mig: !Mig A placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over trial of flunarizine in common migraine.
680Mig: !Mig A new formulation of aspirin: bioavailability and analgesic efficacy in migraine attacks.
681Mig: !Mig Flunarizine-pizotifen single-dose double-blind cross-over trial in migraine prophylaxis.
682Mig: !Mig Contraceptive use in the chronically ill adolescent female: Part I.
683Mig: !Mig Post-traumatic vertigo in children: a diagnostic approach.
684Mig: !Mig Headache: an epidemiological survey in a Dutch rural general practice.
685Mig: !Mig Conduction velocity and relative refractory period of the sural nerve in patients treated with ergot alkaloids
686Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine.
687Mig: !Mig Emergency evaluation and treatment of headache.
688Mig: !Mig Amelioration of ophthalmoplegic migraine by prednisone: a case report.
689Mig: !Mig Emergency treatment of intractable migraine.
690Mig: !Mig Migraine warnings.
691Mig: !Mig Rapid reversal of ergotamine-induced vasospasm.
692Mig: !Mig Unusual vascular events in the territory of the posterior cerebral artery.
693Mig: !Mig Headache.
694Mig: !Mig Vascular retinopathy in migraine.
695Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine in infancy.
696Mig: !Mig Leao's spreading depression in the hippocampus explains transient global amnesia. A hypothesis.
697Mig: !Mig Principles in the management of headache.
698Mig: !Mig Ergotamine
699Mig: !Mig Immunological aspects of cerebrovascular disease
700Mig: !Mig Chronic meningitis.
701Mig: !Mig MMPI and headache: a special focus on differential diagnosis, prediction of treatment outcome, and patient-treatment matching.
702Mig: !Mig Flunarizine versus pizotifen: a double-blind study in the prophylaxis of migraine.
703Mig: !Mig Neurologic disorders associated with mitral valve prolapse.
704Mig: !Mig Why migraine: discussion paper.
705Mig: !Mig Serotonin and the vascular system. Role in health and disease, and implications for therapy.
706Mig: !Mig Anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy. A correlative clinical and visual evoked potential study of 18 patients.
707Mig: !Mig Unusual acute neurologic presentations with Epstein-Barr virus infection.
708Mig: !Mig Antimigrainous agents used in maintenance treatment
709Mig: !Mig Antimigrainous agents. General considerations and treatment of the crisis
710Mig: !Mig The pharmacotherapy of migraine.
711Mig: !Mig Thrombopenia and migraine. Parallel course of 2 diseases
712Mig: !Mig Treatment for migraine.
713Mig: !Mig Autogenic training and progressive relaxation in the treatment of three kinds of headache.
714Mig: !Mig Obsessions and compulsions in three kinds of headache sufferers: analysis of the Maudsley Questionnaire.
715Mig: !Mig Personal observations on the pathogenesis and therapy of headache syndromes
716Mig: !Mig Headache in relation to masticatory system disorders
717Mig: !Mig Effectiveness of flunarizine in altering electronystagmographic patterns in migraine patients: a preliminary report.
718Mig: !Mig Clinical usefulness of a dopaminergic agonist in headache diagnosis.
719Mig: !Mig Determination of free choline in plasma and erythrocyte samples and choline derived from membrane phosphatidylcholine by a chemiluminescence method.
720Mig: !Mig Benign encephalopathy of pregnancy. Preliminary clinical observations.
721Mig: !Mig Contingent negative variation in headache.
722Mig: !Mig Management of the migraine patient.
723Mig: !Mig Diltiazem: possible hematologic complications.
724Mig: !Mig Cold as an adjunctive therapy for headache.
725Mig: !Mig Migraine--diagnostic problems
726Mig: !Mig Headache in childhood--problems in diagnosis
727Mig: !Mig Combination headache: practical experience with a combination of a beta-blocker and an antidepressive.
728Mig: !Mig Intraarterial sodium nitroprusside infusion in the treatment of severe ergotism.
729Mig: !Mig Migraine and the idiopathic Raynaud phenomenon
730Mig: !Mig Pathophysiologic mechanisms of migraine headache
731Mig: !Mig Electro-ophthalmologic and clinical studies in chronic ergotamine abuse
732Mig: !Mig Prostaglandins and migraine.
733Mig: !Mig Cervical migraine as an expert testimony problem in occupational medicine
734Mig: !Mig Prolactin and migraine: effect of L-dopa on plasma prolactin levels in migraineurs and normals.
735Mig: !Mig Headaches and heart disease: the lack of a positive association.
736Mig: !Mig Unusual transient high and low density CT lesion in migraine: a case report.
737Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine manifesting as transient global amnesia in a 9-year-old child.
738Mig: !Mig Migraine prophylaxis with salmon calcitonin: a cross-over double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
739Mig: !Mig Clinical course and symptomatology of angina pectoris in a population study.
740Mig: !Mig Angioscintigraphic parameters in disorders of the cerebrovascular circulation in the interictal phase of complicated migraine in children
741Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis after long-term daily use of ergotamine.
742Mig: !Mig Mediating factors in non-medical treatment for migraine headache: toward an interactional model.
743Mig: !Mig Venoconstrictor effects of dihydroergotamine after intranasal and intramuscular administration.
744Mig: !Mig Is there a need for alternative approaches in the therapy of cerebrovascular disorders?
745Mig: !Mig The electronystagmographic examination in the study of migraine
746Mig: !Mig Mental disorders in migraine patients
747Mig: !Mig Pharmacological exploration of dopamine hypersensitivity in migraine patients.
748Mig: !Mig Neurological disorders in patients with metastases of breast cancer to the cranial bones
749Mig: !Mig Quantitative radio-isotope cisternography for the investigation of CSF circulation in the posterior fossa and basal cisterns--a preliminary report.
750Mig: !Mig Migraine, a result of increased CSF pressure: a new pathophysiological concept (preliminary report).
751Mig: !Mig An empirical assessment of the migraine personality type.
752Mig: !Mig Mutual inhibition and synergistic effects of ergotamine and the calcium antagonist darodipine.
753Mig: !Mig Effect of total cholesterol level on platelet aggregation in patients with migraine
754Mig: !Mig Blockade of the flare response to intradermal 5-hydroxytryptamine in man by MDL 72.222, a selective antagonist at neuronal 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors.
755Mig: !Mig Pharmacokinetics of methysergide and its metabolite methylergometrine in man.
756Mig: !Mig Migraine and somnambulism. A survey of 122 migraine patients
757Mig: !Mig Headache and (concomitant) depression.
758Mig: !Mig Antiphospholipid antibodies: new data in the pathogenesis of collagenosis
759Mig: !Mig Gilles de la Tourette syndrome: etiologic considerations.
760Mig: !Mig Naproxen sodium in the treatment of migraine.
761Mig: !Mig Naproxen and naproxen sodium in acute migraine attacks.
762Mig: !Mig Prostaglandins: their release, biological effects and relationships to pain and inflammation.
763Mig: !Mig A hidden dimension in headache work: applied history of medicine.
764Mig: !Mig 5-Hydroxytryptophan versus methysergide in the prophylaxis of migraine. Randomized clinical trial.
765Mig: !Mig Role of calcium entry blockers in the prophylaxis of migraine.
766Mig: !Mig Clinical pharmacology of monoamine oxidase inhibitors.
767Mig: !Mig Migraine treatment with calcium channel blockers.
768Mig: !Mig Pathological changes and their sequelae in the spinal nerve roots, spinal cord and vertebral artery in cervical spondylosis
769Mig: !Mig Analgesizing effect of a methyl donor (S-adenosylmethionine) in migraine: an open clinical trial.
770Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine attacks through the use of dihydroergotamine.
771Mig: !Mig Three studies of the psychologic changes in chronic headache patients associated with biofeedback and relaxation therapies.
772Mig: !Mig Pizotifen (Sanomigran) in childhood migraine. A double-blind controlled trial.
773Mig: !Mig Dominant recurrent ataxia and vertigo of childhood.
774Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of headaches.
775Mig: !Mig HLA antigens in the pathogenesis of Meniere's disease.
776Mig: !Mig Use of Redergam (Latergal) in vascular diseases.
777Mig: !Mig Naproxen (Naprosyn). Pharmacokinetics: therapeutical relevance and tolerance profile.
778Mig: !Mig Platelets and prostaglandins.
779Mig: !Mig The hyperexcited brain: glutamic acid release and failure of inhibition.
780Mig: !Mig Effect of flunarizine on regional cerebral blood flow in common and complicated migraine. Pilot study.
781Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate dependency: features and possible mechanisms.
782Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects of prostaglandins and leukotrienes in migraine.
783Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis and treatment of migraine (neuroendocrinologic aspect)
784Mig: !Mig Computerization in industry causes problems for people with reading and writing difficulties (dyslexia).
785Mig: !Mig Hypernociceptive syndromes and pharmacological inhibition of endogenous opioid degradation.
786Mig: !Mig Pharmacologic and therapeutic advancements in neurology
787Mig: !Mig Omura's "Bi-Digital O-Ring Test" as a guide to acupuncture treatment.
788Mig: !Mig Migraine and beta-blockade: modulation of sympathetic neurotransmission.
789Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects of beta-blockade.
790Mig: !Mig Beta blockers and the central nervous system.
791Mig: !Mig Beta-adrenergic effects on cerebral circulation.
792Mig: !Mig Beta-adrenoceptor blockade, platelets, and rheologic factors.
793Mig: !Mig Efficacy of beta-blockers in migraine. A critical review.
794Mig: !Mig Classification and treatment of headache during pregnancy.
795Mig: !Mig Substance-P and enkephalins: a creditable tandem in the pathophysiology of cluster headache and migraine.
796Mig: !Mig Experimental studies on the sensory innervation of the cerebral blood vessels.
797Mig: !Mig Multiple transmitter amines and peptides in cerebrovascular nerves: possible links in migraine pathophysiology.
798Mig: !Mig Migraine: a biobehavioral disorder.
799Mig: !Mig Calcium channel antagonists and the treatment of migraine.
800Mig: !Mig Pain in ophthalmology
801Mig: !Mig Preventive therapy of migraine: flunarizine versus verapamil
802Mig: !Mig Characterization of human platelet beta-adrenoceptors.
803Mig: !Mig Migraine prevention with beta-blockers: a placebo effect?
804Mig: !Mig Migraine and intracranial swelling.
805Mig: !Mig Convulsive crises in childhood
806Mig: !Mig Temporal muscle blood flow in common migraine.
807Mig: !Mig Experimental toothclenching in common migraine.
808Mig: !Mig Warning symptoms in migraine: characteristics and therapeutic implications.
809Mig: !Mig Anti-spasmogenic effects of bencianol (ZY15051) on human cerebral arteries in vitro.
810Mig: !Mig Late post-traumatic headache in pediatric age.
811Mig: !Mig Forty-five years of migraine--observations and reflections "from the inside" by a physician-patient.
812Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia: a case-control study.
813Mig: !Mig Two common neuro-ophthalmic problems. Optic neuritis and transient visual disturbances.
814Mig: !Mig Pain, anxiety, and contingent negative variation: a clinical and pharmacological study.
815Mig: !Mig Cerebral use of a pulsating magnetic field in neuropsychiatry patients with long-term headache
816Mig: !Mig EEG findings in complicated migraine
817Mig: !Mig Changes in headache after treatment of mandibular dysfunction.
818Mig: !Mig Flunarizine, the vestibular system and migraine.
819Mig: !Mig An elderly black woman with a painful, "swollen" face.
820Mig: !Mig Hemicrania treated with zhi pian tong medicinal granules--a report on 150 cases.
821Mig: !Mig Muscle nerve sympathetic activity in migraine. Lack of abnormality.
822Mig: !Mig Efficacy of feverfew as prophylactic treatment of migraine.
823Mig: !Mig Severe arterial spasm and secondary thromboses of the limbs in chronic ergotism
824Mig: !Mig 2 patients with headache
825Mig: !Mig Migraine prevention with dihydroergotamine
826Mig: !Mig Headache.
827Mig: !Mig Non drug treatment for migraine headache with associated Raynaud's disease.
828Mig: !Mig Migraine and cerebral infarction; three case studies.
829Mig: !Mig A case simulating ophthalmoplegic migraine: clinicopathological study.
830Mig: !Mig Child, parent, and physician reports of a child's headache pain: relationships prior to and following treatment.
831Mig: !Mig Migraine symptoms in school children: what is the best diagnostic characteristic for migraine?
832Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine: a follow-up study of 82 cases.
833Mig: !Mig A new syndrome: thrombocytopathia, muscle fatigue, asplenia, miosis, migraine, dyslexia and ichthyosis.
834Mig: !Mig Naloxone in diseases of the central nervous system with a vascular etiopathogenic component
835Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal events which are not seizures.
836Mig: !Mig Successful treatment of migraine attacks with intravenous injection of aspirin.
837Mig: !Mig Pressure headache (cough headache)--definition and comments on etiology
838Mig: !Mig Central visual syndromes
839Mig: !Mig Effect of oral clonidine on human cardiovascular responsiveness: a possible explanation of the therapeutic action of the drug in menopausal flushing and migraine.
840Mig: !Mig Validity of out-patient screening in arteriosclerosis to identify multiple lesions.
841Mig: !Mig Syncope in adolescents.
842Mig: !Mig Headaches in older patients: Ddx and Tx of common nonvascular causes.
843Mig: !Mig Refractory migraine headache controlled with alprazolam: case report.
844Mig: !Mig Migraine
845Mig: !Mig A case of migraine associated with paralysis of the hypoglossal nerve
846Mig: !Mig Eicosanoids in the central nervous system.
847Mig: !Mig Beta-adrenergic inhibitors and migraine
848Mig: !Mig Migraine is not a platelet disorder.
849Mig: !Mig Efficacy of feverfew as prophylactic treatment of migraine.
850Mig: !Mig Food sensitivity.
851Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine and 5-allyl-beta-oxypropylmalonylurea
852Mig: !Mig Is migraine explained by Leao's spreading depression?
853Mig: !Mig The so-called migraine personality. Psychological peculiarities of the personality of migraine patients. A review of the literature
854Mig: !Mig Biofeedback in vasomotor control and cognitive overcoming of stress in the treatment of migraine. Comparison of 2 training programs
855Mig: !Mig Transcutaneous nerve stimulation in migraine patients. Preliminary results
856Mig: !Mig The management of migraine.
857Mig: !Mig Migraine, head trauma and sport.
858Mig: !Mig Biofeedback behavioral treatment of headache with locus of control pain analysis: a 20-month retrospective study.
859Mig: !Mig A case of ophthalmoplegic migraine with ipsilateral CT-documented hypodense lesions.
860Mig: !Mig Personality characteristics of young adult migraineurs.
861Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine in children.
862Mig: !Mig Headaches in older patients: Ddx and Tx of vascular and inflammatory pain.
863Mig: !Mig Migraine--treatment of acute attack.
864Mig: !Mig Menstrual migraine and other hormonal aspects of migraine.
865Mig: !Mig Comparative efficacy of calcium antagonist drugs in the prophylaxis of migraine.
866Mig: !Mig Migraine and cluster headache treatment with calcium antagonists supports a vascular pathogenesis.
867Mig: !Mig Double-blind controlled study of paramax in the acute treatment of common and classical migraine.
868Mig: !Mig Potential uses for metoclopramide.
869Mig: !Mig Neurologic disorders during pregnancy and the puerperium.
870Mig: !Mig Therapeutic applications and mechanisms of action of monoamine oxidase inhibitor and heterocyclic antidepressant drugs.
871Mig: !Mig Tolfenamic acid in combination with caffeine: absorption during acute migraine.
872Mig: !Mig Cerebral blood flow tomography with xenon-133.
873Mig: !Mig Polythelia in alcoholics. Preliminary report
874Mig: !Mig Migraine and intracranial swelling: an experiment of nature.
875Mig: !Mig Trigeminal afferents to cerebral arteries and forehead are not divergent axon collaterals in cat.
876Mig: !Mig Effects of cholecystectomy on functional signs associated with cholelithiasis
877Mig: !Mig Ergotism
878Mig: !Mig Temporal nosography of primary headache
879Mig: !Mig Can migraine headaches be modified by operant pain techniques?
880Mig: !Mig Headache: the effect of household configuration.
881Mig: !Mig Peri-menstrual headache
882Mig: !Mig Psychological normality and abnormality in persistent headache patients.
883Mig: !Mig Does the piribedil test permit predicting the efficacy of domperidone, a dopaminergic antagonist, in the treatment of migraine?
884Mig: !Mig Prevention of exercise induced migraine by quantitative warm-up.
885Mig: !Mig Intravenous chlorpromazine--preliminary results in acute migraine.
886Mig: !Mig Adverse reactions to drugs in migraine: some recent reports.
887Mig: !Mig Migraine art.
888Mig: !Mig Thermographic and pupillary asymmetry in chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. A case study.
889Mig: !Mig Migraine coma. Meningitic migraine with cerebral oedema associated with a new form of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia.
890Mig: !Mig Autonomic dysreflexia due to medication: misadventure in the use of an isometheptene combination to treat migraine.
891Mig: !Mig Successful migraine prophylaxis with naproxen sodium.
892Mig: !Mig Handedness and alcoholism.
893Mig: !Mig Propranolol in prophylaxis of migraine.
894Mig: !Mig A comparison of naproxen sodium to propranolol hydrochloride and a placebo control for the prophylaxis of migraine headache.
895Mig: !Mig Metoprolol v. clonidine in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
896Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of nimodipine for single attacks of classic migraine.
897Mig: !Mig Migraine and therapy.
898Mig: !Mig Beta-endorphin and ACTH in plasma during attacks of common and classic migraine.
899Mig: !Mig The Bela Schick lecture for 1985. The atopic diseases.
900Mig: !Mig Efficacy of feverfew as prophylactic treatment of migraine.
901Mig: !Mig The cerebral angiogram in patients with complicated migraine
902Mig: !Mig Vascular responses in headache-prone subjects during stress.
903Mig: !Mig Family studies of psychosomatically ill patients in adolescence
904Mig: !Mig Transient visual loss and occult migraine.
905Mig: !Mig Sudden loss of vision.
906Mig: !Mig Food allergy and adult migraine: double-blind and mediator confirmation of an allergic etiology.
907Mig: !Mig Migraine and low-tension glaucoma. A case-control study.
908Mig: !Mig The neurologic evaluation of patients with low-tension glaucoma.
909Mig: !Mig A dietary management of severe childhood migraine.
910Mig: !Mig Food allergy in childhood.
911Mig: !Mig Vision disorders in migraine: description of 2 cases of bitemporal hemianopsia
912Mig: !Mig New and old thoughts on migraine.
913Mig: !Mig Acupuncture in migraine
914Mig: !Mig Hypnosis in the treatment of migraine and headache
915Mig: !Mig Migraine therapy in childhood
916Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregation in patients with migraine during the pain attack and in the pain-free period
917Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine headache: initiation.
918Mig: !Mig Stress, mathematics and migraine.
919Mig: !Mig Common migraine attack: platelet modifications are mainly due to plasma factor(s).
920Mig: !Mig Plasma methionine enkephalin levels. A biological marker for migraine?
921Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine and cerebral angiography: a report of an unusual adverse reaction.
922Mig: !Mig Migraine-cluster headache syndrome.
923Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania as a postpartum headache syndrome
924Mig: !Mig Headache 1985. Proceedings of the Second International Headache Congress. Copenhagen, June 18-21, 1985. Abstracts.
925Mig: !Mig Flufenamic acid in prostaglandin migraine.
926Mig: !Mig Ergotamine-induced colitis.
927Mig: !Mig Migraine: a diagnostic test for etiology of food sensitivity by a nutritionally supported fast and confirmed by long-term report.
928Mig: !Mig Serotonin precursors in chronic primary headache. A double-blind cross-over study with L-5-hydroxytryptophan vs. placebo.
929Mig: !Mig Extended follow-up study of the effects of brief psychological procedures in migraine therapy.
930Mig: !Mig Clinical pharmacokinetics of ergotamine in migraine and cluster headache.
931Mig: !Mig Flunarizine, a calcium entry blocker in migraine prophylaxis.
932Mig: !Mig Vertebrobasilar occlusive disease and childhood migraine.
933Mig: !Mig Newer uses of NSAIDS.
934Mig: !Mig Newer uses of NSAIDs.
935Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of demyelinating diseases: electroretinography
936Mig: !Mig Prostaglandins in cerebrovascular pathology
937Mig: !Mig The neuropharmacology of beta adrenolytics
938Mig: !Mig Headache of unknown origin: brain tumor? Indications for computer tomography
939Mig: !Mig The lights that failed to signal the diagnosis.
940Mig: !Mig Transcendental meditation and three cases of migraine.
941Mig: !Mig Keeping teenagers in school may be the most effective contraceptive.
942Mig: !Mig Vascular complications of ocular migraine
943Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine and progressive hemifacial atrophy.
944Mig: !Mig Ergotamine-induced disorders of the peripheral blood circulation--a case report
945Mig: !Mig Migraine and mitral valve prolapse.
946Mig: !Mig Are classical and common migraine different entities?
947Mig: !Mig The influence of plasma free fatty acids and cholesterol on the aggregation of blood platelets in migraine patients.
948Mig: !Mig Migraine and muscle contraction headaches: a continuum.
949Mig: !Mig Headache in the rural village of Quiroga, Ecuador.
950Mig: !Mig Dietary factors in migraine precipitation: the physicians' view.
951Mig: !Mig Classic migraine attack complicated by confusional state: EEG and CT study.
952Mig: !Mig Retinal artery occlusion in migraine.
953Mig: !Mig Steroid-responsive ophthalmoplegia in a child. Diagnostic considerations.
954Mig: !Mig Naproxen in prophylaxis of migraine.
955Mig: !Mig The efficacy and cost-effectiveness of minimal-therapist-contact, non-drug treatments of chronic migraine and tension headache.
956Mig: !Mig Acute migraine attack therapy: comparison of naproxen sodium and an ergotamine tartrate compound.
957Mig: !Mig Biofeedback control of migraine headaches: a comparison of two approaches.
958Mig: !Mig Effects on migraine headache of MDL 72,222, an antagonist at neuronal 5-HT receptors. Double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
959Mig: !Mig Functional bases for a central serotonergic involvement in classic migraine: a speculative view.
960Mig: !Mig Treatment of acute migraine attack: naproxen and placebo compared.
961Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine
962Mig: !Mig Thromboxane synthetase inhibition: potential therapy in migraine.
963Mig: !Mig Indications for beta blockers besides coronary disease and arterial hypertension
964Mig: !Mig Substance-P and the sensory innervation of intracranial and extracranial feline cephalic arteries. Implications for vascular pain mechanisms in man.
965Mig: !Mig Value of oral primperan in the treatment of migraine
966Mig: !Mig Olfactory aura in migraine.
967Mig: !Mig A new approach in the treatment of vascular headaches
968Mig: !Mig Scintillating scotoma as the first symptom of systemic lupus erythematosus.
969Mig: !Mig Clinical and electroencephalographic signs of side effects in patients after myelography using "amipaque"
970Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine in children
971Mig: !Mig The genetic background of circadian and ultradian rhythm patterns of 17-hydroxycorticosteroids: a cross-twin study.
972Mig: !Mig Intra-arterial infusion of SNP for peripheral ischemia caused by acute ergotism
973Mig: !Mig Relevance of prostaglandins in migraine.
974Mig: !Mig Correlation between migraine and circulating platelet aggregates.
975Mig: !Mig Visual evoked potentials and brainstem auditory evoked potentials in migraine and transient ischemic attacks.
976Mig: !Mig On the possible relation of spreading cortical depression to classical migraine.
977Mig: !Mig rCBF after TIA and during migraine attacks.
978Mig: !Mig Life events and headache.
979Mig: !Mig Antimigraine drugs in the management of daily chronic headaches: clinical profiles of responsive patients.
980Mig: !Mig Common migraine versus daily chronic headache: a study of the relationship between depression and anxiety scores, and dexamethasone suppression test.
981Mig: !Mig Focal cerebral ischemia and migraine.
982Mig: !Mig Analysis of outcome predictors of migraine towards chronicity.
983Mig: !Mig Hormonal and metabolic changes induced by flunarizine therapy: preliminary results.
984Mig: !Mig Pupillary and vascular effects of calcium antagonists in migraine.
985Mig: !Mig Brainstem auditory evoked potentials in migraine patients in basal conditions and after chronic flunarizine treatment.
986Mig: !Mig Influence of flunarizine on the altered electronystagmographic (ENG) recordings in migraine.
987Mig: !Mig Telethermographic investigations in migraine patients before and after flunarizine treatment.
988Mig: !Mig Erythrocyte deformability changes in headache patients under flunarizine treatment.
989Mig: !Mig Migraine and cerebral hypoxia: a hypothesis with pharmacotherapeutic implications.
990Mig: !Mig The effects of flunarizine in experimental models related to the pathogenesis of migraine.
991Mig: !Mig Migraine v. transient cerebral ischemia. Proceedings from an international congress, Rome, Italy, 30 November-1 December, 1984.
992Mig: !Mig A case-control inquiry into the etiology of hairy cell leukemia.
993Mig: !Mig Genetics of migraine and migraine accompagne?a study of eighty-one children and their families.
994Mig: !Mig Propranolol plasma binding and serum lipids during chronic therapy in migraine patients.
995Mig: !Mig Migraine and complex seizures in children.
996Mig: !Mig Petit mal-absences of childhood onset: familial prevalences of migraine and seizures.
997Mig: !Mig Bilateral focal cortical atrophy and chronic ergotamine abuse.
998Mig: !Mig Antidepressant drugs and migraine.
999Mig: !Mig Efficacy and tolerability of flunarizine in the prophylaxis of migraine.
1000Mig: !Mig Flunarizine in common migraine: Italian cooperative trial. II. Long-term follow-up.
1001Mig: !Mig Flunarizine in common migraine: Italian cooperative trial. I. Short-term results and responders' definition.
1002Mig: !Mig Flunarizine in the treatment of headache with or without neurological symptoms.
1003Mig: !Mig Flunarizine in the prevention of classical migraine: a placebo-controlled evaluation.
1004Mig: !Mig Food allergies and other adverse reactions to foods.
1005Mig: !Mig Effectiveness of methysergide in relation to clinical features of migraine.
1006Mig: !Mig Behavior of the vestibulo-oculomotor reflex in the course of nomifensine test. Preliminary findings in normal and headache patients
1007Mig: !Mig Platelet function in childhood migraine.
1008Mig: !Mig Evidence of enhanced platelet aggregation and platelet sensitivity in migraine patients.
1009Mig: !Mig Neuroendocrine effects of flunarizine treatment in postmenopausal women.
1010Mig: !Mig Drugs and platelet activation in migraine and transient ischemic attacks.
1011Mig: !Mig Estrogen changes as a critical factor in modulation of central opioid tonus: possible correlations with post-menopausal migraine.
1012Mig: !Mig Endorphin patterns within the headache spectrum disorders.
1013Mig: !Mig Intracranial space-occupying lesions in patients attending a migraine clinic.
1014Mig: !Mig The role of platelets in migraine.
1015Mig: !Mig Biochemical effects of cerebral ischemia: relevance to migraine.
1016Mig: !Mig Flunarizine v. placebo in childhood migraine. A double-blind study.
1017Mig: !Mig Vascular headaches and cerebral circulation: an overview.
1018Mig: !Mig Neurogenic control of cerebral circulation.
1019Mig: !Mig Symptomatologic interdependence or interindependence as a key alternative in migraine and cluster headache mechanisms.
1020Mig: !Mig Bilateral sequential migrainous ischemic optic neuropathy.
1021Mig: !Mig Non-drug therapy of headache
1022Mig: !Mig Serum dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity in menstrual migraine.
1023Mig: !Mig Treatment of vascular headaches in children.
1024Mig: !Mig Benign migraine-like syndrome with CSF pleocytosis in children.
1025Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic eye conditions.
1026Mig: !Mig Migraine responsive to danazol.
1027Mig: !Mig A migraine and headache club
1028Mig: !Mig Dopaminergic disequilibria in hemicrania
1029Mig: !Mig Migraine--current developments in neurology journals
1030Mig: !Mig Calcium channel antagonism by pizotifen.
1031Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood
1032Mig: !Mig Serious illness in 204 New Zealand families during a 16 year period.
1033Mig: !Mig Common migraine. Changes in conjugated and unconjugated catecholamines
1034Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine.
1035Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia: study of 26 cases
1036Mig: !Mig Double-blind clinical study: flunarizine versus pizotifen in a single nightly dose in hemicrania patients
1037Mig: !Mig Vascular reactivity in the area of both carotids in children and adolescents with headaches of a migraine character
1038Mig: !Mig Initial clinical signs and results of surgical removal of cerebral arteriovenous malformations
1039Mig: !Mig Importance of biofeedback in the treatment of pain
1040Mig: !Mig Somatosensory evoked potentials in migraine and tension headache.
1041Mig: !Mig Occurrence of headaches in anxiety disordered patients.
1042Mig: !Mig Metoprolol and pizotifen in the prophylactic treatment of classical and common migraine. A double-blind investigation.
1043Mig: !Mig Migraine in patients with cluster headache.
1044Mig: !Mig Common and classic migraine. One or two entities?
1045Mig: !Mig The headache symptom. How many entities?
1046Mig: !Mig Calcium channel blockers in the prophylactic treatment of vascular headache.
1047Mig: !Mig Concentration and uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine in platelets from cluster headache and migraine patients.
1048Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and relaxation treatments for headache in the elderly: a caution and a challenge.
1049Mig: !Mig Teaching self care skills for migraine and tension headaches.
1050Mig: !Mig Migraine and the noradrenergic control of vasomotricity: a study with alpha-2 stimulant and alpha-2 blocker drugs.
1051Mig: !Mig Clomipramine and metoprolol in migraine prophylaxis--a double-blind crossover study.
1052Mig: !Mig Naproxen sodium in the treatment of migraine.
1053Mig: !Mig Efficacy of nimodipine in the prophylaxis of migraine.
1054Mig: !Mig Flunarizine in the prevention of classical migraine: a placebo-controlled evaluation.
1055Mig: !Mig Is there a difference between classic and common migraine? What is migraine, after all?
1056Mig: !Mig Facial pain disorders commonly confused with TMJ dysfunction.
1057Mig: !Mig Migraine and its treatment. Part two.
1058Mig: !Mig Headache
1059Mig: !Mig Platelet alpha-adrenergic receptor activity and pizotifen in migrainous children.
1060Mig: !Mig Blood platelets: neuronal model in psychiatric disorders
1061Mig: !Mig Clonidine. Quo vadis?
1062Mig: !Mig Less known indications for the use of clonidine
1063Mig: !Mig Episodic unilateral mydriasis and migraine.
1064Mig: !Mig Renal insufficiency and ergotism
1065Mig: !Mig Prevalence of migraine in patients with diabetes.
1066Mig: !Mig Cerebral angiography in complicated migraine--reactions, incidents
1067Mig: !Mig Effects of the menstrual cycle on medical disorders.
1068Mig: !Mig Focal vascular headaches with focal arterial disease. An ultrasonographic analysis.
1069Mig: !Mig The nature of phonological processing in oral reading: evidence from surface dyslexia.
1070Mig: !Mig The effects of persistent pain: the chronic headache sufferer.
1071Mig: !Mig Migraine and benign epilepsy with Rolandic spikes in childhood: a case-control study.
1072Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
1073Mig: !Mig Migraine and its treatment. From the Royal Melbourne Hospital Pharmacy Department.
1074Mig: !Mig Treatment of pain with antidepressants.
1075Mig: !Mig Beta receptor blockers in migraine
1076Mig: !Mig Calcium-channel blockers in the treatment of migraine.
1077Mig: !Mig Isopyrin-phenylbutazone for intractable migraine.
1078Mig: !Mig Progress in pain therapy exemplified by migraine. What does withdrawal treatment produce? Possibilities of prevention
1079Mig: !Mig Pathophysiological basis of anti-aggregation treatment in migraine
1080Mig: !Mig Stroke and combined oral contraceptives
1081Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and food in the child
1082Mig: !Mig Mandibular dysfunction and headache.
1083Mig: !Mig Ischemic strokes and migraine.
1084Mig: !Mig Pharmacotherapy for migraine
1085Mig: !Mig Cluster headache versus migraine
1086Mig: !Mig EEG depression/spreading cortical depression--a possible pathophysiologic mechanism in classical migraine
1087Mig: !Mig Migraine and regional cerebral blood flow
1088Mig: !Mig Epidemiologic aspects of headache and migraine
1089Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological comparisons of three kinds of headache subjects during and between headache states: analysis of post-stress adaptation periods.
1090Mig: !Mig Smell and other sensory disturbances in migraine.
1091Mig: !Mig Accuracy of knowledge of family history of cardiovascular disorders.
1092Mig: !Mig Allergy and genetics.
1093Mig: !Mig Pharmacokinetics of 3H-pipethiaden after single oral and intravenous administration in rats.
1094Mig: !Mig The causes of stroke in the young.
1095Mig: !Mig Chronic pain: an experimental analysis of the effects of exposure.
1096Mig: !Mig The pathophysiology of migraine.
1097Mig: !Mig Migraine in aspirin-sensitive asthmatics.
1098Mig: !Mig Migraine
1099Mig: !Mig Classic migraine--clinical findings in 164 patients.
1100Mig: !Mig An experimental investigation of some assumptions underpinning psychological treatments of migraine.
1101Mig: !Mig Migraine reflected in contributions to psychodynamic research. A review of the literature
1102Mig: !Mig Headache and perception
1103Mig: !Mig Cerebral hemisphere function and laterality of migraine.
1104Mig: !Mig Autonomic nervous system dysfunction in common migraine.
1105Mig: !Mig A distinctive facial thermographic pattern in cluster headache--the "chai" sign.
1106Mig: !Mig Atypical facial pain: a reappraisal.
1107Mig: !Mig Predisposing, precipitating and relieving factors in different categories of headache.
1108Mig: !Mig Propranolol plasma levels and relief of migraine. Relationship between plasma propranolol and 4-hydroxypropranolol concentrations and clinical effects.
1109Mig: !Mig Migrainous ischemic optic neuropathy.
1110Mig: !Mig Monoamine oxidases of the brain and problems of central nervous system pathology (review)
1111Mig: !Mig Food intolerance.
1112Mig: !Mig Intramuscular ergotamine: plasma levels and dynamic activity.
1113Mig: !Mig Are vascular mechanisms involved in antidepressant action?
1114Mig: !Mig Some extracardiac effects of diltiazem and other calcium entry blockers.
1115Mig: !Mig Mianserin in the prophylaxis of migraine: a double-blind study.
1116Mig: !Mig Headache and noradrenergic involvement: the effects of alpha 2-stimulants and alpha 2-antagonists.
1117Mig: !Mig A muscle and vascular oriented relaxation program for the treatment of chronic migraine patients. A randomized clinical comparative study
1118Mig: !Mig Measurement of regional cerebral blood flow in humans with single-photon-emitting radioisotopes.
1119Mig: !Mig Basal cell nevus syndrome. Presentation of 2 cases. 1 associated with medulloblastoma
1120Mig: !Mig Biofeedback for headaches. Health and Public Policy Committee, American College of Physicians.
1121Mig: !Mig Treatment of headache by transcutaneous electrical stimulation.
1122Mig: !Mig Homogeneous clinical subgroups in children with Tourette syndrome.
1123Mig: !Mig The classification of headache.
1124Mig: !Mig Benign acute cerebral angiopathy. 4 cases
1125Mig: !Mig Impact of psychosocial factors on the prevalence of headaches in the industrial setting. A case-control approach.
1126Mig: !Mig Cannabinoids block release of serotonin from platelets induced by plasma from migraine patients.
1127Mig: !Mig Therapeutic responses to tricyclic antidepressants and related drugs in non-affective disorder patient populations.
1128Mig: !Mig Endorphin levels in headache syndromes.
1129Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. Description of 5 clinical cases and nosographic considerations
1130Mig: !Mig Menstrual migraine, old and new.
1131Mig: !Mig Recent advances in beta-adrenergic blocking agents.
1132Mig: !Mig Methodological aspects of drug trials in migraine.
1133Mig: !Mig Migraine and acupuncture.
1134Mig: !Mig A further step in migraine prevention
1135Mig: !Mig Double blind study of migraine therapy with etilefrine pivalate
1136Mig: !Mig Pharmacologic management of migraine--1985.
1137Mig: !Mig Migraine and beta blocker. An overview
1138Mig: !Mig The relative bioavailability of paracetamol and codeine after oral administration of a combination of buclizine, paracetamol and codeine, with or without docusate, and of paracetamol alone in healthy volunteers.
1139Mig: !Mig Role of histamine in the pathogenesis of migraine
1140Mig: !Mig Effects of food on behavior.
1141Mig: !Mig Increased prevalence of mitral valve prolapse in patients with migraine.
1142Mig: !Mig Headache in children
1143Mig: !Mig Delayed deterioration of consciousness after trivial head injury in childhood.
1144Mig: !Mig Prevalence of migraine in patients with diabetes.
1145Mig: !Mig Headache. Modern concepts of diagnosis and management.
1146Mig: !Mig Effect of migraine attacks on paracetamol absorption.
1147Mig: !Mig Moods that predict coming migraine headaches.
1148Mig: !Mig Treatment of childhood migraine using autogenic feedback training.
1149Mig: !Mig Propanolol ('Inderal') in the treatment of childhood migraine.
1150Mig: !Mig The resurrection of a magical reality: treatment of functional migraine in a child.
1151Mig: !Mig "Hemicrania continua". An indomethacin responsive headache. II. Autonomic function studies.
1152Mig: !Mig Childhood headache risk: warning signs and symptoms present during the first six months of life.
1153Mig: !Mig The role of estrogen in migraine: a review and hypothesis.
1154Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregability, disaggregability and serotonin uptake in migraine.
1155Mig: !Mig Headache and the ameliorating effect of pregnancy: an editorial.
1156Mig: !Mig Liver attacks
1157Mig: !Mig Headache.
1158Mig: !Mig Serum concentrations of propranolol and migraine prophylaxis.
1159Mig: !Mig Drug management of adult vascular headaches (migraine and cluster headache): Part II--Prevention and attacks.
1160Mig: !Mig Long-lasting reduction of cortical blood flow of the brain after spreading depression with preserved autoregulation and impaired CO2 response.
1161Mig: !Mig Muscle discrimination ability at three muscle sites in three headache groups.
1162Mig: !Mig The role of spreading depression in acute brain disorders.
1163Mig: !Mig Serotonin antagonists.
1164Mig: !Mig A review of the treatment of migraine.
1165Mig: !Mig Tolfenamic acid, metoclopramide, caffeine and their combinations in the treatment of migraine attacks.
1166Mig: !Mig Neuro-otological manifestations of migraine.
1167Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
1168Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine with proximal posterior cerebral artery vascular anomaly.
1169Mig: !Mig Experiments on spreading depression in relation to migraine and neurosurgery.
1170Mig: !Mig Deconditioning and ad hoc uses of relaxation: an overview.
1171Mig: !Mig Nadolol and placebo comparison study in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
1172Mig: !Mig Further observations on the use of Suloctidil (Sulocton) in the treatment of migraine
1173Mig: !Mig Neuroendocrinological study of opioid and serotoninergic systems in migraine patients.
1174Mig: !Mig Pseudomigraine with inflammatory cerebrospinal fluid: a benign syndrome
1175Mig: !Mig Is chronic paroxysmal hemicrania due to a chronic inflammatory syndrome?
1176Mig: !Mig Migraine prevention with timolol. A double-blind crossover study.
1177Mig: !Mig Beta-blockers and migraine.
1178Mig: !Mig Disorders of lipid metabolism in headaches of various etiologies
1179Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregation in migraine and other headaches
1180Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine in adults
1181Mig: !Mig Neuroimaging evaluation of patients with headaches.
1182Mig: !Mig Decreased thromboxane production in migraine patients during headache-free period.
1183Mig: !Mig Metabolic abnormality in cluster headache.
1184Mig: !Mig The medical treatment of head and neck pain.
1185Mig: !Mig Drug management of adult vascular headaches (migraine and cluster headache): Part I--Treatment of the acute attack.
1186Mig: !Mig Mental confusion in childhood migraine
1187Mig: !Mig Migraine.
1188Mig: !Mig Migraine and allergy
1189Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and relaxation therapy for patients with migraine and tension headaches
1190Mig: !Mig Pharmacological effect of Puerarie thomsonii and its clinical use
1191Mig: !Mig Electroencephalograms in basilar artery migraine.
1192Mig: !Mig Fibrin fibrinogen degradation products in the cerebrospinal fluid of neurological patients
1193Mig: !Mig Drugs for alternating hemiplegic migraine.
1194Mig: !Mig Drugs for migraine.
1195Mig: !Mig Vasospastic syndrome in a young women with migraine, Raynaud's disease, cerebral ischemia and myocardial infarction
1196Mig: !Mig Food allergy and migraine.
1197Mig: !Mig Pre-eclampsia and post-partum migraine.
1198Mig: !Mig Mechanisms of action and the clinical pharmacology of beta-adrenergic blocking drugs.
1199Mig: !Mig Nifedipine in the treatment of migraine headache and amaurosis fugax in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.
1200Mig: !Mig Vertigo in childhood
1201Mig: !Mig Peripheral arterial insufficiency and myocardial ischemia in ergotism. Report of a case and review of the literature
1202Mig: !Mig Use of various benzamides (sulpiride, tiapride) in the preventive treatment of migraine
1203Mig: !Mig Clinical characteristics of migraine in childhood
1204Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives in 1984.
1205Mig: !Mig An intelligent person's guide to migraine management.
1206Mig: !Mig Severe migraine accompagn?with computer tomographic findings
1207Mig: !Mig Headache: the spectrum.
1208Mig: !Mig Behavioral approaches to the management of chronic pain in children.
1209Mig: !Mig Chronic and recurrent headaches in children and adolescents.
1210Mig: !Mig Headache: an approach to the pediatric patient.
1211Mig: !Mig Comparative study of nadolol and propranolol in prophylactic treatment of migraine.
1212Mig: !Mig Etiopathogenesis and treatment of migraine
1213Mig: !Mig Cerebrospinal-fluid abnormalities associated with migraine.
1214Mig: !Mig Migraine is a food-allergic disease.
1215Mig: !Mig Accompanying migraine disclosing meningioma
1216Mig: !Mig Trial treatment of migraine attack by rebreathing of expired air
1217Mig: !Mig Treatment of headache in primary care practice.
1218Mig: !Mig Lateralization phenomena and headache
1219Mig: !Mig Face and head pain, migraine, neuralgiform pain, trigeminal neuralgia
1220Mig: !Mig Migraine
1221Mig: !Mig Brain infarction and hemorrhage in young and middle-aged adults.
1222Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis and surgical therapy of migraine attacks caused by weather (Foehn) and menstruation.
1223Mig: !Mig Intracranial arteriovenous malformation and migraine.
1224Mig: !Mig The prevalence of diet-induced migraine.
1225Mig: !Mig Facial temperature in migraine, tension-vascular and tension headache.
1226Mig: !Mig Migraine due to hydrocephalus.
1227Mig: !Mig Patient motivation in the treatment of migraine. A non-medicinal study.
1228Mig: !Mig Delayed onset dystonia following hemiplegic migraine.
1229Mig: !Mig Absolute and proportional resting EMG levels in chronic headache patients in relation to the state of headache.
1230Mig: !Mig Raynaud's phenomenon complicated by recurrent brain infarction.
1231Mig: !Mig Bilateral cervical carotid and intracranial vasospasm causing cerebral ischemia in a migrainous patient: a case of "diplegic migraine".
1232Mig: !Mig Personality factors in classical migraine and tension headache.
1233Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine and food sensitivity in children.
1234Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine
1235Mig: !Mig The treatment of headache
1236Mig: !Mig Findings on a relationship between type A behavior and headaches.
1237Mig: !Mig Indomethacin-responsive episodic cluster headache.
1238Mig: !Mig Noradrenergic nervous activity in migraine.
1239Mig: !Mig Parenteral chlorpromazine for migraine.
1240Mig: !Mig Tongue necrosis in temporal arteritis.
1241Mig: !Mig Biofeedback training in the treatment of migraine
1242Mig: !Mig Continuous versus interrupted schedules of thermal biofeedback: an exploratory analysis with clinical subjects.
1243Mig: !Mig Metoprolol and propranolol in migraine prophylaxis: a double-blind multicentre study.
1244Mig: !Mig Multimodal migraine treatment: does thermal feedback add to the outcome?
1245Mig: !Mig Calcium channel blockers in emergency medicine.
1246Mig: !Mig Isopyrine-phenylbutazone for intractable migraine.
1247Mig: !Mig Positron emission tomographic studies on induced migraine.
1248Mig: !Mig Episodic unilateral mydriasis and migraine.
1249Mig: !Mig Severe peripheral ischaemia during concomitant use of beta blockers and ergot alkaloids.
1250Mig: !Mig Postpartum migraine and severe pre-eclampsia.
1251Mig: !Mig Diet and migraine.
1252Mig: !Mig Decreased carotid arterial resistance in cats in response to trigeminal stimulation.
1253Mig: !Mig Tourette's syndrome and migraine.
1254Mig: !Mig The biology of cerebral dominance: implications for cognition.
1255Mig: !Mig Tyramine pressor test: implications and limitations.
1256Mig: !Mig Transient neurological symptoms associated with mononuclear pleocytosis of the cerebrospinal fluid.
1257Mig: !Mig Emotional stress and migraine; an exploratory empirical study
1258Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal visual disturbances of epileptic origin and occipital epilepsy in children.
1259Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. A review based on personal cases
1260Mig: !Mig Ice cream headache.
1261Mig: !Mig Elevated IgM in dietary migraine with lactase deficiency.
1262Mig: !Mig Migraine headaches and depression.
1263Mig: !Mig An integration of brief dynamic psychotherapy.
1264Mig: !Mig ENT approach to face pain.
1265Mig: !Mig Migraine: new views on an old theory.
1266Mig: !Mig Headache from the neurological point of view
1267Mig: !Mig To what extent does food sensitivity contribute to headache recurrence?
1268Mig: !Mig The neurobiology of vascular head pain.
1269Mig: !Mig Modern ergotism.
1270Mig: !Mig Verification of the validity of the Giacovazzo skin test with histamine at neutral pH
1271Mig: !Mig Cerebral emission computer tomography (SPECT) with 123I-labeled amphetamines
1272Mig: !Mig Low pharmacological responsiveness of the vertebro-basilar circulation in Macaca nemestrina monkeys.
1273Mig: !Mig Nadolol in the preventive treatment of migraine
1274Mig: !Mig Migraine: a cerebral disorder.
1275Mig: !Mig Hemicrania with partial Horner's syndrome--but not Raeder's syndrome.
1276Mig: !Mig More parenteral medications for migraine.
1277Mig: !Mig What is atopy? Sidestepping semantics.
1278Mig: !Mig Mood and migraine--a preliminary prospective study.
1279Mig: !Mig Headaches
1280Mig: !Mig Verapamil in prophylactic therapy of migraine.
1281Mig: !Mig A new therapeutic approach to menstrual migraine
1282Mig: !Mig Newly described form of idiopathic headache--so-called chronic paroxysmal hemicrania (Sjaastad syndrome)
1283Mig: !Mig Role of blood platelets in the pathogenesis of migraine
1284Mig: !Mig Relaxation for the treatment of headache. Controlled evaluation of two group programs.
1285Mig: !Mig Progress in food allergy and food sensitivity.
1286Mig: !Mig Calcium blockers in smooth-muscle disorders. Current status.
1287Mig: !Mig Decreased platelet 3H-imipramine binding sites in classical migraine.
1288Mig: !Mig Treatment of morning migraine. Clinical and biokinetic correlation of programmed-release dihydroergotamine
1289Mig: !Mig Cortical edema in hemoplegic migraine
1290Mig: !Mig Headache--diagnosis and effective management.
1291Mig: !Mig Histamine release from leucocytes during migraine attack.
1292Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: heart rate changes and ECG rhythm disturbances. A computerized analysis of 24 h ambulatory ECG recordings.
1293Mig: !Mig Kinetics and thermolability of platelet monoamine oxidase in cluster headache and migraine.
1294Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. VII. Mechanical precipitation of attacks: new cases and localization of trigger points.
1295Mig: !Mig Platelet met-enkephalin immunoreactivity and 5-hydroxytryptamine concentrations in migraine patients: effects of 5-hydroxytryptophan, amitriptyline and chlorimipramine treatment.
1296Mig: !Mig Chorea and migraine: "Hemicrania choreatica"?
1297Mig: !Mig Regional cerebral blood flow during migraine attacks by Xenon-133 inhalation and emission tomography.
1298Mig: !Mig Some clinical aspects of a hemiplegic migraine patient.
1299Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania.
1300Mig: !Mig Behavioral treatment of chronic cluster headache in a geriatric patient.
1301Mig: !Mig Ergotamine toxicity and serum concentrations of ergotamine in migraine patients.
1302Mig: !Mig Metoprolol and propranolol in the prophylactic treatment of classical and common migraine. A double-blind study.
1303Mig: !Mig Dopamine blockade with domperidone: bridge between prophylactic and abortive treatment of migraine? A dose-finding study.
1304Mig: !Mig Effervescent metoclopramide and aspirin (Migravess) versus effervescent aspirin or placebo for migraine attacks: a double-blind study.
1305Mig: !Mig The efficacy of relaxation training with children.
1306Mig: !Mig Severe vascular spasm due to erythromycin-ergotamine interaction.
1307Mig: !Mig Migrainous optic neuropathy.
1308Mig: !Mig Beta-adrenoceptor and epoprostenol (prostacyclin) responsiveness of lymphocytes in migraine patients.
1309Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregation in vasomotor headache
1310Mig: !Mig Migraine in children
1311Mig: !Mig Diltiazem prophylaxis in refractory migraine.
1312Mig: !Mig Serum complement and immunoglobulins in patients with common migraine
1313Mig: !Mig Drug abuse in migraine patients.
1314Mig: !Mig The importance of type of question, psychological climate and subject set in interviewing children about pain.
1315Mig: !Mig Clinical significance of transient visual phenomena in the elderly.
1316Mig: !Mig HLA-B14 antigen in cluster headache.
1317Mig: !Mig Case report: chronic cluster headache with unusual high frequency of attacks. Differential diagnosis with CPH.
1318Mig: !Mig Personality and headache type: a controlled study.
1319Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological characteristics of migraine and tension headache patients. Differential effects of sex and pain state.
1320Mig: !Mig Occlusive cerebrovascular disease in young adults.
1321Mig: !Mig Acute third nerve paralysis secondary to migraine.
1322Mig: !Mig Abnormal B.A.E.P. in a family with Moebius syndrome: evidence for supranuclear lesion.
1323Mig: !Mig Transient ischemic attacks. Strategies for minimizing stroke risk.
1324Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal torticollis in infancy.
1325Mig: !Mig Effect of reflexotherapy on the sympathetic-adrenal system based on catecholamine excretion data
1326Mig: !Mig Tales from the 'Flying Doctor'.
1327Mig: !Mig Transitory protracted blindness in hemicrania as a result of vasospasm caused by vertebral angiography
1328Mig: !Mig Promising uses of calcium-channel blocking agents.
1329Mig: !Mig Migraine pathogenesis: the neural hypothesis reexamined.
1330Mig: !Mig A study of childhood headache using biofeedback as a treatment alternative.
1331Mig: !Mig Beta-endorphin and dihydroergotamine in migraine. Preliminary study
1332Mig: !Mig Beta-thromboglobulin plasma levels in common migraine.
1333Mig: !Mig Fears aroused in patients by migraine.
1334Mig: !Mig Ergotism with intestinal gangrene. Chronic intoxication with ergotamine tartrate in the treatment of migraine
1335Mig: !Mig Acupuncture versus medical treatment for migraine and muscle tension headaches.
1336Mig: !Mig Pupillary sparing oculomotor palsy from acute subdural hematoma.
1337Mig: !Mig Cerebral infarction related to neck position.
1338Mig: !Mig Propranolol-induced myotonia.
1339Mig: !Mig Low platelet monoamine oxidase activity in headache: no correlation with phenolsulphotransferase, succinate dehydrogenase, platelet preparation method or smoking.
1340Mig: !Mig Dizziness in childhood.
1341Mig: !Mig Biofeedback pain control.
1342Mig: !Mig The beta-blockers in neurological diseases
1343Mig: !Mig The beta-blockers. Introduction
1344Mig: !Mig Comparative review of beta-blocking agents.
1345Mig: !Mig Prevalence of Raynaud's phenomenon in patients with migraine.
1346Mig: !Mig Definition of migraine headache.
1347Mig: !Mig Classification and symptomatology of migraine
1348Mig: !Mig Flunarizine--a new agent for migraine prevention. Results of a double-blind comparison with placebo
1349Mig: !Mig Interval therapy of migraine. Pharmacological bases
1350Mig: !Mig Clonidine and migraine.
1351Mig: !Mig Danazol and migraine.
1352Mig: !Mig Use of nicergoline (Sermion) in the treatment of migraine
1353Mig: !Mig Chronic analgesic-induced headache
1354Mig: !Mig Hemicrania comitata. Critical review and clinical case reports
1355Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. Treatment with indomethacin and diclofenac
1356Mig: !Mig Behavioral assessment and treatment of child migraine: implications for clinical research and practice.
1357Mig: !Mig A bio-psycho-social investigation of headache activity in a chronic headache population.
1358Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological reactivity in migraine following biofeedback.
1359Mig: !Mig Relative potency and selectivity of calcium antagonists used in the treatment of migraine.
1360Mig: !Mig Calcium channel blockers and migraine.
1361Mig: !Mig Toward a coding method of migraine.
1362Mig: !Mig "Hemicrania continua": another headache absolutely responsive to indomethacin.
1363Mig: !Mig Headache and mood: a time-series analysis of self-ratings.
1364Mig: !Mig Headache and epilepsy: two autonomous entities?
1365Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: salivation, tearing and nasal secretion.
1366Mig: !Mig Acupuncture for migraine reduces bowel activity.
1367Mig: !Mig Heterocyclic antidepressants in nonpsychiatric disorders.
1368Mig: !Mig Is migraine a manifestation of food allergy?
1369Mig: !Mig Coloured patterns in hemianopic fields.
1370Mig: !Mig Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome.
1371Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: severity, duration and time of occurrence of attacks.
1372Mig: !Mig The calcium antagonist properties of cyproheptadine: implications for antimigraine action.
1373Mig: !Mig Treatment of essential headache in developmental age with L-5-HTP (cross over double-blind study versus placebo)
1374Mig: !Mig Predicting differential response to EMG biofeedback and relaxation training: the role of cognitive structure.
1375Mig: !Mig Classification, mechanisms, and management of headache.
1376Mig: !Mig Menstrual migraine headache: results of a controlled, experimental, outcome study of non-drug treatments.
1377Mig: !Mig An overview of the classification, causes, and treatment of headache.
1378Mig: !Mig Study of platelet activation in migraine: control by low doses of aspirin.
1379Mig: !Mig Transient and persistent neurological manifestations of migraine.
1380Mig: !Mig Psychiatric uses of antiadrenergic and adrenergic blocking drugs.
1381Mig: !Mig Towards a definition of migraine headache.
1382Mig: !Mig Role of blood platelets in microcirculatory disorders
1383Mig: !Mig Treatment of ergotism
1384Mig: !Mig Incidence of somnambulism in children with migraine
1385Mig: !Mig Female managers can have it all: lower pay, migraine headaches, and dead-end jobs.
1386Mig: !Mig Headaches after childbirth.
1387Mig: !Mig Imagery coping strategies in the treatment of migraine.
1388Mig: !Mig Clinical diagnosis and computer analysis of headache symptoms.
1389Mig: !Mig How to treat migraine.
1390Mig: !Mig Cognitive impairment in patients with severe migraine.
1391Mig: !Mig Prevalence of migraine and other headaches in early puberty.
1392Mig: !Mig Ergot poisoning in paraplegia.
1393Mig: !Mig Certain foods provoke migraine.
1394Mig: !Mig Progressive impairment of CSF beta-EP levels in migraine sufferers.
1395Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania
1396Mig: !Mig Migraine, headache, and survival in women.
1397Mig: !Mig Extracranial vascular changes during headache, exercise and stress.
1398Mig: !Mig Cranial computed tomography in pediatric migraine.
1399Mig: !Mig The role of affect in the etiology of chronic headache.
1400Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine in AS hemoglobinopathy.
1401Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine
1402Mig: !Mig Actions of indoramin on rabbit and human vasculature in vitro.
1403Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological characteristics of headache patients.
1404Mig: !Mig Menstrual migraine and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents.
1405Mig: !Mig More on the iris and migraine.
1406Mig: !Mig Cold hands and hot heads.
1407Mig: !Mig Further evidence on the association of mitral valve prolapse and migraine.
1408Mig: !Mig Migraine and cluster headache: links between platelet monoamine oxidase activity, smoking and personality.
1409Mig: !Mig Migraine as an etiology of stroke in young adults.
1410Mig: !Mig Pheochromocytoma in children disclosed by pseudomigrainous headache attacks
1411Mig: !Mig Childhood migraine--a dangerous diagnosis?
1412Mig: !Mig Marital migraine: a refractory daily headache.
1413Mig: !Mig A validity study of the MMPI Alexithymia subscale conducted on migraine headache outpatients.
1414Mig: !Mig Isolated benign cerebral vasculitis or migrainous vasospasm?
1415Mig: !Mig Effects of migraine attack and metoclopramide on the absorption of tolfenamic acid.
1416Mig: !Mig The transient global amnesia-migraine connection.
1417Mig: !Mig Steady-state visual evoked potentials during migraine prophylaxis by propranolol and femoxetine.
1418Mig: !Mig Correlation of the frequency and intensity of headache to mandibular dysfunction in headache patients.
1419Mig: !Mig Platelet phenolsulfotransferase activity and the headache spectrum.
1420Mig: !Mig Vascular pain in the face
1421Mig: !Mig Neurovascular disturbances in headache patients.
1422Mig: !Mig Fatal migraine.
1423Mig: !Mig Treating migraine with biofeedback: a nurse therapist's view.
1424Mig: !Mig Therapeutic effects of delta-sleep-inducing peptide (DSIP) in patients with chronic, pronounced pain episodes. A clinical pilot study.
1425Mig: !Mig A cognitive-behavioral study of self-reported stress factors in migraine headache.
1426Mig: !Mig Treatment of headache with antidepressant.
1427Mig: !Mig The continuous nature of headache susceptibility.
1428Mig: !Mig Analysis of migraine with general psychologic stress concepts. Time series analyses for a single case
1429Mig: !Mig Mechanism of tyramine-induced migraine: similarity with dopamine and interactions with disulfiram and propranolol in migraine patients.
1430Mig: !Mig Basal plasma HGH and cortisol levels and the effect of clonidine administration in female migrainous patients.
1431Mig: !Mig Concerning the article by Iu. N. Aver'ianov, A. F. Fordienko and Ch. N. Krotov, "Indomethacin-sensitive variant of migraine neuralgia"
1432Mig: !Mig Repeat closed cranio-cerebral trauma in children
1433Mig: !Mig Salicylate prophylaxis in migraine.
1434Mig: !Mig Mandibular dysfunction in patients with migraine.
1435Mig: !Mig The child with headache.
1436Mig: !Mig Oral behavioral patterns in facial pain, headache and non-headache populations.
1437Mig: !Mig Psychosocial assessment of chronic headache.
1438Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine with alexia but not agraphia: arterial spasm on arteriography and the effect of naloxone
1439Mig: !Mig Psychophysiologic correlates of chronic headache
1440Mig: !Mig Flunarizine: a wide spectrum prophylactic for migraine headache.
1441Mig: !Mig Dizziness and headache.
1442Mig: !Mig Evaluation of patients for surgery. I. Neurological considerations.
1443Mig: !Mig Personality and chronic headache.
1444Mig: !Mig Plasma concentrations of propranolol and 4-hydroxy-propranolol at steady-state in neurological patients: intersubject and intrasubject correlations with dose.
1445Mig: !Mig Dreams which culminate in migraine headaches.
1446Mig: !Mig Brief psychological training procedures in migraine treatment.
1447Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal vertigo in childhood. Diagnostic significance of vestibular examination and headache provocation tests.
1448Mig: !Mig Epileptic syndrome in children with closed craniocerebral injuries (role of genetic and environmental factors)
1449Mig: !Mig Migraine, seizures and epileptic focal E.E.G. abnormalities in a young adult: a nine-year follow-up.
1450Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal vertigo in childhood: a migraine equivalent.
1451Mig: !Mig Prostaglandin E1 for alleviating symptoms of ergot intoxication: a case report.
1452Mig: !Mig Pizotifen once daily in the prophylaxis of migraine: results of a multi-centre general practice study.
1453Mig: !Mig Headaches in children.
1454Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of flupirtine maleate in patients with migraine.
1455Mig: !Mig The "periodical head-achs" of Thomas Jefferson.
1456Mig: !Mig Cellular action of calcium channel blocking drugs.
1457Mig: !Mig Headaches. The general practitioner's view.
1458Mig: !Mig The prevention and treatment of migraine with an analgesic combination.
1459Mig: !Mig Timolol vs propranolol vs placebo in common migraine prophylaxis: a double-blind multicenter trial.
1460Mig: !Mig Changes in blood serotonin levels in patients with migraine headaches before and after a course of reflexotherapy
1461Mig: !Mig Migraine, Tolosa-Hunt syndrome and pleocytosis. Correlation or coincidence?
1462Mig: !Mig Flunarizine, a new preventive approach to migraine. A double-blind comparison with placebo.
1463Mig: !Mig Plasma cyclic nucleotide responses to methacholine and epinephrine in patients with migraine.
1464Mig: !Mig A review of clinical trials of lithium in neurology.
1465Mig: !Mig Platelet hyperactivity during acute migraine attack.
1466Mig: !Mig Implications of neuropeptides in neurological diseases.
1467Mig: !Mig Migraine and hormonal contraceptives
1468Mig: !Mig Practical experience of beta-blockade in migraine: a personal view.
1469Mig: !Mig Beta-blocking drugs in migraine.
1470Mig: !Mig Acupuncture--a therapeutic concept in the treatment of painful conditions and functional disorders. Report on 971 cases.
1471Mig: !Mig Flunarizine. A review of its pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties and therapeutic use.
1472Mig: !Mig Leao's spreading depression: synaptic regulation of a diffuse self-oscillating process in the central nervous system
1473Mig: !Mig Migraine headache: epidemiologic perspectives.
1474Mig: !Mig Is migraine food allergy?
1475Mig: !Mig Current aspects of migraine therapy. Multiple approaches
1476Mig: !Mig The effects of carbon dioxide, oxygen and pH on spreading depression in the isolated chick retina.
1477Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania sensitive to indomethacin
1478Mig: !Mig Practice problem migraine
1479Mig: !Mig Migraine, headache, and survival in women.
1480Mig: !Mig Blood volume pulse biofeedback treatment of chronic cluster headache.
1481Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregation and platelet and plasma fatty acid levels in the child with migraine. Apropos of 40 case reports
1482Mig: !Mig Does training to criterion influence improvement? A follow-up study of EMG and thermal biofeedback.
1483Mig: !Mig Temperature biofeedback in the treatment of children with migraine headaches.
1484Mig: !Mig Children's drawings of their pain.
1485Mig: !Mig Effects and side effects of hormonal contraceptives in the region of the nose, throat, and ear
1486Mig: !Mig Pseudopapilloedema with and without verified optic disc drusen. A clinical analysis I.
1487Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis complicating Stage IB squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.
1488Mig: !Mig Colloid cyst of the third ventricle--a neurological emergency.
1489Mig: !Mig "Cervicogenic" headache. An hypothesis.
1490Mig: !Mig Total IgE, specific IgE and prick-tests against foods in common migraine--a prospective study.
1491Mig: !Mig Migraine: definition and classification.
1492Mig: !Mig Presence of alpha-adrenoceptors in human temporal arteries. Comparison between migraine patients and controls.
1493Mig: !Mig Effects of dietary protein-tryptophan restriction upon 5-HT uptake by platelets and clinical symptoms in migraine-like headache.
1494Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of classical and non-classical migraine with metoprolol--a comparison with placebo.
1495Mig: !Mig Unilaterality of headache. Hauge's studies revisited.
1496Mig: !Mig Low bioavailability of ergotamine tartrate after oral and rectal administration in migraine sufferers.
1497Mig: !Mig Parenteral chlorpromazine treatment of migraine.
1498Mig: !Mig Food allergy and migraine.
1499Mig: !Mig Effects and risks of psychotropic and analgesic combinations.
1500Mig: !Mig Migraine, headache, and survival in women.
1501Mig: !Mig Horton's disease. Study of HLA group. Apropos of 3 familial cases
1502Mig: !Mig Verapamil prophylaxis of migraine. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
1503Mig: !Mig Is migraine food allergy?
1504Mig: !Mig Central serotonergic nerves project to the pial vessels of the brain.
1505Mig: !Mig Treatment of menstrual migraine by oestradiol implants.
1506Mig: !Mig Clinical findings in children with occipital spike-wave complexes suppressed by eye-opening.
1507Mig: !Mig Migraine as an organic cause of monocular diplopia.
1508Mig: !Mig Stress, temporal artery activity, and pain in migraine headache: a prospective analysis.
1509Mig: !Mig Brainstem influences on the cephalic circulation: experimental data from cat and monkey of relevance to the mechanism of migraine.
1510Mig: !Mig Chronic headache. A realistic approach to management.
1511Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine by acupuncture.
1512Mig: !Mig Regulation of regional cerebral blood flow during and between migraine attacks.
1513Mig: !Mig Neuro-ophthalmic complications of migraine and cluster headaches.
1514Mig: !Mig Management of headaches in childhood.
1515Mig: !Mig The pharmacology of calcium channel antagonists: a novel class of anti-migraine agents?
1516Mig: !Mig Clinical effectiveness of calcium entry blockers in prophylactic treatment of migraine and cluster headaches.
1517Mig: !Mig Study of platelet function in patients with migraine
1518Mig: !Mig Frequency of MMPI profile types in three chronic illness populations.
1519Mig: !Mig Ultrasonic Doppler flow in migraine and cluster headache.
1520Mig: !Mig Benign post-traumatic encephalopathy syndrome in young people. Critical review of the literature
1521Mig: !Mig Platelet activation in migraine.
1522Mig: !Mig Role of platelet serotonin in common migraine. Concentrations and uptake
1523Mig: !Mig The migraine club: the value of patient groups in the prevention of migraine attacks
1524Mig: !Mig Is migraine food allergy? A double-blind controlled trial of oligoantigenic diet treatment.
1525Mig: !Mig Platelet enzymes in common migraine
1526Mig: !Mig Home- versus clinic-based treatment of vascular headache.
1527Mig: !Mig Tadpole-shaped pupils caused by segmental spasm of the iris dilator muscle.
1528Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine headache.
1529Mig: !Mig Presence of the "Beaumont" protein in serum of oral contraceptive users.
1530Mig: !Mig Transient partial amnesia.
1531Mig: !Mig Migraine headache:--the prophylactic role of an isopyrin-phebuzine compound (Tomanol).
1532Mig: !Mig Femoxetine - a new 5-HT uptake inhibitor - and propranolol in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
1533Mig: !Mig You can help the migraine patient.
1534Mig: !Mig Tenacious headaches. How to break their grip.
1535Mig: !Mig Migraine. Current concepts of pathogenesis and treatment.
1536Mig: !Mig Relaxation techniques in general practice.
1537Mig: !Mig Diet and migraine: a review of the literature.
1538Mig: !Mig Successes obtained with acupuncture in otorhinolaryngologic pathology
1539Mig: !Mig Exploration of the temporal arteries in Horton's disease using the Doppler effect
1540Mig: !Mig Neurological findings in patients with pseudopapilloedema with and without verified optic disc drusen.
1541Mig: !Mig Essential headache as an equivalent to a withdrawal syndrome: experience with naloxone
1542Mig: !Mig Acupuncture and migraine.
1543Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic aspects of headache
1544Mig: !Mig Role of free fatty acids in the pathogenesis of migraine
1545Mig: !Mig Blood volume pulse biofeedback in the treatment of migraine headache: a controlled evaluation.
1546Mig: !Mig Amaurosis fugax: the results of arteriography in 59 patients.
1547Mig: !Mig Ethanol intoxication: a risk factor for ischemic brain infarction.
1548Mig: !Mig Milk protein-free diet for nonseasonal asthma and migraine in lactase-deficient patients.
1549Mig: !Mig Locked-in syndrome with rapid recovery: a manifestation of basilar artery migraine?
1550Mig: !Mig Changes in EMG power spectra during fatigue in muscle contraction and migraine headache patients.
1551Mig: !Mig Absolute and proportional resting EMG levels in muscle contraction and migraine headache patients.
1552Mig: !Mig Fetal demise in a migraine patient on propranolol.
1553Mig: !Mig EEG markers of migraine in children and adults.
1554Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. IX. On the mechanism of attack-related sweating.
1555Mig: !Mig Pressor sensitivity to tyramine in patients with headache: relationship to platelet monoamine oxidase and to dietary provocation.
1556Mig: !Mig Huatuo Jiaji points for migraine: 70 cases.
1557Mig: !Mig Clinical significance of increased reaction to photostimulation in the alpha frequency range
1558Mig: !Mig Multimodal biofeedback in the treatment of migraine.
1559Mig: !Mig Comparative effects of noradrenaline and serotonin in a central and a peripheral artery in vitro.
1560Mig: !Mig Is acute tolerance to 5-hydroxytryptamine opioid dependent? Its absence in migraine sufferers.
1561Mig: !Mig Impaired 5-hydroxytryptamine tachyphylaxis in migraine.
1562Mig: !Mig Pseudoepilepsy manifestations in childhood
1563Mig: !Mig Plasma and platelet serotonin in children with essential headache
1564Mig: !Mig New contributions on extinction tests of essential headache. II. The test with indoprofen
1565Mig: !Mig Further studies on the complement system in migraine
1566Mig: !Mig Case-control study of severe pre-eclampsia of early onset.
1567Mig: !Mig Acupuncture in the prophylactic treatment of migraine headaches: pilot study.
1568Mig: !Mig Eat, drink, and be merry--or argue about food 'allergy'.
1569Mig: !Mig Food related antibodies in headache patients.
1570Mig: !Mig Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: reappraisal of dietary considerations.
1571Mig: !Mig Childhood migraine and motion sickness.
1572Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia and migraine.
1573Mig: !Mig The Headache Scale: a new approach to the assessment of headache pain based on pain descriptions.
1574Mig: !Mig The periodic syndrome in pediatric migraine sufferers.
1575Mig: !Mig Changes of biological rhythms in primary headache syndromes.
1576Mig: !Mig Nocturnal headache: systemic arterial pressure and heart rate during sleep.
1577Mig: !Mig Pituitary secretions and wake-sleep cycle.
1578Mig: !Mig Concluding remarks on the Capri symposium: myths, facts and new trends in migraine.
1579Mig: !Mig Psychological aspects of migraine in childhood.
1580Mig: !Mig Clinical pharmacological aspects of dihydroergotamine timed release: activity on monoamine venospasm.
1581Mig: !Mig DHE retard for prophylactic therapy of migraine: efficacy and tolerability.
1582Mig: !Mig Histamine skin test in cluster headache: effects of dihydroergotamine with timed release.
1583Mig: !Mig Progress in migraine: treatment with dihydroergotamine-retard.
1584Mig: !Mig Menstrual migraine: intermittent prophylaxis with a timed-release pharmacological formulation of dihydroergotamine.
1585Mig: !Mig On the treatment of migraine. Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationships for a programmed release formulation of dihydroergotamine administered orally in the human.
1586Mig: !Mig Influence of ergot derivatives on prolactin secretion in rats. Mechanisms of action and clinical implications.
1587Mig: !Mig Migraine--a personal account.
1588Mig: !Mig Migraine.
1589Mig: !Mig Planned release dihydroergotamine in common migraine and "tension-vascular headache": multicentre clinical trial.
1590Mig: !Mig Timed-release dihydroergotamine in the prophylaxis of mixed headache. A study versus amitriptyline.
1591Mig: !Mig Ergot derivatives in the prophylaxis of migraine: a multicentric study with a timed-release dihydroergotamine formulation.
1592Mig: !Mig Evaluation of central opioid tonus in menstrual migraine.
1593Mig: !Mig Circadian variations of proopiocortin-related peptides in children with migraine.
1594Mig: !Mig Circulating beta-endorphin levels at various stages of life: possible connections with migraine pathogenesis.
1595Mig: !Mig Long-acting ergot: clinical and neuroendocrinological aspects in migraine patients.
1596Mig: !Mig Headache temporal patterns: towards a chronobiological model.
1597Mig: !Mig Plasma levels of beta-thromboglobulin and platelet factor 4 in migraine accompagn?
1598Mig: !Mig Migraine prevention by a calcium channel blocker. Results of a double-blind study of flunarizine vs. pizotifen
1599Mig: !Mig Headaches in children
1600Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine crises: experience with clonidine
1601Mig: !Mig Acid lysuride maleate in the prevention of migraine headache. Clinical experience
1602Mig: !Mig Effect of buflomedil on the behavior of platelet aggregation and its clinical evaluation in elderly patients with chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency
1603Mig: !Mig Slow habituation in migraine patients: do they invest too much attentional capacity?
1604Mig: !Mig CT scanning in classic migraine.
1605Mig: !Mig Clinical value of a dopaminergic agonist administration in migraine patients.
1606Mig: !Mig Validity of the headache diary for children.
1607Mig: !Mig Perception of stimulus intensity by migraine and non-migraine subjects.
1608Mig: !Mig Bilateral cephalic blood volume pulse recordings in a migraineur and a non-migraineur.
1609Mig: !Mig Migrainous olfactory aura in a family.
1610Mig: !Mig Computed tomographic identification of calcified optic nerve drusen.
1611Mig: !Mig Childhood migraine and somnambulism.
1612Mig: !Mig Chronic post-traumatic headache: clinical, psychopathological features and outcome determinants.
1613Mig: !Mig Headache and response to intermittent photic stimulation
1614Mig: !Mig Successful analgesia in migraine by short infusion of ceruletide
1615Mig: !Mig Clinical applications of relaxation training.
1616Mig: !Mig Atenolol for migraine prophylaxis.
1617Mig: !Mig Naloxone effectiveness on spontaneous and induced perceptive disorders in migraine.
1618Mig: !Mig Headache as an epileptic symptom
1619Mig: !Mig Myofascial pain and migraine.
1620Mig: !Mig Painful Tolosa-Hunt ophthalmoplegia. Apropos of a case in a child
1621Mig: !Mig Analysis of some commercial preparations for migraine treatment using ion-pair high-performance liquid chromatography with addition of salts to the mobile phase.
1622Mig: !Mig Changes in regional cerebral blood flow during the course of classic migraine attacks.
1623Mig: !Mig Effects of Tenuate (an anorexiant) on migraine.
1624Mig: !Mig Type A-B behavior and self-estimates of the frequency of headaches in college students.
1625Mig: !Mig Non-familial hemiplegic migraine responsive to naloxone.
1626Mig: !Mig Immunoglobulins and complement in migraine.
1627Mig: !Mig Cyclic vomiting and recurrent abdominal pains as migraine or epileptic equivalents.
1628Mig: !Mig Pediatric migraine.
1629Mig: !Mig Clinical indications for optimal use of the radionuclide brain scan.
1630Mig: !Mig A migrainous syndrome with pleocytosis.
1631Mig: !Mig Cerebral vascular changes and plasma dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity in migraine
1632Mig: !Mig In-home parent training, treatment of migraine headaches, and marital counseling as an ecobehavioral approach to prevent child abuse.
1633Mig: !Mig Cluster headaches. How to recognize and treat them.
1634Mig: !Mig Quieting response training: long-term evaluation of a clinical biofeedback practice.
1635Mig: !Mig Relaxation practice after biofeedback therapy: a long-term follow-up study of utilization and effectiveness.
1636Mig: !Mig Prostaglandins in alcohol intolerance and hangover.
1637Mig: !Mig Food allergy in migraine.
1638Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and relaxation in the treatment of migraine headaches: comparative effectiveness and physiological correlates.
1639Mig: !Mig Double blind comparison of mefenamic acid and acetaminophen (paracetamol) in migraine.
1640Mig: !Mig Illusion of tilting of the visual environment. Report of five cases.
1641Mig: !Mig Atonic attacks in migraine
1642Mig: !Mig Thrombocyte function in vasomotor and migraine headaches
1643Mig: !Mig Nifedipine in the treatment of migraine in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon.
1644Mig: !Mig Occlusive arteriopathy of the circle of Willis with outlined "Moya-Moya" network in a woman with migraine under oral contraception. Regressive course
1645Mig: !Mig Stroke in children. Clinical characteristics and prognosis.
1646Mig: !Mig Status migrainosus: causative and therapeutic aspects.
1647Mig: !Mig Epidemiology of migraine 'a personal view'.
1648Mig: !Mig "Daily" common migraine: psychosocial predictors of outcomes of medical therapy.
1649Mig: !Mig The pupil and headaches.
1650Mig: !Mig Geriatric headaches.
1651Mig: !Mig Oxypurines in cerebrospinal fluid as indices of disturbed brain metabolism. A clinical study of ischemic brain diseases.
1652Mig: !Mig Lateral ventricular size and drug-induced Parkinsonism.
1653Mig: !Mig CT changes associated with migraine.
1654Mig: !Mig Nimodipine, a new calcium antagonist, in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
1655Mig: !Mig Beta-blockaders
1656Mig: !Mig Chronic headaches in general practice.
1657Mig: !Mig Platelet behavior in classic migraine: responsiveness to small doses of aspirin.
1658Mig: !Mig Is traditional Samoan massage a form of acupressure?
1659Mig: !Mig Recurrent vomiting in adults. A syndrome?
1660Mig: !Mig Whiplash amnesia.
1661Mig: !Mig Pseudomigraine with CSF lymphocytosis.
1662Mig: !Mig Tolosa-Hunt syndrome (ophthalmoplegia dolorosa recurens) in a 14-year-old boy
1663Mig: !Mig Pharmacology of clonidine and its clinical application
1664Mig: !Mig Vascular headache.
1665Mig: !Mig The other side of statistical significance.
1666Mig: !Mig Muscle-contraction (tension) headache.
1667Mig: !Mig Efficacy of flurbiprofen in migraine attacks?
1668Mig: !Mig Doppler ultrasound studies of the extracranial cerebral vessels in migraine patients after ergotamine tartrate administration
1669Mig: !Mig Footballer's migraine--a report of 2 cases.
1670Mig: !Mig Acupuncture therapy of migraine
1671Mig: !Mig Migraine in general practice.
1672Mig: !Mig EMG levels in the occipitofrontalis muscles under an experimental stress condition.
1673Mig: !Mig The control issue in biofeedback training.
1674Mig: !Mig Biofeedback applications to migraine and tension headaches: a double-blinded outcome study.
1675Mig: !Mig An integrated blood volume pulse biofeedback system for migraine treatment.
1676Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological response patterns in vascular and muscle-contraction headaches.
1677Mig: !Mig Benign recurrent vertigo--clinical study of 6 cases and review of literature
1678Mig: !Mig Propranolol and acetylsalicylic acid in migraine prophylaxis. Double-blind crossover study.
1679Mig: !Mig Rare case of ophthalmoplegic migraine
1680Mig: !Mig Low-dose propranolol therapy for aborting migraine.
1681Mig: !Mig A comparison of MMPI personality data and frontalis electromyographic readings in migraine and combination headache patients.
1682Mig: !Mig Medical evaluation of migraineurs: review of the value of laboratory and radiologic tests.
1683Mig: !Mig Migraine patients exhibit abnormalities in the visual evoked potential.
1684Mig: !Mig Ergotism causing peripheral arterial occlusion in the hand
1685Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. VIII. The sweating pattern.
1686Mig: !Mig Low plasma testosterone levels in cluster headache.
1687Mig: !Mig Histamine release from leucocytes in migraine.
1688Mig: !Mig Cluster headache--clinical findings in 180 patients.
1689Mig: !Mig Progressive leptomeningeal fibrosis: a clinico-pathological case report.
1690Mig: !Mig Jejunal atresia associated with Cafergot ingestion during pregnancy.
1691Mig: !Mig Prostaglandin--E2 levels in the saliva of common migrainous women.
1692Mig: !Mig Recognition and management of migraine.
1693Mig: !Mig EEG in vasomotor cephalgias and in tension headache
1694Mig: !Mig Treatment of the acute migraine attack--current status.
1695Mig: !Mig Ibuprofen compared with paracetamol in migraine.
1696Mig: !Mig Oxprenolol hydrochloride: pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, adverse effects and clinical efficacy.
1697Mig: !Mig Flunarizine, a calcium channel blocker: a new prophylactic drug in migraine.
1698Mig: !Mig Biochemical predisposition to dietary migraine: the role of phenolsulphotransferase.
1699Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of migraine with beta-blockers.
1700Mig: !Mig Prolapse of the mitral valve and cerebral ischemia
1701Mig: !Mig Chronic recurring lumboischialgias and neuralgias. Experiences with carbamazepine
1702Mig: !Mig Successive pregnancies in women fitted with intrauterine devices who take anti-inflammatory drugs.
1703Mig: !Mig Migraine, a risk factor for ischemic cerebral stroke
1704Mig: !Mig Hemicrania with oculosympathetic paresis from isosorbide dinitrate.
1705Mig: !Mig Pharmacological basis for the therapeutic use of ergot alkaloids
1706Mig: !Mig Experiences with a migraine compound in medical practice. A multicenter study with Avamigran
1707Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: first reported British case.
1708Mig: !Mig Treatment expectancy and therapeutic change in treatment of migraine headache: are they related?
1709Mig: !Mig Arteriovenous malformations of the posterior cerebral hemispheres.
1710Mig: !Mig Concurrent use of antidepressants and propranolol: case report and theoretical considerations.
1711Mig: !Mig Headaches.
1712Mig: !Mig Isolated transient alexia. A migrainous accompaniment.
1713Mig: !Mig Reversible alexia without agraphia due to migraine.
1714Mig: !Mig Transmural myocardial infarction with normal coronary angiograms and with single vessel coronary obstruction. Clinical-angiographic features and five-year follow-up.
1715Mig: !Mig Biochemical victims: false negative diagnosis through overreliance on laboratory results--a personal report.
1716Mig: !Mig The short and long-term efficacy of diltiazem for the treatment of variant angina pectoris.
1717Mig: !Mig A standard optometric headache history.
1718Mig: !Mig Goggle migraine.
1719Mig: !Mig Effect of free fatty acids (FFA) on platelet serotonin (5-HT) release in normals and migraineurs.
1720Mig: !Mig Positive occipital sharp transients in the human sleep EEG.
1721Mig: !Mig Aspirin pharmacokinetics in migraine. The effect of metoclopramide.
1722Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal vertigo of childhood: a migraine equivalent
1723Mig: !Mig Principles of biofeedback therapy and its possibilities in therapy
1724Mig: !Mig Metabolic changes in iron deficiency as a cause of neurologic symptoms
1725Mig: !Mig Headaches and their paroxysms in children and adolescents with arterial hypertension
1726Mig: !Mig Acyltryptophols reversibly inhibit the uptake of thymidine after phytohaemagglutinin transformation of human lymphocytes.
1727Mig: !Mig Successful alleviation of migraine pain with short ceruletide infusion
1728Mig: !Mig Cerebral angiographic changes on serial examination of a patient with migraine.
1729Mig: !Mig Middle of the night emergencies: pathophysiology and implications.
1730Mig: !Mig Extracranial vascular changes and the source of pain in migraine headache.
1731Mig: !Mig Painful Tolosa-Hunt ophthalmoplegia. Apropos of a case report in a child
1732Mig: !Mig Flunarizine, a calcium channel blocker, in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
1733Mig: !Mig Migraine prophylaxis: prognostic significance of clinical factors.
1734Mig: !Mig Iris adrenergic sensitivity and migraine in pediatric patients.
1735Mig: !Mig A self-observation study of headache symptoms in children.
1736Mig: !Mig Changes in the prevalence of migraine and other headaches during the first seven school years.
1737Mig: !Mig Prevalence of headache in prepuberty.
1738Mig: !Mig Diurnal rhythm of the bioelectrical activity of the brain and blood serotonin level in patients with migraine
1739Mig: !Mig Lisuride as a migraine prophylactic in children: an open clinical trial.
1740Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and the EEG
1741Mig: !Mig Temporal artery pulse amplitude wave shapes in migraineurs: a methodological investigation.
1742Mig: !Mig Influence of pizotifen and ergotamine on the venoconstrictor effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine and noradrenaline in man.
1743Mig: !Mig Changes in the cerebral hemodynamics of migraine in children during the interictal period
1744Mig: !Mig Informational value of rheoencephalography in functional headaches
1745Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of episodic symptoms.
1746Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular accidents and migraine
1747Mig: !Mig Migraine and the heart.
1748Mig: !Mig 3-year catamneses of psychosomatically treated chronic headache syndromes
1749Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal hemicrania. Post-stenotic dilatation of the subclavian artery
1750Mig: !Mig Value of the piribedil test in diagnosing migraine. Apropos of 150 cases
1751Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with electropuncture
1752Mig: !Mig Embolisation of cerebral arteriovenous malformations.
1753Mig: !Mig Migraine
1754Mig: !Mig Regulation of cerebral hemodynamics in health and disease.
1755Mig: !Mig The 150/30 formulation. Experience in the United Kingdom.
1756Mig: !Mig Migraine and vascular headache
1757Mig: !Mig Effectiveness of biofeedback for treating migraine and tension headaches: a review of the evidence.
1758Mig: !Mig Mast cells and migraines.
1759Mig: !Mig Phenylethylamine in neuropsychiatric disorders.
1760Mig: !Mig Inhibition of peptidase degrading endogenous opioids: a new trend in the management of migraine and correlated "pain diseases".
1761Mig: !Mig Computer tomography of the brain in migraine (review)
1762Mig: !Mig Prophylactic propranolol in the treatment of headache.
1763Mig: !Mig Observations on the efficacy of propranolol for the prophylaxis of migraine.
1764Mig: !Mig Prevention of the last chance: an alternative pharmacologic treatment of migraine.
1765Mig: !Mig Cerebral infarction in young adults: a practical approach.
1766Mig: !Mig Suloctidil therapy in migraine: an open pilot study.
1767Mig: !Mig The role of calcium and the significance of calciumantagonists in some neurological and neurosurgical diseases.
1768Mig: !Mig Mean transit time image--a new method of analyzing brain perfusion studies.
1769Mig: !Mig Etiotropic and pathogenetic therapy of painful neurologic syndromes of peripheral origin
1770Mig: !Mig Autoscopic occipital seizures and occipital poroencephalic lesion: considerations on a case
1771Mig: !Mig Nadolol: its use in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
1772Mig: !Mig Beta blockers today, in the United States
1773Mig: !Mig Illness of Dorothy Wordsworth.
1774Mig: !Mig Classification of headache.
1775Mig: !Mig Psychological assessment and treatment of headache: recent developments and emerging issues.
1776Mig: !Mig Self-control procedures in biofeedback: a review of temperature biofeedback in the treatment of migraine.
1777Mig: !Mig Migraine
1778Mig: !Mig Physiopathology and treatment of the migraine crisis
1779Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. VI. Precipitation of attacks. Further studies on the precipitation mechanism.
1780Mig: !Mig Migraine in children: a medical and psychiatric study.
1781Mig: !Mig Acquired learning problems secondary to migraine.
1782Mig: !Mig Tolfenamic acid and caffeine: a useful combination in migraine.
1783Mig: !Mig Practical differential diagnosis of chronic craniofacial pain.
1784Mig: !Mig Neuro-ophthalmology.
1785Mig: !Mig Migraine
1786Mig: !Mig Monoclonal gammopathy with neurological signs and symptoms. A clinical, neurophysiological and muscle biopsy study.
1787Mig: !Mig All-night polygraph in patients with painful diseases
1788Mig: !Mig Chlormezanone in the treatment of migraine attacks: a double blind comparison with diazepam and placebo.
1789Mig: !Mig Comparison of flunarizine (Sibelium) and pizotifen (Sandomigran) in migraine treatment: a double-blind study.
1790Mig: !Mig The Marcus Gunn pupil in incomplete optic tract hemianopias.
1791Mig: !Mig Clonidine and childhood migraine: a pilot and double-blind study.
1792Mig: !Mig The many faces of childhood migraine
1793Mig: !Mig Migraine
1794Mig: !Mig Progestational agents for the treatment of women with migraine
1795Mig: !Mig Persistent oligemia of rat cerebral cortex in the wake of spreading depression.
1796Mig: !Mig Migraine as a model of neurogenic ischemia.
1797Mig: !Mig The mixed headache syndrome: a new perspective.
1798Mig: !Mig Single-dose pizotifen, 1.5 mg nocte: a new approach in the prophylaxis of migraine.
1799Mig: !Mig Long-term study of propranolol in the treatment of migraine.
1800Mig: !Mig Platelet membrane lipid composition and the frequency of migraine.
1801Mig: !Mig Platelet lipid composition in human migraine.
1802Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular changes in patients with headache during antiserotoninergic treatment.
1803Mig: !Mig Analysis of interaction structures in the family system
1804Mig: !Mig Parathyroid adenolipoma: clinical and morphologic features.
1805Mig: !Mig Headaches in children. Cause for parental concern but commonly benign.
1806Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine in childhood: diagnostic and therapeutic aspects.
1807Mig: !Mig Spreading cerebral oligemia in classical- and normal cerebral blood flow in common migraine.
1808Mig: !Mig Childhood periodic syndromes and their long-term development
1809Mig: !Mig The current neurologic burden of illness and injury in the United States.
1810Mig: !Mig Benign spike-wave occipital epilepsy in children
1811Mig: !Mig Benign focal epileptiform discharges in childhood migraine (BFEDC).
1812Mig: !Mig The neurology of Alice in Wonderland.
1813Mig: !Mig Contraception: yes, but at what cost?
1814Mig: !Mig The treatment of acne with an anti-androgen/oestrogen combination.
1815Mig: !Mig Beta-blockers in psychiatry and psychosomatic medicine
1816Mig: !Mig Differential effects on the internal and external carotid circulation of the monkey evoked by locus coeruleus stimulation.
1817Mig: !Mig Me and migraine.
1818Mig: !Mig Achlorhydric migraine: pathogenesis and management
1819Mig: !Mig Migraine and epilepsy
1820Mig: !Mig Drop seizures in childhood
1821Mig: !Mig The true cervical headache.
1822Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregation in patients using feverfew for migraine.
1823Mig: !Mig Migraine: clinical, biochemical and hemodynamic description
1824Mig: !Mig Electromyography of pericranial muscles during treatment of spontaneous common migraine attacks.
1825Mig: !Mig Action of some pericranial muscles during provoked attacks of common migraine.
1826Mig: !Mig Migraine: a rational approach to therapy.
1827Mig: !Mig Vascular pain of the face
1828Mig: !Mig Amitriptyline as a prophylactic for migraine in children.
1829Mig: !Mig Migraine and oral contraceptives.
1830Mig: !Mig Angioneurotic oedema in the elderly.
1831Mig: !Mig The effect of metoclopramide on the absorption of tolfenamic acid.
1832Mig: !Mig Blood platelets and neurological dysfunction.
1833Mig: !Mig Propranolol-induced dyspnea in a nonasthmatic male.
1834Mig: !Mig New approach in migraine prevention.
1835Mig: !Mig Out-of-body experiences and migraine.
1836Mig: !Mig Neurologic complications of migraine.
1837Mig: !Mig Gangrene of the small bowel: a complication of methysergide therapy.
1838Mig: !Mig Lower extremity ischemia due to combined drug therapy for migraine.
1839Mig: !Mig Surgical control of chronic migrainous neuralgia by trigeminal ganglio-rhizolysis.
1840Mig: !Mig Psychology and vascular diseases
1841Mig: !Mig Idiopathic medial necrosis of intracranial and cervical arteries. A report of 3 cases
1842Mig: !Mig Effect of tiapride on headache and various other types of pain
1843Mig: !Mig Recurrent bilateral reversible migrainous hemiparesis during pregnancy.
1844Mig: !Mig Acute ergotism during pregnancy
1845Mig: !Mig Migraine and CSF pleocytosis.
1846Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of migraine
1847Mig: !Mig Cluster headache in women.
1848Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: continued remission of symptoms after discontinuation of indomethacin.
1849Mig: !Mig Relationships among migrainous, vascular and orthostatic symptoms.
1850Mig: !Mig Headache patients: different responses induced by naloxone during work-test.
1851Mig: !Mig Migraine. Psychosomatic illness review: No. 1 in a series.
1852Mig: !Mig Evidence for sympathetic deactivation by temporal vasoconstriction- and digital vasodilation-biofeedback in migraine patients: a reply to Elmore and Tursky and a new hypothesis.
1853Mig: !Mig Characterization of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors in human temporal arteries: comparison between migraine suffers and nonsufferers.
1854Mig: !Mig Platelet size: no correlation with migraine or monoamine oxidase activity.
1855Mig: !Mig Myocardial infarction following administration of sublingual ergotamine.
1856Mig: !Mig The prophylactic effect of timolol versus propranolol and placebo in common migraine: beta-blockers in migraine.
1857Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of head pain: an idiographic approach to assessment and classification.
1858Mig: !Mig Headache syndromes suggested by statistical analysis of headache symptoms.
1859Mig: !Mig Platelet activity in migraine.
1860Mig: !Mig Platelet nucleotides in migraine.
1861Mig: !Mig Irreversible campimetric manifestations following migraine attacks
1862Mig: !Mig Neurological complications of pregnancy and anaesthesia.
1863Mig: !Mig Multiple recurrent occlusions of the retinal and cerebral arteries in a 20-year-old woman
1864Mig: !Mig Weight lifter's cephalgia.
1865Mig: !Mig Association of ophthalmoplegic migraine with familial acute anterior uveitis.
1866Mig: !Mig Changes in platelet function and blood serotonin level in migraine patients during treatment with femoxetine.
1867Mig: !Mig Left-handedness: association with immune disease, migraine, and developmental learning disorder.
1868Mig: !Mig Drug stop: migraine headache. Current therapy.
1869Mig: !Mig Lithium carbonate in vasospastic disorders.
1870Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and relaxation training with three kinds of headache: treatment effects and their prediction.
1871Mig: !Mig Does the MMPI differentiate chronic illness from chronic pain?
1872Mig: !Mig Arterial complications of migraine treatment with methysergide and parenteral ergotamine.
1873Mig: !Mig Glycogenolysis induced by serotonin in brain: identification of a new class of receptor.
1874Mig: !Mig Calcium channel blockers in migraine.
1875Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
1876Mig: !Mig Safety and risks of hormonal contraceptives
1877Mig: !Mig Modifying migraine headache through rational stage directed hypnotherapy: a cognitive-experiential perspective.
1878Mig: !Mig Migraine and other primary headaches
1879Mig: !Mig Selected case studies in clinical biofeedback.
1880Mig: !Mig Some thoughts regarding diagnosis of functional headache.
1881Mig: !Mig A psychophysiological investigation of tension headache.
1882Mig: !Mig Lateral medullary syndrome after basilar migraine.
1883Mig: !Mig Change in platelet taurine and migraine.
1884Mig: !Mig Co-occurring ophthalmoplegia and hemiparesis in a case of migraine.
1885Mig: !Mig Raeder's paratrigeminal syndrome. Original concept and subsequent deviations.
1886Mig: !Mig Pure sensory stroke and allied conditions.
1887Mig: !Mig Ischemic optic neuropathy in migraine.
1888Mig: !Mig Chronic traumatic trigeminal neuralgia.
1889Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine with tolfenamic acid. A comparative double-blind crossover study between tolfenamic acid and placebo.
1890Mig: !Mig Biofeedback for headache.
1891Mig: !Mig If one knew what migraine is
1892Mig: !Mig Migraine accompagn?
1893Mig: !Mig Bioavailability and antimigraine efficacy of effervescent ergotamine.
1894Mig: !Mig The first clinical results obtained with a new analgesic--Promalgan.
1895Mig: !Mig Serum gastrin in patients with migraine and Horton's headache
1896Mig: !Mig Cerebral infarction caused by vasospasm.
1897Mig: !Mig Cerebral ischemia associated with parenteral terbutaline use in pregnant migraine patients.
1898Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
1899Mig: !Mig Selective and non-selective beta-blockers: are both effective in prophylaxis of migraine? A clinical trial versus methysergide.
1900Mig: !Mig Aspirin treatment of migraine attacks: clinical observations.
1901Mig: !Mig Platelet serotonin uptake and migraine.
1902Mig: !Mig Headache from the ophthalmologist's viewpoint
1903Mig: !Mig Propranolol-associated visual reduction.
1904Mig: !Mig Chromosome analysis and sister chromatid exchange in encephalo-trigeminal angiodysplasia.
1905Mig: !Mig Headache
1906Mig: !Mig The child with headaches.
1907Mig: !Mig Cyclical migraine headache.
1908Mig: !Mig Olfactory hallucination in migraine.
1909Mig: !Mig Life-threatening migraine.
1910Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis and management of the dizzy patient.
1911Mig: !Mig Kallikrein and prekallikrein determination in a number of pathological conditions using the Centrifichem analyzer.
1912Mig: !Mig Cyclic migraine: a disorder responsive to lithium carbonate.
1913Mig: !Mig Puerperal insertion of a copper-releasing and a levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine contraceptive device.
1914Mig: !Mig Brain hypoxia: the turning-point in the genesis of the migraine attack?
1915Mig: !Mig Foods, and food and drug combinations, responsible for head and neck pain.
1916Mig: !Mig Intermittent hypoendorphinaemia in migraine attack.
1917Mig: !Mig Migraine and platelets.
1918Mig: !Mig Menstruation and migraine
1919Mig: !Mig Risk of cerebral infarct in young adults (author's transl)
1920Mig: !Mig Biofeedback for psychophysiological disorders.
1921Mig: !Mig Pediatric cerebellar infarction: case report and review of the literature.
1922Mig: !Mig Cardiac arrhythmia in basilar migraine.
1923Mig: !Mig Variation in meaning of pain descriptors for different headache types as revealed by psychophysical scaling.
1924Mig: !Mig Epilepsy, migraine, and EEG abnormalities in children: a review and hypothesis.
1925Mig: !Mig Psychological functioning in headache sufferers.
1926Mig: !Mig Middle cerebral artery occlusion with migraine.
1927Mig: !Mig Drug treatment of migraine headache.
1928Mig: !Mig Is ischemia involved in the pathogenesis of migraine?
1929Mig: !Mig Migraine headaches in children: treatment.
1930Mig: !Mig Migraine patients exhibit abnormalities in the visual evoked potential.
1931Mig: !Mig Platelet phenolsulphotransferase deficiency in dietary migraine.
1932Mig: !Mig Dopaminergic hypersensitivity in migraine: a diagnostic test? (author's transl)
1933Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregation in response to 5-HT in migraine patients taking oral contraceptives.
1934Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular disorders in young patients with livedo racemosa generalisata (Ehrmann)
1935Mig: !Mig A plain man's guide to the management of migraine.
1936Mig: !Mig 5-Hydroxytryptamine uptake by platelets from migrainous patients.
1937Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and cluster headache.
1938Mig: !Mig The relevance of the hypothalamus and of the hypophysis in the control of nociception. Possible involvement in cephalees and migraine.
1939Mig: !Mig Headache management: a synoptic attempt.
1940Mig: !Mig Psychiatric aspects of headache.
1941Mig: !Mig Is food allergy a cause of migraine?
1942Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine.
1943Mig: !Mig The treatment of headache with biofeedback.
1944Mig: !Mig Episodes of acute confusion or psychosis in familial hemiplegic migraine.
1945Mig: !Mig Headache in children.
1946Mig: !Mig Evaluation of pericranial tenderness and oral function in patients with common migraine, muscle contraction headache and 'combination headache'.
1947Mig: !Mig Control of head pain in migraine using transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation.
1948Mig: !Mig Some practical conclusions following a longitudinal study of common macular lesions.
1949Mig: !Mig Pain in the face.
1950Mig: !Mig The pharmacology of headache.
1951Mig: !Mig Spectral analysis of visual potentials evoked by sine wave modulated light in migraine.
1952Mig: !Mig Nadolol and placebo comparison study in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
1953Mig: !Mig Preliminary considerations on changes in pigmentation, structure and vascularization of the outer ear in relation to chronic organic or functional disease
1954Mig: !Mig Domperidone in the prevention of complete classical migraine.
1955Mig: !Mig Menstrual migraine
1956Mig: !Mig Double-blind comparative trial of lonazolac-Ca versus naproxen in spinal osteoarthrosis, coxarthrosis and gonarthrosis (author's transl)
1957Mig: !Mig Headaches. Differential diagnosis and therapy
1958Mig: !Mig Ergotamine as a possible cause of retroperitoneal fibrosis.
1959Mig: !Mig Clinical features of migraine in Malaysians.
1960Mig: !Mig Aspirin treatment of migraine attacks: plasma drug level data.
1961Mig: !Mig A case of pre-chronic paroxysmal hemicrania.
1962Mig: !Mig Common migraine attacks preceded by focal hyperemia and parietal oligemia in the rCBF pattern.
1963Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological response patterns in migraine patients.
1964Mig: !Mig Psychodynamics of migraine (author's transl)
1965Mig: !Mig Resolution of migraine attacks: sleep and the recovery phase.
1966Mig: !Mig An occurrence of complicated migraine during propranolol therapy.
1967Mig: !Mig Frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity. Impairment of consciousness and migraine.
1968Mig: !Mig Transformation of episodic migraine into daily headache: analysis of factors.
1969Mig: !Mig Migraine: effect of digoxin.
1970Mig: !Mig Neurophthalmologic signs in headache syndromes.
1971Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal vertigo in childhood.
1972Mig: !Mig A study of physician attitude on biofeedback.
1973Mig: !Mig Chronic headaches in children.
1974Mig: !Mig Increased plasma histamine levels in migraine patients.
1975Mig: !Mig Spectral analysis of photic stimulation in migraine.
1976Mig: !Mig Beta-adrenoceptor blockade and migraine.
1977Mig: !Mig Migraines may manifest as vertigo.
1978Mig: !Mig Propranolol's antimigraine action long term for some.
1979Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine
1980Mig: !Mig Migraine accompanied by a meningeal lymphocytic reaction
1981Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregation, beta-blockers, and migraine.
1982Mig: !Mig Migraine optic neuropathy.
1983Mig: !Mig Cerebral vasospasm.
1984Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of cyclic vomiting with propranolol.
1985Mig: !Mig Prolonged migraine aura status.
1986Mig: !Mig The ENT specialist's responsibility in the diagnosis of the olfactory meningeoma (author's transl)
1987Mig: !Mig A study of migraine in systemic lupus erythematosus.
1988Mig: !Mig Headaches and brain tumors.
1989Mig: !Mig The diagnosis and management of headaches in childhood.
1990Mig: !Mig Local regulation of subcutaneous blood flow in normal subjects and in migraine patients before and after single-dose ergotamine tartrate.
1991Mig: !Mig Psychic symptoms in the probands of the "Vienna Health Study 79" (author's transl)
1992Mig: !Mig Rebreathing aborts migraine attacks.
1993Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania.
1994Mig: !Mig Systemic arterial pressure and heart rate changes during migraine and cluster headaches: preliminary study.
1995Mig: !Mig Tyramine sensitivity in dietary migraine: a critical review.
1996Mig: !Mig The mcGill-Melzack Pain Questionnaire in the diagnosis of headache.
1997Mig: !Mig Sympathetic-adrenomedullary activation and migraine.
1998Mig: !Mig Ergotamine vs. metoclopramide vs. their combination in acute migraine attacks.
1999Mig: !Mig Superior laryngeal neuralgia: carotidynia or just another pain in the neck?
2000Mig: !Mig Cross-validation of the Kudrow-Sutkus MMPI classification system for diagnosing headache type.
2001Mig: !Mig Migraine: not just a headache.
2002Mig: !Mig Menstrual headache.
2003Mig: !Mig Nonlinear kinetics of phenytoin in children.
2004Mig: !Mig CT scans in sub-groups of chronic schizophrenics.
2005Mig: !Mig Neurologic complications of mitral valve prolapse
2006Mig: !Mig Kinetics of ergotamine after intravenous and intramuscular administration to migraine sufferers.
2007Mig: !Mig Clinical diagnosis of atherosclerotic carotid artery disease.
2008Mig: !Mig Treatment of menstrual cycle associated migraine
2009Mig: !Mig A test of delayed recovery following stressful stimulation in four psychosomatic disorders.
2010Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine, epilepsy and tomodensitometric hypodensity
2011Mig: !Mig Pain-prone patient. A revisit.
2012Mig: !Mig Treating migraine by training in temporal artery vasoconstriction and/or cognitive behavioral coping: a one-year follow-up.
2013Mig: !Mig Self-control and chronic headache.
2014Mig: !Mig Social class and psychosomatic illness.
2015Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood.
2016Mig: !Mig Migraine headaches. Clinical and therapeutic aspects.
2017Mig: !Mig Headache centres.
2018Mig: !Mig The Princess Margaret Migraine Clinic, Charing Cross Hospital, London.
2019Mig: !Mig Migraine trust.
2020Mig: !Mig An evaluation of hypnotic susceptibility and peripheral temperature elevation in the treatment of migraine.
2021Mig: !Mig Prevalence of headache in Swedish schoolchildren. A questionnaire survey.
2022Mig: !Mig Migraine associated with hypoglossal nerve paralysis?
2023Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with vasoconstrictive and hand-warming biofeedback: a pilot project
2024Mig: !Mig Extracranial and cardiovascular reactivity in migrainous subjects.
2025Mig: !Mig Gastrin levels in patients with migraine and cluster headache.
2026Mig: !Mig Marital and family issues in patients with chronic pain. A review.
2027Mig: !Mig Cluster analysis to determine headache types.
2028Mig: !Mig Pizotifen in the treatment of severe recurrent headache single and divided dose therapy compared.
2029Mig: !Mig Stress and chronic headache: a psychophysiological analysis of mechanisms.
2030Mig: !Mig The effects of unilateral plethysmographic feedback of temporal artery activity during migraine head pain.
2031Mig: !Mig Correlation between pharmacokinetics and clinical effects of ergotamine in patients suffering from migraine.
2032Mig: !Mig On the relationships among headache symptoms.
2033Mig: !Mig Use of propranolol in the treatment of migraine
2034Mig: !Mig Clinical study of the cerebrovascular action of pentoxifylline
2035Mig: !Mig Clustering of chronic disorders--a community study of coprevalence in Jerusalem.
2036Mig: !Mig Subjects' descriptions of tension and migraine headaches.
2037Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and lateralized cervicoscapular muscular hypertonicity.
2038Mig: !Mig Paradoxical effects of frequent analgesic use.
2039Mig: !Mig Some aspects of the dopaminergic action of ergot derivatives and their role in the treatment of migraine.
2040Mig: !Mig Agonists and antagonists of 5-hydroxytryptamine on venomotor receptors.
2041Mig: !Mig The evolution of thinking about the role and site of action of serotonin in migraine.
2042Mig: !Mig Pharmacology of arteriovenous anastomoses.
2043Mig: !Mig Characteristics of extravascular serotonin receptors in the brain.
2044Mig: !Mig Platelet monoamine oxidase in migraine.
2045Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregation in migraine patients during the headache-free interval.
2046Mig: !Mig Migraine and the mitral valve prolapse syndrome.
2047Mig: !Mig A putative 5-HT central feedback in migraine and cluster headache attacks.
2048Mig: !Mig Migraine as a blood disorder: preliminary studies.
2049Mig: !Mig The use of platelet inhibitors in migraine.
2050Mig: !Mig Blood platelet 5-hydroxytryptamine accumulation and migraine.
2051Mig: !Mig Existential deterrents to headache relief past midlife.
2052Mig: !Mig What is a migraine?
2053Mig: !Mig Sexuality and headache.
2054Mig: !Mig A new nonvascular interpretation of syncopal migraine.
2055Mig: !Mig Comments on A. P. Friedman's report: Overview of migraine.
2056Mig: !Mig Multiple aspects of headache risk in children.
2057Mig: !Mig Headache in children.
2058Mig: !Mig Pain and emotion: their correlation in headache.
2059Mig: !Mig Mechanisms of fever occurring in migraine.
2060Mig: !Mig Headache in a psychiatric population.
2061Mig: !Mig Brain hypoxia in migraine: pathophysiologic and therapeutic implications.
2062Mig: !Mig Psychological interventions for chronic pain: a critical review. I. Relaxation training and biofeedback.
2063Mig: !Mig The epidemiology of disabling headache.
2064Mig: !Mig Serotonin precursors in migraine prophylaxis.
2065Mig: !Mig Agonists and antagonists of vascular receptors.
2066Mig: !Mig Basic mechanisms of antimigraine drugs.
2067Mig: !Mig Overview of migraine.
2068Mig: !Mig Effect of reflexotherapy on catecholamine excretion in migraine
2069Mig: !Mig Methadone: an effective agent in managing intractable pain as a symptom of psychotic anger.
2070Mig: !Mig Headache.
2071Mig: !Mig Rheumatic pain modulation syndrome: the interrelationships between sleep, central nervous system serotonin, and pain.
2072Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular actions of prostaglandins.
2073Mig: !Mig Nitroglycerin for ergotism. Experimental studies in vitro and in migraine patients and treatment of an overt case.
2074Mig: !Mig Duration of the biological effect of ergotamine tartrate.
2075Mig: !Mig Platelet activation: its possible role in the migraine mechanism.
2076Mig: !Mig Sequential comparisons of relaxation training and biofeedback in the treatment of three kinds of chronic headache or, the machines may be necessary some of the time.
2077Mig: !Mig Migraine treatment and its biological implications.
2078Mig: !Mig Cluster headache. Clinical, mechanistic, and treatment aspects.
2079Mig: !Mig Role of serotonin in the pathogenesis of cerebral circulatory disorders (review)
2080Mig: !Mig Controlled therapeutic trials in migraine: methodology and results
2081Mig: !Mig Platelet function in migraineurs.
2082Mig: !Mig Migraine-like headache in intraventricular tumours.
2083Mig: !Mig Effect of antimigraine drugs on nonopioid analgesia.
2084Mig: !Mig Endorphins in the pathogenesis of headache.
2085Mig: !Mig Natural opioids in migraine.
2086Mig: !Mig Serotonin and cyclic nucleotides in migraine.
2087Mig: !Mig Monoamine sensitivity of smooth muscle in vivo in nociception disorders.
2088Mig: !Mig Impairment of cerebral serotonin and energy metabolism during ischemia: relevance to migraine.
2089Mig: !Mig Effects on arterial receptors of ergot derivatives used in migraine.
2090Mig: !Mig Platelet behavior in migraine.
2091Mig: !Mig Headaches and the eye
2092Mig: !Mig Many faces of depression in patients with chronic pain.
2093Mig: !Mig Serotonin-releasing factors in migrainous patients.
2094Mig: !Mig Pathophysiology of headache.
2095Mig: !Mig On the etiopathogenesis of migraine: a possible link between the amines and endorphin hypotheses.
2096Mig: !Mig Headaches and transient cerebral ischemia:comments on Welch's report.
2097Mig: !Mig Neuroendocrine approach to headache.
2098Mig: !Mig Cerebral cortex and migraine.
2099Mig: !Mig Mechanisms of opiate analgesia and the role of endorphins in pain suppression.
2100Mig: !Mig Statement on steroidal oral contraceptives.
2101Mig: !Mig Effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine and ergotamine on human superficial temporal artery.
2102Mig: !Mig Evaluation of skin temperature biofeedback training at two different sites for migraine.
2103Mig: !Mig Referrals to neurologists for headaches not due to structural disease.
2104Mig: !Mig Possible roles of vertebrate neuroglia in potassium dynamics, spreading depression and migraine.
2105Mig: !Mig A new case of "chronic paroxysmal hemicrania.
2106Mig: !Mig The problem of subclinical localised paroxysmal rhythmic discharges (psychomotor variant discharges). Report of two cases.
2107Mig: !Mig Hypnosis in pediatric practice.
2108Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal torticollis in infancy.
2109Mig: !Mig The effect of electrode placement on frontalis EMG measurement in headache patients.
2110Mig: !Mig Transient bilateral visual reduction and mydriasis after propranolol treatment.
2111Mig: !Mig Visual disturbances associated with quinidine and quinine.
2112Mig: !Mig The relationship between muscle discrimination ability and response to relaxation training in three kinds of headaches.
2113Mig: !Mig Self-hypnosis and biofeedback in the management of juvenile migraine.
2114Mig: !Mig Individualization of so-called benign and functional epilepsy at different ages. Appraisal of variations corresponding the predisposition for epilepsy at these ages
2115Mig: !Mig Femoxetine in the prophylaxis of migraine--a randomised comparison with placebo.
2116Mig: !Mig The Tolosa-Hunt syndrome--literature review: seven new cases and a hypothesis.
2117Mig: !Mig Primary headaches: reduced circulating beta-lipotropin and beta-endorphin levels with impaired reactivity to acupuncture.
2118Mig: !Mig Enkephalinase inhibition relieves pain syndromes of central dysnociception (migraine and related headache).
2119Mig: !Mig EEG computer analysis in patients with migraine.
2120Mig: !Mig What is safe in the treatment of headache?
2121Mig: !Mig Juvenile cerebral infarct. Retrospective analysis of risk factors in 78 cases
2122Mig: !Mig The psychology and biochemistry of psychosomatic diseases
2123Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia - an equivalent to migraine?
2124Mig: !Mig Temporal relationship of EEG abnormalities in migraine to headache and medication.
2125Mig: !Mig The migraine connection.
2126Mig: !Mig Tolfenamic acid and ergotamine abuse.
2127Mig: !Mig Benign coital cephalalgia. Differential diagnosis and treatment.
2128Mig: !Mig An experimental investigation of pain production in headache patients.
2129Mig: !Mig A double-blind placebo-controlled prophylactic study of flunarizine (Sibelium) in migraine.
2130Mig: !Mig Clinical applications of prostaglandins and their inhibitors.
2131Mig: !Mig Immunity in migraine: the effect of heparin.
2132Mig: !Mig T-lymphocytes in migraine.
2133Mig: !Mig Headaches in adolescents.
2134Mig: !Mig Receptor mechanisms for 5-hydroxytryptamine in rabbit arteries.
2135Mig: !Mig Possible electrocardiographic changes caused by ergotamine and their correct interpretation
2136Mig: !Mig Hypnosis in general medicine
2137Mig: !Mig Iatrogenic arterial aneurysm associated with ergotamine therapy.
2138Mig: !Mig Blocadren (timolol maleate) in the treatment of migraine. A pilot study
2139Mig: !Mig Causes and therapy of migraine
2140Mig: !Mig False migraines
2141Mig: !Mig Migraine: a platelet disorder.
2142Mig: !Mig Studies on headaches of the aged (author's transl)
2143Mig: !Mig Acephalgic migraine. Fifteen years experience.
2144Mig: !Mig Arrest of migraine or headache with prisms.
2145Mig: !Mig Beta-blockers in the treatment of migraine
2146Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine: EEG and CT scan study of two cases.
2147Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects of familial hemiplegic migraine in two families.
2148Mig: !Mig Food problems.
2149Mig: !Mig Cautionary tales from general practice. Authentic case histories from Australian general practice illustrating pitfalls in diagnosis and management. 'A real headache'.
2150Mig: !Mig A migrainous syndrome with cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis.
2151Mig: !Mig Propranolol and femoxetine, a HT-uptake inhibitor, in migraine prophylaxis. A double-blind crossover study.
2152Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic therapy of migraine
2153Mig: !Mig Getting to the cause of headaches.
2154Mig: !Mig Perspectives in the control of chronic pain by nutritional manipulation.
2155Mig: !Mig Recurring paroxysmal abdominal pains of cerebral origin
2156Mig: !Mig Migraine prophylaxis: a new approach.
2157Mig: !Mig Cluster headache in women: evidence of hypofertility(?) Headaches in relation to menstruation and pregnancy.
2158Mig: !Mig Features of migraine--comparison of a questionnaire study and a neurologist-examined random sample.
2159Mig: !Mig Extracranial vascular reactivity in migraine and tension headache.
2160Mig: !Mig The site of pain origin during migraine attacks.
2161Mig: !Mig Metoprolol in migraine.
2162Mig: !Mig Methodological aspects of prophylactic drug trials in migraine.
2163Mig: !Mig Cerebral hemodynamics in familial hemiplegic migraine.
2164Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine in children (author's transl)
2165Mig: !Mig Migraine in children. Clinics, differential diagnosis, and therapy (author's transl)
2166Mig: !Mig Attempt at the classification of chronic and recurrent headaches
2167Mig: !Mig Tiapride in the treatment of chronic headache (author's transl)
2168Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and cluster headache.
2169Mig: !Mig Asymmetry of the aura and pain in migraine.
2170Mig: !Mig Platelet monoamine oxidase activity and headache.
2171Mig: !Mig Asymmetry in the autonomic nervous system with reference to the nasal cycle, migraine, anisocoria and Meniere's syndrome.
2172Mig: !Mig Vertigo, motion sickness and migraine.
2173Mig: !Mig Angiotensin and aldosterone elevation in salt-induced migraine.
2174Mig: !Mig Headaches in the first post partum week and their relationship to migraine.
2175Mig: !Mig Self-help treatment for migraine headaches: a controlled outcome study.
2176Mig: !Mig Directional effects of skin temperature self-regulation on regional cerebral blood flow in normal subjects and migraine patients.
2177Mig: !Mig Vascular shunt mechanisms and migraine pathogenesis.
2178Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia and migraine.
2179Mig: !Mig Biofeedback efficacy studies: a critique of critiques.
2180Mig: !Mig The effect of infused prostacyclin in migraine and cluster headache.
2181Mig: !Mig Complications and contraindications of oral contraception.
2182Mig: !Mig Beta-blockers in the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders.
2183Mig: !Mig The puerperium and dysnociception. I) Behavior of serum beta-endorphins in pregnant and post-partum animals
2184Mig: !Mig The pathophysiology of vegetative symptoms in migraine.
2185Mig: !Mig The common migraine attack may not be initiated by cerebral ischaemia.
2186Mig: !Mig Management of migraine.
2187Mig: !Mig beta-Adrenoceptor antagonists: new drugs and new indications.
2188Mig: !Mig 'Rebound headache' from ergotamine withdrawal.
2189Mig: !Mig Reactive hyperaemia and migraine.
2190Mig: !Mig Hidden handicaps. The sick headache.
2191Mig: !Mig Hidden handicaps. Migraine: current research and treatment.
2192Mig: !Mig Migraine--a type of headache.
2193Mig: !Mig Association patterns between epileptic and migraine attacks.
2194Mig: !Mig Stroke as a complication of migraine disease.
2195Mig: !Mig How I manage migraine.
2196Mig: !Mig Migraine: a biochemical headache?
2197Mig: !Mig Horton's syndrome. A dental differential diagnosis
2198Mig: !Mig Mr. Migraine. Interview by Laurence Dopson.
2199Mig: !Mig Neurology in MEDDAC hospital: experience with 1,800 consecutive patients.
2200Mig: !Mig Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome. A review of the literature and case report.
2201Mig: !Mig Perivascular meningeal projections from cat trigeminal ganglia: possible pathway for vascular headaches in man.
2202Mig: !Mig Drugs in migraine. I. Treatment of individual attacks
2203Mig: !Mig Estrogens and postcoital contraception.
2204Mig: !Mig Migraine and prolapse of the lesser cusp of the mitral valve (author's transl)
2205Mig: !Mig Unusual course of complicated migraine
2206Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine.
2207Mig: !Mig An inquiry into the genesis of migraine headache.
2208Mig: !Mig The differential contribution of muscle contraction and migraine symptoms to problem headache in the general population.
2209Mig: !Mig Pupillary dysautonomia and migraine: is Adie's pupil caused by migraine?
2210Mig: !Mig Exacerbation of migraine by treatment with lithium.
2211Mig: !Mig Migrainous visual symptoms in a woman without eyes.
2212Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania. A new type of treatable headache.
2213Mig: !Mig Prolonged consciousness disorders in attacks of basilar artery migraine
2214Mig: !Mig Contribution to our knowledge about complicated migraine. Clinical and instrumental study
2215Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine during the growing years. Clinical study of a personal case series
2216Mig: !Mig Headache.
2217Mig: !Mig Migraine treatment is no myth.
2218Mig: !Mig Ranitidine in migraine.
2219Mig: !Mig Carotidynia
2220Mig: !Mig Pathophysiology of migraine: a new hypothesis.
2221Mig: !Mig Drugs in migraine. I. Preventive treatment
2222Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine and viral meningitis.
2223Mig: !Mig Vertigo in childhood
2224Mig: !Mig Headache in a random sample of 200 persons: a clinical study of a population in northern Finland.
2225Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood and its prognosis.
2226Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania--case report of the second known definite occurrence in a male.
2227Mig: !Mig EEG during attacks of common and classical migraine.
2228Mig: !Mig Temporal artery biopsy in giant-cell arteritis. A reappraisal.
2229Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and its clinical applications.
2230Mig: !Mig Lithium in migraine and cluster headache: a review.
2231Mig: !Mig The neurological complications of the pill.
2232Mig: !Mig Oral contraception and cerebrovascular accidents
2233Mig: !Mig Nonepileptic spells in children.
2234Mig: !Mig Cyclical migraine.
2235Mig: !Mig Biochemical indices of sympathetic activity in migraine.
2236Mig: !Mig Opioid receptor impairment--underlying mechanism in "pain diseases"?
2237Mig: !Mig Permanent monocular visual defect, an unusual complication of migraine
2238Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine
2239Mig: !Mig Possible mechanisms of coronary-artery spasm.
2240Mig: !Mig Migraine and warfarin sodium
2241Mig: !Mig Maintenance therapy in cranio-facial pain: a controlled trial with tiapride (author's transl)
2242Mig: !Mig Failure of ejaculation with indoramin.
2243Mig: !Mig Red head.
2244Mig: !Mig Complications in the treatment of migraine with ergotamine and its derivatives
2245Mig: !Mig Common migraine and vestibular function. Electronystagmographic study and pathogenesis.
2246Mig: !Mig A comparison of two psychophysiological approaches to the treatment of migraine.
2247Mig: !Mig Mechanism of the biofeedback therapy of migraine: volitional manipulation of the psychophysiological background.
2248Mig: !Mig Hyperresponsiveness of migraine patients to bromocriptine.
2249Mig: !Mig Barometric pressure and other factors in migraine.
2250Mig: !Mig Platelet dysfunction and migraines.
2251Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of chronic facial pain.
2252Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives and cardiovascular disease.
2253Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of migraine and mixed headache. A randomized controlled study.
2254Mig: !Mig Vestibular function in migraine.
2255Mig: !Mig Endogenous effect of facial pain and headache from the dental viewpoint
2256Mig: !Mig Effervescent ergotamine tartrate (Effergot) in the treatment of the acute migraine attack.
2257Mig: !Mig A headache clinic's experience: Diamond Headache Clinic, Ltd.
2258Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of suloctidil (sulocton) for the treatment of migraine (preliminary report)
2259Mig: !Mig Who has the best to offer migraineurs?
2260Mig: !Mig Vascular neuralgia of the face
2261Mig: !Mig Incidence of migraine headaches among industrial workers
2262Mig: !Mig Illness behavior and chronic headache.
2263Mig: !Mig The experience of headache pain--an assessment of the qualities of tension headache pain.
2264Mig: !Mig Headache.
2265Mig: !Mig Recurrent urticaria: clinical investigation of 330 patients.
2266Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia -- its clinical and pathophysiological basis and prognosis.
2267Mig: !Mig Psychotherapy for medically ill patients: review and critique of controlled studies.
2268Mig: !Mig A guide to headaches--and how to relieve their pain.
2269Mig: !Mig Focal hyperemia followed by spreading oligemia and impaired activation of rCBF in classic migraine.
2270Mig: !Mig Clinical session at the Brazilian Institute for Study and Research in Gastroenterology
2271Mig: !Mig Interesting uses of beta blockers. 1. Beta blockers in migraine prevention.
2272Mig: !Mig Vasospasm--ubiquitous?
2273Mig: !Mig Is variant angina the coronary manifestation of a generalized vasospastic disorder?
2274Mig: !Mig Periodic migrainous neuralgia. An uncommon but classic of facial pain.
2275Mig: !Mig Causes, pathophysiology and therapy of migraine
2276Mig: !Mig Local anesthetic blocks of the second cervical ganglion: a technique with application in occipital headache.
2277Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine--a reappraisal and a long-term follow-up study.
2278Mig: !Mig Ergotamine abuse. Do patients benefit from withdrawal?
2279Mig: !Mig The anatomy and physiology of the vertebral nerve in relation to cervical migraine.
2280Mig: !Mig Effect of serotonin on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in man.
2281Mig: !Mig Use of ergot preparations in acute migraine attacks.
2282Mig: !Mig Migraine and tension headache: is there a physiological difference?
2283Mig: !Mig Recurrent painless oculomotor palsy in children. A variant of ophthalmoplegic migraine?
2284Mig: !Mig Complement studies in migraine.
2285Mig: !Mig Prevalence and significance of muscle tenderness during common migraine attacks.
2286Mig: !Mig Specific and non-specific effects of skin temperature control in migraine management.
2287Mig: !Mig Weekly headache periodicity and the effect of weather changes on headache.
2288Mig: !Mig Localisation of neurological symptoms in migraine accompagn?(author's transl)
2289Mig: !Mig Prostaglandins: their effect on cerebral blood vessels and role in the pathogenesis of migraine
2290Mig: !Mig Use of a computerized data base in a headache clinic.
2291Mig: !Mig Migraines and anti-migraine drugs
2292Mig: !Mig A case report of acute myocardial infarction induced by ergotamine tartrate (author's transl)
2293Mig: !Mig Laterality of migraine and reported affect. The relevance of an hypothesis concerning the nature of migraine.
2294Mig: !Mig Human platelet monoamine oxidase activity in health and disease: a review.
2295Mig: !Mig Diseases of peripheral nerves as seen in the Nigerian African.
2296Mig: !Mig Migraine
2297Mig: !Mig Migraine
2298Mig: !Mig Vestibular testing in basilar artery migraine.
2299Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological aspects of migraine headaches.
2300Mig: !Mig Multiple sclerosis and associated diseases: a relationship to diabetes mellitus.
2301Mig: !Mig Migraine.
2302Mig: !Mig Migraine in children
2303Mig: !Mig Trial of prevention of common migraine with chenodeoxycholic acid
2304Mig: !Mig Overuse of ergotamine
2305Mig: !Mig Neuro-ophthalmological complications of contraceptive pills.
2306Mig: !Mig Treatment of migrain blanche and ophthalmique with blocks of the superior cervical ganglion. A positive study on 84 patients (author's transl)
2307Mig: !Mig Pediatric headaches: a one year retrospective analysis.
2308Mig: !Mig Classification of migraine and tension headache from a survey of 10,000 headache diaries.
2309Mig: !Mig Personality profiles in cluster headache and migraine.
2310Mig: !Mig L-dopa effect on prolactin plasma levels in complicated and common migrainous patients.
2311Mig: !Mig Plethysmographic comparison of sublingual and intramuscular ergotamine.
2312Mig: !Mig Migraine and meningitis.
2313Mig: !Mig Benign epilepsy with occipital spike waves in children
2314Mig: !Mig Carotidynia: aetiology, diagnosis and treatment.
2315Mig: !Mig Headaches.
2316Mig: !Mig Patients' satisfaction with communication in neurological outpatient clinics.
2317Mig: !Mig The prevention of headache following spinal anaesthesia.
2318Mig: !Mig A "cognitive-behavioral stress management training (CBST)" for the treatment of migraine: a controlled, behavior therapy case study
2319Mig: !Mig Chenodeoxycholic acid and the Vichy cure
2320Mig: !Mig Neurological symptoms in Vaquez disease. A clinical case
2321Mig: !Mig Possibilities of rheoencephalography in the diagnosis and treatment of migraine
2322Mig: !Mig Migraine symptoms on the Waters Headache Questionnaire: a statistical analysis.
2323Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological investigation of muscle-contraction and migraine headache.
2324Mig: !Mig A study of schizophrenic brains by computerized tomography scans.
2325Mig: !Mig The pericarotid syndrome. A combination of hemicrania, Horner's syndrome, and internal carotid artery wall lesion.
2326Mig: !Mig Some current data on headache research.
2327Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania (author's transl)
2328Mig: !Mig Expression of affect and physiological response in psychosomatic patients.
2329Mig: !Mig Pharmaceutical preparations which contain tartrazine
2330Mig: !Mig Retinal arterial obstruction in children and young adults.
2331Mig: !Mig Acute headaches: presenting symptoms and diagnostic rules to identify patients with tension and migraine headache.
2332Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine in a child: excellent response to propranolol.
2333Mig: !Mig Estrogens and migraine.
2334Mig: !Mig Sexual dysfunction in female patients with multiple sclerosis.
2335Mig: !Mig A comparative pharmacokinetic study for tablet and suppository formulations of a combination product of caffeine, ethaverine, propyphenazone, paracetamol and phenobarbital (author's transl)
2336Mig: !Mig Meningioma and the ophthalmologist: diagnostic pitfalls.
2337Mig: !Mig Sandomigran in the treatment of migrainous patients.
2338Mig: !Mig Headaches of vascular origin in children (review of the literature)
2339Mig: !Mig Medical or chirurgical treatment in transient cerebral ischemia? (author's transl)
2340Mig: !Mig Hypnosis in the treatment of headache: a review of the last 10 years.
2341Mig: !Mig Pharmacology of migraine.
2342Mig: !Mig Preventive treatment of serotonin-migraine with 1,3,4,14b-tetrahydro-2,7-dimethyl-2H-dibenzo(b,f)pyrazino-(1,2--d)-(1,4)-oxazepine hydrogen maleate (Org GC 94). A double-blind study.
2343Mig: !Mig Alternatives to adolescent pregnancy: a discussion of the contraceptive literature from 1960 to 1980.
2344Mig: !Mig Importance of positron emission tomography for the study of cerebral ischemia
2345Mig: !Mig Positron emission tomography: state of the art in neurology.
2346Mig: !Mig Some critical notes on the use and effectiveness of biofeedback. Part 2.
2347Mig: !Mig Stroke syndromes in young people.
2348Mig: !Mig Migraine
2349Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine
2350Mig: !Mig Arterial response to ergotamine tartrate in abusing and non-abusing migraine patients.
2351Mig: !Mig Transitory topographical amnesia
2352Mig: !Mig Clinical and electroencephalographic aspects of confusional migraine in adults
2353Mig: !Mig A case of multiple cerebrovascular and migraine episodes caused by the use of oral contraceptives
2354Mig: !Mig Migraine with interparoxysmal sharp complexes in the EEG: clinical features and response to anticonvulsant drugs.
2355Mig: !Mig Observations on treatment of patients with acupuncture needles (author's transl)
2356Mig: !Mig Mixed connective tissue disease: a follow-up study of 12 patients with special reference to cold sensitivity and skin manifestations.
2357Mig: !Mig 5-OH-Tryptophane in migraine: clinical and neurophysiological considerations.
2358Mig: !Mig Central actions of beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs in man.
2359Mig: !Mig Use of beta-adrenergic blockers in neurologic and psychiatric clinical practice
2360Mig: !Mig Beta-adrenoceptor antagonists in psychiatry and neurology.
2361Mig: !Mig Potential implications of brain peptides in neurological disease.
2362Mig: !Mig Prevalence of migraine in a working population group in the Aquitaine region. Methodology and results (author's transl)
2363Mig: !Mig Results of treatment of migraine patients with cinnarizine and flunarizine
2364Mig: !Mig Autonomic dysaesthesia due to ergot toxicity.
2365Mig: !Mig Reversal of ergotamine-induced arteriospasm by mechanical intra-arterial dilatation.
2366Mig: !Mig Migraine and tiapride. A controlled study (author's transl)
2367Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular accidents in patients with migraine (author's transl)
2368Mig: !Mig Inhibition of neurosympathetic cerebroarterial constriction by clonidine in cats.
2369Mig: !Mig Compensation for mistaken diagnosis
2370Mig: !Mig Alternating hemiplegia in infants: report of five cases.
2371Mig: !Mig Misdirection revisited. A critical appraisal of acquired oculomotor nerve synkinesis.
2372Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives, side effects and drug interactions.
2373Mig: !Mig The effect of an antiserotonin agent pizotifen on platelet aggregability in migraine patients.
2374Mig: !Mig The differential diagnosis of headache and its nursing management.
2375Mig: !Mig Importance of predisposing factors and personality characteristics in cluster headache patients (author's transl)
2376Mig: !Mig Computerized axial tomography in the detection of brain damage. 2. Epilepsy, migraine, and general medical disorders.
2377Mig: !Mig Biofeedback
2378Mig: !Mig Metoclopramide/analgesic combinations for migraine.
2379Mig: !Mig Effects of low doses of clonidine in the monkey cranial circulation.
2380Mig: !Mig Symptom substitution and biofeedback treatment of migraine headache: a comment.
2381Mig: !Mig "Benign recurrent vertigo" and its connection with migraine.
2382Mig: !Mig Interval therapy of migraine: long-term results.
2383Mig: !Mig Hemicranial disorder of vasomotor adrenoceptors in migraine and cluster headache.
2384Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine: ischemic or compressive neuropathy?
2385Mig: !Mig Endogenous opioids in cerebrospinal fluid and blood in idiopathic headache sufferers.
2386Mig: !Mig Psychiatric approaches to migraine
2387Mig: !Mig Leucocyte histamine release in migraine.
2388Mig: !Mig Headache--a diagnostic problem
2389Mig: !Mig Migraine and surgery. Avoidance of trigger mechanisms.
2390Mig: !Mig Mild analgesics as an alternative to ergotamine in migraine. A comparative trial with acetylsalicylic acid, ergotamine tartrate, and a dextropropoxyphene compound.
2391Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia in childhood.
2392Mig: !Mig Cerebral ischemia in young adults.
2393Mig: !Mig Measurement of carotid diastolic flow by ultrasonography using the Doppler effect, and its value in diagnosis (authors transl)
2394Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine? Seizures, and severe epileptic EEG abnormalities.
2395Mig: !Mig Migraine and its treatment through functional relaxation
2396Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine
2397Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of craniofacial pain
2398Mig: !Mig Use of beta-blocking drugs in psychiatry and neurology.
2399Mig: !Mig New Zealand inquiry into chiropractic.
2400Mig: !Mig Prazosin treatment of ergotamine-induced peripheral ischemia.
2401Mig: !Mig Changes in the cranial and cerebrovascular circulation during migraine attacks
2402Mig: !Mig The use of an isopyrine-phenylbutazone compound in migraine.
2403Mig: !Mig Migraine prodromes separated from the aura: complete migraine.
2404Mig: !Mig Food allergy in migraine.
2405Mig: !Mig Food allergy in migraine.
2406Mig: !Mig Pain therapy from the neurologist's viewpoint
2407Mig: !Mig The clinical features of migraine as a manifestation of allergic disease.
2408Mig: !Mig Headache medication habits in Northern Finland.
2409Mig: !Mig Ocular migraine in a patient with cluster headaches.
2410Mig: !Mig Skin temperature biofeedback and migraine headaches. A double-blind study.
2411Mig: !Mig Significance of scintillating scotoma of late onset.
2412Mig: !Mig Migraine and non-migrainous headaches. A community survey in Jerusalem.
2413Mig: !Mig An autosomal dominant syndrome of hemiplegic migraine, nystagmus, and tremor.
2414Mig: !Mig Migraine and schizophrenia.
2415Mig: !Mig Summary of 12th conference on cerebrovascular disease. Williamsburg, Virginia, March 2--4, 1980.
2416Mig: !Mig Self-hypnosis, biofeedback, and voluntary peripheral temperature control in children.
2417Mig: !Mig The evaluation of dizziness in children.
2418Mig: !Mig Comparison of four biofeedback treatments for migraine headache: physiological and headache variables.
2419Mig: !Mig Catecholamines and migraine: evidence based on biofeedback induced changes.
2420Mig: !Mig The EEG during the hemiplegic migraine attack of children
2421Mig: !Mig The biochemistry of migraine.
2422Mig: !Mig Preventive treatment of migraine with enzyme induction by proxibarbal in a "double-blind" trial.
2423Mig: !Mig Therapy in neurology. Part 7: The treatment of migraine and migrainous headaches
2424Mig: !Mig Transitory ischemic attacks, migraine and progestogen drugs. Etiopathogenetic correlations
2425Mig: !Mig Pitfalls in the recognition of subarachnoid hemorrhage.
2426Mig: !Mig Unusual migraines
2427Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal vertigo of childhood: a migraine equivalent.
2428Mig: !Mig The effect of single dose ergotamine tartrate on peripheral arteries in migraine patients: methodological aspects and time effect curve.
2429Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and treatment of headache in the pediatric patient.
2430Mig: !Mig Cimetidine in the prophylaxis of migraine.
2431Mig: !Mig Non-traumatic headache in the emergency department.
2432Mig: !Mig Pleural thickening caused by Sansert and Ergotrate in the treatment of migraine.
2433Mig: !Mig Headache.
2434Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with metoprolol.
2435Mig: !Mig Migraine treated by inhalation sedation using nitrous oxide and oxygen.
2436Mig: !Mig Abnormal CT-scans in migraine.
2437Mig: !Mig Determination of the regional cerebral circulation
2438Mig: !Mig Food allergy in migraine. Study of dietary exclusion and RAST.
2439Mig: !Mig Serum total IgE in normal subjects and the influence of a family history of allergy.
2440Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine and aberrant regeneration of the oculomotor nerve.
2441Mig: !Mig Trait levels of anxiety and psychological responses to stress in migraineurs and normal controls.
2442Mig: !Mig Newer drug therapies for headache.
2443Mig: !Mig Intactness of useful central vision during migraine scotoma.
2444Mig: !Mig Migraine in patients attending a migraine clinic: an analysis by computer of age, sex and family history.
2445Mig: !Mig Headache ghosts.
2446Mig: !Mig Antimigraine drugs and cranial arteriovenous shunting in the cat.
2447Mig: !Mig Review article: current thoughts on migraine.
2448Mig: !Mig Comparative trial of Tenormin (atenolol) and Inderal (propranolol) in migraine.
2449Mig: !Mig Vascular causes of ocular pain.
2450Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine
2451Mig: !Mig Migraine headaches in children.
2452Mig: !Mig Acute superior laryngeal nerve palsy: analysis of 78 cases.
2453Mig: !Mig Recurrent abdominal pain in childhood.
2454Mig: !Mig Use of a prostaglandin inhibitor in migraine crisis. Study of 40 cases
2455Mig: !Mig The 5-hydroxytryptamine take-up mechanism in normal platelets and platelets from migraine and asthmatic patients.
2456Mig: !Mig Diet and migraine.
2457Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine associated with an aseptic meningeal reaction.
2458Mig: !Mig Propranolol (Inderal) and clonidine (Catapressan) in the prophylactic treatment of migraine. A comparative trial.
2459Mig: !Mig Hyperventilation during migraine attacks.
2460Mig: !Mig Lignocaine versus saline in migraine pain.
2461Mig: !Mig Complement and its various fractions in migraine
2462Mig: !Mig Migraine and dementia
2463Mig: !Mig Prognosis for transitory global amnesia in migraine
2464Mig: !Mig Prognosis in severe migraine
2465Mig: !Mig Treatment of headache with tiapride (author's transl)
2466Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of severe migraine
2467Mig: !Mig Prevention and therapy of non-gynecologic diseases with estrogens
2468Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine in childhood (author's transl)
2469Mig: !Mig Cerebral convulsions--differential diagnostic considerations in practice
2470Mig: !Mig Acupuncture in headache and radicular syndromes
2471Mig: !Mig Herpes simplex polyganglionitis.
2472Mig: !Mig The action of ergotamine on the distribution of carotid blood flow--the migraine shunt theory revisited.
2473Mig: !Mig Measures of forehead and finger temperature, frontalis EMG, heart rate and finger pulse amplitude during and between migraine headaches.
2474Mig: !Mig C-1 inhibitor levels in migraineurs and normals.
2475Mig: !Mig Headaches, drugs and dermatology.
2476Mig: !Mig Migraine precipitated by head trauma in athletes.
2477Mig: !Mig The acute headache from the neurological viewpoint
2478Mig: !Mig Behavior therapy for psychosomatic disorders.
2479Mig: !Mig Stress management of chronic pain.
2480Mig: !Mig Prostaglandin inhibitors and gastric factors in migraine.
2481Mig: !Mig Thrombocythemia as cause of migraine accompagn?
2482Mig: !Mig Headache related to sexual intercourse (author's transl)
2483Mig: !Mig Phytoestrol in the hormone-free interval during administration of contraceptives
2484Mig: !Mig Therapeutic management of cluster headache with lithium carbonate
2485Mig: !Mig Headache provocation by continuous intravenous infusion of histamine. Clinical results and receptor mechanisms.
2486Mig: !Mig Reversible arteriopathy following an ergotamine overdose in a heavy smoker.
2487Mig: !Mig Migraine incidence in clinical vs nonclinical populations.
2488Mig: !Mig A double blind study of metoclopramide in the treatment of migraine attacks.
2489Mig: !Mig The changes of cerebral blood flow in pathological conditions (author's transl)
2490Mig: !Mig Cerebral infarction and migraine.
2491Mig: !Mig Treatment of disease without the use of drugs. III. Self-treatment of migraine by thought control.
2492Mig: !Mig Why does migraine improve during a clinical trial? Further results from a trial of cervical manipulation for migraine.
2493Mig: !Mig Migraine: current approach to prevention and treatment.
2494Mig: !Mig Measures of regional cerebral blood deficit by inhalation of xenon 133: clinical applications
2495Mig: !Mig A component analysis of biofeedback induced self-control of peripheral (finger) temperature.
2496Mig: !Mig Migraine: epidemiological aspects of 17 Malaysian patients.
2497Mig: !Mig Indications for ovulation inhibitors. Recommendations of the Swiss Society for Family Planning
2498Mig: !Mig Migraine headache: review of parameters, etiology, and intervention.
2499Mig: !Mig Hyperresponsiveness of migraine patients to the hypotensive action of bromocriptine.
2500Mig: !Mig Considerations on the use of propranolol in complicated migraine.
2501Mig: !Mig Headache rounds. Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: two new patients.
2502Mig: !Mig Migraine headaches.
2503Mig: !Mig Naproxen in the prevention of migraine attacks. A double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over study.
2504Mig: !Mig Migraine headache: signs and symptoms, biochemistry, and current therapy.
2505Mig: !Mig Migrainous cerebral infarction: a tomographic study of cerebral blood flow and oxygen extraction fraction with the oxygen-15 inhalation technique.
2506Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects and therapy of migraine
2507Mig: !Mig Transient cerebral ischemia: pathophysiology.
2508Mig: !Mig Ferrum quartz in the prevention of migraine. A double-blind study
2509Mig: !Mig Food hypersensitivity and migraine
2510Mig: !Mig The effect and acceptibility of treatment of acute attacts of migraine in a headache clinic
2511Mig: !Mig Neurology-Epitomes of Progress: Migraine in Children.
2512Mig: !Mig Late-life migraine accompaniments as a cause of unexplained transient ischemic attacks.
2513Mig: !Mig Modification of migraine headaches by cephalic blood volume pulse and EMG biofeedback.
2514Mig: !Mig Study of some bioelectric changes in vasomotor headache (author's transl)
2515Mig: !Mig Evidence for two types of excitatory receptor for 5-hydroxytryptamine in dog isolated vasculature.
2516Mig: !Mig Migraine.
2517Mig: !Mig Icepick-like pain.
2518Mig: !Mig Migraine (author's transl)
2519Mig: !Mig Propranolol in the treatment of migraine.
2520Mig: !Mig Biofeedback--does it work?
2521Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine (migraine accompagn? in children. Clinical characteristics and course in 40 personal cases.
2522Mig: !Mig Examples of the clinical use of acupuncture.
2523Mig: !Mig Evaluation of complicated migraine in childhood.
2524Mig: !Mig Cerebral ischemic accidents during migraine attacks. A report on "complicated migraine"
2525Mig: !Mig Visual images observed following an enucleation.
2526Mig: !Mig Surgical treatment of migraine
2527Mig: !Mig Migraine, a pathogenic labyrinth. Trial therapy with chenodeoxycholic acid
2528Mig: !Mig Study of migraine and the treatment of acute attacks in industry.
2529Mig: !Mig Animal and human arteries' "in vitro" response to serum of migraineurs.
2530Mig: !Mig Migraine or transient ischemic attacks in a patient with essential thrombocythaemia. Treatment with ticlopidine (author's transl)
2531Mig: !Mig Dopamine and 5-HT supersensitivity in nonorganic central pain and in morphine abstinence: fortuitous or renal analogy?
2532Mig: !Mig Chenodeoxycholic acid. Indications in biliary pathology and hyperlipoproteinemias
2533Mig: !Mig Paracetamol (acetaminophen) versus acetylsalicylic acid in migraine.
2534Mig: !Mig Psychoanalytic aspects of migraine
2535Mig: !Mig Failure to live up to a value measure as a specific conflict situation in migraine patients
2536Mig: !Mig Electrode placement, EMG feedback, and relaxation for tension headaches.
2537Mig: !Mig Current investigations in headache.
2538Mig: !Mig Resolution of classic migraine after removal of an occipital lobe AVM.
2539Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine
2540Mig: !Mig The effect of hormonal contraceptives on the EEG
2541Mig: !Mig Psychological analysis of personality in patients with migraine
2542Mig: !Mig Immunoglobulin, complement, and immune complex levels during a migraine attack.
2543Mig: !Mig Exposure to sun and precipitation of migraine.
2544Mig: !Mig Headaches of the silver cord.
2545Mig: !Mig Biofeedback, migraine headache and new symptom formation.
2546Mig: !Mig Biofeedback control of skin temperature and cerebral blood flow in migraine.
2547Mig: !Mig Methysergide induced mitral valvular insufficiency.
2548Mig: !Mig Pseudopapilledema.
2549Mig: !Mig Chronic vasoconstriction may have role in migraine headaches.
2550Mig: !Mig Non-hemorrhagic forms of intracranial arterial aneurysms
2551Mig: !Mig Incidence of migraine among physicians of the city of L??and their families
2552Mig: !Mig Migraine and epilepsy.
2553Mig: !Mig Clinical session of the Instituto Brasileiro de Estudos e Pesquisas de Gastroenterologia
2554Mig: !Mig Migraines and antimigraine agents
2555Mig: !Mig Need for gastric acidification in the treatment of abdominal migraine. Results of a multicenter study on the association of S?or retard and Vagos?ne
2556Mig: !Mig Chronoelectroencephalographic studies in migraine and related headaches
2557Mig: !Mig Clomipramine in the prevention of migraine.
2558Mig: !Mig Physiotherapy treatment for tension headache.
2559Mig: !Mig Comparative trial of Tenormin (atenolol) and Inderal (propranolol) in migraine.
2560Mig: !Mig The role of clonidine in the treatment of migraine: a review of the literature and personal experience.
2561Mig: !Mig Avoidance of adverse effects during chronic therapy with theophylline.
2562Mig: !Mig A combined behavioral approach with long term follow-up for the treatment of migraine.
2563Mig: !Mig Contraception in the adolescent: current concepts for the pediatrician.
2564Mig: !Mig Platelet antagonists in migraine prophylaxis. A clinical trial using aspirin and dipyridamole.
2565Mig: !Mig Current methods of migraine reflexotherapy
2566Mig: !Mig Migraine and headache due to weather and allied causes and its specific treatment.
2567Mig: !Mig The syndrome of transient global amnesia in migraine: a follow-up study.
2568Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania (CPH). The clinical manifestations. A review.
2569Mig: !Mig Weekly periodicity of headache and the effect of changes in weather on headache.
2570Mig: !Mig Systemic availability of ergotamine tartrate in continuous medication.
2571Mig: !Mig Blood platelet 5-hydroxytryptamine accumulation and migraine.
2572Mig: !Mig Pharmacist on call: a new use for propranolol.
2573Mig: !Mig Annual review of section on ocular disease: diseases of the optic nerve, tracts, and visual cortex.
2574Mig: !Mig Therapeutic use of beta-blockers in general pathology (rheumatology, neurology and ophthalmology) (author's transl)
2575Mig: !Mig Headache.
2576Mig: !Mig Analysis of the therapeutic results of autogenic training in psychosomatic disorders
2577Mig: !Mig Viloxazine and migraine.
2578Mig: !Mig Interaction of a potential antimigraine drug (Org GC 94) with the vasomotor action of serotonin.
2579Mig: !Mig The physician-patient relationship in the acupuncture treatment of psychosomatic headaches
2580Mig: !Mig Retinal migraine and the pill.
2581Mig: !Mig Chronic recurrent headaches.
2582Mig: !Mig Migraine is not associated with cholelithiasis
2583Mig: !Mig A review of the applications of biofeedback to migraine and tension headaches.
2584Mig: !Mig ENT considerations of head and facial pain (author's transl)
2585Mig: !Mig Biofeedback therapy for headache and other pain: an evaluative review.
2586Mig: !Mig Temperature biofeedback and relaxation training in the treatment of migraine headaches. One-year follow-up.
2587Mig: !Mig The etiology, diagnosis, and treatment of TMJ dysfunction-pain syndrome. Part I: Etiology.
2588Mig: !Mig The differential diagnosis of stroke.
2589Mig: !Mig Migraine, a platelet disorder.
2590Mig: !Mig Beta-blockade--selection and use.
2591Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine
2592Mig: !Mig Propranolol in migraine
2593Mig: !Mig Migraine, headache, and related conditions--panel 7.
2594Mig: !Mig Conditioned adaptation-relaxation reflex in migraine therapy.
2595Mig: !Mig A contribution about serious ophthalmic complications with oral contraceptives (author's transl)
2596Mig: !Mig Food intake before migraine attacks in children.
2597Mig: !Mig Systemic availability of ergotamine tartrate after three successive doses and during continuous medication.
2598Mig: !Mig Craniovascular accompaniments of the vascular headache of the migraine type.
2599Mig: !Mig Use of CT scans in an out-patient headache population: an evaluation.
2600Mig: !Mig Timolol in migraine prophylaxis.
2601Mig: !Mig Migraine and weather.
2602Mig: !Mig Amitriptyline in migraine prophylaxis.
2603Mig: !Mig Spontaneous internal carotid dissection, hemicrania, and Horner's syndrome.
2604Mig: !Mig Muscle contraction headache.
2605Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and the behavioral treatment of disorders of disregulation.
2606Mig: !Mig The relationship between stage III + IV + REM sleep and arousals with migraine.
2607Mig: !Mig Levels of complement and its various fractions in the blood of patients with Horton's headache. Preliminary report
2608Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of transient ischemic attacks
2609Mig: !Mig Platelet 5-hydroxytryptamine accumulation and migraine.
2610Mig: !Mig Neurotransmitters and the fifth cranial nerve: is there a relation to the headache phase of migraine?
2611Mig: !Mig Therapeutic advances in geriatry. A report on 47 cases (author's transl)
2612Mig: !Mig Headaches and cervical manipulation.
2613Mig: !Mig Layman's guide to common complaints. 12. Headache.
2614Mig: !Mig Cerebral infarction and migraine.
2615Mig: !Mig Comparative studies of new anti-migraine drugs. I. Action on central nervous system in rodents.
2616Mig: !Mig Ergot induced unilateral brachial arterial occlusion.
2617Mig: !Mig Clonidine in prophylaxis of migraine.
2618Mig: !Mig Bromocriptine blood-pressure lowering effect in migraine patients. A clinical investigation for a possible mechanism.
2619Mig: !Mig Comparative studies of a new anti-migraine drugs. II. To the mode of their central action.
2620Mig: !Mig Morphine abstinence and serotonin supersensitivity in man: analogies with the mechanism of migraine?
2621Mig: !Mig Clinical pharmacology and the autonomic nervous system.
2622Mig: !Mig Anti-nauseant drugs.
2623Mig: !Mig Propranolol for prevention of migraine headaches.
2624Mig: !Mig The neuro-ophthalmology of systemic lupus erythematosus.
2625Mig: !Mig Migraine: treatment by lithium
2626Mig: !Mig Indications for and side effects of lithium therapy. Present status
2627Mig: !Mig Religious stigmatization.
2628Mig: !Mig Transient ischemia attacks in general practice
2629Mig: !Mig Migraine--use and misuse of drugs : editorial
2630Mig: !Mig Experience with 750 migraine patients at a headache clinic
2631Mig: !Mig Aphemia with hemiplegic migraine.
2632Mig: !Mig Manipulated objects. A critical contribution on the method of investigation of the French school of psychosomatics
2633Mig: !Mig Elongated styloid process (Eagle's syndrome) causing hemicrania.
2634Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia in migraine.
2635Mig: !Mig Clonazepam (rivotril) in migraine prophylaxis.
2636Mig: !Mig Classical conditioning of digital pulse volume in migraineurs and normal controls.
2637Mig: !Mig The platelet release reaction during migraine attacks.
2638Mig: !Mig Frequency of focal cerebral transient ischemic attacks during a 12 month period. The Copenhagen city heart study.
2639Mig: !Mig Pollionosis: I. Findings on the clinical aspects and the pollen spectrum in 1565 pollen-sensitive patients
2640Mig: !Mig Immunoglobulins of the normal cerebrospinal fluid
2641Mig: !Mig Monoamine oxidase activities in patients with migraine or with cluster headache during the acute phases and after treatment with L-5-hydroxytryptophan.
2642Mig: !Mig Prescriptions for the therapy of migraine
2643Mig: !Mig Food allergy and migraine.
2644Mig: !Mig Food allergy and migraine.
2645Mig: !Mig Tolfenamic acid is as effective as ergotamine during migraine attacks.
2646Mig: !Mig Circadian rhythms of plasma cortisol in migraine.
2647Mig: !Mig Spinal cord injury as a complication of an acupuncture.
2648Mig: !Mig Persistent neurologic sequelae of migraine: a case report.
2649Mig: !Mig Efficacy of flufenamic acid in migraine attacks.
2650Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine in childhood.
2651Mig: !Mig Use of operational criteria in an office practice for diagnosis of children referred for evaluation of learning or behavior disorders.
2652Mig: !Mig Hemicrania in the elderly: suggested use of the directional Doppler flow probe.
2653Mig: !Mig Relief of facial pain.
2654Mig: !Mig Trial of the calcium antagonist nifedipine in the treatment of primary dysmenorrhoea.
2655Mig: !Mig Lower extremity arterial insufficiency after long-term methysergide maleate therapy. Its evaluation with Doppler ultrasonic velocity detector.
2656Mig: !Mig Cluster headache: relation to and comparison with migraine.
2657Mig: !Mig Successful treatment of atypical migraine of childhood with anticonvulsants.
2658Mig: !Mig Food allergy and migraine.
2659Mig: !Mig Food allergies and migraine.
2660Mig: !Mig Migraine--clinical picture and treatment
2661Mig: !Mig Rarity of migraine in diabetic subjects
2662Mig: !Mig Endogenous pain control mechanisms.
2663Mig: !Mig Clinical biofeedback.
2664Mig: !Mig Characteristics of tension headache: a profile of 1,420 cases.
2665Mig: !Mig Xylose test in patients with attacks of headaches (migraine, Horton's headache)
2666Mig: !Mig Biochemical basis for biofeedback treatment of migraine: a hypothesis.
2667Mig: !Mig Reserpine--headache and PRL release in migraine.
2668Mig: !Mig Disturbed liver function in migraine patients.
2669Mig: !Mig Abnormal cerebrovascular reactivity in patients with migraine and cluster headache.
2670Mig: !Mig Headache rounds--acquired migraine.
2671Mig: !Mig Angina pectoris and sudden death in the absence of atherosclerosis following ergotamine therapy for migraine.
2672Mig: !Mig Classic migraine with cerebral cortical infarction causing permanent hemianopia.
2673Mig: !Mig Current non-pharmacological treatment of headaches: "biofeedback"
2674Mig: !Mig The therapeutic uses of clonidine.
2675Mig: !Mig Temperature biofeedback treatment for migraine headache: a controlled multiple baseline study.
2676Mig: !Mig Intractable headache? Biofeedback could be a solution.
2677Mig: !Mig Problems in mucocele. III. Diagnostic and therapeutic considerations
2678Mig: !Mig Clinical pharmacology of the new beta-adrenergic blocking drugs. Part 3. Comparative clinical experience and new therapeutic applications.
2679Mig: !Mig Ergotism with therapeutic doses of ergotamine tartrate.
2680Mig: !Mig Migraine accompagn? the use of additional diagnostic tests
2681Mig: !Mig Basis of pharmaco-therapy. Clinical pharmacology in key words. Finding the dosage
2682Mig: !Mig Pain thresholds in migraine.
2683Mig: !Mig Migraine. A platelet hypothesis.
2684Mig: !Mig Effect of ergotamine on cranial arteriovenous shunting in experiments with constant flow perfusion.
2685Mig: !Mig Headaches in children.
2686Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood. A review.
2687Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic medicine: a review of the discipline.
2688Mig: !Mig Diving medicine.
2689Mig: !Mig Spinal manipulation for migraine.
2690Mig: !Mig Cervical manipulation for migraine.
2691Mig: !Mig Affect and the menstrual cycle.
2692Mig: !Mig Focal epilepsies (author's transl)
2693Mig: !Mig Food allergies and migraine.
2694Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine
2695Mig: !Mig The vasomotor headache
2696Mig: !Mig Angiological problems of calcitonin therapy (author's transl)
2697Mig: !Mig Migraines and tiapride. About four observations (author's transl)
2698Mig: !Mig Migraine.
2699Mig: !Mig Coronary artery spasm.
2700Mig: !Mig Food allergies and migraine.
2701Mig: !Mig In vitro response of animal arteries to serum of migraineurs.
2702Mig: !Mig Benserazide induces migraine attacks. Irrelevance of concomitant hyperprolactinemia.
2703Mig: !Mig Convulsions caused by migraine
2704Mig: !Mig Isoproterenol treatment of visual symptoms in migraine.
2705Mig: !Mig Dissecting aneurysms of the basilar artery in 2 patients.
2706Mig: !Mig Surgical treatment of cervical migraine (author's transl)
2707Mig: !Mig Phenomenal similarities of migraine and morphine abstinence.
2708Mig: !Mig C.B.F.--a sudden and vehement incursion.
2709Mig: !Mig Vasospasm and vascular headaches: selective vasoconstriction in the carotid vascular system measured by the Doppler ophthalmic method in migraineurs.
2710Mig: !Mig Gangrene induced by methysergide and ergotamine. A case report.
2711Mig: !Mig Vertigo and basilar migraine. Nosologic role of benign vertigo in children
2712Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine
2713Mig: !Mig Placebo, 1-isopropylnoradrenochrome-5-monosemicarbazono and pizotifen in migraine prophylaxis.
2714Mig: !Mig The Copenhagen Acute Headache Clinic: organization, patient material and treatment results.
2715Mig: !Mig Headache: a study from general practice
2716Mig: !Mig Comparison of black and white patients attending hypertension clinics in England.
2717Mig: !Mig Headache in adults
2718Mig: !Mig Cerebral infarction and migrainous attack. Angiographic and CT scan studies (author's transl)
2719Mig: !Mig The treatment of headaches: an open randomized comparative therapeutic study (author's transl)
2720Mig: !Mig Migraine or headache and oral contraceptives
2721Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania
2722Mig: !Mig Control of migraine in children.
2723Mig: !Mig A possible connection between basilar migraine and the Arnold-Chiari malformation.
2724Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and treatment of migraine in children.
2725Mig: !Mig Headaches in general practice.
2726Mig: !Mig The use of analgesics in headache.
2727Mig: !Mig Psychiatric aspects of headache.
2728Mig: !Mig Nature of headache.
2729Mig: !Mig An ophthalmologist's view of headache.
2730Mig: !Mig Migraine headache: diagnosis and management.
2731Mig: !Mig Vascular headaches and the cranial circulation--another look.
2732Mig: !Mig The scintillating scotoma without headache.
2733Mig: !Mig The Alice in Wonderland syndrome in juvenile migraine.
2734Mig: !Mig Hereditary acrolabial telangiectasia. A report of familial blue lips, nails, and nipples.
2735Mig: !Mig Transient ischemic attacks due to increased platelet aggregation and adhesiveness. Ultrastructural and functional correlation.
2736Mig: !Mig Nervous tension and otologic syndromes (author's transl)
2737Mig: !Mig Episodic pain: the misery of migraine.
2738Mig: !Mig Classification and mechanism of migraine.
2739Mig: !Mig Radix Puerariae in migraine.
2740Mig: !Mig Recurring loss of conciousness with middle brain symptoms in migraine
2741Mig: !Mig Neurology.
2742Mig: !Mig Acupuncture therapy of migraine in a double-blind trial
2743Mig: !Mig Migraine, serotonin, and the carotid body.
2744Mig: !Mig Cerebral infarction and migraine: clinical and radiologic correlations.
2745Mig: !Mig Cardiac manifestation of migraine: migraine as a cause of coronary spasm
2746Mig: !Mig Clonazepam in painful syndromes of the head
2747Mig: !Mig Present-day problems of idiopathic headache treatment
2748Mig: !Mig Blood serotonin level in sciatica and the serotonin theory of migraine pathogenesis
2749Mig: !Mig Circadian and ultradian rhythms in the feeding behaviour and nutrient intakes of oil refinery operators with shift-work every 3--4 days.
2750Mig: !Mig The psychotherapist and the headache patient.
2751Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia.
2752Mig: !Mig Migraine headaches in children.
2753Mig: !Mig Tranquilizers and mood elevators in the treatment of migraine: An analysis of the Migraine Foundation questionnaire.
2754Mig: !Mig HLA antigens in migraine.
2755Mig: !Mig Visual evoked potentials in menstrual migraine.
2756Mig: !Mig FPL 57787 and migraine prophylaxis. A double-blind cross-over study.
2757Mig: !Mig Atypical odontalgia.
2758Mig: !Mig Role of the hypothalamus in the aging woman.
2759Mig: !Mig Systemic availability of ergotamine tartrate after oral, rectal and intramuscular administration.
2760Mig: !Mig Carotidynia: a cause of neck and face pain.
2761Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate overdosage.
2762Mig: !Mig Laser acupuncture--no alternative to classical acupuncture
2763Mig: !Mig False transmitters and migraine.
2764Mig: !Mig Hyperprolactinaemia and liquorice.
2765Mig: !Mig The face. Facial pain.
2766Mig: !Mig Resolution of classic migraine after removal of an occipital lobe AVM.
2767Mig: !Mig On myths and countermyths: more on Szaszian fallacies.
2768Mig: !Mig Factors influencing the response of the cerebral circulation to phenylethylamine.
2769Mig: !Mig Headache (author's transl)
2770Mig: !Mig Methysergide-induced fibrosis. Directives for preventive treatment of migraine with methysergide
2771Mig: !Mig Acute abdomen in a patient with migraine
2772Mig: !Mig Headaches--fact or fantasy?
2773Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate overdosage.
2774Mig: !Mig Two types of migraine.
2775Mig: !Mig Disturbances of the pupil reflex associated with lesions of the upper visual pathway (author's transl)
2776Mig: !Mig Migraine and marcumar
2777Mig: !Mig Iris adrenergic impairment in idiopathic headache.
2778Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicranial: mechanical precipitation of attacks.
2779Mig: !Mig Sex hormones, prolactin levels, osmolarity and electrolyte patterns in menstrual migraine - relationship with fluid retention.
2780Mig: !Mig Platelet serotonin (5-HT) and 5-HT releasing factor in plasma of migrainous patients.
2781Mig: !Mig Psychotherapy of the medically ill.
2782Mig: !Mig EEG changes in vasomotor headache. Preliminary study of 141 patients
2783Mig: !Mig Etiology and treatment of migraine
2784Mig: !Mig Doppler observations in migraine patients (author's transl)
2785Mig: !Mig Brain infarction in young men.
2786Mig: !Mig Ischaemic optic neuropathy.
2787Mig: !Mig The potential use of videotape in teaching psychosomatics.
2788Mig: !Mig Hemicrania in children: diagnostic and therapeutic problems (author's transl)
2789Mig: !Mig Headache and the ophthalmologist.
2790Mig: !Mig II. Prevention of migraine using chenodeoxycholic acid (C.D.C.A.)
2791Mig: !Mig Ergotism in a patient with a portosystemic shunt.
2792Mig: !Mig Cyproheptadine (Peritol) in the treatment of migraine and related headache.
2793Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and behavioral medicine: an overview.
2794Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and rational-emotive therapy in the management of migraine headache.
2795Mig: !Mig Neurologic manifestations of periodic disease
2796Mig: !Mig Possible interference between migrainous and epileptic mechanisms in intercalated attacks. Case report.
2797Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives as a possible cause of cerebral vascular disorders
2798Mig: !Mig Clinical follow-up: treatment and outcome of functional headache patients treated with biofeedback.
2799Mig: !Mig The efficacy of biofeedback therapy.
2800Mig: !Mig Temperature self-regulation and relaxation with migraine patients and normals.
2801Mig: !Mig Domperidone as an anti-emetic; summary of research reports.
2802Mig: !Mig Clinical pharmacology of the steroidal oral contraceptives.
2803Mig: !Mig Clinical applications of biofeedback: a summary of research 1974-1978.
2804Mig: !Mig Translocation of cortical migraine phosphenes through eye movements and vestibular stimulation
2805Mig: !Mig Adenine compounds: cerebrovascular effects in vitro with reference to their possible involvement in migraine.
2806Mig: !Mig Headaches in the evolutive age: nosographic classification by means of the evaluative rating scale and diagnostic tests
2807Mig: !Mig Pharmacologic properties and therapeutic use of beta adrenergic receptor blocking drugs
2808Mig: !Mig Alternatives to drugs. Biofeedback.
2809Mig: !Mig Clinical applications of beta adrenergic blocking drugs: a growing spectrum.
2810Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine.
2811Mig: !Mig Functional headache in childhood and adolescence
2812Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
2813Mig: !Mig Aspirin prophylaxis in migraine.
2814Mig: !Mig Biofeedback in the treatment of vascular headache.
2815Mig: !Mig Acetylsalicyclic asthma and migraine - a defect in serotonin (5-HT) uptake in platelets.
2816Mig: !Mig Spasm of the superior mesenteric artery complicating methysergide maleate therapy.
2817Mig: !Mig Lithium treatment of chronic cluster headaches.
2818Mig: !Mig Acupuncture in glaucoma (author's transl)
2819Mig: !Mig A controlled trial of cervical manipulation of migraine.
2820Mig: !Mig Migraine attacks and increased platelet aggregability induced by oral contraceptives.
2821Mig: !Mig The laying on of hands.
2822Mig: !Mig Migraine: A vasomotor instability of the meningeal circulation.
2823Mig: !Mig Pharmacology of ergot alkaloids in clinical use.
2824Mig: !Mig Ergotamine and cerebral blood flow.
2825Mig: !Mig Cluster headache, hemicrania, and other head pains: morbidity of carotid endarterectomy.
2826Mig: !Mig The long-term prognosis in untreated cerebral aneurysms: II. Late morbidity and mortality.
2827Mig: !Mig Bilateral vascular papillitis following ergotamin medication (author's transl)
2828Mig: !Mig Managing migraine headache.
2829Mig: !Mig Case of a particularly severe migraine in a boy
2830Mig: !Mig Single case study basilar artery migraine presenting as conversion hysteria.
2831Mig: !Mig Some clinical features of the acute migraine attack. An analysis of 750 patients.
2832Mig: !Mig Testosterone levels in cluster and non-cluster migrainous headache patients.
2833Mig: !Mig Complement and immune complex studies in migraine.
2834Mig: !Mig Emergency departments for migraine patients increases hospital admissions
2835Mig: !Mig The drug lag revisited: comparison by therapeutic area of patterns of drugs marketed in the United States and Great Britain from 1972 through 1976.
2836Mig: !Mig Confusional state and basilar artery migraine.
2837Mig: !Mig Clonidine in the prophylaxis of migraine.
2838Mig: !Mig Controlled trials of cimetidine in migraine and cluster headache.
2839Mig: !Mig Migraine and the mitral valve prolapse syndrome.
2840Mig: !Mig Metoclopramide (Primperan) in migraine
2841Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
2842Mig: !Mig Favorable effects of estrogens and progesterones on general diseases
2843Mig: !Mig The new war against pain (author's transl)
2844Mig: !Mig Attacks of acute headache (author's transl)
2845Mig: !Mig The present treatment of headaches (author's transl)
2846Mig: !Mig Propranolol for acute migraine.
2847Mig: !Mig Migraine: A blood disorder?
2848Mig: !Mig Migraine in adults.
2849Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
2850Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania and cluster.
2851Mig: !Mig The diagnosis and management of migraine.
2852Mig: !Mig Bilateral homonymous hemianopia.
2853Mig: !Mig Transient global amnesia--a review of 213 cases from the literature.
2854Mig: !Mig Double blind trial of clonidine in the treatment of migraine in a general practice.
2855Mig: !Mig Periodic migrainous neuralgia: a cause of dental pain.
2856Mig: !Mig Neurological disorders and pregnancy.
2857Mig: !Mig Chocolate: a review of published reports of allergic and other deleterious effects, real or presumed.
2858Mig: !Mig Possible danger of aspirin therapy in presence of migraine.
2859Mig: !Mig Platelets, serotonin, migraine, and immune-complex disease.
2860Mig: !Mig Monoamine-oxidase activity in migraine.
2861Mig: !Mig Headache. Diagnostic and therapeutic orientation points in the psychiatric-neurological practice
2862Mig: !Mig Headache from the neurologist's point of view
2863Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives, smoking, migraine, and food alergy.
2864Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine and tension headaches with amitriptyline (author's transl)
2865Mig: !Mig Clinical study of oxetorone in catamenial migraine. Comparison of two posological diagrams (author's transl)
2866Mig: !Mig Migraine: A blood disorder?
2867Mig: !Mig The incidence of migraine in schoolchildren. A survey by the Medical Officers of Schools Association.
2868Mig: !Mig The role of diet in migraine: conditioned taste aversion.
2869Mig: !Mig Divascan in migraine prophylaxis. Open trial with three different doses.
2870Mig: !Mig Transient cortical blindness following vertebral angiography.
2871Mig: !Mig Skin temperature self-regulation and non-invasive regional cerebral blood flow.
2872Mig: !Mig Is volitional manipulation of hemodynamics a valid rationale for biofeedback therapy of migraine?
2873Mig: !Mig Psychophysiological studies of headache: is there similarity between migraine and muscle contraction headaches?
2874Mig: !Mig An unusual case of ophthalmoplegic migraine.
2875Mig: !Mig Heat-induced migraine and its treatment
2876Mig: !Mig Biofeedback training for stress diseases.
2877Mig: !Mig Etiology and clinical diagnosis of infantile and juvenile headaches
2878Mig: !Mig Bencyclane (Halidor) in the treatment of migraine and similar headaches
2879Mig: !Mig Facial pain from an elongated styloid process (Eagle's syndrome).
2880Mig: !Mig Prevention of cephalalgia in migraine
2881Mig: !Mig Stress and disease: the missing link. A vasospastic theory. III. Stress, vasospasm and general disease.
2882Mig: !Mig Peripheral temperatures of migraineurs undergoing relaxation training.
2883Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania IV: "REM sleep locked" nocturnal headache attacks.
2884Mig: !Mig Indications for beta-receptor blockaders in psychiatry
2885Mig: !Mig Success or failure of dipyridamole in migraine.
2886Mig: !Mig Developing conditions of migraine
2887Mig: !Mig Focal migraine attacks without headaches (author's transl)
2888Mig: !Mig Indian childhood cirrhosis: an inherited disorder of tryptophan metabolism?
2889Mig: !Mig The interval treatment of migraine with nocertone
2890Mig: !Mig Vitamin C and migraine: a case report.
2891Mig: !Mig Alternating hemiplegia: complicated migraine of infancy.
2892Mig: !Mig Clinical variants of the initial stage of cerebral arteriosclerosis
2893Mig: !Mig Double-blind study of oxetorone in patients with migraine or migrainous headache (author's transl)
2894Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine 12 patients, with an attack recorded electroencephalographically.
2895Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis, methysergide and malignant lymphoma.
2896Mig: !Mig Transient paralytic attacks of obscure nature: the question of non-convulsive seizure paralysis.
2897Mig: !Mig Use of oral contraceptives, cigarette smoking, and risk of subarachnoid haemorrhage.
2898Mig: !Mig Dipyridamole in migraine.
2899Mig: !Mig Propranolol in the treatment of migraine and similar headaches
2900Mig: !Mig Case of hemiphlegic migraine with atypical angiographic findings
2901Mig: !Mig Cervical discopathy, cervical migraine and vertebrobasilar arterial insufficiency: Clinical correlations
2902Mig: !Mig Regional and systemic haemodynamic changes evoked by 5-hydroxytryptamine in awake and anaesthetized rabbits.
2903Mig: !Mig Visual disturbances in migraine.
2904Mig: !Mig HL-A antigens in cluster headache and classical migraine.
2905Mig: !Mig Regional cerebral hemodynamics during migraine and cluster headaches measured by the 133Xe inhalation method.
2906Mig: !Mig The effect of ergotamine on tissue blood flow and the arteriovenous shunting of radioactive microspheres in the head.
2907Mig: !Mig Biofeedback, mediated biofeedback and hypnosis in peripheral vasodilation training.
2908Mig: !Mig Migraine and drug absorption.
2909Mig: !Mig Levotryptophan treatment in migraine.
2910Mig: !Mig Headache and sex hormone therapy.
2911Mig: !Mig Accumulated incidence of ovarian cysts, cystic mammopathies and other connective-tissue hyperplasias in patients with migraine
2912Mig: !Mig Migraine. II. Treatment.
2913Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood.
2914Mig: !Mig Migraine. I. Classification and pathogenesis.
2915Mig: !Mig Evidence for physiological response stereotypy in migraine headache.
2916Mig: !Mig Investigation of 80 migraine patients by means of three personality inventories (author's transl)
2917Mig: !Mig A national study of asthma in childhood.
2918Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine in infancy.
2919Mig: !Mig Thermography (author's transl)
2920Mig: !Mig The natural history of acute confusional migraine.
2921Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine, seizures, and severe epileptiform EEG abnormalities.
2922Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and relaxation training in the treatment of psychophysiological disorders: or are the machines really necessary?
2923Mig: !Mig Conservative pain therapy
2924Mig: !Mig Pathophysiology of facial neuralgia (authors' transl)
2925Mig: !Mig The Mallory-Weiss lesion: a five-year experience.
2926Mig: !Mig Minor tranquillizers in somatic disorders.
2927Mig: !Mig Modified acupuncture in the treatment of pain
2928Mig: !Mig Electroencephalography and electromyography in the diagnosis of headache.
2929Mig: !Mig Psychogenic factors in headache.
2930Mig: !Mig Tension headache.
2931Mig: !Mig Migraine.
2932Mig: !Mig Migraine secondary to head trauma in wrestling. A case report.
2933Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: a case report.
2934Mig: !Mig Toxic effects of ergotamine used for migraine.
2935Mig: !Mig The five hour glucose tolerance test and effect of low sucrose diet in migraine.
2936Mig: !Mig Physical characteristics and allergic history in young men with migraine and other headaches.
2937Mig: !Mig Transitory confusion after minor head injury: a migraine variant syndrome.
2938Mig: !Mig Evaluation and treatment of headache.
2939Mig: !Mig Temperature biofeedback in the treatment of migraine headaches: a controlled evaluation.
2940Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular aspects of headache.
2941Mig: !Mig Mechanisms of headache.
2942Mig: !Mig Migraine prophylaxis with Lisuride hydrogen maleate--a double blind study of Lisuride versus placebo.
2943Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine presenting as fluctuating hearing loss and vertigo.
2944Mig: !Mig Symptomatic migraine
2945Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine and vasomotor cephalea
2946Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of migraine and vasomotoric cephalea
2947Mig: !Mig Management of migraine using acupuncture in a double-blind study
2948Mig: !Mig Aspects of drug therapy in migraine (review of the literature)
2949Mig: !Mig Multimodal therapy: an integrating model for behavioral medicine.
2950Mig: !Mig Receptive field density of retinal ganglion cells and cortical magnification factor in man.
2951Mig: !Mig Non-epileptic paroxysmal neurologic disorders in children
2952Mig: !Mig Entero-pancreatic hormones in migraine.
2953Mig: !Mig Migraine and systemic scleroderma.
2954Mig: !Mig How common is headache?
2955Mig: !Mig Most headache patients can be classified after anamnesis and objective investigation
2956Mig: !Mig Improved achievements in the area of headache
2957Mig: !Mig Recurrent ergotism: a case report.
2958Mig: !Mig Headaches in children: meeting the challenge of management.
2959Mig: !Mig The treatment-resistant patient should go to a specialist. Psychiatric treatment is required for depression
2960Mig: !Mig Interhemispheric relationships of reponses to sine wave modulated light in normal subjects and patients.
2961Mig: !Mig Studies of factors triggering migraine
2962Mig: !Mig A basis for migraine therapy- the autonomic theory reappraised.
2963Mig: !Mig Beta-blockers in migraine prophylaxis.
2964Mig: !Mig Chenodeoxycholic acid in the prevention of migraine.
2965Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine
2966Mig: !Mig The pathogenesis and treatment of migraine (author's transl)
2967Mig: !Mig Prevalence of migraine and cluster headache in Swedish men of 18.
2968Mig: !Mig The role of diet in migraine.
2969Mig: !Mig Vertigo in children.
2970Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine. A review of 30 cases.
2971Mig: !Mig Cocaine hallucinations.
2972Mig: !Mig Effects of methysergide, pizotifen and ergotamine in the monkey cranial circulation.
2973Mig: !Mig A comparative trail of ergotamine tartrate, acetyl salicylic acid and a dextropropoxyphene compound in acute migraine attacks.
2974Mig: !Mig A double blind trial of acebutolol for migraine prophylaxis.
2975Mig: !Mig Papaverine in the prophylaxis of migraine and other vascular headache in children.
2976Mig: !Mig Original treatment of headache and migraine
2977Mig: !Mig Photosensitivity in children with malign tumors (author's transl)
2978Mig: !Mig Potentiation of the cerebrovascular response to intra-arterial 5-hydroxytryptamine.
2979Mig: !Mig A multiple paradigm treatment programme for migraine headache.
2980Mig: !Mig "Food allergy": Fact or Fiction?
2981Mig: !Mig Globus and headache: common symptoms of the irritable bowel syndrome.
2982Mig: !Mig Migraine thrombocytopenia, and serotonin metabolism.
2983Mig: !Mig Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania: a disabling headache syndrome responding to indomethacin.
2984Mig: !Mig The outcome of pregnancy in women suffering from migraine.
2985Mig: !Mig Methysergide therapy and constrictive pericarditis.
2986Mig: !Mig Decreased urinary output of tyramine and its metabolites in depression.
2987Mig: !Mig Hemiatrophy of the tongue: a rare complication of the hemiplegic migraine.
2988Mig: !Mig Internal and external carotid vascular responses to vasoactive agents in the monkey.
2989Mig: !Mig Pizotifen in the management of migraine.
2990Mig: !Mig An interesting treatment of headache
2991Mig: !Mig Migraeflux; results in the field study of an anti-migraine agent
2992Mig: !Mig Causes of headache.
2993Mig: !Mig Use of lasers in acupuncture
2994Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine
2995Mig: !Mig How far can migraine go?
2996Mig: !Mig Usual aspects of the migraine crisis
2997Mig: !Mig Biochemical interpretation of the migraine crisis
2998Mig: !Mig Vasomotoric and cerebral blood-flow changes in the migraine crisis
2999Mig: !Mig The migraine disease
3000Mig: !Mig The doppler effect applied to the study of the vertebral arteries (author's transl)
3001Mig: !Mig Migraine, platelets, and headache prophylaxis.
3002Mig: !Mig Headache and oral contraceptives (author's transl)
3003Mig: !Mig Effects on arterial pressure of administration of a single dose (5 mg/per os) of bromocryptine
3004Mig: !Mig Individual free fatty acids and migraine.
3005Mig: !Mig First case of facial hemiatrophy (Romberg's disease) observed in Senegal
3006Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine.
3007Mig: !Mig Cerebral circulatory and metabolic drugs.
3008Mig: !Mig Arteriovenous shunting and migraine.
3009Mig: !Mig Cerebral blood flow in migraine and cluster headache. Compartmental analysis and reactivity to anaesthetic depression.
3010Mig: !Mig Visual evoked potentials in migraine subjects.
3011Mig: !Mig Implications of the platelet monoamine oxidase deficit during migraine attacks.
3012Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of the cluster headache syndrome.
3013Mig: !Mig Spasmogen release from an extracranial vascular bed evoked by neurohumoral stimuli and periods of vascular stasis.
3014Mig: !Mig Vasomotor phenomena, platelet antagonism and migraine therapy.
3015Mig: !Mig Decentralization supersensitivity in headache and central panalgesia.
3016Mig: !Mig Toleration and effectiveness of pizotifen in migraine.
3017Mig: !Mig Reflex vasomotor function: clinical and experimental studies in migraine.
3018Mig: !Mig Value of biofeedback in the treatment of chronic headache: the patients' opinions.
3019Mig: !Mig Observations on the treatment of an acute attack of migraine.
3020Mig: !Mig Computerized axial tomography of migraine.
3021Mig: !Mig Headache determination by meteorotropic influences.
3022Mig: !Mig Role of individual free fatty acids in migraine.
3023Mig: !Mig Cerebral blood flow in migraine without headache.
3024Mig: !Mig Headaches of vascular origin in children and their neuroophthalmologic diagnosis
3025Mig: !Mig Ergotamine
3026Mig: !Mig Cryosurgery of headache.
3027Mig: !Mig Acupuncture in headache.
3028Mig: !Mig Autogenic biofeedback treatment for migraine.
3029Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood.
3030Mig: !Mig The epidemiology and genetics of migraine.
3031Mig: !Mig A survey of headache in an English city.
3032Mig: !Mig The liver and migraine
3033Mig: !Mig Modification of combined migraine-muscle contraction headaches using BVP and EMG feedback.
3034Mig: !Mig Creatine kinase BB isoenzyme levels by radioimmunoassay in patients with neurological disease.
3035Mig: !Mig Recurrent headaches in 100 children. Electroencephalographic abnormalities and response to phenytoin (Dilantin).
3036Mig: !Mig The long term use of dihydroergotamine (DHE-45) in migraine treatment (author's transl)
3037Mig: !Mig A case of hemiplegic migraine treated with stellate ganglion block (author's transl)
3038Mig: !Mig Pharmacological in vitro analysis of amine-mediated vasomotor functions in the intracranial and extracranial vascular beds.
3039Mig: !Mig Loss of consciousness in migraine
3040Mig: !Mig Synthesis of glaucoma problems (author's transl)
3041Mig: !Mig Myocardial ischaemia in migraine sufferers taking ergotamine.
3042Mig: !Mig Migrainous phenomena in systemic lupus erythematosus.
3043Mig: !Mig Current aspects of migraine headache.
3044Mig: !Mig A controlled study of the effect of oral contraceptives on migraine.
3045Mig: !Mig Metabolic changes during the prodrome of a migraine headache.
3046Mig: !Mig Skin temperature biofeedback and migraine.
3047Mig: !Mig Plasma tryptophan in migraine.
3048Mig: !Mig Headache rounds. "Deer Woman".
3049Mig: !Mig Potentiation and antagonism of serotonin effects on intracranial and extracranial vessels. Possible implications in migraine.
3050Mig: !Mig Melatonin in humans physiological and clinical studies.
3051Mig: !Mig Hemodynamic and metabolic factors in human cerebral ischemia.
3052Mig: !Mig Long-term trial of an alpha adrenoceptor blocking drug (Indoramin) in asthma. A preliminary report.
3053Mig: !Mig Epidemiology of headache.
3054Mig: !Mig Treating psychosomatic disorders related to birth trauma.
3055Mig: !Mig Multitherapeutic approach to the treatment of migraine
3056Mig: !Mig Preventive treatment of migraine headache with a new isoergolenyl derivative.
3057Mig: !Mig Indications for beta-blockers in neurology
3058Mig: !Mig Neuroophthalmic signs of vascular disease.
3059Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and visceral learning.
3060Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular changes in migraine: secondary manifestations of a circulating humoral agent?
3061Mig: !Mig Disorders of the ocular motor nerves.
3062Mig: !Mig Endorphins, opiate receptors and migraine headache.
3063Mig: !Mig Evaluation of drugs applicable to treatment of migraine in the cranial circulation of the monkey.
3064Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine by temperature biofeedback (author's transl)
3065Mig: !Mig Treatment possibilities of arterial circulatory disorders using calcitonin
3066Mig: !Mig Hemianopsia and migraine
3067Mig: !Mig Electrohypalgesia (author's transl)
3068Mig: !Mig Propranolol and migraine. A clinical trial.
3069Mig: !Mig Autogenic biofeedback treatment for migraine.
3070Mig: !Mig Migraine and headache in children
3071Mig: !Mig Propranolol in the therapy of migraine. 44 case of ambulatory therapy with Dociton
3072Mig: !Mig Therapy for essential hemicrania
3073Mig: !Mig Statistics and reinvestigation of the 4/s variant of basic EEG activity (author's transl)
3074Mig: !Mig Migraine during pregnancy.
3075Mig: !Mig Hypothesis: hemicrania and ipsilateral trunk and limb symptoms.
3076Mig: !Mig Muscle contraction and migraine headache: psychophysiologic comparison.
3077Mig: !Mig Preventive treatment of migraine with mini-doses of danitracene.
3078Mig: !Mig A follow-up evaluation of the Menninger Pilot Migraine Study using thermal training.
3079Mig: !Mig Methysergide-induced heart disease: a case of multivalvular and myocardial fibrosis.
3080Mig: !Mig Role of familial factor in vasomotor headache in children
3081Mig: !Mig Cerebral hemodynamics in migraine.
3082Mig: !Mig Some clinical, social and psychological characteristics of migraine subjects in the general population.
3083Mig: !Mig Cranial eosinophilic granuloma.
3084Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine with clonidine. A controlled clinical trial.
3085Mig: !Mig Personal experience with the use of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) in headaches
3086Mig: !Mig Erogotism as a cuase of abnormal peripheral arterial flow (author's transl)
3087Mig: !Mig New anti-migraine drugs used in the treatment of children and adolescents
3088Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine with transient atrial fibrillation.
3089Mig: !Mig Metoclopramide in migrane treatment.
3090Mig: !Mig Ergotism with functional spastic stenosis of all main arteries in the extremities
3091Mig: !Mig Irritable colon and its clinical forms. Study on 300 cases of irritable colon--migraine--urinary disorders association
3092Mig: !Mig Migraine and migraine equivalents in children.
3093Mig: !Mig Recurrent migraine after propranolol.
3094Mig: !Mig Bilateral retinal hemorrhages and disk edema in migraine.
3095Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegia migraine.
3096Mig: !Mig Migraine: fusional-eye movement stress.
3097Mig: !Mig Pizotifen as an antidepressant.
3098Mig: !Mig Possible mechanism of action of beta-phenethylamine in migraine.
3099Mig: !Mig Carotid spasm with hemiparesis--complication after migraine treatment
3100Mig: !Mig Respiratory arrest in familial hemiplegic migraine: a clinical and neuropathological study.
3101Mig: !Mig Urinary histamine excretion in migraine and cluster headache. Further observations.
3102Mig: !Mig Histamine metabolism in cluster headache and migraine. Catabolism of 14C histamine.
3103Mig: !Mig Migraine, thrombocytopenia, and serotonin metabolism.
3104Mig: !Mig All you want to know about the pill.
3105Mig: !Mig Cephalic vasomotor feedback in the modification of migraine headache.
3106Mig: !Mig Pulmonary migraine.
3107Mig: !Mig Ergot-induced vascular insufficiency.
3108Mig: !Mig An epidemiologic study of migraine and headache in 10-20 year olds.
3109Mig: !Mig Clonidine in migraine prophylaxis.
3110Mig: !Mig Immunoglobulin and complement studies in migraine.
3111Mig: !Mig Brief therapeutic report: papaverine prophylaxis of complicated migraine.
3112Mig: !Mig Transitory platelet monoamine oxidase deficit in migraine: some reflections.
3113Mig: !Mig Cerebral blood flow in migraine.
3114Mig: !Mig Transient cerebral ischemia and brain serotonin: relevance to migraine.
3115Mig: !Mig The case of the dilated pupil: headache rounds.
3116Mig: !Mig Regional differences in the responsiveness of isolated arteries from cattle, dog and man.
3117Mig: !Mig Platelet aggregability in migraine.
3118Mig: !Mig Epilepsy and headaches (author's transl)
3119Mig: !Mig Phenylethylamine and cerebral blood flow. Possible involvement of phenylethylamine in migraine.
3120Mig: !Mig L-tryptophan treatment in essential headache: preliminary data
3121Mig: !Mig Estrogens for the menopause. Maximizing benefits, minimizing risks.
3122Mig: !Mig Benign post-traumatic encephalopathy in young people and its relation to migraine.
3123Mig: !Mig Azapropazone (Prolix) in the treatment of migraine
3124Mig: !Mig Familial hemiphegic migraine
3125Mig: !Mig Clinical experiences with an analgesic-acting infusion solution in neurological painful conditions
3126Mig: !Mig Migraine. Coping with acute attacks.
3127Mig: !Mig Migraine. Prophylactic drugs.
3128Mig: !Mig Migraine. Avoiding trigger factors.
3129Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood.
3130Mig: !Mig Migraine. Diagnosis.
3131Mig: !Mig Biochemical and endocrinological aspects of headache
3132Mig: !Mig The neuropsychiatric symptomatology of chronic ergotamine tartrate intoxication. Casuistic contribution to pharmacogenetic ergotism (author's transl)
3133Mig: !Mig Metabolic changes during glucose tolerance tests in migraine attacks.
3134Mig: !Mig The clinical link between migraine and cluster headaches.
3135Mig: !Mig Basilar migraine
3136Mig: !Mig New trends in psychosomatic research.
3137Mig: !Mig Failure of tyramine to induce migraine.
3138Mig: !Mig Migraine as a sequela of blunt head injury.
3139Mig: !Mig Oxprenolol in the treatment of migraine.
3140Mig: !Mig Neurological disorders.
3141Mig: !Mig Some systemic substances in the pathogenesis of pain
3142Mig: !Mig Preventive treatment of migraine cephalgia with stugeron and several vegetotropic drugs
3143Mig: !Mig Migraine: a psychosomatic disorder.
3144Mig: !Mig Cyclic changes in platelet dynamics and the pathogenesis and prophylaxis of migraine.
3145Mig: !Mig Acute confusional state in children with migraine.
3146Mig: !Mig Sodium nitroprusside in the treatment of ergotism.
3147Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives--indications and neurological complications (author's transl)
3148Mig: !Mig Hypothesis: prostaglandins and migraine.
3149Mig: !Mig Sanomigran for migraine prophylaxis, controlled multicenter trial in general practice.
3150Mig: !Mig A comparison between placebo, pizotifen and 1-isopropyl-3-hydroxy-5-semicarbazono-6-oxo-2.3.5.6-tetrahydroindol (Divascan) in migraine prophylaxis.
3151Mig: !Mig The relaxation response: a bridge between psychiatry and medicine.
3152Mig: !Mig Propranolol for prophylaxis of migraine (author's transl)
3153Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of migraine.
3154Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives and the uterine vessels.
3155Mig: !Mig The informative value of diagnostic methods in chronic headache. A study of 112 cases (author's transl)
3156Mig: !Mig Studies on falls in the aged
3157Mig: !Mig Parinaud's syndrome complicating migraine--a case report.
3158Mig: !Mig The diagnosis and significance of isolated third nerve palsy in the African.
3159Mig: !Mig Treatment of tension and migraine headaches with biofeedback techniques.
3160Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine of early onset.
3161Mig: !Mig The electroencephalogram in childhood basilar artery migraine.
3162Mig: !Mig Traumatic spreading depression syndrome. Review of a particular type of head injury in 37 patients.
3163Mig: !Mig Iatrogenic peripheral blood circulation disorders
3164Mig: !Mig Drug dependence in propranolol treatment of migraine
3165Mig: !Mig Migraine and the blood-brain barrier.
3166Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and control of autonomic functions: therapeutic use
3167Mig: !Mig Intravenous tyramine response in migraine before and during treatment with indoramin.
3168Mig: !Mig The pills: oral contraceptives and other hormones.
3169Mig: !Mig Tracking Down Migraine.
3170Mig: !Mig Beta blocking agents and craniofacial pain
3171Mig: !Mig Cutaneous thermography in vascular facial algias
3172Mig: !Mig Localized 4-sec and rhythm in the EEG
3173Mig: !Mig Migraine accompagn?childhood
3174Mig: !Mig Symptomatic relief of migraine.
3175Mig: !Mig Vascular reactivity of migraineurs and non-migraineurs.
3176Mig: !Mig The phenomenon of "drug dependency" in the treatment of migraine with propranolol.
3177Mig: !Mig Migraine: a generalized vasomotor dysfunction? A critical review of evidence.
3178Mig: !Mig A survey of migraine in England 1975-1976.
3179Mig: !Mig Headache rounds: a tale of two brothers.
3180Mig: !Mig Case report: changes in migraine headache pattern following sudden increase in ergotamine intake.
3181Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of migraine in children.
3182Mig: !Mig Clinical effectiveness of lisuride hydrogen maleate: a double-blind trial versus methysergide.
3183Mig: !Mig The human platelet. A diagnostic and research tool for the study of biogenic amines in psychiatric and neurologic disorders.
3184Mig: !Mig Migraine accompagn? Raview and case reports concerning the indication of contrastdiagnostic examinations
3185Mig: !Mig Complement activation in migraine.
3186Mig: !Mig Drug therapy for headache: (author's transl)
3187Mig: !Mig The neural representation of visual space.
3188Mig: !Mig Some effects of ORG GC 94, a potential anti-migraine drug, on human platelets.
3189Mig: !Mig Clinical observations on hormonal allergy in the gynecologic field. Relationship with headache and attempted general classification
3190Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine headache by hypnosis and behavior therapy: a case study.
3191Mig: !Mig Exogenous estrogens and endometrial carcinoma: review and comments for the clinician.
3192Mig: !Mig Propranolol for migraine.
3193Mig: !Mig Neurologic disorders: introduction.
3194Mig: !Mig A simple exercise to enhance response to hypnotherapy for migraine headache.
3195Mig: !Mig Prolactin, prostaglandins and medicine
3196Mig: !Mig Multimodality treatment of migraine headache: a case study utilizing biofeedback, relaxation, autogenic and hypnotic treatments.
3197Mig: !Mig Current acupuncture
3198Mig: !Mig The cervical headache (migraine cervicale) (author's transl)
3199Mig: !Mig Use of dimethothiazine in the prevention of hemicrania
3200Mig: !Mig New methods in the treatment of weather sensitivity
3201Mig: !Mig Beta blockaders and general pathology
3202Mig: !Mig Headaches, migraine and oral contraception
3203Mig: !Mig A study of mail survey method.
3204Mig: !Mig Genetic study of infantile spasm with hypsarrhythmia.
3205Mig: !Mig Use of clonidine in the prophylaxis of migraine
3206Mig: !Mig Cluster headache.
3207Mig: !Mig Sphenopalatine ganglion neuralgia and cluster headache: comparisons, contrasts, and treatment.
3208Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal hypertensive hemicrania.
3209Mig: !Mig Lithium in the treatment of chronic cluster headache.
3210Mig: !Mig Migraine stupor.
3211Mig: !Mig Variation of plasma free tryptophan and CSF 5-HIAA during migraine.
3212Mig: !Mig Humoral and hormonal changes in menstrual migraine.
3213Mig: !Mig Lithium prophylaxis for chronic cluster headache.
3214Mig: !Mig Vertigo.
3215Mig: !Mig Acute hemisyndrome in childhood (author's transl)
3216Mig: !Mig Characteristics of life headache histories in a nonclinic population.
3217Mig: !Mig Neurologic problems of abdominal migraine in children. Clinical study of 15 cases and review of the literature
3218Mig: !Mig Pizotifen in the treatment of migraine.
3219Mig: !Mig Clonidine prophylaxis of childhood migraine and other vascular headache. A double blind study of 57 children;.
3220Mig: !Mig Lights and shadows of modern therapy. Introduction to the VIIth Week of Therapeutics
3221Mig: !Mig Migrainous cerebral infarction.
3222Mig: !Mig Early morning migraine. Nocturnal plasma levels of catecholamines, tryptophan, glucose, and free fatty acids and sleep encephalographs.
3223Mig: !Mig Sulpiride in the prevention of migraine. A mechanism of hormonal interaction?
3224Mig: !Mig Transitory decrease in platelet monoamine-oxidase activity during migraine attacks.
3225Mig: !Mig Alarming course of drug-induced ergotism following prolonged use of ergotamine tartatare
3226Mig: !Mig Headaches during oral contraception.  A selective study concerning 159 observations
3227Mig: !Mig Headache and oral contraceptives (selective study of 159 cases)
3228Mig: !Mig Acute iatrogenic ergotism
3229Mig: !Mig Headache simulating meningeal hemorrhage
3230Mig: !Mig Headache and migraine: their relation to the digestive system
3231Mig: !Mig Effects of oral amines on the EEG.
3232Mig: !Mig Vertigo in childhood.
3233Mig: !Mig Acute iatrogenic ergotism
3234Mig: !Mig Mesenteric and peripheral vascular ischemia secondary to ergotism.
3235Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis and inapparent obstructive uropathy.
3236Mig: !Mig Migraine.
3237Mig: !Mig Cluster headache syndrome and migrain. Ophthalmological support for a two-entity theory.
3238Mig: !Mig A study of agoraphobic housewives.
3239Mig: !Mig The use of beta-blocking agents in psychiatry and neurology (author's transl)
3240Mig: !Mig Iatrogenic ergotism
3241Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine. Clinical experience with Migraeflux, a new migraine drug
3242Mig: !Mig Predispositions to illness: patterns in the reporting of psychosomatic illness.
3243Mig: !Mig Biofeedback. II. Reflections. Perspectives
3244Mig: !Mig Biofeedback. I. Current status of its clinical application
3245Mig: !Mig EEG study of cervical migraine
3246Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine with persistent abducens nerve palsy.
3247Mig: !Mig The modification of tension headache pain using EMG biofeedback.
3248Mig: !Mig Psychotropic drugs and migraine.
3249Mig: !Mig Migraine in twins.
3250Mig: !Mig Rheoencephalographic findings in migrainous cephalalgia and their dynamics during treatment with stugeron
3251Mig: !Mig A study of the activity of platelet monoamine oxidase in patients with migraine headaches or with 'cluster headaches'.
3252Mig: !Mig Transient ischaemic attacks and increased platelet aggregability associated with oral contraceptives. Treatment with dipyridamole and aspirin.
3253Mig: !Mig Dixarit in the management of migraine.
3254Mig: !Mig Solitary oculomotor nerve palsy in childhood.
3255Mig: !Mig Genetics of migraine.
3256Mig: !Mig Changes in blood clotting systems during migraine attacks.
3257Mig: !Mig Migraine therapy with heparin: pathophysiologic basis.
3258Mig: !Mig Abnormal CT-Scans in migraine.
3259Mig: !Mig Effects of acupuncture on tissue-oxygenation of the rat brain.
3260Mig: !Mig Migraine as an attempt at self cure. Psychosomatic study
3261Mig: !Mig Primal pathophysiology.
3262Mig: !Mig Psychoneurosis in the general population.
3263Mig: !Mig Role of autonomic nervous system in migraine headache, with special reference to serum dopamine-beta-hydroxylases activity
3264Mig: !Mig Carotidynia.
3265Mig: !Mig Phenylethylamine, migraine and the cerebral circulation.
3266Mig: !Mig Use of pizotifen in severe migraine: a long-term study.
3267Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine: amelioration by Flufenamic acid, a prostaglandin inhibitor.
3268Mig: !Mig Changes of cerebrospinal-fluid phospholipids in various neurologic diseases
3269Mig: !Mig A case of Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome accompanied with alcoholism.
3270Mig: !Mig Low and fast components of cerebral blood flow during and after migraine attacks. Reactivity to metabolic depression.
3271Mig: !Mig Serial rCBF determinations during classic migraine.
3272Mig: !Mig Noninvasive 133XE inhalation measurements of regional cerebral blood flow in migraine and related headaches.
3273Mig: !Mig Newer concepts in management of migraine headaches.
3274Mig: !Mig Neurological complications of Argentinian hemorrhagic fever
3275Mig: !Mig Acute cerebrovascular disorders caused by ovulation inhibitors
3276Mig: !Mig Encephalic syndrome following trauma of the cervical vertebrae in childhood
3277Mig: !Mig Painful ophthalmoplegia (author's transl)
3278Mig: !Mig Reduced sensitivity to alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptor agonists of intra- and extracranial vessels during pregnancy. Relevance to migraine.
3279Mig: !Mig Present state of alpha and beta adrenergic drugs III. Beta blocking agents.
3280Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and differential diagnosis of headache in sinusitis
3281Mig: !Mig The treatment of cephalalgia.
3282Mig: !Mig Migraine pathophysiology: new vistas
3283Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine by an antiprostaglandin
3284Mig: !Mig A new look at the use of ergotamine.
3285Mig: !Mig Ambulatory analytical psychotherapy for the treatment of psychosomatic patients: a report on the method of 'relaxation analytique'.
3286Mig: !Mig Migraine therapy by enzyme induction with proxibarbital
3287Mig: !Mig Platelet dysfunction in migraine: effect of self-medication with aspirin.
3288Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine. Observations on the possibilities offered by some polypeptides
3289Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic aspects of migraine (author's transl)
3290Mig: !Mig Etiology and treatment of migraine
3291Mig: !Mig Biofeedback control of migraine: a pilot study.
3292Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic studies of 100 cases of migraine (control groups included)
3293Mig: !Mig Propranolol for migraine prophylaxis.
3294Mig: !Mig Cephalic vasomotor and electromyographic feedback in the treatment of combined muscle contraction and migraine headaches in a geriatric case.
3295Mig: !Mig Ergotamine and methysergide as serotonin partial agonists in migraine.
3296Mig: !Mig Ice cream headache and orthostatic symptoms in patients with migraine.
3297Mig: !Mig "Migrainous" neurologic dysfunction in patients with prosthetic cardiac valves.
3298Mig: !Mig Vascular reactivity of migraineurs and non-migraineurs: a comparison of responses to self-control procedures.
3299Mig: !Mig Violence.
3300Mig: !Mig Clonidine in acute migraine.
3301Mig: !Mig Plasma levels of free and total tryptophan during a course of attack hemicrania
3302Mig: !Mig Prospective long-term study of women on different contraceptives.
3303Mig: !Mig Electric stimulation in chronic headaches.
3304Mig: !Mig Computerised axial tomography in patients with severe migraine: a preliminary report.
3305Mig: !Mig The effects of automated hypnosis and hand warming on migraine:a pilot study.
3306Mig: !Mig Benign paroxysmal vertigo of childhood.
3307Mig: !Mig Arginine esterase in cerebrospinal fluid and pro-arginine esterase in plasma from patients with migraine.
3308Mig: !Mig Total 5-hydroxyindoles in blood related to migraine attacks.
3309Mig: !Mig Receptors for 5-hydroxytryptamine and noradrenaline in rabbit isolated ear artery and aorta.
3310Mig: !Mig Uses of beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs.
3311Mig: !Mig Constrictive pericarditis due to methysergide therapy.
3312Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of dizziness (author's transl)
3313Mig: !Mig First results in the treatment of common migraine with clonazepam
3314Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and treatment of migraine.
3315Mig: !Mig Release of platelet 5-hydroxytryptamine by plasma taken from patients during and between migraine attacks.
3316Mig: !Mig The periodic syndrome and migraine.
3317Mig: !Mig Pathomechanism of pain in vertebral column diseases
3318Mig: !Mig Biofeedback-psychotherapy for the treatment of headaches: a 5-year follow-up.
3319Mig: !Mig Effects of biofeedback upon suppression of migraine symptoms and plasma dopamine-beta-hydroxylase activity.
3320Mig: !Mig Serum dopamine-beta-hydroxylase activity in migraine.
3321Mig: !Mig Doppler sonography diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease.
3322Mig: !Mig Midline tilting between seeing and nonseeing areas in hemianopia.
3323Mig: !Mig The types of headache that affect the elderly.
3324Mig: !Mig CPONTROL OF MIGRAINE HEADACHE BY BEHAVIORAL SELF-MANAGEMENT: A CONTROLLED CASE STUDY.
3325Mig: !Mig Biochemical comparison of migraine and stroke.
3326Mig: !Mig Hypothesis: migraine, a central biochemical dysnociception.
3327Mig: !Mig Treatment of disease without the use of drugs I. Research on biofeedback training.
3328Mig: !Mig Double-blind study with oxetorone in cephalalgia (author's transl)
3329Mig: !Mig Chorea and the use of contraceptives
3330Mig: !Mig A new way in the treatment of migraine. Evaluation of a field study
3331Mig: !Mig Letter: A new therapy for migraine
3332Mig: !Mig Migraine and migrainous variants in pediatric patients.
3333Mig: !Mig Vertigo in children.
3334Mig: !Mig A possible association between migraine and post-operative epilepsy in patients with intracranial aneurysm.
3335Mig: !Mig So-called "vascular headache of the migraine type": one or more nosological entities?
3336Mig: !Mig A new (?) Clinical headache entity "chronic paroxysmal hemicrania" 2.
3337Mig: !Mig Computerised axial tomography findings in patients with migrainous headaches.
3338Mig: !Mig Peripheral circulatory disorder in the treatment of migraine with ergotamine
3339Mig: !Mig Oxetorone in the treatment of migrainous cephalalgia (author's  transl)
3340Mig: !Mig Headache after carotid endarterectomy.
3341Mig: !Mig Change of symptoms in migraine
3342Mig: !Mig Bromocriptine in migraine.
3343Mig: !Mig Human plasma levels of some anti-migraine drugs.
3344Mig: !Mig Use of platelet antagonists in the treatment of migraine.
3345Mig: !Mig Biofeedback therapy for migraine.
3346Mig: !Mig Rat fundus strip and uterus contracting activity of sera: relationship to migraine attacks.
3347Mig: !Mig Isolated ophthalmic migraine in the differential diagnosis of cerebro-ocular ischemia.
3348Mig: !Mig Chronic Horton's neuralgia treated successfully with indomethacin
3349Mig: !Mig Letter: Trimepramine (Sapilent) in the treatment of migraine and related headaches
3350Mig: !Mig A retrospective survey of over 1,000 patients on oral contraceptives in a group practice.
3351Mig: !Mig The use of assertive training and psychodynamic insight in the treatment of migraine headache: a case study.
3352Mig: !Mig Perilymph fistula: a cause of auditory, vestibular, neurological and psychiatric disorder.
3353Mig: !Mig Climacteric disturbances. 2. Therapy of climacteric disturbances
3354Mig: !Mig Aspects of release of pharmacologically active substances from the lungs by chemical stimuli.
3355Mig: !Mig Letter: Influence of certain drugs on the action of contraceptive pills
3356Mig: !Mig Transcutaneous nervous stimulation in the treatment of hemicrania and other forms of headache
3357Mig: !Mig Importance of chemical mediators for the pathogenesis and treatment of hemicrania
3358Mig: !Mig Effect of hormones on headaches in women and the associated endometrial patterns
3359Mig: !Mig Headache as initial symptom of schizophrenic disease
3360Mig: !Mig Cerebral circulation (measured by isotopes) and acid-base equilibrium of the cerebrospinal fluid during migraine
3361Mig: !Mig Meteorotropy of vasomotor cephalea
3362Mig: !Mig Therapeutic possibilities in idiopathic headaches. Analysis of about 1000 cases
3363Mig: !Mig Headaches. Introduction
3364Mig: !Mig Drugs for migraine.
3365Mig: !Mig Cervical migraine and modern views on its pathogenesis
3366Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine attacks with an analgesic combination (Mersyndol).
3367Mig: !Mig Progress of clinical pharmacology in essential headaches
3368Mig: !Mig The action of reserpine on the concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine, epinephrine and norepinephrine in the venous blood of migraine patients
3369Mig: !Mig Reserpine in the prevention of migraine and in the therapy of tension-vascular headache
3370Mig: !Mig The use of drugs in migraine
3371Mig: !Mig Changes of testosterone levels in the cluster headache syndrome. Preliminary study
3372Mig: !Mig Diagnostic and therapeutic studies using the cryoprobe in various forms of facial pain, not of the migraine or trigeminal type
3373Mig: !Mig Exploration of extra-cephalic pain induced in essential headaches
3374Mig: !Mig Mechanism of action of drugs currently used in the prevention of migraine
3375Mig: !Mig Headache from the viewpoint of a pediatric neurologist
3376Mig: !Mig Letter: Tolosa-Hunt syndrome or ophthalmoplegic migraine?
3377Mig: !Mig The menstrual cycle and mood disturbances.
3378Mig: !Mig Dietary hypersensitivity: the gastroenterologist's view.
3379Mig: !Mig Present state of pain surgery
3380Mig: !Mig Real and seeming side-effects of oral contraceptives with an emphasis on medical and haematological problems. Review of literature (author's transl)
3381Mig: !Mig Editorial: Migraine treatment.
3382Mig: !Mig Relative potency scale for analgesic drugs: use of psychophysical procedures with clinical judgments.
3383Mig: !Mig Prevalence of migraine, peptic ulcer, coronary heart disease and hypertension in cluster headache.
3384Mig: !Mig Plasma free fatty acids and prostaglandin  E1 in migraine and stress.
3385Mig: !Mig Migraine, tyramine and blood serotonin.
3386Mig: !Mig Letter: Platelet hyperaggregability in young patients with stroke.
3387Mig: !Mig Vascular insufficiency secondary to ergotism.
3388Mig: !Mig The therapeutic result of excision of the superficial temporal artery in atypical migraine.
3389Mig: !Mig The treatment of pain trigger areas in migraine.
3390Mig: !Mig Migraine trust prize essay 1975. The natural history of migraine and its management in general practice.
3391Mig: !Mig Migraine attacks. Alleviation by an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis and action.
3392Mig: !Mig Hemicrania ophthalmoplegica
3393Mig: !Mig Special problems in the expert testimony of work capacity and rehabilitation in migraine
3394Mig: !Mig Pizotifen for migraine prophylaxis.
3395Mig: !Mig Letter: Hazards of ergotamine tartrate.
3396Mig: !Mig Salt load as a trigger for migraine.
3397Mig: !Mig Cerebral arterial dolichoectasia with seizure. Case report.
3398Mig: !Mig Kleine-Levin syndrome. Female cases and catamneses
3399Mig: !Mig Allergic migraine and migraine in the allergic patient
3400Mig: !Mig Clinical peculiarities of vasomotor cephalgia
3401Mig: !Mig A unique pulmonary venous abnormality: with associated pulmonary arterial anomaly and arteriovenous malformation.
3402Mig: !Mig Biofeedback therapy for migraine headaches.
3403Mig: !Mig Attacks of cervical migraine simulating subarachnoid hemorrhage
3404Mig: !Mig Blood histamine in migraine
3405Mig: !Mig Letter: Coronary spasms following ergotamine preparations?
3406Mig: !Mig Letter: Preventive treatment of migraine with propranolol
3407Mig: !Mig The metabolic and hormonal response to glucagon. Part 2. In patients with migraine.
3408Mig: !Mig Comparative effects of four migraine prophylactic drugs on an isolated extracranial artery.
3409Mig: !Mig Letter: The role of impaired central inhibition in the pathogenesis of vascular headache of the migrainous type.
3410Mig: !Mig Serotonin (5HT) in migraine: levels in whole blood in and between attacks.
3411Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and Raynaud's phenomenon; manifestations of the same disease?
3412Mig: !Mig Treatment of headache pain with auto-acupressure.
3413Mig: !Mig Allergic headache.
3414Mig: !Mig Headache
3415Mig: !Mig Results of an ophthalmological examination of children with cephalgia syndrome
3416Mig: !Mig Clonidine (Catapresan)-double-blind study after long-term treatment with the drug in migraine.
3417Mig: !Mig Short-term clinical trial of phopranolol in racemic form (Inderal), D-propranolol and placebo in migraine.
3418Mig: !Mig XIII. Cerebral circulation and metabolism in stroke. Cerebral circulation and metabolism in stroke study group.
3419Mig: !Mig Double blind study of propranolol for migraine prophylaxis.
3420Mig: !Mig FMD-manifestation and clinical findings (author's transl)
3421Mig: !Mig Letter: Ergotamine tartrate overdose.
3422Mig: !Mig The relationship between smoking and migraine.
3423Mig: !Mig Migraine: management by trained control of vasoconstriction.
3424Mig: !Mig Amitriptyline in the prophylaxis of migraine. Effectiveness and relationship of antimigraine and antidepressant effects.
3425Mig: !Mig "Cluster"-headache (Bing-Horton syndrome?)
3426Mig: !Mig Serotonin axons in the supra- and subependymal plexuses and in the leptomeninges; their roles in local alterations of cerebrospinal fluid and vasomotor activity.
3427Mig: !Mig Clonidin in the treatment of migraine (author's transl)
3428Mig: !Mig Further observation on the possible relationship between migraine and serum ammonia levels.
3429Mig: !Mig Letter: Acute hemiplegia in childhood.
3430Mig: !Mig Letter: Oral dihydroergotamine in management of cluster headache.
3431Mig: !Mig Rosacea and migraine.
3432Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular lesions and oral contraceptives.
3433Mig: !Mig The relationship of vasoactive substances to vascular permeability, and their role in migraine.
3434Mig: !Mig The rheoencephalogram and migraine.
3435Mig: !Mig Physical therapy in the treatment of headache
3436Mig: !Mig Headache in childhood
3437Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine
3438Mig: !Mig Clinical migraine
3439Mig: !Mig Pathophysiology of migraine
3440Mig: !Mig Significance of headache in public health
3441Mig: !Mig Headache
3442Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic illness, birth order and intellectual preference - II. Women.
3443Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic illness, birth order and intellectual preference - I. Men.
3444Mig: !Mig Cerebral manifestations of ergotism. Report of a case and review of the literature.
3445Mig: !Mig Migraine and estrogen-progestin endocrine treatment
3446Mig: !Mig Sleep research and psychosomatic hypotheses.
3447Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic aspects of migraine
3448Mig: !Mig Letter: Propranolol treatment of migraine
3449Mig: !Mig Contribution of Nocretone to the treatment of migraine and headache
3450Mig: !Mig Preventive treatment of migraine using a new antimigraine drug Sandomigran
3451Mig: !Mig Editorial: The treatment of acute migraine attacks.
3452Mig: !Mig Prevalence of migraine and other headache in Finnish children starting school.
3453Mig: !Mig Reserpine for migraine prophylaxis.
3454Mig: !Mig Therapeutic effect of reserpine on migraine syndrome: relationship to blood amine levels.
3455Mig: !Mig Migraine and atopy.
3456Mig: !Mig Autogenic feedback training in migraine: a treatment report.
3457Mig: !Mig Migraine and oral contraceptives.
3458Mig: !Mig Hypothesis--Head pain: congenital, anatomical, pathological and neurosurgical correlates.
3459Mig: !Mig Allergy of the nervous system: a review.
3460Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with isometheptene, acetaminophen, and dichloralphenazone combination: a double-blind, crossover trial.
3461Mig: !Mig Periodic migrainous neuralgia. Review of literature and case report.
3462Mig: !Mig Atmospheric ionization and its effects on the behavior of animals and man
3463Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine and periodic migrainous neuralgia, migraine variants with ocular manifestations.
3464Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of episodic amnesia
3465Mig: !Mig Three cases of post traumatic vascular headache treated by surgery.
3466Mig: !Mig Computerized axial tomography findings in a group of patients with migrainous headaches.
3467Mig: !Mig Headache and personality.
3468Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine patients with the new anti-serotonin preparation Dezeril retard
3469Mig: !Mig Value of Sanmigran in treatment of so called digestive migraine
3470Mig: !Mig Lateral-trigonal intraventricular tumors. A new operative approach.
3471Mig: !Mig Visual aura in migraine.
3472Mig: !Mig A follow-up study of febrile convulsions in relation to epilepsies.
3473Mig: !Mig Strokes in children.
3474Mig: !Mig Headache
3475Mig: !Mig Ocular migraine, asthenopia, strabismus, myopia
3476Mig: !Mig Insulin secretion in migraine: influence on the blood levels of tryptophan.
3477Mig: !Mig Changes in serotonin metabolism during migraine attacks.
3478Mig: !Mig Clinical and animal pharmacology of migraine: new perspectives.
3479Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of ptosis (author's transl)
3480Mig: !Mig Controlled thermocoagulation of trigeminal ganglion and rootlets for differential destruction of pain fibers: facial pain other than trigeminal neuralgia.
3481Mig: !Mig Migraine-traditional uses of ergot compounds.
3482Mig: !Mig Amnestic episodes in migraine. A contribution to the differential diagnosis of transient global amnesia (ictus amn?que)
3483Mig: !Mig Stress, distress and disease. The Presidential Address at the annual meeting of the Royal College of Psychiatrists, held in London, 9th July, 1975.
3484Mig: !Mig Platelet-bound and free serotonin levels in jugular and forearm venous blood during migraine.
3485Mig: !Mig Interactions between antimigraine drugs and a high affinity uptake and storage mechanism for 5-hydroxytryptamine.
3486Mig: !Mig The effects of humoral agents and antimigraine drugs on the cranial circulation of the monkey.
3487Mig: !Mig Further experience with pizotifen in the treatment of migraine.
3488Mig: !Mig Migraine and depression: effect of amitriptyline prophylaxis.
3489Mig: !Mig Medical treatment of headache. Psychotherapeutic aspects
3490Mig: !Mig Comparative evaluation of the new antiserotonin preparations, sandomigran and lizenil, in treating patients suffering from migraine
3491Mig: !Mig Sandoz--fifty years' involvement in migraine therapy.
3492Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with propranolol.
3493Mig: !Mig Relationship of allergy to headache.
3494Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal and other features of the electroencephalogram in migraine.
3495Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of craniofacial algias
3496Mig: !Mig Sleep-related periodic headache and imipramine.
3497Mig: !Mig Sex, migraine and serotonin interrelationships.
3498Mig: !Mig Acupuncture in chronic pain.
3499Mig: !Mig Adrenergic beta-blocking agents.
3500Mig: !Mig Levels of serotonin bound to platelets and free in plasma in jugular and forearm venous blood as determined by a fluorescent-OPT (orthophthalaldehyde) assay.
3501Mig: !Mig Ophthalmodynamometric studies in experimental and spontaneous headache
3502Mig: !Mig Transcutaneous nerve stimulation for the treatment of migraine and other head pain (author's transl)
3503Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine (author's transl)
3504Mig: !Mig What can be expected from the EEG in headache?
3505Mig: !Mig Letter: Uses of propranolol.
3506Mig: !Mig Editorial: Cancer risk and estrogen use in the menopause.
3507Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine
3508Mig: !Mig Editorial: Headache.
3509Mig: !Mig The traditional basis of neuropsychiatric practice among the Yorubas of Nigeria.
3510Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine and mode of action of antimigraine agents
3511Mig: !Mig Trials with the new preparation cephatac in the attack treatment of migraine (author's transl)
3512Mig: !Mig Editorial: Cluster headache.
3513Mig: !Mig Propranolol for migraine.
3514Mig: !Mig Letter: Interval therapy of migraine
3515Mig: !Mig Letter: Pleuropulmonary fibrosis due to methysergide with circulating immune complexes
3516Mig: !Mig The valence of radiodiagnostic methods for retroperitoneal fibrosis (author's transl)
3517Mig: !Mig Fluctuation of 5-hydroxy-indole compounds in the urine of migrainous patients.
3518Mig: !Mig Migraine
3519Mig: !Mig Basic treatment of migraine. Various reflections
3520Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine in young children.
3521Mig: !Mig Letter: Migrainous neuralgia.
3522Mig: !Mig Autogenic feedback in migraine headaches.
3523Mig: !Mig Juvenile head trauma syndromes and their relationship to migraine.
3524Mig: !Mig Proceedings: Low arousal induced by EMG and EEG feedback in various patient groups: description of the methodology in a pilot study.
3525Mig: !Mig 44th Internal Medicine Meeting in Boboty-Terchova--April 18, 1975 on Headache
3526Mig: !Mig Headache without apparent organic findings
3527Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and learning
3528Mig: !Mig Biochemical aspects of migraine
3529Mig: !Mig Migraine and the vestibular apparatus (author's transl)
3530Mig: !Mig The migraine--crux aegroti et medici ?
3531Mig: !Mig Migraine
3532Mig: !Mig Double blind study of clonidine and placebo for the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
3533Mig: !Mig Diseases of the central nervous system. Relief of pain: headache, facial neuralgia, migraine, and phantom limb.
3534Mig: !Mig Side-effects of ovulation inhibitors
3535Mig: !Mig Letter: Treatment of migraine with piracetam and clonidine.
3536Mig: !Mig Diseases of the central nervous system. Pharmacological basis of treatment.
3537Mig: !Mig Studies on the effect of a single dose of pizotifen on the electro-encephalographic pattern in healthy persons and in patients afflicted with migraine.
3538Mig: !Mig Discovery of "specific" CNS effects of lisuride hydrogen maleate--an antimigraine compound.
3539Mig: !Mig Biofeedback. When medication is not enough.
3540Mig: !Mig Severe headache after carotid endarterectomy.
3541Mig: !Mig Food intake prior to a migraine attack--study of 2,313 spontaneous attacks.
3542Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of vascular headache of the migrainous type: the role of impaired central inhibition.
3543Mig: !Mig Antiserotonin agents in the treatment of migraine.
3544Mig: !Mig Isometheptene--a non-ergot drug in the treatment of migraine.
3545Mig: !Mig Facial pain.
3546Mig: !Mig Changes in cerebral blood flow during a migraine attack.
3547Mig: !Mig The influence of hormones on headaches in women and the associated endometrial patterns (author's transl)
3548Mig: !Mig Cerebral blood flow (measured by means of isotopes) and base-acid-equilibrium of the CSF in migraine (author's transl)
3549Mig: !Mig Meteorotropy of vasomotoric cephalea
3550Mig: !Mig Therapeutic possibilities in idiopathic headaches. Analysis of 1000 cases (author's transl)
3551Mig: !Mig Issue topic: Headache. Introduction
3552Mig: !Mig Importance of humoral mediators for the pathogenesis and treatment of migraine (author's transl)
3553Mig: !Mig Letter: Chocolate, beta-phenethylamine and migraine re-examined.
3554Mig: !Mig Letter: Coronary spasm following ergotamine medication
3555Mig: !Mig Migraine and its convulsive equivalent
3556Mig: !Mig Letter: Reply to the remarks of K. Poeck on the work of A. Mller-Jensen "One-sided and side-varying ophthalmoplegia interna in side-varying hemicrania"
3557Mig: !Mig Letter: Discussion on the work of A Mller-Jensen "One-sided and side-varying ophthalmoplegia interna in side-varying hemicrania"
3558Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic presentations of cluster headache.
3559Mig: !Mig Migraine.
3560Mig: !Mig Cerebrospinal fluid gamma aminobutyric acid levels in migraine.
3561Mig: !Mig Classification, pathogenesis and drug therapy of migraine and related forms of headache
3562Mig: !Mig Rivotril by hemicrania (author's transl)
3563Mig: !Mig Editorial: Neuropharmacological aspects of migraine.
3564Mig: !Mig Sandomigrin Pizotifen Sandoz
3565Mig: !Mig Letter: Atlas rotation.
3566Mig: !Mig Vesicular dyskinesia: myth or reality?
3567Mig: !Mig Intracavernous aneurysm with isolated 6th nerve palsy.
3568Mig: !Mig Ergotism.
3569Mig: !Mig Psychotherapy in psychosomatic disorders.
3570Mig: !Mig Clinical complications of oral contraceptives.
3571Mig: !Mig The role of chlorazepate dipotassium (Tranxilium) in the therapy of psychosomatic syndromes (author's transl)
3572Mig: !Mig Stellate ganglion block under EEG control in the treatment of complicated cervical migraine (author's transl)
3573Mig: !Mig Letter: Clonidine in the treatment of migraine.
3574Mig: !Mig Vascular headaches - contraindication to oral contraceptives.
3575Mig: !Mig Letter: Relaxation therapy in migraine and chronic tension headache.
3576Mig: !Mig Letter: Indoramin in prevention of migraine.
3577Mig: !Mig Sir G. B. Airy, F.R.S. (1801-1892) and the symptomatology of migraine.
3578Mig: !Mig Migraine: variations on a theme the Fourth Cyril B. Courville Lecture.
3579Mig: !Mig Acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis: a prospective clinical study with six months' follow-up.
3580Mig: !Mig Periodic migrainous neuralgia associated with an arteriovenous malformation.
3581Mig: !Mig Epidemiology of vascular headache and migraine in the population of Warsaw
3582Mig: !Mig Electromyographic studies of nape and temporal muscles in headaches of various etiology
3583Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and meditation in the treatment of psychiatric illnesses.
3584Mig: !Mig Transient abnormality on radionuclide cerebral dynamic study during a migraine attack.
3585Mig: !Mig Concentration of serotonin in blood platelets: effect of reserpine in migraineurs.
3586Mig: !Mig Long-term administration of pizotifen to migraine patients: effects on oral glucose tolerance tests and on insulin levels.
3587Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine--diagnosis and therapy.
3588Mig: !Mig Hypothesis: glutamic acid in migraine.
3589Mig: !Mig Facial pain: diagnostic dilemma, therapeutic challenge.
3590Mig: !Mig Hypnosis and biofeedback in the treatment of migraine headache.
3591Mig: !Mig Hypnotic treatment for migraine headaches.
3592Mig: !Mig A pilot study of the value of propranolol in migraine.
3593Mig: !Mig Prediction of psychotropic properties of lisuride hydrogen maleate by quantitative pharmaco-electroencephalogram.
3594Mig: !Mig Alprenolol for migraine prophylaxis.
3595Mig: !Mig Comments on Migraleve trial reports.
3596Mig: !Mig Beta-adrenolytic drugs in the treatment of migraine
3597Mig: !Mig Estrogen therapy for migraine.
3598Mig: !Mig The electroencephalogram in chronic essential headaches. Observations on 660 cases
3599Mig: !Mig The management of migraine.
3600Mig: !Mig Proceedings: Recent studies on headache
3601Mig: !Mig Drug therapy of migraine and cluster headache
3602Mig: !Mig Headache
3603Mig: !Mig Prevalence of migraine.
3604Mig: !Mig Proceedings: Progesterone, oestradiol and aldosterone levels in plasma during the menstrual cycle of women suffering from migraine.
3605Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine.
3606Mig: !Mig Letter: Clinical evaluation of clonidine in the treatment of migraine.
3607Mig: !Mig Letter: Relaxation therapy in migraine and chronic tension headache.
3608Mig: !Mig Sleep-EEG in cerebral-attack diseases
3609Mig: !Mig Propranolol (Inderal) in migraine
3610Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular accidents and oral contraceptives (reflections a propos of 36 observations)
3611Mig: !Mig Epidemiologic study of migraine symptoms in young women.
3612Mig: !Mig The identification and significance of 2-phenylethylamine in foods.
3613Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic studies in migraine
3614Mig: !Mig The Bela Schick memorial lecture. The many facets of migraine.
3615Mig: !Mig Percutaneous radiofrequency gangliotomy in the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia and other facial pain.
3616Mig: !Mig Headache. II. Vascular, psychogenic and post-traumatic headaches
3617Mig: !Mig The animal pharmacology of drugs used in the treatment of migraine.
3618Mig: !Mig Clinical course and pathogenesis of migraine
3619Mig: !Mig Headache: a biopsychological perspective.
3620Mig: !Mig Headaches in children.
3621Mig: !Mig 1st results with cycle-adapted estrogen-interval therapy for the prevention of migraine
3622Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of headache
3623Mig: !Mig Migraine and the limbic system.
3624Mig: !Mig Letter: Prolactin, levodopa, and migraine.
3625Mig: !Mig Proceedings: Trauma triggered migraine and juvenile head trauma syndromes.
3626Mig: !Mig Chronic open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. An epidemiological study.
3627Mig: !Mig Pharmocodynamic principles of anti-migraine therapy.
3628Mig: !Mig Studies in nocturnal migraine.
3629Mig: !Mig Evaluation of the relationship between migraine headache and depression.
3630Mig: !Mig The relationship of headache frequency to hormone use in migraine.
3631Mig: !Mig "Complicated migraine" its association with increased platelet aggregability and abnormal plasma coagulation factors.
3632Mig: !Mig "Headache rounds": post carotid-endarterectomy "hemicrania".
3633Mig: !Mig Congenital ophthalmoplegia and school achievement: a case study.
3634Mig: !Mig Hypoglycemic migraine.
3635Mig: !Mig The treatment of headaches employing acupuncture.
3636Mig: !Mig Occipital lobe arteriovenous malformations. Clinical and radiologic features in 26 cases with comments on differentiation from migraine.
3637Mig: !Mig Painful ophthalmoplegia, the Tolosa-Hunt syndrome
3638Mig: !Mig The Eagle syndrome. Hemicrania secondary to elongated styloid process.
3639Mig: !Mig "Narcose a distance" for pneumoencephalography using the x-ray apparatus neurocentrix (author's transl)
3640Mig: !Mig Letter: Practolol and migraine.
3641Mig: !Mig Letter: Stimulation of prostaglandin biosynthesis by capsaicin, ethanol, and tyramine.
3642Mig: !Mig Foramen retroarticulare atlantis and the vertebral angiogram (author's transl)
3643Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine
3644Mig: !Mig Headache and dependence on mixed analgesic preparations
3645Mig: !Mig Letter: Prostaglandins in migraine syndrome.
3646Mig: !Mig Relaxation therapy in migraine and chronic tension headache.
3647Mig: !Mig Migraine and reporoductive hormones throughout the menstrual cycle.
3648Mig: !Mig Homonymous hemianopsia and oral ovulation inhibitors. A neuro-ophthalmologic consideration
3649Mig: !Mig Estrogen-withdrawal migraine. II. Attempted prophylaxis by continuous estradiol administration.
3650Mig: !Mig Estrogen-withdrawal migraine. I. Duration of exposure required and attempted prophylaxis by premenstrual estrogen administration.
3651Mig: !Mig The significance of blood serotonin levels in migraine. A critical review.
3652Mig: !Mig Migraine in general practitioners.
3653Mig: !Mig Disturbances in the stato-acoustic apparatus of circulatory origin
3654Mig: !Mig Epidemiological data relevant to prognosis in migraine in adults.
3655Mig: !Mig Review of the epidemiology of migraine in adults.
3656Mig: !Mig Strokes in migraine: report on seven strokes associated with severe migraine attacks.
3657Mig: !Mig Biofeedback training: a new therapy in the treatment of migraine and tension headache?
3658Mig: !Mig Controlled clinical trials of drugs for use in the prophylaxis of migraine.
3659Mig: !Mig The border-land of epilepsy revisited. The seventh Gowers memorial lecture.
3660Mig: !Mig Abdominal pain in children.
3661Mig: !Mig Headache
3662Mig: !Mig Electroencephalography in the diagnosis of migraine (author's transl)
3663Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of migraine (author's transl)
3664Mig: !Mig Humoral factors in the pathogenesis of migraine (author's transl)
3665Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine and basilar migraine (author's transl)
3666Mig: !Mig Migraine: clinical aspects (author's transl)
3667Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine (author's transl)
3668Mig: !Mig Letter: Prolactin, levodopa, and migraine.
3669Mig: !Mig A case of hyposphygmia caused by ergotamine in migraine
3670Mig: !Mig Non-banal headache
3671Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives and stroke in young women. Associated risk factors.
3672Mig: !Mig Paresthesias of cerebral origin
3673Mig: !Mig Migraine and the digestive system (clinical note)
3674Mig: !Mig Unilateral and alternating internal ophthalmoplegia in alternating hemicrania
3675Mig: !Mig The effect of metoclopramide on the absorption of effervescent aspirin in migraine.
3676Mig: !Mig Anti-amine treatment of migraines
3677Mig: !Mig Pain in the face.
3678Mig: !Mig Clonidine in prevention of migraine.  Report of a double-blind study of 38 patients referred for neurological assessment
3679Mig: !Mig The identification, selection and use of oral contraceptives.
3680Mig: !Mig The effects of clonidine in the prophylactic treatment of migraine.
3681Mig: !Mig Clonidine--its use in migraine therapy.
3682Mig: !Mig Trauma: a neglected cause of cephalgia.
3683Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of headache
3684Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic expression of hemiplegic migraine
3685Mig: !Mig Ergotism and its significance today
3686Mig: !Mig X-ray therapy of inflammations and functional disturbances with lowest doses (author's transl)
3687Mig: !Mig The headaches of phaeochromocytoma.
3688Mig: !Mig Amine turnover in migraine.
3689Mig: !Mig Ergot-induced vasospasm of the lower extremities treated with epidural anaesthesia.
3690Mig: !Mig Basic treatment of migraine. Value of pizotifen (BC105)
3691Mig: !Mig Low-dose clonidine: a review of its therapeutic efficacy in migraine prophylaxis.
3692Mig: !Mig The Mallory-Weiss syndrome.
3693Mig: !Mig Phenylethylamine-oxidizing defect in migraine: circulatory implications.
3694Mig: !Mig Studies on the venoconstrictor effect of ergot compounds in man.
3695Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and migraine accompanying the course of endocranial tumors.
3696Mig: !Mig Ophthalmodynamometry and ophthalmodynamography in orthostatic hypotension and migraine
3697Mig: !Mig Autogenic feedback training.
3698Mig: !Mig Duration of the scintillating scotoma.
3699Mig: !Mig The magic cure: a psychoanalytic perspective.
3700Mig: !Mig Electronmicroscopy of blood platelets in migraine and cluster headache.
3701Mig: !Mig Headache in a non-clinic twin population.
3702Mig: !Mig Flash evoked potentials in migraine.
3703Mig: !Mig Ryodoraku therapy for migraine headache.
3704Mig: !Mig Increased platelet aggregability in young patients with stroke. Diagnosis and therapy.
3705Mig: !Mig When your patient complains of headaches.
3706Mig: !Mig Migraine and hypnotherapy.
3707Mig: !Mig Pizotifen (BC 105) in migraine prophylaxis.
3708Mig: !Mig The migraine tradition.
3709Mig: !Mig Migraine in children and adolescents.
3710Mig: !Mig Headache
3711Mig: !Mig The differential diagnosis of partial seizures with complex symptomatology.
3712Mig: !Mig The effect of percutaneous nitroglycerin upon the concentration of serotonin, epinephrine and norepinephrine in venous blood from migrainous subjects during attack-free intervals.
3713Mig: !Mig Nocturnal psychophysiological correlates of somatic conditions and sleep disorders.
3714Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine without drugs.
3715Mig: !Mig The polyphasic fogging method for revealing spasm of accommodation proceedings.
3716Mig: !Mig 5-Hydroxytryptamine and pain modulation in man: a clinical pharmacological approach with tryptophan and parachlorophenylalanine.
3717Mig: !Mig The influence of tryptophan and parachlorophenylalanine on the sexual activity in man.
3718Mig: !Mig The effectiveness of the serotonin antagonist Divascan in migraine therapy
3719Mig: !Mig Migraine prophylaxis with the new serotonin antagonist Divascan
3720Mig: !Mig Diagnostic value of siderophages in the cytogram of cerebrospinal fluid
3721Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and self-control of physiological functions: clinical applications.
3722Mig: !Mig Regional cerebral circulation in man and its regulation.
3723Mig: !Mig 26th German Therapeutics Week in Karlsruhe, September 1-7, 1974
3724Mig: !Mig Risks that follow childhood vomiting.
3725Mig: !Mig Importance of dietetic factors in migraine
3726Mig: !Mig Letter: Monoamine-oxidase and migraine.
3727Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives and arterial hypertension
3728Mig: !Mig More than just a headache.
3729Mig: !Mig Two controlled trials of tyramine in children with migraine.
3730Mig: !Mig Stepping stones in allergy. Chapter VI. The many faces of allergy.
3731Mig: !Mig Migraine variants with focal neurological manifestations.
3732Mig: !Mig A study of children with epilepsy attending ordinary schools. I: their seizure patterns, progress and behaviour in school.
3733Mig: !Mig Peripheral ischemia secondary to ergotamine intoxication.
3734Mig: !Mig Ischaemic lateral popliteal nerve palsy due to ergot intoxication.
3735Mig: !Mig Comparison of migraleve and buclizine in prophylaxis of migraine.
3736Mig: !Mig Migraleve in the prophylaxis of migraine.
3737Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine
3738Mig: !Mig Editorial: Biochemical basis of migraine.
3739Mig: !Mig Letter: Monoamine oxidase and migraine.
3740Mig: !Mig Letter: Decreased sensitivity to oral anticoagulant therapy after attacks of migraine.
3741Mig: !Mig Absorption of effervescent aspirin during migraine.
3742Mig: !Mig Convulsive disorders in children: some notes on the diagnosis and treatment.
3743Mig: !Mig Nephrotic syndrome of drug allergy etiology
3744Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine
3745Mig: !Mig Headache during sexual intercourse (coital cephalalgia). A report on six cases.
3746Mig: !Mig Chronic vague abdominal pain in children.
3747Mig: !Mig Cardiac murmurs and endocardial fibrosis associated with methysergide therapy.
3748Mig: !Mig Diagnostic difficulties in pathological conditions of the posterior cranial fossa and craniocervical junction (concepts and clinical experience) (author's transl)
3749Mig: !Mig Ergot intoxication: historical review and description of unusual clinical manifestations.
3750Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine (author's transl)
3751Mig: !Mig Letter: Monoamine-oxidase and migraine.
3752Mig: !Mig Letter: Migraine and diet.
3753Mig: !Mig Ergotamine as a cause of arterial insufficiency
3754Mig: !Mig Periodic migraine-like neuralgia
3755Mig: !Mig CSF levels of 5-HIAA in migraine during tryptophan therapy (author's transl)
3756Mig: !Mig Atypical neuralgia.
3757Mig: !Mig The effects of reserpine injection on methysergide treated control and migrainous subjects.
3758Mig: !Mig Enzyme changes in the cerebrospinal fluid and serum and their correlation to the breakdown of bradykinin during different stages of headache attacks of migraine patients.
3759Mig: !Mig Voluntary regulation of temporal artery diameter by migraine patients.
3760Mig: !Mig Use of cyproheptadine in the treatment of headaches
3761Mig: !Mig Allergy involving the cranial nerves.
3762Mig: !Mig Letter: Prolactin and migraine.
3763Mig: !Mig Editorial: Monoamine oxidase and migraine-a causal link?
3764Mig: !Mig Letter: Pneumothorax as complication of acupuncture.
3765Mig: !Mig Migraine--vasomotor headache and its therapeutic approaches
3766Mig: !Mig Migraine. Diagnostic and therapeutic aspects.
3767Mig: !Mig Mechanisms and biochemistry of headache.
3768Mig: !Mig Injury to the cervical spine as a cause of headache.
3769Mig: !Mig Emotion-induced headache.
3770Mig: !Mig A headache history. The key to diagnosis.
3771Mig: !Mig Benign epilepsy of childhood with Rolandic spikes. A clinical, electroencephalographic, and telencephalographic study.
3772Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic findings in facial hemiatraphy
3773Mig: !Mig Letter: Acupuncture.
3774Mig: !Mig Letter: Prolactin and migraine.
3775Mig: !Mig Letter: Propranolol in the treatment of migraine.
3776Mig: !Mig Editorial: Migraine clinics.
3777Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and treatment of headache and facial pain (author's transl)
3778Mig: !Mig Letter: Methysergide alopecia.
3779Mig: !Mig Clinical use of propranolol
3780Mig: !Mig Some chronic neurological disorders in 1974.
3781Mig: !Mig The role of humoral mediators in migraine headache.
3782Mig: !Mig Troubles in marriage. The general practice setting.
3783Mig: !Mig Dizziness: a logical approach to diagnosis and treatment.
3784Mig: !Mig Effects of prostaglandins on the internal and external carotid blood flow in the monkey.
3785Mig: !Mig Cerebrospinal fluid levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in patients with migraine before and after treatment with L-tryptophan
3786Mig: !Mig Cerebrospinal fluid levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in patients with migraine during attacks and in the intercritical period
3787Mig: !Mig Letter: Drug information
3788Mig: !Mig Letter: Prolactin and migraine.
3789Mig: !Mig A phenylethylamine oxidising defect in migraine.
3790Mig: !Mig Amaurosis fugax--differential diagnosis and treatment
3791Mig: !Mig Persistence of circadian rhythms of wakefulness-sleep alternation and feeding behavior in a 20-year-old man during his underground isolation, with and without a clock
3792Mig: !Mig Letter: Acupuncture.
3793Mig: !Mig Is prolactin involved in precipitating migraine?
3794Mig: !Mig Letter: Propranolol in migraine.
3795Mig: !Mig Letter: Amines and theories in psychiatry.
3796Mig: !Mig Arteriovenous malformations, aneurysms, and pregnancy.
3797Mig: !Mig Vascular diseases, mortality, and migraine in the parents of migraine patients.
3798Mig: !Mig The pontypridd headache survey.
3799Mig: !Mig Retinal degeneration in hemiplegic migraine.
3800Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
3801Mig: !Mig Migraine in patients with cluster headache.
3802Mig: !Mig Letter: Hemiplegic migraine: cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities.
3803Mig: !Mig Evidence for a new (?), treatable headache entity.
3804Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine
3805Mig: !Mig Transient benign unilateral pupillary dilation in young adults.
3806Mig: !Mig The causes of headache.
3807Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of a new anti-bradykinin, anti-inflammatory drug, ketoprofen (19.583 r.p.) in migraine prophylaxis.
3808Mig: !Mig Clinic for patients with migraine
3809Mig: !Mig Octadon N
3810Mig: !Mig Letter: Ergotamine-induced headaches.
3811Mig: !Mig Propranolol in the treatment of migraine.
3812Mig: !Mig Letter: Papaverine in prophylactic treatment of migraine.
3813Mig: !Mig Cerebrospinal fluid 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid level in migrainous patients during spontaneous attacks, during headache-free periods and following treatment with L-tryptophan.
3814Mig: !Mig Headache. Diagnosis and therapy in general practice
3815Mig: !Mig Treatment of 30 patients with HH 232 (author's transl)
3816Mig: !Mig Clinical and pathophysiological considerations on initial neurological symptoms of focal migraine (author's transl)
3817Mig: !Mig Migraine from the neurologic viewpoint
3818Mig: !Mig Migraine: The Pill and Pregnancy.
3819Mig: !Mig Selective vasoconstriction in carotid vascular bed by methysergide: possible relevance to its antimigraine effect.
3820Mig: !Mig Effects of reserpine and chlorpromazine on 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake of platelets from migrainous and control subjects.
3821Mig: !Mig Metoclopramide in the treatment of migraine.
3822Mig: !Mig Control of cerebral circulation in health and disease.
3823Mig: !Mig Recurring headache. Diagnosis and differential diagnosis.
3824Mig: !Mig The temporal bone: trouble maker in the head.
3825Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic aspects of oral contraception
3826Mig: !Mig Recurrent paroxysmal nonepileptic disorders.
3827Mig: !Mig Migraine.
3828Mig: !Mig The pathophysiology and treatment of migraine.
3829Mig: !Mig Development of heart valve lesions during methysergide therapy.
3830Mig: !Mig Letter: Rebound migraine.
3831Mig: !Mig Letter: Migraine
3832Mig: !Mig Effects of ergotamine and methysergide on blood platelet aggregation responses of migrainous subjects.
3833Mig: !Mig Heparin found useful in migraine attacks.
3834Mig: !Mig Vascular and tension headaches.
3835Mig: !Mig Atypical early posttraumatic syndromes (author's transl)
3836Mig: !Mig Cerebrovacular accidents and oral contraceptives
3837Mig: !Mig Simultaneous measurement of internal and external carotid blood flow in the monkey. An approach to the study of migraine mechanisms.
3838Mig: !Mig The limits of migraine. The place of migraine in vascular headaches
3839Mig: !Mig Basilar artery migraine
3840Mig: !Mig Effect of chocolate in migraine: a double-blind study.
3841Mig: !Mig Editorial: Effort migraine.
3842Mig: !Mig Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) release and uptake in platelets from healthy persons and migrainous patients in attack-free intervals.
3843Mig: !Mig Visual evoked cortical potentials for single flashes and flickering light in migraine.
3844Mig: !Mig The nature of migraine.
3845Mig: !Mig Personality characteristics and family roles of children with migraine.
3846Mig: !Mig Menopausal headaches--psychogenic or metabolic?
3847Mig: !Mig Surgery of intact intracranial aneurysms.
3848Mig: !Mig Antidepressive effect of sandomigran
3849Mig: !Mig A clinical study of tyramine as an etiological factor in migraine.
3850Mig: !Mig A study of midrin in the symptomatic relief of migraine headache.
3851Mig: !Mig EEG aspects of transitory acute ischemia
3852Mig: !Mig The usefulness of the relaxation response in the therapy of headache.
3853Mig: !Mig The mechanism of transient global amnesia. Apropos of some unusual cases
3854Mig: !Mig Letter: Clonidine in treatment of dysmenorrhea.
3855Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal dyseguilibrium in the migraine syndrome of childhood.
3856Mig: !Mig Clinical picture of migraine
3857Mig: !Mig Syndrome of isolated visual migraine
3858Mig: !Mig Acupuncture in a pain clinic.
3859Mig: !Mig Cardiac migraine--report of twelve cases.
3860Mig: !Mig Current status of contraceptive steroids and the intrauterine device.
3861Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis and ergot derivatives. Ophthalmological adverse effects
3862Mig: !Mig Treatment of dysrhythmic migraines and other headaches with RO- 5-4023
3863Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine in children
3864Mig: !Mig Cerebral arterial occlusion and cluster headaches in neurofibromatosis.
3865Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and kindred headaches
3866Mig: !Mig New views on the pathogenesis of migraine and their importance for its therapy
3867Mig: !Mig Migrainous hemiplegia during breast-feeding.
3868Mig: !Mig Etiology, clinical picture and therapy of the iron deficiency syndrome
3869Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of the pain of migraine attacks
3870Mig: !Mig The anatomy of migraine.
3871Mig: !Mig The late sequelae of recurrent vomiting of childhood.
3872Mig: !Mig Clinical thermography.
3873Mig: !Mig Migraines in childhood.
3874Mig: !Mig Therapeutic applications of biological feedback
3875Mig: !Mig Migraine and abdominal epilepsy. Correlation with biliary diseases and rheumatic fever
3876Mig: !Mig The management with a low oxalate diet of abdominal migraine in children with a note on oxalate metabolism.
3877Mig: !Mig Propranolol used in prophylaxis of migraine in children.
3878Mig: !Mig Occlusive migraine.
3879Mig: !Mig Blood sugar response to glucagon in migraine.
3880Mig: !Mig The hemodynamics of preheadache scotoma in migraine.
3881Mig: !Mig Reflex vasomotor responses in the hands of patients suffering from migraine.
3882Mig: !Mig Benign orgasmic cephalgia.
3883Mig: !Mig Disorders of the autonomic nervous system.  Chapter 7.  Some disorders of regional circulation.
3884Mig: !Mig Surgical treatment of chronic migrainous neuralgia.
3885Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine with propranolol. A clinical trial.
3886Mig: !Mig Multiple forms of monoamine oxidase: some in vivo correlations.
3887Mig: !Mig Clinical physiological study of the action of BC 105 (Sandoz, Basle) in the interval therapy of migraine.
3888Mig: !Mig The intutive psychoanalytic perspective of Gald??n Fortunata and Jacinta.
3889Mig: !Mig Chuckling and glugging seizures at night -- sylvian spike epilepsy.
3890Mig: !Mig Associated migraine
3891Mig: !Mig Evaluation of amitriptyline in migraine prophylaxis.
3892Mig: !Mig Correlation of whole blood serotonin with headache precipitated by tyramine or reserpine.
3893Mig: !Mig The electroencephalographic characteristics of migraine.
3894Mig: !Mig The relationship of serotonin and platelets in migraine.
3895Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate in the treatment of migraine.
3896Mig: !Mig Selective carotid vasoconstriction by ergotamine as a relevant mechanism in its antimigraine action.
3897Mig: !Mig Ramifications of ergot research and their impact of the treatment of migraine.
3898Mig: !Mig Headache biochemistry and pharmacology.
3899Mig: !Mig A controlled epidemiological study of the role of psychological factors in migraine.
3900Mig: !Mig Personality profiles in cluster headache, migraine and normal controls.
3901Mig: !Mig A cooperative study on the clinical aspects of migraine and vascular headache and their response to sandomigran.
3902Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and migraine associated with endocranial tumours.
3903Mig: !Mig The regulation of cerebral blood flow - its relationship to migraine.
3904Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic reactivity in epilepsy
3905Mig: !Mig Concentrations of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with intracranial hypertension.
3906Mig: !Mig Symptom formation reconsidered in psychosomatic terms.
3907Mig: !Mig Personality and psychodynamic mechanisms in migraine.
3908Mig: !Mig Chronic ergotamine poisoning after migraine treatment
3909Mig: !Mig Zonographic examinations of cervical spine in cases of cervical migraine
3910Mig: !Mig Studies in nocturnal migraine.
3911Mig: !Mig Neurologic examination.
3912Mig: !Mig Observations of psychosocial factors and their relationship to organic disease.
3913Mig: !Mig Occipital lobe epilepsy. A clinical and electroencephalographic study.
3914Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects of cluster headache.
3915Mig: !Mig Role of some biogenic substances in migraine and relevant mechanism in antimigraine action of ergotamine--studies in an experimental model for migraine.
3916Mig: !Mig Letter: Paradoxical response to propranolol in migraine.
3917Mig: !Mig Fortification illusion during an attack of ophthalmic migraine. Implications for the human visual cortex.
3918Mig: !Mig The syndrome of transient global amnesia.
3919Mig: !Mig Capgras symptoms with an organic basis.
3920Mig: !Mig BC-105 preparation in treatment of migraine
3921Mig: !Mig Clonidine (Catapresan) in prevention of migraine
3922Mig: !Mig Interview with a hypertensive patient
3923Mig: !Mig Dixarit--a treatment for migraine.
3924Mig: !Mig Sandomigrin (pizotiphenum NFN) in migraine prevention
3925Mig: !Mig Drug information. Catapresan 25. A new migraine remedy on the market
3926Mig: !Mig Significance of the ophthalmodynamogram (ODG) in cerebral circulary disorders: a preliminary report
3927Mig: !Mig Biofeedback procedures in the clinic.
3928Mig: !Mig Biofeedback and psychotherapy.
3929Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic self-regulation of migraine headaches.
3930Mig: !Mig The implications of hyperammonemia in rare and common disorders, including migraine.
3931Mig: !Mig Letter: An octogenarian reports.
3932Mig: !Mig Management of climacteric disorders in clinical practice
3933Mig: !Mig Headache
3934Mig: !Mig The problems of migraine.
3935Mig: !Mig Ergotamine addiction in migraine patients
3936Mig: !Mig Letter: Propranolol in treatment of migraine in children.
3937Mig: !Mig Management of the acute attack of migraine.
3938Mig: !Mig Headaches related to contraceptive therapy and their control.
3939Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of migraine.
3940Mig: !Mig "Phenacetin kidney" (author's transl)
3941Mig: !Mig In pursuit of the origin of dyspnea.
3942Mig: !Mig Cerebral vasomotor paralysis during migraine attack.
3943Mig: !Mig Zung's test for the quantitative assessment of depression and its confirmation through the testing of a new anti-migraine drug Sandomigran
3944Mig: !Mig Facial pain from neurologic viewpoint
3945Mig: !Mig Selecting the optimum oral contraceptive.
3946Mig: !Mig BC-105--a new prophylactic agent for migraine--four years' experience in seventy-five patients.
3947Mig: !Mig M?ere's disease
3948Mig: !Mig New look at monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The new biochemical background.
3949Mig: !Mig Thrombolytic medication. Theoretical and practical aspects
3950Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of migraine
3951Mig: !Mig Atypical migraine.
3952Mig: !Mig Variations in migraine attacks with changes in weather conditions.
3953Mig: !Mig General functional imbalance in hypermetropic visual strain
3954Mig: !Mig Retinal blood vessel diameter during migraine.
3955Mig: !Mig A new agent for chemotherapy of migraine headaches: a controlled study.
3956Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with migristin
3957Mig: !Mig Zung's test for the quantitative assessment of depression and its confirmation during the testing of a new anti-migraine agent Sandomigran
3958Mig: !Mig The implications of hyperammonemia in rare and common disorders, including migraine.
3959Mig: !Mig New clinic for patients suffering from migraine
3960Mig: !Mig Clinical and electroencephalographic contribution to the study of abdominal epilepsy
3961Mig: !Mig The genetic and familial aspects of neurological disease.
3962Mig: !Mig Migraine treated with an antihistamine-analgesic combination.
3963Mig: !Mig Clonidine against migraine.
3964Mig: !Mig Posttraumatic transient cerebral blindness. Association with migraine and seizure diatheses.
3965Mig: !Mig Usefulness of Sandomigran in treatment of migraine syndromes
3966Mig: !Mig Experiences with Panax, a new phenacetin-free analgesic drug
3967Mig: !Mig Ergotamine poisoning in the differential diagnosis in acute abdomen
3968Mig: !Mig Clinical evaluation of side-effects of drugs.
3969Mig: !Mig Migraine and colour retouchers.
3970Mig: !Mig Effect of oral contraceptives on blood vessels and migraine (author's transl)
3971Mig: !Mig The eye and the pill (author's transl)
3972Mig: !Mig Amitriptyline in migraine prophylaxis. Changes in pattern of attacks during a controlled clinical trial.
3973Mig: !Mig Hemodynamic studies within the brain during migraine.
3974Mig: !Mig Sulpiride in the treatment of migraine, tension headache and associated psychosomatic disorders
3975Mig: !Mig Ocular side-effects of oral contraceptives.
3976Mig: !Mig The migraines and the effect of vaccination with toxoplasmin Sevac combined with chemotherapy (author's transl)
3977Mig: !Mig Cerebral disturbances in connection with the use of oral contraceptives (author's transl)
3978Mig: !Mig Recurrent abdominal pain: recurrent controversy.
3979Mig: !Mig Ergotamine induced headaches in migrainous patients.
3980Mig: !Mig Acupuncture.
3981Mig: !Mig BC-105 and deseril in migraine prophylaxis. (A double-blind study).
3982Mig: !Mig Heparin in migraine headache.
3983Mig: !Mig Beta-adrenergic receptor blocking drugs.
3984Mig: !Mig Therapy of chronic headache
3985Mig: !Mig EMA 3--a phenacetin-free combination with analgesic action
3986Mig: !Mig The Alice in Wonderland syndrome.
3987Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of Migraine Using Propranolol.
3988Mig: !Mig Visual symptoms in the migraine syndrome.
3989Mig: !Mig Ergotism. Unilateral brachial artery thrombosis secondary to ergotamine tartrate.
3990Mig: !Mig Headache mechanisms. II.
3991Mig: !Mig Practical aspects of migraine.
3992Mig: !Mig Drugs which may be used for prevention and therapy. Opinion of Prof. Adriano Marino
3993Mig: !Mig Acute hemolytic anemia with methemoglobinemia due to phenacetin: a case
3994Mig: !Mig Caffeine, coffee, headache and migraine
3995Mig: !Mig Neosal, ergotamine tartrate caffeine and placebo in acute migraine attack
3996Mig: !Mig The avian egg and the retina.
3997Mig: !Mig Ophthalmological complications after oral contraceptives
3998Mig: !Mig Headache mechanisms. I.
3999Mig: !Mig Headache.
4000Mig: !Mig 4 C-sex vertex spindles.
4001Mig: !Mig Drug interaction--propranolol and cafergpt.
4002Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis associated with Riedel's struma.
4003Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine by reducing prolactin levels.
4004Mig: !Mig Abdominal epilepsy and migraine.
4005Mig: !Mig Hormonal levels linked to migraine during the menstrual period.
4006Mig: !Mig Physiologic correlates of meditation and their clinical effects in headache: an ongoing investigation.
4007Mig: !Mig Long-term effect and tolerance during prophylactic treatment of migraine with a benzo-cycloheptathiophene derivative, pizotifen.
4008Mig: !Mig The ingestion of serotonin precursors (L-5-hydroxytryptophan and L-tryptophan) improves migraine headache.
4009Mig: !Mig Premenstrual symptoms.
4010Mig: !Mig Munchausen's syndrome.
4011Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis and therapy of headache
4012Mig: !Mig Psychological aspects of migraine.
4013Mig: !Mig Preliminary report on the use of autogenic feedback training in the treatment of migraine and tension headaches.
4014Mig: !Mig Migraine--a personal view.
4015Mig: !Mig Paget's disease of the skull and migraine headache.
4016Mig: !Mig Is the glucoamylasemic test useful in clinical medicine? I. Hydrotherapy at Vichy and the glucoamylasemic test
4017Mig: !Mig Stress disorders in childhood. 3.
4018Mig: !Mig Horton's headaches treated with sandomigran (BC-105)
4019Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular disorders due to medication with oral contraceptives
4020Mig: !Mig Migraine.
4021Mig: !Mig A migraine survey.
4022Mig: !Mig Migraine in general practice.
4023Mig: !Mig Ergotamine and methysergide abuse in patients with migraine.
4024Mig: !Mig Pain problems of significance in the head and face, some of which often are misdiagnosed.
4025Mig: !Mig Testing changes in the auditory discomfort threshold
4026Mig: !Mig Footballer's migraine.
4027Mig: !Mig Carotid ergotism. A complication of migraine therapy.
4028Mig: !Mig Case records of the Massachusetts General Hospital. Weekly clinicopathological exercises. Case 5-1973.
4029Mig: !Mig Headache--clinical and social aspects
4030Mig: !Mig Evaluation of chronic pain in children.
4031Mig: !Mig Little known forms of neurodermitis
4032Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
4033Mig: !Mig Cranial arteralgias.
4034Mig: !Mig Preliminary report on metabolism and cerebral blood flow in status migrenosus patients. Acid-base equilibrium in the cerebrospinal fluid and isotope cerebral circulation measurement by the Oldendorf method
4035Mig: !Mig Combined oral contraceptives
4036Mig: !Mig Variations of postural tonic activity following a speleologic experiment
4037Mig: !Mig Plasma free fatty acid changes in migraine.
4038Mig: !Mig Vasomotor paralysis in migraine.
4039Mig: !Mig The epidemiological enigma of migraine.
4040Mig: !Mig Value of the electroencephalogram in neurological and psychiatric diagnosis: correlative study in 10,000 adult patients
4041Mig: !Mig Diseases associated with ischemic cerebrovascular disorders
4042Mig: !Mig Symptoms and signs of ischemic cerebrovascular disorders
4043Mig: !Mig Facial thermography in cerebral vascular insufficiecy and migraine.
4044Mig: !Mig Management of headache.
4045Mig: !Mig Migraine
4046Mig: !Mig Familial capillaro-venous leptomeningeal angiomatosis.
4047Mig: !Mig Headache: recognition and treatment. A brief review for the physician.
4048Mig: !Mig Prevalence and heredity of migraine and migrainoid headaches among 461 Danish doctors.
4049Mig: !Mig The haemodynamics of migraine--a review.
4050Mig: !Mig Progesterone suppositories and pessaries in the treatment of menstrual migraine.
4051Mig: !Mig Cryosurgery of migraine.
4052Mig: !Mig Varieties of hemiplegic migraine.
4053Mig: !Mig Histaminase activity in serum of patients with migraine
4054Mig: !Mig BC-105 in the prevention of migraine
4055Mig: !Mig The prophylactic treatment of migraine with an antiserotonin pizotifen.
4056Mig: !Mig Propranolol prophylaxis of migraine.
4057Mig: !Mig Cerebrospinal fluid cholesterol. Quantitative analysis of unesterified and esterified cholesterol and normal values in the cerebrospinal fluid.
4058Mig: !Mig A study of heredity in epilepsy under inbred conditions
4059Mig: !Mig Absolute pitch in humans, its variations and possible connections with other known rhythmic phenomena.
4060Mig: !Mig 5-hydroxytryptamine supersensitivity as a new theory of headache and central pain: a clinical pharmacological approach with p-chlorophenylalanine.
4061Mig: !Mig The effect of serotonin on cerebral and extracerebral blood flow with possible implications in migraine.
4062Mig: !Mig Therapeutic effectiveness of drugs as determined by DESI reports. II.
4063Mig: !Mig Sandomigrin in migraine therapy
4064Mig: !Mig Cholecystoses. Apropos of 679 operated cases
4065Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate in migraine and the dangers of overdose.
4066Mig: !Mig The cluster headache.
4067Mig: !Mig Migraine headaches.
4068Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine--a review of ten cases.
4069Mig: !Mig Discordant identical twins. VI. Psoriasis and migraine.
4070Mig: !Mig Migraine--a personal view.
4071Mig: !Mig Sickle-cell trait: benign or malignant?
4072Mig: !Mig Dietary migraine.
4073Mig: !Mig Drug therapy of migraine.
4074Mig: !Mig Malaise of Margery Kempe.
4075Mig: !Mig Indications for sulpiride in gastroenterological therapy. Personal experience
4076Mig: !Mig Role of kinins in the physiology and pathology of the circulatory system
4077Mig: !Mig Normalization of sleep in migraine
4078Mig: !Mig Another treatment for migraine headache.
4079Mig: !Mig The problem of stellate ganglion in the light of therapeutic possibilities
4080Mig: !Mig Current concepts in the diagnosis and treatment of chronic recurring headache.
4081Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine following total adrenalectomy for Itsenko-Cushing disease
4082Mig: !Mig Giant-cell arteritis involving the vertebral arteries: anatomopathological description and review of the literature
4083Mig: !Mig Pyridinolcarbamate in the therapy of hemicrania syndromes
4084Mig: !Mig BC 105, a new preparation for migraine
4085Mig: !Mig Peripheral arterial insufficiency during ergotamine treatment. Course of disease, angiographical findings, and treatment by phenoxybenzamine.
4086Mig: !Mig Effect of BC 105 on the depressed mood in migraine
4087Mig: !Mig The influence of progesterone and estradiol upon migraine.
4088Mig: !Mig The use of autogenic feedback training in a pilot study of migraine and tension headaches.
4089Mig: !Mig Retinal ischemic symptoms in cardiovascular diagnosis.
4090Mig: !Mig Epilepsy and electroencephalographic changes in primary vascular headaches
4091Mig: !Mig Pathogenetic, clinical, electroencephalographic, and therapeutic study of migraine
4092Mig: !Mig Advances in neurology.
4093Mig: !Mig Neurologic disorders following yoga exercises
4094Mig: !Mig Transient unilateral dilation of pupil associated with headache.
4095Mig: !Mig A comparative study of the aetiology of vertigo in the African.
4096Mig: !Mig Dietary fat, dyspepsia, diarrhoea, and diabetes.
4097Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine and hemoglobinopathy in Nigerians.
4098Mig: !Mig Angiography in ergotism. Report of two cases and review of the literature.
4099Mig: !Mig Experience with Lysenyl in allergology
4100Mig: !Mig Effects of a long-term administration on an antiserotonin agent, Lysenyl, in headaches of different origins
4101Mig: !Mig Current status of allergology
4102Mig: !Mig Headache in children.
4103Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects and treatment of migraine
4104Mig: !Mig Amantadine in migraine.
4105Mig: !Mig Footballer's migraine.
4106Mig: !Mig Midrid for migraine?
4107Mig: !Mig Headache.
4108Mig: !Mig 5-Hydroxytryptamine levels and platelet aggregation responses in subjects with acute migraine headache.
4109Mig: !Mig A study of migraine in pregnancy.
4110Mig: !Mig A trial of opipramol in the treatment of migraine.
4111Mig: !Mig Effect of tyramine in migraine: a double-blind study.
4112Mig: !Mig The cardiovascular effects of oral contraceptives.
4113Mig: !Mig Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome: review of literature and report of case.
4114Mig: !Mig Pain syndrome (lecture)
4115Mig: !Mig Wine and migrainous neuralgia.
4116Mig: !Mig Facial pain.
4117Mig: !Mig Clonidine for migraine.
4118Mig: !Mig Kallikrein-like esterase and peptidase activities in CSF during migraine attacks and free intervals.
4119Mig: !Mig Excretion of free and conjugated 5-HIAA and VMA in urine and concentration of 5-HIAA and HVA in CSF during migraine attacks and free intervals.
4120Mig: !Mig Migraine and symptoms in childhood: bilious attacks, travel sickness and eczema.
4121Mig: !Mig The effects of antimigraine drugs on the vascular responses by-5-hydroxytryptamine and related biogenic substances on the external carotid bed of dogs: possible pharmacological implications to their antimigraine action.
4122Mig: !Mig The pragmatic utilization of the P-K phenomenon.
4123Mig: !Mig Injection of the pterygopalatine fossa with glycerin for posterior epistaxis.
4124Mig: !Mig Headache syndromes suggested by factor analysis of symptom variables in a headache prone population.
4125Mig: !Mig Observations on the relation of migraine and epilepsy. An electroencephalographic, psychological and clinical study using oral tyramine.
4126Mig: !Mig Rem sleep, depression, and nocturnal migraine.
4127Mig: !Mig Headache as possible expression of deficiency of brain 5-hydroxytryptamine (central denervation supersensitivity).
4128Mig: !Mig 5-Hydroxytryptamine and physiopathology of pain; on a polyalgic syndrome in the course of therapy with para-chlorophenylalanine
4129Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal liposclerosis and prolonged treatment with methylsergide and gynergen
4130Mig: !Mig A comparative trial of prindolol, clonidine and carbamazepine in the interval therapy of migraine.
4131Mig: !Mig Psychodrugs in neurology
4132Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine and Haemoglobin AS in Nigerians.
4133Mig: !Mig Clonidine in migraine.
4134Mig: !Mig Rational treatment of migraine.
4135Mig: !Mig Computer-assisted interview of patients with functional headache.
4136Mig: !Mig Footballer's migraine.
4137Mig: !Mig Migraine--a disabling disorder.
4138Mig: !Mig Treatment of cervical migraine with Venopyronum
4139Mig: !Mig Clinical study of an estro-progestative association in low doses. Experience of 3 years (490 patients-5600 cycles)
4140Mig: !Mig BC 105 in migraine
4141Mig: !Mig Footballer's migraine.
4142Mig: !Mig Symptomatic facial neuralgias
4143Mig: !Mig The long-term management of migraine with clonidine.
4144Mig: !Mig The headache in history, literature, and legend.
4145Mig: !Mig Use of antihistaminic drugs in the treatment of allergic rhinopathies
4146Mig: !Mig The migrainous scintillating scotoma.
4147Mig: !Mig Clonidine in migraine.
4148Mig: !Mig Pharmacological and biological approach to migraines
4149Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of "migraine accompagn? and sensory Jacksonian seizures
4150Mig: !Mig Suspected chocolate poisoning of calves.
4151Mig: !Mig The role of estradiol withdrawal in the etiology of menstrual migraine.
4152Mig: !Mig Vascular responses in the hands of patients suffering from migraine.
4153Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and office management of headaches in children.
4154Mig: !Mig Psychiatric adverse reactions to methysergide.
4155Mig: !Mig Angiography in diagnosis of ergotism.
4156Mig: !Mig Comparative treatment study of migraine headache.
4157Mig: !Mig Headache during hemodialysis.
4158Mig: !Mig Seizures and other paroxysmal disorders in infants and children. I.
4159Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine with propranolol.
4160Mig: !Mig Bruxism, occlusion and migraine.
4161Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of LB-46 (d, 1-4-(2-hydroxy-3-isopropylaminopropoxy)indol. An adrenergic beta-receptor blocking agent in migraine prophylaxis.
4162Mig: !Mig The antihistaminic Sandomigran as the treatment of choice in anxious, thin, and anorexic patients with migraine
4163Mig: !Mig Management of headache by the family physician.
4164Mig: !Mig Vagotomy in migraine?
4165Mig: !Mig Headaches and facial pain. Drug treatment
4166Mig: !Mig The value of routine radiography of the skull in patients with headache
4167Mig: !Mig Migraine: a pulmonary disease?
4168Mig: !Mig Neurological complications in uricopathy
4169Mig: !Mig Migraine--a misunderstood disease
4170Mig: !Mig Hemicrania--the relaxing headache.
4171Mig: !Mig Neurological complications in women using oral contraceptives
4172Mig: !Mig An overview of chronic recurring headache.
4173Mig: !Mig Biennial report of an Austrian headache clinic
4174Mig: !Mig Evaluation of clonidine in prophylaxis of migraine. Double-blind trial and follow-up.
4175Mig: !Mig Severe arterial spasms after the use of Ergotamine
4176Mig: !Mig Bilateral nephroptosis and migraine
4177Mig: !Mig Migraine: a biochemical study.
4178Mig: !Mig Measurements of small variations in 'absolute' pitch.
4179Mig: !Mig Non-traumatic neurosurgical emergencies.
4180Mig: !Mig Ergotism causing peripheral vascular ischemia.
4181Mig: !Mig A double-blind crossover trial of isometheptene mucate compound and ergotamine in migraine.
4182Mig: !Mig Migraine and gastric acid secretion
4183Mig: !Mig Primary headache from the neurologist's viewpoint
4184Mig: !Mig Levodopa ineffective in migraine.
4185Mig: !Mig Treatment of headache.
4186Mig: !Mig Migraine and personality in renal papillary necrosis.
4187Mig: !Mig Physiological organization of hypermetropic visual work
4188Mig: !Mig Different corneal indentation pulse pattern in cluster headache and migraine.
4189Mig: !Mig Infantile and juvenile focal migraine
4190Mig: !Mig Methysergide-induced retroperitoneal fibrosis
4191Mig: !Mig Sandomigran (BC-105) in treatment of migraine and Horton's headache
4192Mig: !Mig Amino acids in urine in spontaneous migraine attacks.
4193Mig: !Mig Organic cerebral symptoms in migraine of many years' duration
4194Mig: !Mig The course of migraines
4195Mig: !Mig Painful ophthalmoplegia
4196Mig: !Mig The big mistakes: a note.
4197Mig: !Mig Cluster headache.
4198Mig: !Mig EEG in headache.
4199Mig: !Mig Bilateral double nipples.
4200Mig: !Mig Conjoint therapy of migraine: a case report.
4201Mig: !Mig Neurological findings in cystinuria.
4202Mig: !Mig Retinal artery complications caused by oral contraceptives
4203Mig: !Mig Clinical and electroencephalographic studies of Avamigran therapy for migraine
4204Mig: !Mig Functional disorders of hypermetropic accommodation during visual strain and in general pathological conditions. I. Physiological hypermetropia and hypermetropia due to visual strain
4205Mig: !Mig Cryo-allergy or hypersensitivity to cold
4206Mig: !Mig Psychiatric sequelae of minor head injury.
4207Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular disorders in relationship to the intake of contraceptives
4208Mig: !Mig Impedance methods for investigation of cerebral circulation.
4209Mig: !Mig Reflections on the treatment of headache.
4210Mig: !Mig L-dopa in neurological disease: current status.
4211Mig: !Mig A comparison between BC 105 and methysergide in the prophylaxis of migraine.
4212Mig: !Mig Group relaxing hypnosis.
4213Mig: !Mig Pizotifen (BC-105): a review of its pharmacological properties and its therapeutic efficacy in vascular headaches.
4214Mig: !Mig Current concepts in the pathogenesis and interval treatment of migraine.
4215Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of a beta-receptor blocking agent (LB 46) in migraine prophylaxis.
4216Mig: !Mig Some new vascular and biochemical aspects of the mechanism of action of ergot compounds.
4217Mig: !Mig Neurological analysis of the action of tranquilizing agents--benzodiazepine derivatives
4218Mig: !Mig Arteriovenous angioma of the brain as a cause of migraine-like headaches of many years duration
4219Mig: !Mig Clinical and morphological aspects of cerebrovascular accidents under oral contraception (author's transl)
4220Mig: !Mig Results in the therapy of bronchial asthma using histaglobine
4221Mig: !Mig EEG-findings and their interpretation in simple migraine
4222Mig: !Mig Delayed postangiographic reactions of cerebral vessels in patients with migraine
4223Mig: !Mig Principles of oral contraception. 2. Side effects of oral contraceptives.
4224Mig: !Mig Present status of oral contraceptives: 1. effectiveness; basis for selection; side effects; metabolic changes.
4225Mig: !Mig Perspectives in migraine.
4226Mig: !Mig Rheoencephalographic observations in migraine.
4227Mig: !Mig Migraine: a series of 38 patients treated with ergotamine tablets.
4228Mig: !Mig Headache--diagnosis and management.
4229Mig: !Mig Clinically observed sequelae of hashish abuse
4230Mig: !Mig A patient with Horton's syndrome and angina pectoris. Clinical and physiological observations
4231Mig: !Mig Studies on chronic headache--with particular reference to dysrhythmic headache
4232Mig: !Mig Diagnostic error: "organic neuropathy"
4233Mig: !Mig Retinal bloodvessel diameter during migraine.
4234Mig: !Mig 4 cases of occipital-vertebral anastomosis
4235Mig: !Mig Migraine treated by relaxation therapy.
4236Mig: !Mig A psychological approach to the treatment of migraine.
4237Mig: !Mig Metabolic abnormalities in migraine.
4238Mig: !Mig Headache
4239Mig: !Mig The pill and headache
4240Mig: !Mig Migraines due to tyramine
4241Mig: !Mig Migrainous disease in children
4242Mig: !Mig New views in the medical treatment of migraine
4243Mig: !Mig A case of association of migraine, epilepsy and hyperlipemia type V
4244Mig: !Mig Psychic headaches
4245Mig: !Mig Introduction to the study of headaches
4246Mig: !Mig Chronic migrainous neuralgia--diagnostic and therapeutic aspects.
4247Mig: !Mig Psychological factors in headache.
4248Mig: !Mig Oculosympathetic paresis associated with cluster headaches.
4249Mig: !Mig Implications of depressed antithrombin-3 activity associated with oral contraceptives.
4250Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of MY-25 (1-methyl-ergotamine-bitartrate) in migraine prophylaxis.
4251Mig: !Mig Vertigo in neuropathies
4252Mig: !Mig Neuro-ophthalmology.
4253Mig: !Mig Dumont's method of DAC (standing, sitting, lying) relaxation
4254Mig: !Mig Migraine complicated by ischaemic papillopathy.
4255Mig: !Mig Picture of the month. Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
4256Mig: !Mig Migraine.
4257Mig: !Mig Clonidine in migraine therapy
4258Mig: !Mig Clonidine in migraine therapy
4259Mig: !Mig Survey of the medical causes of rejection of applicants for the BEA-Boac sponsored AB-initio pilot training scheme.
4260Mig: !Mig Histamine and serotonin in cluster headache.
4261Mig: !Mig Experience with a new serotonin antagonist in the prevention of migraine
4262Mig: !Mig Minor strokes
4263Mig: !Mig Migrainous neuralgia or cluster headache?
4264Mig: !Mig Migraine, anorexia nervosa and schizophrenia.
4265Mig: !Mig Personality and family history of disease.
4266Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine associated with menstruation.
4267Mig: !Mig Indication for neuroradiologic examination in migraine
4268Mig: !Mig Gradual lesions of the wake system as a pathophysiological mechanism of the mode of action of cerebral noxae
4269Mig: !Mig Allergic factors in 143 cases of migraine
4270Mig: !Mig Effects of methysergide on platelets incubated with reserpine.
4271Mig: !Mig The role of progesterone in menstrual migraine.
4272Mig: !Mig Sleep and disease.
4273Mig: !Mig Neurology and sleep research.
4274Mig: !Mig Allergy in 7000 twin pairs.
4275Mig: !Mig Migraine research.
4276Mig: !Mig Seminar on headache.
4277Mig: !Mig Fatty-acid metabolism in migraine.
4278Mig: !Mig Migraine equivalent: the scintillating scotoma.
4279Mig: !Mig Etiological problems of parasellar syndromes
4280Mig: !Mig Testing of lorazepam (Wy 4036) in the neurological practice
4281Mig: !Mig Clinical and experimental evaluation of a new ergot-derivative (ergostine) in the treatment of migraine.
4282Mig: !Mig Allergy and migraine: a clinical study.
4283Mig: !Mig Migraine--general management.
4284Mig: !Mig Migraine--treatment of acute attack.
4285Mig: !Mig Migraine--research.
4286Mig: !Mig MY 25, a peroral prophylactic for migraine
4287Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of an hepatobiliary analeptic agent
4288Mig: !Mig Refresher course in internal medicine. IV. Headaches
4289Mig: !Mig Diphenylhydantoin.
4290Mig: !Mig Blood-group levels and fatty-acid metabolism in migraine related to fasting.
4291Mig: !Mig Migraine: an exploratory treatment application of programmed behaviour therapy techniques.
4292Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine.
4293Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine associated with nystagmus
4294Mig: !Mig Place of hysterectomy with adnexial preservation in the treatment of severe persistent catamenial migraine after age 45
4295Mig: !Mig Can the therapeutic test be helpful in the nosological diagnosis of headaches?
4296Mig: !Mig Serotonin metabolism in blood platelets--a possible relation to migraine
4297Mig: !Mig Serotonin, blood platelets, and migraine. A connection?
4298Mig: !Mig Migraine treated with dimetiotazine with long-term improvement
4299Mig: !Mig Non-epileptic fits in advanced age from the neurologist's point of view
4300Mig: !Mig The fortification illusions of migraines.
4301Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and management of common headache problems.
4302Mig: !Mig Some ophthalmological aspects of headache.
4303Mig: !Mig Migraine: intelligence, social class, and familial prevalence.
4304Mig: !Mig Methods of treating acute migraine in the City Migraine Clinic.
4305Mig: !Mig Migraine variants.
4306Mig: !Mig An assessment of platelet aggregation induced by 5-hydroxytryptamine.
4307Mig: !Mig Insulin induced hypoglycaemia in migraine.
4308Mig: !Mig Dogmatil and migraines
4309Mig: !Mig BC-105 a new preparation for the interval treatment of migraine--a double blind evaluation compared with a placebo.
4310Mig: !Mig The migraine attack as a socio-medical problem.
4311Mig: !Mig Fibrotic syndromes with chronic use of methysergide.
4312Mig: !Mig Headaches and craniofacial neuralgias
4313Mig: !Mig An ophthalmological view of headache.
4314Mig: !Mig Alternating hemiplegia in childhood: a report of eight patients with complicated migraine beginning in infancy.
4315Mig: !Mig Transit time related to clinical findings in children with recurrent abdominal pain.
4316Mig: !Mig Epidemiology of headache and migraine in women.
4317Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
4318Mig: !Mig On the relationship migraine--epilepsy.
4319Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
4320Mig: !Mig Dietary migraine and tyramine metabolism.
4321Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of headache
4322Mig: !Mig Conjugation defect in tyramine-sensitive migraine.
4323Mig: !Mig Strokes following intake of oral contraceptives?
4324Mig: !Mig Migraine and sulpirid
4325Mig: !Mig What is to be thought of the Dunlop Committee recommendation concerning the anti-ovulation pills?
4326Mig: !Mig Cluster migraine.
4327Mig: !Mig Tyramine metabolism and migraine: a metabolic defect.
4328Mig: !Mig Note on treatment of migraine using behavior therapy techniques.
4329Mig: !Mig Migraine: with special reference to scintillating scotomata.
4330Mig: !Mig The syndrome of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita.
4331Mig: !Mig Dizziness, vertigo and imbalance.
4332Mig: !Mig Ergotamine-induced peripheral arterial spasm: clinical and angiographic diagnosis.
4333Mig: !Mig Thermographic studies in vascular headache.
4334Mig: !Mig Tyramine in food.
4335Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal arrhythmias and migraine.
4336Mig: !Mig Headache and blood pressure in the community.
4337Mig: !Mig Clinical evaluation of the hormonal effect of ovosiston in various dosages
4338Mig: !Mig Migraine variants.
4339Mig: !Mig Therapy of vasomotor headache with a new drug: BC 105. Preliminary results
4340Mig: !Mig Acute and chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency in patients with diseases of the hepato-cholecysto-pancreatic system
4341Mig: !Mig When the migraine patient seeks help.
4342Mig: !Mig Clinical electronystagmography.
4343Mig: !Mig Suppositories.
4344Mig: !Mig Reported adverse effects of oral contraceptives on the eye.
4345Mig: !Mig Ischaemic papillopathy.
4346Mig: !Mig Analgesia--a diagnostic aid to some systematic diseases.
4347Mig: !Mig Atypical facial neuralgia. A consideration in the diagnosis of oral-facial pain.
4348Mig: !Mig The eye and oral contraceptives
4349Mig: !Mig Thermography in migraine.
4350Mig: !Mig Neuropsychiatric studies on inhabitants of Bar with bronchial asthma and other allergic diseases
4351Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis when the only symptom is diplopia.
4352Mig: !Mig The influence of hormonal changes upon migraine in women.
4353Mig: !Mig Migraine and epilepsy
4354Mig: !Mig Dysrhythmic headaches
4355Mig: !Mig Radiological aspects of ethmoido-sphenoidal structural changes and the problem of histodisreactivity in neurovascular headaches
4356Mig: !Mig The chronic headache patient. A psychodynamic study of 30 cases, compared with cardio-vascular patients.
4357Mig: !Mig Cerebral blood changes in migraine.
4358Mig: !Mig BC 105 in the prophylaxis of migraine.
4359Mig: !Mig Migraine.
4360Mig: !Mig BC 105 and methysergide (Deseril) in migraine prophylaxis.
4361Mig: !Mig Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis studies in migraine with special reference to insulin sensitivity.
4362Mig: !Mig 2-(2.6-dichlorophenylamino)-2-imidazoline hydrochloride (ST 155 or Catapresan) as a prophylactic remedy against migraine.
4363Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine with BC 105 (pizotifen): a double blind trial.
4364Mig: !Mig Clinical neurology.
4365Mig: !Mig Whole blood histamine and plasma serotonin in cluster headache.
4366Mig: !Mig Clinical study of moxisylyte hydrochloride
4367Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptives. Current status of therapy.
4368Mig: !Mig Dimethiotazine in migraine
4369Mig: !Mig Methadone for the pentazocine-dependent patient.
4370Mig: !Mig Anticholinesterase drugs and epileptic seizures.
4371Mig: !Mig A comparison of personality traits in ulcerative colitis and migraine patients.
4372Mig: !Mig Reactivity of the intra- and extracranial vessels to serotonin and its relation to migraine
4373Mig: !Mig Relations between hemicrania and endocraniosis. Statistical study of 70 cases
4374Mig: !Mig Association of brachymetapody with epilepsy and migraine
4375Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine
4376Mig: !Mig Cluster migraine--an unrecognized common entity.
4377Mig: !Mig Small cerebral ventricle syndromes (microventriculia)
4378Mig: !Mig Cystinuria and headache
4379Mig: !Mig Migraine and schizophrenia.
4380Mig: !Mig Angiography in peripheral ischaemia due to ergotism. Report of two cases.
4381Mig: !Mig Levodopa and migraine.
4382Mig: !Mig Acute migraine requiring treatment in a city
4383Mig: !Mig Headache (3): Horton's syndrome
4384Mig: !Mig Headache (2): chronic headache in children
4385Mig: !Mig Headache (1): migraine
4386Mig: !Mig Small blood-vessels in migraine.
4387Mig: !Mig Neuro-ophthalmological complications in the wake of oral contraceptives
4388Mig: !Mig Digestive migraine
4389Mig: !Mig Small blood-vessels in migraine.
4390Mig: !Mig Indications for therapy with progestational agents.
4391Mig: !Mig Carcinoid tumor of the small intestine, occlusive form: migraine equivalent or flush?
4392Mig: !Mig Headaches and migraine in colour retouchers.
4393Mig: !Mig Aeromedical consultation service case reports: occipital migraine.
4394Mig: !Mig The nitroglycerine ointment test--a double-blind examination.
4395Mig: !Mig Thermographic, hormonal and clinical studies in migraine.
4396Mig: !Mig A therapeutic trial in migraine with parachlorophenylalanine, a specific serotonin depletor.
4397Mig: !Mig Implications of congenital ophthalmoplegia for the development of visuo-motor functions (illustrated by a case with the Moebius syndrome).
4398Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of headache and experiences with a new preparation in the treatment of migraine
4399Mig: !Mig Facial pain and the temporomandibular joint.
4400Mig: !Mig Neurologic pathology of hormonal contraceptives
4401Mig: !Mig Diabetes and migraine.
4402Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of headache
4403Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine, retinal degeneration, deafness, and nystagmus.
4404Mig: !Mig Migraine and its treatment
4405Mig: !Mig Food allergies.
4406Mig: !Mig Headache and the eye.
4407Mig: !Mig Frequently unknown relationships between spinal column and functional disorders of the gastrointestinal system. (Own observations on the relation between cervical migraine and gastroenteritis)
4408Mig: !Mig Diabetes and migraine.
4409Mig: !Mig Chronic ergotism
4410Mig: !Mig Long-term therapy of persistent migraine with BC-105
4411Mig: !Mig Clinical picture and therapy of intermittent vertebral-basilar insufficiency
4412Mig: !Mig Further studies on clopamide
4413Mig: !Mig Vasculogenic headaches
4414Mig: !Mig Angina cerebri. II.
4415Mig: !Mig Metabolism of methysergide and retroperitoneal fibrosis.
4416Mig: !Mig Electromyographic evidence of cerebral malfunction in migraine due to egg allergy. Report of a case.
4417Mig: !Mig Effect of diabetes on migraine.
4418Mig: !Mig A new drug in the treatment of migraine (therapeutic trial)
4419Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate in migraine.
4420Mig: !Mig Headache and the eye. A community study.
4421Mig: !Mig Tyramine migraine
4422Mig: !Mig Upper limb ischaemia due to ergotamine tartrate.
4423Mig: !Mig Para-anaesthetic headache in female patients.
4424Mig: !Mig Migraine
4425Mig: !Mig The lonely Nietzsche and his migraine.
4426Mig: !Mig A clinical and biochemical correlation between tyramine and migraine headache.
4427Mig: !Mig Simultaneous analysis of potentials evoked by focal illumination of two retinal areas by flicker and pattern stimuli; application to migraine and to visual field investigations.
4428Mig: !Mig BC-105--a new serotonin antagonist in the treatment of migraine.
4429Mig: !Mig Migraine as a cyclic disease with latent and overt components--effects with an antaminic drug.
4430Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate in migraine.
4431Mig: !Mig Oral ergotamine.
4432Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate in migraine.
4433Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate in migraine.
4434Mig: !Mig Ovulation inhibitors and the nervous system
4435Mig: !Mig Atypical trigeminal neuralgia. Case report.
4436Mig: !Mig Migraine and sulpiride
4437Mig: !Mig Management of intractable pain by neural therapy.
4438Mig: !Mig The use of continuous progestogen contraception in the treatment of migraine.
4439Mig: !Mig Problems of migraine.
4440Mig: !Mig Controlled clinical trial of ergotamine tartrate.
4441Mig: !Mig Comparative trial of serotonin antagonists in the management of migraine.
4442Mig: !Mig Clinical experiences with polyantiaminic BC-105 Sandoz in the prevention of vasomotor headaches
4443Mig: !Mig Ocular headache
4444Mig: !Mig Cerebral blood vessel reaction to carbon dioxide, histamine and adrenalin.
4445Mig: !Mig Clinical and statistical investigations of the epidemiology of migraine.
4446Mig: !Mig Vestibular syndrome in migraine
4447Mig: !Mig Familial "prosoplegic" migraine
4448Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects and treatment of ganglionitis of the marginal sympathetic stem
4449Mig: !Mig The relationship of nocturnal headaches to sleep stage patterns.
4450Mig: !Mig Clinical and therapeutic observations on the so-called "migraine variants"
4451Mig: !Mig 10 years of own experiences with transpleural neurotomy. (TPN)
4452Mig: !Mig Retinal migraine.
4453Mig: !Mig Vasomotor changes during migraine.
4454Mig: !Mig New factors in migraine, motion sickness and equilibrium. A cybernetic study of equilibrium.
4455Mig: !Mig Studies on cerebral and ocular circulation in a patient with cluster headache.
4456Mig: !Mig Some aspects of the epidemiology of migraine in Denmark.
4457Mig: !Mig Periodic migrainous neuralgia.
4458Mig: !Mig Juvenile migraine, presenting as an acute confusional state.
4459Mig: !Mig Side effects of contraceptive steroids. II
4460Mig: !Mig Current trends in Australian neurology.
4461Mig: !Mig Migraine
4462Mig: !Mig Interval treatment of migraine with BC 105, a new serotonin antagonist
4463Mig: !Mig Study of urinary histamine and its metabolites in patients with migraine
4464Mig: !Mig Various diseases that may be caused by allergy
4465Mig: !Mig Surgical treatment of carotid body tumors
4466Mig: !Mig Migristene for pre-medication and after-treatment in pneumoencephalography
4467Mig: !Mig Pathomechanism of migraine
4468Mig: !Mig Pleural effusion and fibrosis during treatment with methysergide.
4469Mig: !Mig Allergic migraine.
4470Mig: !Mig Symptomatic migraine. Under what criteria is it suspicious? (1 case)
4471Mig: !Mig Intracranial saccular aneurysms in children. Internal carotid artery aneurysms inducing the so-called ophthalmoplegic migraine
4472Mig: !Mig Migraine and oral contraceptives
4473Mig: !Mig Uracil mustard in the treatment of thrombocythemia.
4474Mig: !Mig Serial observations on a case of subarachnoid haemorrhage and ophthalmoplegic migraine.
4475Mig: !Mig Second phase platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate in patients with cerebral vascular disease and in control subjects.
4476Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine with vitamin B 12
4477Mig: !Mig Migraine and its treatment
4478Mig: !Mig Migraine and hepato-biliary-digestive system
4479Mig: !Mig Background to migraine.
4480Mig: !Mig Dietary causes of migraine.
4481Mig: !Mig Artificial slow flow carotid angiography. Carotid angiography with compression proximal to the site of injection.
4482Mig: !Mig A randomized controlled trial of ergotamine tartrate.
4483Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular circulation disorders form the neurological viewpoint
4484Mig: !Mig Aetiology of migraine and prevention with carbamazepine (Tegretol): results of a double-blind, cross-over study.
4485Mig: !Mig Thermographic, hormonal, and clinical studies in migraine.
4486Mig: !Mig Revaluation of ethmoido-sphenectomy in some cephalalgic syndromes.
4487Mig: !Mig Lysenyl, a new antiserotonin agent. Pharmacological and clinical survey.
4488Mig: !Mig Change in serotonin and catecholamines vascular reactivity during migraine attack.
4489Mig: !Mig Bradykinin induced release of serotonin in man.
4490Mig: !Mig Migraine-headache and essential arterial hypertension. A clinical pharmacological approach with the false transmitter metaraminol.
4491Mig: !Mig In vivo observations of the microcirculation of the bulbar conjunctiva in migraneous.
4492Mig: !Mig An enzyme (MAO) defect on the platelets in migraine.
4493Mig: !Mig Uptake, metabolism, storage, and release of 5-hydroxytryptamine in blood platelets.
4494Mig: !Mig Anxiety level and psychodynamic mechanisms in medical headaches. Psychodiagnostic study.
4495Mig: !Mig The French Migraine Club.
4496Mig: !Mig Primary headaches. An attempt at a classification.
4497Mig: !Mig The aetiology of migraine.
4498Mig: !Mig Dry and wet theory in headache.
4499Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegia.
4500Mig: !Mig A critical review of the treatment of migrainous neuralgia.
4501Mig: !Mig Statistical study of a headache population.
4502Mig: !Mig Phenocopy of hereditary diseases related to diencephalic pathology
4503Mig: !Mig Pleurisy and fibrosis of the pleura during methysergide treatment of hemicrania.
4504Mig: !Mig The histaminuria in vascular headache.
4505Mig: !Mig The diagnostic value of the palmo-mental reflex.
4506Mig: !Mig Allergy and disease in twins: an anamnestic study.
4507Mig: !Mig Pseudo-bulbar congenital syndromes and congenital bucco-facial apraxias. Importance of oscillographic recording of speech
4508Mig: !Mig Innervation disorders in Mbius syndrome
4509Mig: !Mig Migraine, giddiness and cerebral dehydration.
4510Mig: !Mig Changes in focal cerebral blood flow within the internal carotid system during migraine attack.
4511Mig: !Mig The excretion of adrenaline, noradrenaline and their precursors (DOPA and dopamine) in migraine patients
4512Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine
4513Mig: !Mig Migraine and epilepsy.
4514Mig: !Mig Community studies of the prevalence of headache.
4515Mig: !Mig Concurrent incidence of migraine and epilepsy in the EEG picture
4516Mig: !Mig Pelvic retroperitoneal fibrosis. Case report.
4517Mig: !Mig The investigation of headache.
4518Mig: !Mig Electromyographic evidence for supranuclear gaze palsies.
4519Mig: !Mig Arteriovenous malformations with involvement of Galen's vein
4520Mig: !Mig A clinical comparison of cluster headache and migraine.
4521Mig: !Mig Psychology and neuropsychology in migraine.
4522Mig: !Mig Preliminary report on the use of clonidine (Boehringer Ingelheim) in the treatment of migraine.
4523Mig: !Mig Monoamine oxidase inhibitors in the control of migraine.
4524Mig: !Mig A clinical trial of an antiserotonin drug, bc-105 in the prophylaxis of migraine.
4525Mig: !Mig A comparative trial of serotonin antagonists in the management of migraine.
4526Mig: !Mig Headache and treatment with oral contraceptives.
4527Mig: !Mig Double-blind clinical evaluation of the efficacy and safety of ergostine-caffeine, ergotamine-caffeine, and placebo in migraine headache.
4528Mig: !Mig Clinical consideration influencing experimental design in drug trials for migraine headache therapy.
4529Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular diseases associated with the use of oral contraceptives. A review of the English-language literature.
4530Mig: !Mig The effect of sleep on electroencephalographic abnormalities at a distance from the lesion; an all-night study of 30 cases.
4531Mig: !Mig Indoleamines and the central nervous system; a sounding of their clinical significance.
4532Mig: !Mig Parachlorophenylalanine, an inhibitor of enteramine (serotonin) synthesis in migraine.
4533Mig: !Mig Emetic effect of biogenic amines.
4534Mig: !Mig The physiopathological basis of modern treatment of migraine headache.
4535Mig: !Mig Contribution to the study of histamine metabolism in migrainous subjects.
4536Mig: !Mig A classification of headache.
4537Mig: !Mig Cerebrovascular accidents in young women. Etiological analysis. Pathogenetic role of oral contraceptive drugs
4538Mig: !Mig Experiences with the new serotonin antagonist BC-105 (Sandomigran) in the treatment of migraine
4539Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine
4540Mig: !Mig Treatment of children with autonomic disorders using dimaestad
4541Mig: !Mig Relationships between headache and amine changes after administration of reserpine to migrainous patients.
4542Mig: !Mig Migraine attacks triggered by mild head trauma, and their relation to certain post-traumatic disorders of childhood.
4543Mig: !Mig Beta blockaders--new pharmaceuticals in the treatment of migraine?
4544Mig: !Mig Trial of a serotonin inhibitor BC 105 in the prevention of migraine.
4545Mig: !Mig Complications due to oral contraceptive
4546Mig: !Mig Aneurysms of the internal supraclinoid carotid artery
4547Mig: !Mig Treatment of neurologic diseases with synthetic corticotropin (beta-1-24-corticotropin)
4548Mig: !Mig Migraine.
4549Mig: !Mig Eye diseases in migraine patients
4550Mig: !Mig Kinins and human pathology
4551Mig: !Mig Short piece on a double blind study with Demigran
4552Mig: !Mig Effect of reserpine injections in migrainous and normal control subjects, with estimations of urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid.
4553Mig: !Mig Experience in health resort treatment of patients with cervical radicular syndrome (cervical migraine)
4554Mig: !Mig Clinical and biological observations on working men.
4555Mig: !Mig Mitral regurgitation occurring during methsergide (Sansert) therapy.
4556Mig: !Mig Tests of BC 105 in 20 cases of vascular headache
4557Mig: !Mig A new serotonin antagonist derived from lysergic acid in the therapy of hemicrania
4558Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis of headaches
4559Mig: !Mig Therapeutic results of Migristine in headache
4560Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptive medications and headache.
4561Mig: !Mig Medical headaches: systematic clinical study of 300 cases
4562Mig: !Mig Spinal fluid creatine kinase in neurologic disease.
4563Mig: !Mig Migraine associated with hyper-pre-beta lipoproteinemia.
4564Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and vascular headache by a drug regulating behavior
4565Mig: !Mig Vasomotor function in migraine.
4566Mig: !Mig Common medical causes of headache.
4567Mig: !Mig Migrain families. Genetic aspects of migraine
4568Mig: !Mig The treatment of anxiety and depression in the allergic patient.
4569Mig: !Mig Latency and evidence of pathology in migraine: clinico-pharmacological and therapeutic considerations on a drug antagonist of serotonin and histamine
4570Mig: !Mig Some interrelationships of vasoactive substances and basophilic leukocytes in migraine headache.
4571Mig: !Mig The problem of headache
4572Mig: !Mig The "headache" symptom from the neurologic-neurosurgical viewpoint
4573Mig: !Mig Transient blindness.
4574Mig: !Mig Psychopathological aspects of oral contraception
4575Mig: !Mig Rational treatment of headache from the neurologist's point of view
4576Mig: !Mig Regional blood flow in internal carotid distribution during migraine attack.
4577Mig: !Mig Dystonia and pyramidal signs after thiethylperazine overdose.
4578Mig: !Mig Migraine and epilepsy.
4579Mig: !Mig Monoamine oxidase inhibition in the treatment of migraine.
4580Mig: !Mig Rheoencephalographic study in migraine
4581Mig: !Mig Epilepsy and migraine
4582Mig: !Mig Mental disorders in migraine
4583Mig: !Mig Rheoencephalography of migraine
4584Mig: !Mig Clonidine for migraine.
4585Mig: !Mig Mandibular dysfunction pain and chronic minor illness.
4586Mig: !Mig Diagnostic problems of cerebro-organic seizures
4587Mig: !Mig A possible pharmacological approach to migraine.
4588Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine headaches with sulpiride
4589Mig: !Mig Headache in a military population.
4590Mig: !Mig Cervical migraine. Not merely a pain in the neck.
4591Mig: !Mig The post-traumatic cervico-cephalic syndrome. II. Cephalic syndrome
4592Mig: !Mig The probelm of facial pain.
4593Mig: !Mig Personal experience with saccoradiculography using methylglucamine iothalamate
4594Mig: !Mig Neurology in hippocratic medicine. Overview
4595Mig: !Mig Altitude diseases.
4596Mig: !Mig Experience with dimethothiazine in the preventive treatment of migraine
4597Mig: !Mig The precipitation of subarachnoid haemorrhage.
4598Mig: !Mig The painful syndromes of the cycle
4599Mig: !Mig Hynosis in medicine
4600Mig: !Mig Headache before and after operation in gynaecological patients.
4601Mig: !Mig Cephalea of psychologic origin
4602Mig: !Mig Cephalea of psychologic origin
4603Mig: !Mig A note on the source of midline echo in the clinical echoencephalogram.
4604Mig: !Mig Headaches with stomatologic significance
4605Mig: !Mig Psychopharmacologic agents in ENT practice. Experiences with a new phyto-ataxic agent
4606Mig: !Mig Idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis caused by lysergic acid
4607Mig: !Mig Experience with "ergo-sanol special" in practice
4608Mig: !Mig Fluctuating course in acoustic neuroma.
4609Mig: !Mig Pangamic acid in migraine
4610Mig: !Mig Experiences with a new spasmolytic from the group of 1,3-dioxolan-4-on derivatives
4611Mig: !Mig Migraine, significance of its manifold phenomena and its special therapy
4612Mig: !Mig Headache in childhood. A five year material from a pediatric university clinic.
4613Mig: !Mig Nonatherosclerotic causes of stroke.
4614Mig: !Mig Migraine families.
4615Mig: !Mig Pharmacological and clinical possibilities of an antihistaminic compound: maleate dimethyl pyrindene
4616Mig: !Mig Strokes and the pill.
4617Mig: !Mig Unilateral leg edema, migraine, and methysergide. A clinical presentation of retroperitoneal fibrosis.
4618Mig: !Mig Action of dihydroergotamine used alone in prevention of migraine (apropos of 80 cases)
4619Mig: !Mig Headache and eye
4620Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and treatment of chronic headaches.
4621Mig: !Mig The natural history of monocular amaurosis fugax.
4622Mig: !Mig Migraine with alternate hemiplegia
4623Mig: !Mig Permanent scotoma in migraine.
4624Mig: !Mig Deseril as prophylactic therapy for migraine. Rules for avoiding complications induced by fibrosis
4625Mig: !Mig Migraine and multiple sclerosis.
4626Mig: !Mig Medical grand rounds from the University of Alabama Medical Center.
4627Mig: !Mig Echoencephalography and cerebrospinal fluid analysis in differential diagnosis of migraine
4628Mig: !Mig Therapy in psychosomatic medicine
4629Mig: !Mig Electroencephalograms in children suffering from migraine.
4630Mig: !Mig Experience with the spasmo-analgesic Bort in internal medicine
4631Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and other vasomotoric headaches using Migrexa
4632Mig: !Mig Migraine associated with retinal entoptic phenomena.
4633Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine patients with 6-alpha-trifluoromethyl-17-alpha-acetoxyprogesterone (Demigran Leo, WG 537)
4634Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine.
4635Mig: !Mig Treatment of head and facial pains. Contribution on the therapy with dimetiotazin (Migristene, Special)
4636Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of recurrent headache.
4637Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine with flumedroxone.
4638Mig: !Mig The use of folic acid in vascular headache of the migraine type.
4639Mig: !Mig The importance of the allergic factor in the etiology of migraine
4640Mig: !Mig The symptom-context method. Quantitative studies of symptom formation in psychotherapy.
4641Mig: !Mig Atopic children in Turkey.
4642Mig: !Mig Effect of Deseril-Retard and Migristen on the excretion of 5-hydroxy-indoloacetic acid and P-hydroxy-M-methoxymandelic acid in the urine of patients suffering from migraine
4643Mig: !Mig On febrile hemicrania and the febrile equivalent of hemicrania
4644Mig: !Mig Psychiatric morbidity in a rural village in south-western Ethiopia.
4645Mig: !Mig Headache as viewed by the internist.
4646Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine: associated cerebral arteriopathy
4647Mig: !Mig Studies on headache produced by carbon dioxide, histamine and adrenalin.
4648Mig: !Mig The clinical picture of migraine state
4649Mig: !Mig Total blood serotonin content in migraine patients during attacks and in the period between attacks
4650Mig: !Mig Factors determining the electroencephalogram in migraine: a study of 560 patients, according to clinical type of migraine.
4651Mig: !Mig Clinical evaluation of the therapeutic value of Deseril-retard in cases of idiopathic headache
4652Mig: !Mig Precipitation of acute ergotism by triacetyloleandomycin.
4653Mig: !Mig So called vascular neuralgias
4654Mig: !Mig Therapy of headaches, including migraine
4655Mig: !Mig The relation of migraine and epilepsy.
4656Mig: !Mig Kinin formation in human diseases.
4657Mig: !Mig A comparison between the efficacy and side-effects of oral contraception using closely related combined and sequential preparations.
4658Mig: !Mig Appraisal of BC-105 in migraine prophylaxis.
4659Mig: !Mig Effects of oral contraceptives.
4660Mig: !Mig Neuroleptics, thymoleptics and tranquilizers in neurological therapy
4661Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of cluster headache with a new serotonin antagonist, BC 105.
4662Mig: !Mig EEG activation with Dimefline hydrochloride.
4663Mig: !Mig Neuropsychologic disorders in migraine
4664Mig: !Mig Migraine and trauma
4665Mig: !Mig Management of psychosomatic disorder.
4666Mig: !Mig Vascular migraine of the elderly: a personal experience.
4667Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine
4668Mig: !Mig Transitory vascular-like phenomena with the use of oral contraceptive.
4669Mig: !Mig Personality patterns in migraine and ulcerative colitis patients.
4670Mig: !Mig Facial pain
4671Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with propranolol.
4672Mig: !Mig Diabetic ketoacidosis: its causes and their prevention.
4673Mig: !Mig Ophthalmodynamographic studies in spontaneous and pharmacologically induced vascular headache
4674Mig: !Mig Oral contraception and cerebral infarction
4675Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with propranolol.
4676Mig: !Mig Cerebellar fits during cerebellar neoplasia: electroclinical correlations
4677Mig: !Mig Dimethothiazine in the prophylaxis of migraine
4678Mig: !Mig The migraine syndrome in arterio-venous aneurysms of the cerebral vessels
4679Mig: !Mig Treatment of neuralgias.
4680Mig: !Mig Methysergide, retroperitoneal fibrosis and rectosigmoid stricture.
4681Mig: !Mig Subarachnoid hemorrhage in patients with ophthalmoplegic migraine. Case report
4682Mig: !Mig Unusual cause of acute hemicrania: cervical zona
4683Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine. Clinical contribution and catamnestic study of 100 cases
4684Mig: !Mig Migraine polyarthritis and erythema nodosum as a leprosy manifestation. Report of a case
4685Mig: !Mig Allergic migraines
4686Mig: !Mig Resection of the temporal neurovascular bundle for control of migraine headache.
4687Mig: !Mig The clinical characteristics of headache during impending cerebral infarction in women taking oral contraceptives.
4688Mig: !Mig Periodic syndrome and migraine in children
4689Mig: !Mig Syncope in allergy.
4690Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects of cervical migraine
4691Mig: !Mig Headache-emphasizing psychodynamic factors and treatment.
4692Mig: !Mig Double-blind crossover comparison of bc-105, methysergide and placebo in the prophylaxis of migraine headache.
4693Mig: !Mig Histologic and clinical aspects of atopic cataract
4694Mig: !Mig Neuro-ophthalmic sequelae in users of oral contraceptives.
4695Mig: !Mig Migraine.
4696Mig: !Mig Some aspects of episodic giddiness.
4697Mig: !Mig Apropos of an infectious disease, unknown until now, possibly imported by monkeys (called "the Marburg monkey disease")
4698Mig: !Mig Optical allachesthesia as a prodomic phenomenon of an attack of hemicrania
4699Mig: !Mig Migraine and the digestive system
4700Mig: !Mig A Fijian student's anxiety and stress.
4701Mig: !Mig Migraine
4702Mig: !Mig Clinical management of complaints associated with the use of oral contraception.
4703Mig: !Mig Double-blind controlled trial of a micronized preparation of flumedroxone (Demigran) in prophylaxis of migraine.
4704Mig: !Mig Migraine
4705Mig: !Mig Illness, disease--form of reaction, entity
4706Mig: !Mig New concepts on the diencephalic origin of epistaxis and migraine. Clinical observations
4707Mig: !Mig Familial migraine with hemiplegia
4708Mig: !Mig Migraine in children
4709Mig: !Mig Chronic headaches.
4710Mig: !Mig Use of ergotamine tartrate as a suppository in migraine
4711Mig: !Mig Migraine in astronomers and "Natural philosophers"
4712Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
4713Mig: !Mig The neurological manifestations of migraine.
4714Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine headache.
4715Mig: !Mig Dietary indiscretion and migraine.
4716Mig: !Mig Pain of nasal origin.
4717Mig: !Mig Oestrogen therapy and migraine.
4718Mig: !Mig Pain in the face.
4719Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis associated with methysergide therapy.
4720Mig: !Mig Ergot poisoning in acute hepatic necrosis.
4721Mig: !Mig Imminent gangrene of the leg after ergot poisoning.
4722Mig: !Mig Diagnostic singificance of increased brain electric reaction to flickering light
4723Mig: !Mig Genetic studies in primary gout. Investigations on the plasma levels of the urate-binding alpha 1-alpha 2-globulin in individuals from two gouty kindreds.
4724Mig: !Mig Hyperaldosteronism and migraine.
4725Mig: !Mig Recurrent monocular blindness.
4726Mig: !Mig Duodenal migraine
4727Mig: !Mig Diphenylhydantoin in emotional disorders.
4728Mig: !Mig Thoughts on headache.
4729Mig: !Mig The treatment of angina pectoris with coexistent migraine.
4730Mig: !Mig Dysrhythmic migraine. Treatment with G 32883
4731Mig: !Mig So-called vascular neuralgias
4732Mig: !Mig Oral contraceptive drugs and migraine.
4733Mig: !Mig Nonhereditary migranoid headache
4734Mig: !Mig Platelet 5-hydroxytryptamine and adenine nucleotides, serum arginylesterase and plasma 11-hydroxycorticosteroids in migraine.
4735Mig: !Mig Migraine. Mefenamic acid (ponstan) in the treatment of attacks.
4736Mig: !Mig Ergotism: report of case with localized arteriographic changes in femoral vessel.
4737Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood. Brief review of this inherited disorder which strikes five per cent of school-age children.
4738Mig: !Mig Analysis of symptoms of patients with headaches and their response to treatment with ergot derivatives.
4739Mig: !Mig Psychological aspects of pain.
4740Mig: !Mig Therapeutic results of prophylactic treatment for "classic" migraine with antaminic substance (B P 400 Sandoz).
4741Mig: !Mig Migraine: a follow-up study of 92 patients.
4742Mig: !Mig Headache from the ophthalmologist's viewpoint
4743Mig: !Mig On the carotid pain. Giant cell arteritis and Hilger's syndrome
4744Mig: !Mig Hemodensitometry in the evaluation of cerebral circulation. A preliminary report.
4745Mig: !Mig Biochemical and pharmacologic effects of alpha-methyltyrosine in man.
4746Mig: !Mig Migraine.
4747Mig: !Mig On the effect of nitroglycerin on cerebral circulation in patients with cervical migraine (clinicorheoencephalographic parallels)
4748Mig: !Mig Some clinical and EEG findings in patients with migraine.
4749Mig: !Mig Renal clearance and headache. Study of renal hemodynamics in the migraine crisis induced by trinitrine
4750Mig: !Mig The distribution of water space in headache. Changes observed during an induced migraine crisis
4751Mig: !Mig Facial pain of non-dental origin.
4752Mig: !Mig Classification, etiology and relative incidence of headache. Apropos of a series of 2,350 cases
4753Mig: !Mig The migraine syndrome in pregnancy.
4754Mig: !Mig Clinical observations on ketonurias.
4755Mig: !Mig Headache, tyramine, serotonin, and migraine.
4756Mig: !Mig Arterial catecholamine and enzyme histochemistry in migraine.
4757Mig: !Mig Studies of the administration of ustimon and instenon in cerebrovascular diseases
4758Mig: !Mig Some neurotic syndromes.
4759Mig: !Mig Migraine and oral contraceptives.
4760Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis associated with methysergide therapy for migraine.
4761Mig: !Mig Indomethacin in migraine.
4762Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of a new serotonin antagonist, BC105, in the prevention of migraine.
4763Mig: !Mig On cerebrovascular fits in old age
4764Mig: !Mig Present pathogenetc trends of atypical craniofacial algias
4765Mig: !Mig Hormonal allergy in asthma and migraines.
4766Mig: !Mig Changes in hemodynamics observed during the extinction phase of headache attacks
4767Mig: !Mig On a method used by us for the study of vasomotor phenomena connected with headache attacks
4768Mig: !Mig On a case of "ergotaminomania"
4769Mig: !Mig Study of "medical headaches". 6. Discussion of the relative incidence found with the reserpine induction test
4770Mig: !Mig Study of "medical headaches". 5. Discussion of the relative incidence found with the histamine induction test
4771Mig: !Mig Study of "medical headaches". 3. On the relative incidence of data collected: anamnesis, symptoms, examinations and diseases
4772Mig: !Mig Study of "medical headaches". 2. Relative incidence of data collected regarding the pathological anamnesis, symptoms, examinations: radiology of the skull, electroencephalographic and oculistic tests and drug tests
4773Mig: !Mig Study of "medical headaches". I. On methods of collection and codification of the data
4774Mig: !Mig On the incidence of ocular diseases in severe migraine, common migraine and migraine states. Evaluation of the results obtained with oculistic treatment
4775Mig: !Mig On the incidence of ocular disorders in severe migraine, common migraine and migraine states. Evaluation of the results obtained with medical and oculistic therapy
4776Mig: !Mig Study of a test of active headache extinction
4777Mig: !Mig Diagnosis, differential diagnosis, and treatment of chronic recurring headache.
4778Mig: !Mig Dipyridamole in the treatment of migraine
4779Mig: !Mig 2-phase pathogenesis of some autonomic-allergic clinical symptoms
4780Mig: !Mig Headache in the temporal region
4781Mig: !Mig The relative importance of atheroma in the clinical course of arteriovenous angioma of the brain.
4782Mig: !Mig A new method in the treatment of migraine using anticholinesterase drugs (clinical observations)
4783Mig: !Mig Pyelonephritic migraine syndrome. Its causes and treatment
4784Mig: !Mig Migraine accompaniments versus arteriosclerotic ischemia.
4785Mig: !Mig The effect of serotonin on cranial vessels and its significance in migraine.
4786Mig: !Mig Studies of serotonin metabolism in migraine.
4787Mig: !Mig Recurrent hemiplegia in a 12-year-old boy, probably related to an anomaly of the left atrium. Surgical resection
4788Mig: !Mig Physiopathologic studies of sulpiride in gastroenterology
4789Mig: !Mig Subacute lupus erythematosus and methysergide
4790Mig: !Mig On the state of the cerebral circulation in cervical migraine (according to rheoencephalographic findings)
4791Mig: !Mig Acting-out behaviour and psychosomatic symptoms: clinical and theoretical aspects.
4792Mig: !Mig The psychosomatic shift through obesity, migraine, peptic ulcer, and myocardial infarction in a homosexual.
4793Mig: !Mig Psychogenic headache and its treatment with hypnosis and autogenic training
4794Mig: !Mig Comparison of No-Spa and vasalgin for the treatment of headaches associated with vasomotor and cerebral disorders.
4795Mig: !Mig Plasma serotonin levels in migraine.
4796Mig: !Mig Discussion of 5-hydroxyindoles and migraine.
4797Mig: !Mig 5-hydroxyindoles and migraine.
4798Mig: !Mig Medical expert evaluation in various forms of migraine
4799Mig: !Mig Cerebrospinal fluid in migraine
4800Mig: !Mig The ophthalmological complications of migraine.
4801Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine and its treatment.
4802Mig: !Mig Vasoactive substances and fibrosing syndromes.
4803Mig: !Mig Angina pectoris--true or false?
4804Mig: !Mig Mechanism of the effect of 5-HT antagonists (antiserotonins) in migraine.
4805Mig: !Mig Vascular headaches in the light of experience gained at the consulting station for headaches of the neurological clinic in Hradec Kr?v?
4806Mig: !Mig Our experiences with antiserotonin treatment of vasomotor headaches
4807Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic pictures in children with migraine
4808Mig: !Mig Study of "medical headaches". 4. Discussion of the relative incidence found with the nitrite induction test
4809Mig: !Mig Migraine and methysergide. An appraisal.
4810Mig: !Mig The migraine syndrome.
4811Mig: !Mig Electroencephalography.
4812Mig: !Mig Ophthalmodynamographic changes, which demonstrate a functional pathology or a faulty regulation of cerebral circulation
4813Mig: !Mig Measures concerning the prophylactic treatment of migraine with methysergide (Deseril) 
4814Mig: !Mig Amines and migraine.
4815Mig: !Mig Ergotism
4816Mig: !Mig Migraine and associated cerebral variants.
4817Mig: !Mig Ergotism, arteriospastic disease and recovery, studied angiographically.
4818Mig: !Mig A pharmacological investigation of cerebro-spinal fluid from patients with migraine.
4819Mig: !Mig Unterharnscheidt's syncopal vertebral syndrome
4820Mig: !Mig Leriche syndrome in a patient with prolonged and continuous use of ergot derivatives. A review of the vascular effects of ergot.
4821Mig: !Mig The EEG in complicated and symptomatic migraine.
4822Mig: !Mig Seizures in childhood, from the neurologist's viewpoint
4823Mig: !Mig Pheochromocytoma. Diagnodtic mistakes. Surgical procedure
4824Mig: !Mig Clinical study of a "regulator of choleresis"
4825Mig: !Mig Use of novocaine-vitamin blocks in migraine
4826Mig: !Mig Chronic renal disease and analgesic abuse.
4827Mig: !Mig The control of cranial arteries by humoral mechanisms and its relation to the migraine syndrome.
4828Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood.
4829Mig: !Mig The patient with headache.
4830Mig: !Mig Hepato-biliary migraine and allergy
4831Mig: !Mig Contribution to the electroencephalographic study of hemicrania
4832Mig: !Mig Methysergide (UML-491) in the treatment of disrhythmic migraines
4833Mig: !Mig Case study of a patient with thrombophlebitis. Rooming-in despite postpartal complications.
4834Mig: !Mig Personality structure and psychodynamic mechanisms in headache
4835Mig: !Mig EEG characteristics of migranous cerebral attacks of a deficitory type (hemiplegic migrane).
4836Mig: !Mig Methysergide maleate (Sansert) and the prevention of migraine.
4837Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic disease as a masked depression.
4838Mig: !Mig Morphologic and kinetic amelioration of biliary stasis and of migraines following multiple duodenal intubation
4839Mig: !Mig Cerebral atherosclerosis and the cervical migraine symptom complex
4840Mig: !Mig Migraine in children: clinical and electroencephalographic study of families. The possible relation to epilepsy.
4841Mig: !Mig Automatic recording of cerebral blood flow by nitrous oxide inhalation without blood loss.
4842Mig: !Mig Migraine without headache.
4843Mig: !Mig Familial occurrence of migraine with a hemiplegic syndrome and cerebellar manifestations.
4844Mig: !Mig Cerebral vasospasm in migraine.
4845Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine: a case report.
4846Mig: !Mig Clinical and electroencephalographic aspects of children hemicrania. Case report
4847Mig: !Mig Problems of chronic vascular headache
4848Mig: !Mig Bradykinin as a possible causal agent of hemicrania. IV. Relation between the behavioral and circulatory effects of bradykinin, in endocarotid injection, in the rabbit
4849Mig: !Mig Primary osteoarthritis, migraine headaches, and motion sickness.
4850Mig: !Mig The distinction between paroxysmal and non-paroxysmal migraine.
4851Mig: !Mig Migraine treatment with dexamethasone.
4852Mig: !Mig Observations on successful management of the migraine syndrome using chlordiazepoxide.
4853Mig: !Mig Migraine and related vascular headaches due to diabetogenic hyperinsulinism. Observations on pathogenesis and rational treatment in 421 patients.
4854Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraines: 2 cases with EEG recording of the crisis
4855Mig: !Mig The EEG in accompanied and symptomatic migraines
4856Mig: !Mig EEG studies of cases with epileptic and intricate somatic manifestations
4857Mig: !Mig The asymmetry of the petrous portion of the temporal bone in the x-ray picture and its clinical importance
4858Mig: !Mig Cardiac and pulmonary fibrosis during methysergide therapy for headache.
4859Mig: !Mig Interdisciplinary conference. Meeting of 12-12-1965. Serious headache
4860Mig: !Mig Migraine as a cause of benign paroxysmal vertigo of childhood.
4861Mig: !Mig Craniofacial pains of neurovascular origin
4862Mig: !Mig EEG studies in complex migraine.
4863Mig: !Mig Abnormal elongations of the temporal styloid apophysis with carotid repercussions. Apropos of a case of the Eagle syndrome
4864Mig: !Mig Experiences with the spasmonalgetic Bort
4865Mig: !Mig Reflex vasomotor responses in the hands of migrainous subjects.
4866Mig: !Mig Peripheral arterial insufficiency in ergotism. Review of the literature and foot plethysmographic studies in ergotamine poisoning.
4867Mig: !Mig Personal and family medical history in Meniere's disease.
4868Mig: !Mig Grounds for roentgenotherapy of cervical migraine
4869Mig: !Mig Clinical study on the use of fumitory nebulizer in hepato-biliary pathology
4870Mig: !Mig Hemorrhage in hyaline bodies (drusen) of the optic disc during an attack of migraine.
4871Mig: !Mig A new therapeutic resource in brain diseases
4872Mig: !Mig Migrainous syndromes in gynecology and their treatment with R.P. 8599
4873Mig: !Mig Preliminary report on tyramine headache.
4874Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis secondary to methysergide bimaleate.
4875Mig: !Mig Cerebral-cortex-perfusion rates in migraine.
4876Mig: !Mig Vasomotor-relfex response in idiopathic and hormone-dependent migraine.
4877Mig: !Mig Plasma serotonin and migraine headache.
4878Mig: !Mig Methysergide
4879Mig: !Mig Phenacetin nephropathy in a mother and daughter.
4880Mig: !Mig Serotonin, the carotid body, and cranial vessels in migraine.
4881Mig: !Mig Experiences with Metrotonin, a neurovegetative drug
4882Mig: !Mig 2 cases of variability of periodic migrainous neuralgia
4883Mig: !Mig Migraine and Fumaria officinalis
4884Mig: !Mig Plasma serotonin in migraine and stress.
4885Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis after methysergide.
4886Mig: !Mig Migrainous attacks with persistent brain lesion. Report of a case.
4887Mig: !Mig Controlled trial of demigran in the prophylaxis of migraine.
4888Mig: !Mig Clinical considerations on the pathogenesis of intermittent and paroxysmal headache
4889Mig: !Mig Extracranial arterialgia
4890Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic data on cerebral migrainous crises
4891Mig: !Mig Extracranial arterialgia
4892Mig: !Mig Psychiatric aspects of headache.
4893Mig: !Mig Cerebrocardiac form of migraine: clinical picture and treatment.
4894Mig: !Mig Headache and Meniere's disease.
4895Mig: !Mig The chemistry of pain production.
4896Mig: !Mig On the susceptibility of migraine and vasomotoric headaches to high doses of Benicot
4897Mig: !Mig The electroencephalogram in complex forms of migrane.
4898Mig: !Mig Statement: current indications for the Vichy cure
4899Mig: !Mig A case of micropsia
4900Mig: !Mig Experiences with ophthalmodynamography in neurology and psychiatry
4901Mig: !Mig Mood and behavioural changes with progestational agents.
4902Mig: !Mig Ophthalmodynametric and rheoencephalographic parallels in the diagnosis of cerebral vascular disorders in cervical osteochondritis
4903Mig: !Mig 30 years of manual lymphatic drainage according to Vodder. A special form of massage for decompression of the tissue
4904Mig: !Mig Review of headache. 3.
4905Mig: !Mig Methysergide.
4906Mig: !Mig Migraine.
4907Mig: !Mig Atypical neurovascular pains in the head. Relation between sphygmographic charges caused by anesthetic block and the antalgic effect
4908Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine
4909Mig: !Mig Review of headache. II.
4910Mig: !Mig Vasoneuroactive substance, antiaminic BC-105 and migraine
4911Mig: !Mig The allergic factor in hepato-biliary migraine
4912Mig: !Mig Childhood migraine.
4913Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic changes in children with migraine.
4914Mig: !Mig Investigations of autonomic reactivity in migraine patients following the mediaphoretic method
4915Mig: !Mig Apropos of migraine
4916Mig: !Mig Familial paroxysmal hemilateral decrease of function with and without headache attacks
4917Mig: !Mig Neurological and neurosurgical aspects of headache
4918Mig: !Mig Postural headache and migraine.
4919Mig: !Mig Headache patterns and cervical nerve root compression--a 15-year study of hospitalization for headache.
4920Mig: !Mig Headache of intracranial vascular origin.
4921Mig: !Mig EEG and neurological syndrome in the basilar impression
4922Mig: !Mig The effect of migraine and ergot upon reflex vasodilatation to radiant heating.
4923Mig: !Mig "Body image" disturbances in psychiatric disorders.
4924Mig: !Mig Cardiac and pulmonary fibrosis during methysergide therapy for headache.
4925Mig: !Mig Serotonin and migraine.
4926Mig: !Mig Neurological disorders associated with oral contraceptives.
4927Mig: !Mig Headache and eye pain.
4928Mig: !Mig Phenotypic manifestations and genetic features of migraine
4929Mig: !Mig On the proper time for examination in periodic reactions of the nervous system
4930Mig: !Mig Differentiation of atopic and infectious allergic rhinopathies
4931Mig: !Mig Methysergide for migraine.
4932Mig: !Mig Thirty years of headache research in the laboratory of the late Dr. Harold G. Wolff.
4933Mig: !Mig Dysrhythmic migraines and their treatment with tegretol
4934Mig: !Mig Migraine headaches: findings since the last 20 years
4935Mig: !Mig Progestin, thrombophlebitis and migraine.
4936Mig: !Mig Some disorders of the circulation due to neurological disease.
4937Mig: !Mig Functional phenomena and disease
4938Mig: !Mig An antaminic drug, BC 105, in the prophylaxis of migraine. Pharmacological, clinical, and therapeutic experiences.
4939Mig: !Mig Progress in the treatment of migraine and migrainoid headaches
4940Mig: !Mig Duodenal dyskinesia and digestive migraine
4941Mig: !Mig Pain and pain analysis
4942Mig: !Mig Amines and migraine.
4943Mig: !Mig New aspects of headache treatment
4944Mig: !Mig Methysergide and retroperitoneal fibrosis.
4945Mig: !Mig Accompanied migraine. Angiographic study
4946Mig: !Mig Method of precipitating and preventing some migraine attacks.
4947Mig: !Mig Methysergide and retroperitoneal fibrosis.
4948Mig: !Mig Refractory vasomotor headaches
4949Mig: !Mig Transient hemiplegia as an aura of migraine or as an inhibitory epileptic phenomenon? (Clinical and pathogenic study)
4950Mig: !Mig Migraine and cerebrovascular disease.
4951Mig: !Mig Ergotism associated with the treatment of migraine headaches.
4952Mig: !Mig The management of headache.
4953Mig: !Mig Headache and the EEG.
4954Mig: !Mig New results of treatment of migraine and other types of headache with Deseril retard
4955Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in the clinically healthy heart
4956Mig: !Mig Present-day treatment of migraine
4957Mig: !Mig Investigations into Tramer's contralateral abdominal proprioceptive reflex in children and juveniles
4958Mig: !Mig Vascular headaches and oral contraceptives.
4959Mig: !Mig Vasoneuroactive substances in migraine.
4960Mig: !Mig Some clinical aspects of migraine. A prospective survey of 500 patients.
4961Mig: !Mig Theory and practice of specific desensitization in allergic diseases
4962Mig: !Mig Etiological diagnosis of headaches in adults
4963Mig: !Mig Difficulties in the diagnosis of cerebellar tumors
4964Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine in early childhood
4965Mig: !Mig Migraine, methysergide (sansert), basophile degranulation and schizophrenic children.
4966Mig: !Mig Ergot poisoning.
4967Mig: !Mig Pain in the maxillofacial region from the viewpoint of neurology
4968Mig: !Mig Methysergide in prophylaxis of migraine: a clinical trial in general practice.
4969Mig: !Mig Cholecystopathies and the headache syndrome
4970Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine in diabetes mellitus
4971Mig: !Mig A new drug: Demigran, Leo
4972Mig: !Mig Variations of sensitivity to 5-HT and catecholamines during migraine attacks. Test of venoconstriction
4973Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine disease with psycho-active drugs
4974Mig: !Mig The complications in carotid angiography
4975Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of neurological manifestations of allergic disease.
4976Mig: !Mig The correlation between ABO blood groups and allergic disorders.
4977Mig: !Mig Methysergide in migraine prophylaxis.
4978Mig: !Mig Migraine
4979Mig: !Mig Visually evoked responses in migraine.
4980Mig: !Mig Migrainous neuralgia.
4981Mig: !Mig Effects of reserpine on amino-acid excretion in patients with migraine.
4982Mig: !Mig Headaches.
4983Mig: !Mig Research in migraine.
4984Mig: !Mig The lysergic acid derivative ergotamine and Deseril and migraine. A more frequent complication than we are aware of?
4985Mig: !Mig On the so-called "cervical glaucoma"
4986Mig: !Mig Personal observations on the spectral march of migraine.
4987Mig: !Mig The contribution of rheoencephalography to the study of cranio-facial pain syndromes
4988Mig: !Mig Progression of retroperitoneal fibrosis despite cessation of treatment with methysergide.
4989Mig: !Mig The effect of oral contraceptives on migraine.
4990Mig: !Mig Carbamazepine and other drugs.
4991Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects of periodic migrainous neuralgia
4992Mig: !Mig Apropos of a special type of electroencephalogram in migraine in children
4993Mig: !Mig Migraine accompagnee, a critical evaluation.
4994Mig: !Mig Thrombophlebitis secondary to methysergide maleate therapy.
4995Mig: !Mig Arteriovenous malformations of the middle cerebral artery. Clinical and radiological contribution
4996Mig: !Mig Methysergide and retroperitoneal fibrosis.
4997Mig: !Mig Non-specific and specific therapy of syndromes of the cervical vertebrae
4998Mig: !Mig Facial migraine
4999Mig: !Mig Present conception of treatment of digestive migraines?
5000Mig: !Mig The allergic factor in the genesis of hemicrania
5001Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and differential diagnosis of migraine and muscle-contraction headache.
5002Mig: !Mig Preventive treatment of migraine and histamine headache
5003Mig: !Mig Migraines and epilepsies--a relationship?
5004Mig: !Mig Drugs for migraine.
5005Mig: !Mig Factors precipitating migraine attacks
5006Mig: !Mig Pangamic acid in migraine
5007Mig: !Mig Adverse effects of methysergide in headache prophylaxis.
5008Mig: !Mig Fibrotic disorders associated with methysergide therapy for headache.
5009Mig: !Mig Headache.
5010Mig: !Mig Migraine
5011Mig: !Mig Considerations on the EEG findings in hemicrania
5012Mig: !Mig Excretion of 5-hydroxyindolyl acetic acid (5HIAA) in migraine.
5013Mig: !Mig Vascular complications with use of methysergide.
5014Mig: !Mig Migraine
5015Mig: !Mig Treatment of the onset in migraine and vascular headache with Avamigran
5016Mig: !Mig Migraine: current status of the question
5017Mig: !Mig Psychogenic headache in adolescents
5018Mig: !Mig Neurological disorders and complications in coarctation of the aorta
5019Mig: !Mig Bioelectric chamges in the brain between migraine attacks
5020Mig: !Mig Reference to central nervous system damage within the context of thalidomide embryopathy. Pathological-anatomic, electroencephalographic and neurologic findings
5021Mig: !Mig Cerebellar migraine in basilar impression
5022Mig: !Mig Studies in migraine.
5023Mig: !Mig Neurotropic treatment of functional disorders of the vegetative nervous system
5024Mig: !Mig Tuberculin tests and some results of tuberculin therapy
5025Mig: !Mig On an atypical case of recurrent paralysis of the oculomotor nerve (Charcot's ophthalmoplegic migraine)
5026Mig: !Mig Cerebral complications in migraine
5027Mig: !Mig Follow-up studies on 50 patients without epileptic seizures with pathologic findings in the electroencephalogram during intermittent light stimulation
5028Mig: !Mig New viewpoints on migraine therapy
5029Mig: !Mig The course of migraine headache with and without psychotherapy
5030Mig: !Mig Considerations on migraine attacks caused by allergy to chocolate
5031Mig: !Mig Migraine, gastritis and renal papillary necrosis. A syndrome in chronic nonobstructive pyelonephritis.
5032Mig: !Mig The histamine-glucocorticoid relationship and its implications for migraine headache.
5033Mig: !Mig Analysis of 61 common headaches using I.V. barbiturates.
5034Mig: !Mig Disturbances of visual perception in migraine. Review of the literature and a report of eight cases.
5035Mig: !Mig Headache and the vegetative nervous system. (Migraine and related forms of headache)
5036Mig: !Mig Therapy of cerebrovascular diseases
5037Mig: !Mig Clinical studies in the treatment of vascular headache.
5038Mig: !Mig On the clinico-physiologic characteristics of diencephalic disorders in cervical osteochondrosis
5039Mig: !Mig Migraine and its varieties, pathogenesis and treatment
5040Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
5041Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine and methysergide (divisible tablets)
5042Mig: !Mig Modern therapy of hemicrania
5043Mig: !Mig Occurrence of episodic vertigo and hearing loss in families.
5044Mig: !Mig Fatal outcome of a migraine attack in children
5045Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis, pharmacotherapy and acupuncture therapy of migraine
5046Mig: !Mig Allergy associated with severe migraine-like headaches.
5047Mig: !Mig The use of intravenous histamine in typical neuralgias of the face.
5048Mig: !Mig Migraine and allergy.
5049Mig: !Mig Total plasma serotonin, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and p-hydroxy-m-methoxymandelic acid excretion in normal and migrainous subjects.
5050Mig: !Mig Treatment of different forms of migraine by diadynamic current
5051Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with meclofenoxate.
5052Mig: !Mig Investigations into the mechanism and treatment of chronic headache.
5053Mig: !Mig Migraine
5054Mig: !Mig Therapeutic experience with dimethyl sulfoxide in orthopedic practice
5055Mig: !Mig Migraine-like phenomena after decompression from hyperbaric environment.
5056Mig: !Mig Migraine revealing an intraventricular meningioma
5057Mig: !Mig Acquired anomalies of colour perception of central origin.
5058Mig: !Mig Migraine in a rural practice (1958-1963). A five-year study of a controlled clinical trial.
5059Mig: !Mig A new look at migraine.
5060Mig: !Mig Experiences with pyrithioxine in migraine
5061Mig: !Mig Headache and migraine in childhood
5062Mig: !Mig A new cause of head and neck pain?
5063Mig: !Mig Vasoactive substances in the pathogenesis of migraine headache, carcinoid syndrome and other diseases.
5064Mig: !Mig Hypertension and vascular accidents during bouts of migraine.
5065Mig: !Mig The electroencephalographic hyperventilation response in migraine.
5066Mig: !Mig What is your diagnosis?
5067Mig: !Mig Current migraine therapy
5068Mig: !Mig Relations between migraine and epilepsy
5069Mig: !Mig On therapeutic studies with pyrithioxine in migraine disorders
5070Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine.
5071Mig: !Mig "h-response" in the electroencephalograms of aircrew personnel.
5072Mig: !Mig Migraine and migraine complications
5073Mig: !Mig Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD-25). 38. Comparison with action of methysergide and psilocybin on test subjects.
5074Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood: a follow-up report.
5075Mig: !Mig Clinical characteristics of cervical migraine
5076Mig: !Mig A case of dysrhythmic migraine with six and fourteen per second positive spike pattern.
5077Mig: !Mig The clinical aspects of severe migraine
5078Mig: !Mig The therapy of migraine with methysergide in delayed-action form
5079Mig: !Mig Frontal headache: the most ignored type of headache.
5080Mig: !Mig A life-time study of migraine.
5081Mig: !Mig The significance of vascular murmurs in the head and neck.
5082Mig: !Mig Treatment of chronic primary migraine
5083Mig: !Mig Pain in the head: headache, cephalalgia, pain in one side of the head and migraine
5084Mig: !Mig Advances in research and therapy of chronic head and facial pain
5085Mig: !Mig The valve of procaine in the treatment of digestive migraine
5086Mig: !Mig Analysis of a 6-year old female migraine patient
5087Mig: !Mig On the pathogensis and physiotherapy of migraine.
5088Mig: !Mig Tryptaminuria and serotonin and catecholamine catabolism in the course of migraine
5089Mig: !Mig Contribution to the study of the migraine phenomenon
5090Mig: !Mig May one speak of digestive migraine?
5091Mig: !Mig Termination of migraine headache by a new anti-inflammatory vasoconstrictor agent.
5092Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine.
5093Mig: !Mig Headache
5094Mig: !Mig Ten migraine equivalents.
5095Mig: !Mig Various new preparations used in the symptomatic treatment of headache.
5096Mig: !Mig An investigation of complicated migraine.
5097Mig: !Mig The aetiology, pathology and course of giant-cell arteritis. The possible role of light sensitivity.
5098Mig: !Mig Pulsatile movements of the eyeball.
5099Mig: !Mig Biochemical aspects of migraine.
5100Mig: !Mig Atypical complications of ophthalmic migraine
5101Mig: !Mig Retroperitoneal fibrosis in patients taking methysergide.
5102Mig: !Mig Treatment of vascular headache.
5103Mig: !Mig New methods of treatment in trigeminal neuralgia, migraine and horton's syndrome.
5104Mig: !Mig Rapid electroencephalographic activation by small doses of natrium-evipan.
5105Mig: !Mig Melkersson's syndrome.
5106Mig: !Mig Meniere's syndrome and cluster headaches: recurrent paroxysmal focal vasodilatation.
5107Mig: !Mig Psychological factors in 155 patients with functional uterine bleeding.
5108Mig: !Mig Observations on the incidence of allergic disorders in a village in the united arab republic.
5109Mig: !Mig Hemicrania. Rationale of physiopathogenesis and treatment.
5110Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5111Mig: !Mig Migraine as a stress disorder.
5112Mig: !Mig Migraine and heredity.
5113Mig: !Mig Antiserotonin drugs in the therapy of vascular headaches.
5114Mig: !Mig Reflex activity of the head blood vessels in healthy people and in neurological patients.
5115Mig: !Mig Allergy and certain diseases in relation to the digestive tract: some observations on the effect of elimination diets.
5116Mig: !Mig The "threshold of sensitivity to serotonin" in normal and pathologic conditions. Preliminary note.
5117Mig: !Mig Devincan-therapy of cerebral angiospasm.
5118Mig: !Mig Central mechanisms in headache.
5119Mig: !Mig Clinical studies on the treatment of vascular headaches, a progress report on methysergide (sansert).
5120Mig: !Mig New concepts on the aetiology and vascularization of meningiomata; the mechanism of migraine; the chemical processes of the cerebrospinal fluid; and the formation of collections of blood or fluid in the subdural space.
5121Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine, a clinical study.
5122Mig: !Mig Review of psychiatric progress 1964. Clinical neurology.
5123Mig: !Mig Genetic analysis of migraine
5124Mig: !Mig Current treatment of migraine
5125Mig: !Mig Headaches: differential diagnosis and therapeutic trend
5126Mig: !Mig Permanent damage in migraine and other paroxysmal disorders of cerebral circulation.
5127Mig: !Mig Migraine and trigeminal neuralgia; pain of the head and face.
5128Mig: !Mig Migrainous neuralgia.
5129Mig: !Mig Urea in the treatment of migraine.
5130Mig: !Mig Methysergide as a suppressant of migraine attacks.
5131Mig: !Mig Rauwolfia serpentina and migraine.
5132Mig: !Mig Methysergide induced degranulation of the basophil leukocyte in man.
5133Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and erythroprosopalgia with methysergide.
5134Mig: !Mig Hemicrania. Reasons for physiopathogenesis and therapy.
5135Mig: !Mig Reflection on the problem of headache.
5136Mig: !Mig Treatment of various types of headache with a new spasmolytic (no-spa).
5137Mig: !Mig Serotonin and the central nervous system.
5138Mig: !Mig Headache, its causes and treatment.
5139Mig: !Mig The psychotherapeutic approach to patients with headache.
5140Mig: !Mig Treatment of headaches in children.
5141Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5142Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis and management of headaches.
5143Mig: !Mig Transient psychotic prodrome in migraine.
5144Mig: !Mig Hemicrania. Physiopathogenesis and therapy.
5145Mig: !Mig Nausea, epigastric block, hiccups and migraine. Their treatment with methoclopramide.
5146Mig: !Mig Prolonged arteriospasm after ergotamine.
5147Mig: !Mig The complex contribution of genotype to morbid predisposition. (the role of predisposition in tuberculosis, silicosis and allergic diseases)
5148Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine attacks: a comparative study.
5149Mig: !Mig Ophthmodynia periodica.
5150Mig: !Mig A further contribution to the psycho-analytic study of migraine and psychogenic headaches. The relation of migraine to depression, states of withdrawal, petit mal, and epilepsy.
5151Mig: !Mig Preventive therapy of migraine with deseril.
5152Mig: !Mig Migraine headache and small-cystic ovaries. Treatment of ambulant patients.
5153Mig: !Mig Migraine headache and small-cystic ovaries.
5154Mig: !Mig Advances in neurology.
5155Mig: !Mig Advances in neurology.
5156Mig: !Mig The allergic terrain.
5157Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of methysergide and other preparations in the management of migraine.
5158Mig: !Mig Tension headache.
5159Mig: !Mig A new hypothesis of vascular dysfunction linking certain pain syndromes of the head and neck with meniere's disease.
5160Mig: !Mig On the treatment of peripheral circulation disorders.
5161Mig: !Mig Present pathogenetics and therapeutics of hemicrania.
5162Mig: !Mig Arteriospasm after ergotamine tartrate.
5163Mig: !Mig Periodic migrain neuralgia.
5164Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects and pathogenesis of simple and complicated migraines.
5165Mig: !Mig Three years observation of triogesic in the treatment of migraine.
5166Mig: !Mig The test of time. 3. Useful diagnostic aids in neurology.
5167Mig: !Mig The diagnosis and treatment of headache. I. Vascular headaches.
5168Mig: !Mig A clinical study of cerebral vascular malformations. (the significance of migraine).
5169Mig: !Mig Prolonged arteriospasm after overdose of oral ergotamine tartrate in migraine.
5170Mig: !Mig Migraine and cranial blood-flow.
5171Mig: !Mig Case of lupus erythematosus caused by chlorprothixene (truxal).
5172Mig: !Mig On migraine and migraine therapy.
5173Mig: !Mig Physiology and pathology of the nervous system.
5174Mig: !Mig Electrophoretic study of 400 specimens of pathological cerebrospinal fluid.
5175Mig: !Mig Raeder's paratrigeminal syndrome.
5176Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate in migraine.
5177Mig: !Mig Certain therapeutic problems in a patient with habitual abortion.
5178Mig: !Mig Headaches.
5179Mig: !Mig Neuro-ophthalmologic evaluation of  oculomotor nerve paralysis.
5180Mig: !Mig Drugs for headache of migrainous, vascular or muscular origin.
5181Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine with a new progesterone derivative.
5182Mig: !Mig On a prolonged drug therapy in refractory migraine.
5183Mig: !Mig Cerebral arteriography during migraine prodrome and headache.
5184Mig: !Mig Experiences in clinical studies of headache: headache--psyche--placebo.
5185Mig: !Mig On etiologic mechanisms and a new classification of allergic headaches.
5186Mig: !Mig Moebius' syndrome.
5187Mig: !Mig Trials with th-2152 (catalgine). (apropos of 397 cases)
5188Mig: !Mig Use of th-2152 in painful syndromes.
5189Mig: !Mig The sequelae of tuberculous meningitis.
5190Mig: !Mig Seventy-five cases of migraine.
5191Mig: !Mig Vascular headaches of the migraine type: their diagnosis and treatment.
5192Mig: !Mig Hypnotherapy of migraine.
5193Mig: !Mig On the early onset of ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5194Mig: !Mig Methysergide for migraine.
5195Mig: !Mig Rational therapy of migraine.
5196Mig: !Mig Acute vascular insufficiency in the lower extremities associated with methysergide therapy for migraine.
5197Mig: !Mig Migraine symposium.
5198Mig: !Mig Foramina parietalia permagna.
5199Mig: !Mig Decompression sickness at 18,500 feet; a case history with comment.
5200Mig: !Mig Effect of chinorto eye drops on some disorders of the menstrual cycle.
5201Mig: !Mig On ophthalmic migraine. Relation to cerebrovascular disorders and angiographic findings.
5202Mig: !Mig Neurological disorders in the zulu.
5203Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic findings in patients with trigeminal neuralgia.
5204Mig: !Mig Headache from the neurosurgeon's point of view.
5205Mig: !Mig Histamine excretion in patients with headache.
5206Mig: !Mig "abdominal epilepsy" in childhood.
5207Mig: !Mig Treatment of climacteric disorders with conjugated estrogens.
5208Mig: !Mig The nosological classification of the klippel-trenaunay syndrome and its radiological aspects.
5209Mig: !Mig Headache and allergy.
5210Mig: !Mig The questionnaire: a technique for classifying headache.
5211Mig: !Mig A hypnotic technique in the treatment of chronic illnesses.
5212Mig: !Mig New drugs.
5213Mig: !Mig Obstetrics in general practice. Minor disorders of pregnancy.
5214Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5215Mig: !Mig Methysergide in the prophylaxis of migraine.
5216Mig: !Mig Medical headaches.
5217Mig: !Mig Methysergide in the migraine syndrome.
5218Mig: !Mig Sequelae of cholecystectomy.
5219Mig: !Mig Vascular headache. Symptomatology, pathogenesis, pathophysiology.
5220Mig: !Mig Antiserotonin action of lsd-25 and other lysergic acid derivatives: fact and fiction.
5221Mig: !Mig Headache.
5222Mig: !Mig The tranquilizing effect of posterior pituitary extract.
5223Mig: !Mig Placebo treatment of migraine.
5224Mig: !Mig A new agent for management of migraine headache, methysergide maleate (sansert)(sansert).
5225Mig: !Mig Migraine and epilepsy.
5226Mig: !Mig Occlusion of the central retinal artery in migraine.
5227Mig: !Mig Sphenoid sinus mucocele: a curable cause of the ophthalmoplegic migraine syndrome.
5228Mig: !Mig Spasmo-dolviran "bayer" in general practice.
5229Mig: !Mig On the interval treatment of migraine.
5230Mig: !Mig Hypertension and headache. A survey of 231 treated hypertensive patients.
5231Mig: !Mig Drug treatment of migraine headache.
5232Mig: !Mig The premenstrual tension syndrome.
5233Mig: !Mig The natural history of atopic dermatitis. A 20-year follow-up study.
5234Mig: !Mig Chronic phenacetin neopropathy ("chronic   interstitial nephritis" with papillary necrosis).
5235Mig: !Mig A new therapeutic agent for the migrainous "terrain"
5236Mig: !Mig Fatal infarction of the brain in migraine.
5237Mig: !Mig Clinical trial of inhaled ergotamine tartrate in migraine.
5238Mig: !Mig Periodic migrainous neuralgia.
5239Mig: !Mig Vascular response in migraine.
5240Mig: !Mig Pathophysiology and treatment of migraine.
5241Mig: !Mig Clinical modifications of the nasal mucosa during allergic diseases caused by sensitization to respiratory allergens. Value of rhinoscopy and rhinophotography.
5242Mig: !Mig Methysergide for prevention of headache; experience in five hundred patients over three years.
5243Mig: !Mig Migraine symposium.
5244Mig: !Mig Migraine symposium.
5245Mig: !Mig Deseril (methysergide) in the treatment of vascular migraine headache
5246Mig: !Mig The status of peripheral circulation in migraine patients (arterial oscillography).
5247Mig: !Mig Migraine in women.
5248Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5249Mig: !Mig On vegetative disorders in cervical migraine.
5250Mig: !Mig The prophylactic effect of 1-methyl-d-lysergic acid butanolamide (methysergide) in the treatment of vascular headache. A clinical study.
5251Mig: !Mig Allergy to animal hair in children. Ii. Personal experience.
5252Mig: !Mig Nasal vascular headache.
5253Mig: !Mig Cutaneous blood flow in vascular  headaches of the migraine type.
5254Mig: !Mig Eeg in migraine, a non-epileptic paroxysmal manifestation in children.
5255Mig: !Mig The eeg in migraine.
5256Mig: !Mig Partial cerebral ischemia.
5257Mig: !Mig The management of migraine.
5258Mig: !Mig A few interesting neurologic manifestations of migraine.
5259Mig: !Mig Methetoin, a new anticonvulsant.
5260Mig: !Mig Serotonin--friend or foe?
5261Mig: !Mig Headache.
5262Mig: !Mig Therapeutics in 1963.
5263Mig: !Mig Comparison of various forms of migraine therapy.
5264Mig: !Mig Methysergide (sansert) in the prevention of migraine: a clinical trial.
5265Mig: !Mig Antithrombotic and antiatherosclerotic substance and its mode of action.
5266Mig: !Mig Meaning of diagnostic terms in broncho-pulmonary disease.
5267Mig: !Mig Coagulation changes during migraine.
5268Mig: !Mig Observations on the behavior  of serotonin and histamine in the blood of patients with vascular  headache.
5269Mig: !Mig The pathogenesis of migraine headache.
5270Mig: !Mig On the treatment of vascular headache with a combination nialamide, vitamin b6 and gynergen.
5271Mig: !Mig Apropos of a relation between migraine and epilepsy.
5272Mig: !Mig Arterial insufficiency in the extremities in ergotamine therapy.
5273Mig: !Mig Contribution to the study of a new synthetic choleretic: ap 14.
5274Mig: !Mig Skin tests during allergic disorders. (some remarks on the relative importance of various allergens in our region)
5275Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5276Mig: !Mig Roentgen diagnosis of cervical migraine.
5277Mig: !Mig Further clinical studies on the effect of ipronal (d1h preparation).
5278Mig: !Mig The otolaryngologist and the common headache syndromes.
5279Mig: !Mig Mechanisms of headache, with particular reference to vascular headache.
5280Mig: !Mig The background of migraine.
5281Mig: !Mig What is migraine?
5282Mig: !Mig The place of allergy in migraine.
5283Mig: !Mig Local factors in the causation of migraine.
5284Mig: !Mig Migraine--the menstrual aspect.
5285Mig: !Mig Views on vertebral manipulations.
5286Mig: !Mig The syndrome of biliary hypertension of functional origin.
5287Mig: !Mig Mast cells and their active substances: their role in the pathogenesis of migraine.
5288Mig: !Mig Use of methysergide in the treatment of extracranial vascular headache.
5289Mig: !Mig Differential diagnostic significance of the cervical syndrome in otorhinolaryngology.
5290Mig: !Mig Extracranial electric stimulation. I. The effect of electric stimulation on the eeg.
5291Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine with lysergic acid derivatives.
5292Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine by means of lysergic acid derivatives.
5293Mig: !Mig A note on migraine.
5294Mig: !Mig A serotonin antagonist, cyproheptadine. Ii. The treatment of vascular-type headache and pruritus.
5295Mig: !Mig Reflex vasomotor abnormalities in the hands of migrainous subjects.
5296Mig: !Mig On a physico-medical method of treatment of migraine
5297Mig: !Mig Loss of consciousness in migraine.
5298Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine with lynestrenol (orgametril).
5299Mig: !Mig Treatment of dysrhythmic migraine and other forms of headache with a new combination preparation (sanredo).
5300Mig: !Mig Fainting.
5301Mig: !Mig Stimulation of hypothalamo-hypophysial secretions in man by retro-styloid anesthetic infiltration.
5302Mig: !Mig Treatment with a new antihistaminic globulin of various menstruation disorders.
5303Mig: !Mig New data on migraine headaches and their treatment.
5304Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic research of migraine.
5305Mig: !Mig On characteristics of headache in cervical migraine.
5306Mig: !Mig Arteriospastic syncope associated with migraine -- "basilar artery syncope".
5307Mig: !Mig Clinical and laboratory note eeg study of methysergide in migraine.
5308Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic research of migraine.
5309Mig: !Mig Intravascular erythrocyte aggregation and d-1 methyl-lysergic acid butanolamide (deserril or uml 491).
5310Mig: !Mig Mechanisms, diagnosis, and management of some cranial and facial pain syndromes.
5311Mig: !Mig Headaches.
5312Mig: !Mig Pulsatile headache.
5313Mig: !Mig On a pathogenetic connection between epilepsy and hemicrania. (clinico-electroencephalographic observations)
5314Mig: !Mig Determination of cerebral circulation with the aid of  radioisotopes.
5315Mig: !Mig Trismus due to ergotamine intoxication.
5316Mig: !Mig The serotonin antagonist 1-methyl-d-lysergic acid butanolamine (uml-491) or methysergide ('deseril'), its pharmacodynamics and effects on 'migraine type' vascular headaches.
5317Mig: !Mig Severe migraine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors and methysergide.
5318Mig: !Mig Management of patients with vascular or migraine headaches.
5319Mig: !Mig An evaluation of methysergide in the prevention of migraine and other vascular headaches.
5320Mig: !Mig Drug therapy of migraine. A communication occasioned by information in the daily press.
5321Mig: !Mig Neurologic indications of deseril.
5322Mig: !Mig The heredity of epilepsy.
5323Mig: !Mig Migraine: a review.
5324Mig: !Mig Is migraine an allergic disorder?
5325Mig: !Mig Atypical migraine. Clinical aspects--differential diagnosis--eeg.
5326Mig: !Mig Migraine--on the biochemical mechanism and preventive treatment.
5327Mig: !Mig Appraisal of methysergide in treatment of vascular headaches of migraine type.
5328Mig: !Mig Headaches and migraine associated with eyestrain. Preliminary report of a trial of chlordiazepoxide.
5329Mig: !Mig First cases of the cure of migraine.
5330Mig: !Mig Headaches in children. Iv. The migraine syndrome.
5331Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate in the treatment of vascular headaches.
5332Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5333Mig: !Mig Recent experimental studies on headache.
5334Mig: !Mig Clinical experience in the treatment of vasomotor headache with a new non-hypnotic barbiturate drug.
5335Mig: !Mig Contribution to the knowledge of the pathogenesis of migraine.
5336Mig: !Mig Migraine--a diagnostic dilemma? Or wastebasket syndrome?
5337Mig: !Mig Seven common headache profiles.
5338Mig: !Mig The natural history and epidemiology of migraine and muscle contraction headache.
5339Mig: !Mig Expert evaluation of cervical migraine.
5340Mig: !Mig On the problem of vasomotor headache or migraine.
5341Mig: !Mig The treatment of "interstitial cystitis" as a migraine equivalent: report of four cases.
5342Mig: !Mig The treatment of "interstitial cystitis" as a migraine equivalent: report of four cases.
5343Mig: !Mig Drug therapy in paroxysmal cerebral disorders.
5344Mig: !Mig Study of allergic factors in the clinical picture of internal diseases (preliminary report).
5345Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
5346Mig: !Mig On the concept of angiospastic brain insult.
5347Mig: !Mig Pure coffee and migranine.
5348Mig: !Mig Hearing tests in meni'ere's disease.
5349Mig: !Mig Apropos of the relationship between epilepsy and migraine. (on a form of epilepsy with migraine-like seizures)
5350Mig: !Mig On the importance of the radicular syndrome in cervical migraine.
5351Mig: !Mig Data on examination of a neuro-allergic family.
5352Mig: !Mig Hirepin treatment of vascular headache.
5353Mig: !Mig Notes on the history of migraine.
5354Mig: !Mig Pathologico-anatomical principles of the cervical spine syndrome.
5355Mig: !Mig Sublingual ergotamine tablets.
5356Mig: !Mig Uml-491 (1-methyl-d-lysergic acid butanolamide) in the prevention and treatment of migraine and other types of headache.
5357Mig: !Mig The vascular phenomena of the ear, nose, and throat.
5358Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographical aspects of headache.
5359Mig: !Mig Psychopathological studies on the micro-ventricular syndrome.
5360Mig: !Mig Complicated migraine. A study of permanent neurological and visual defects caused by migraine.
5361Mig: !Mig Headache--2.
5362Mig: !Mig Dihydrogenated alkaloids in the treatment of ophthalmic migraine.
5363Mig: !Mig Headache.
5364Mig: !Mig Minor maladies.
5365Mig: !Mig The treatment of vascular headache with hirepin.
5366Mig: !Mig A new antiserotonin compound, uml-491 in the treatment of headache.
5367Mig: !Mig Epileptic equivalents.
5368Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5369Mig: !Mig On the clinical aspects and pathophysiology of migraine.
5370Mig: !Mig Classification of migraine and various experience with ergotamine inhalation therapy.
5371Mig: !Mig An effective symptomatic treatment of migraine.
5372Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine: a case with paroxysmal shoulder-hand syndrome.
5373Mig: !Mig Clinical and rheographic considerations on a new antiserotonin derivative (uml-491) with preventive action in hemicrania.
5374Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5375Mig: !Mig Syndrome of ophthalmoplegic megraine caused by latero-sellar hypophysial adenoma.
5376Mig: !Mig Migraine headaches in children.
5377Mig: !Mig Migrainous neuralgia (horton's syndrome). Report of two cases.
5378Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5379Mig: !Mig Nitro compounds in migraine therapy.
5380Mig: !Mig On migraine headache: serotonin and serotonin antagonism.
5381Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine, clinical, pathogenic and therapeutic data.
5382Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate in the symptomatic treatment of migraine.
5383Mig: !Mig Clinical aspects, diagnosis and therapy of "cervical migraine".
5384Mig: !Mig Effectiveness of aerosol administration of ergotamine tartrate in migraine headache.
5385Mig: !Mig Prophylactic ergot and other treatment for limited migraine variant.
5386Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine.
5387Mig: !Mig Etiological factors in the migraine syndrome.
5388Mig: !Mig The cervical relay of migraine. Therapeutic and pathogenic value.
5389Mig: !Mig Treatment of vascular headaches with nialamide, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor.
5390Mig: !Mig A case of mivraine of epileptic origin.
5391Mig: !Mig On the problem of the etiopathogenesis of charcot's ophthalmoplegic hemicrania.
5392Mig: !Mig Neurological concomitant manifestations of migraine and the problem of "angiospastic brain insult".
5393Mig: !Mig Migraine in school children. A study of the incidence and short-term prognosis, and a clinical, psychological and electroencephalographic comparison between children with migraine and matched controls.
5394Mig: !Mig Hypnosis and dream production in a patient having migraine headache.
5395Mig: !Mig Migraine, headache and anti-serotonin.
5396Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine patients with inhalation of dihydroergotamine.
5397Mig: !Mig Rheographic research in patients with migraine and vasomotor headache.
5398Mig: !Mig Modern methods of treatment of migraine.
5399Mig: !Mig The importance of electroencephalography in the study of asthma and migraine.
5400Mig: !Mig Surgical treatment of migraine.
5401Mig: !Mig Observations on "dysrhythmic" migraine.
5402Mig: !Mig Migraine: general remarks.
5403Mig: !Mig Opthalmoplegic hemicrania syndrome. (pathogenetic considerations)
5404Mig: !Mig The basilar artery and the migraine-epilepsy syndrome.
5405Mig: !Mig Migraine and meniere's disease.
5406Mig: !Mig The migrainous symptoms of cerebral angiomata.
5407Mig: !Mig The influence of thyroid on water metabolism in migraine.
5408Mig: !Mig Etiology, diagnosis and treatment of migraine.
5409Mig: !Mig Migraine, its pathogenesis and therapy.
5410Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine.
5411Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine patients with niamid.
5412Mig: !Mig Modern migraine management.
5413Mig: !Mig Migraine made severe by some other disease.
5414Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic studies in migraine.
5415Mig: !Mig A hundred years of migraine.
5416Mig: !Mig Prophylaxis of frequent vascular headache with methysergide.
5417Mig: !Mig Migraine and poriomania.
5418Mig: !Mig The "cholereticmorphine" test. Its value in diseases of the biliary tract and in migraines.
5419Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine.
5420Mig: !Mig Vascular headache.
5421Mig: !Mig Migraine. Physiology, biochemistry, therapeutic consequences.
5422Mig: !Mig Nitrite compounds in the therapy of hemicrania.
5423Mig: !Mig Studies on headache. The responses of the bulbar conjunctival blood vessels during induced oliguria and diuresis, and their modification by uml-491.
5424Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5425Mig: !Mig Management of migraine.
5426Mig: !Mig On a case of dysmenorrhea treated by nasal route.
5427Mig: !Mig Impairment of consciousness in migraine.
5428Mig: !Mig The cervical relay of migraine: therapeutic and pathogenic value.
5429Mig: !Mig The drug therapy of migraine.
5430Mig: !Mig An enquiry into the treatment of migraine.
5431Mig: !Mig Ocular sympathetic palsy in periodic migrainous neuralgia.
5432Mig: !Mig Migraine equivalent in the skin.
5433Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of migraines.
5434Mig: !Mig Migraine equivalents.
5435Mig: !Mig Introduction of serotonin antagonists in therapy.
5436Mig: !Mig On a case of severe migraine associated with a choledochal lesion and cure by means of surgery.
5437Mig: !Mig Migraine and electroencephalographic disturbances.
5438Mig: !Mig Headache. Pharmacological approach to treatment.
5439Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and other functional vascular headaches.
5440Mig: !Mig Diuretics and the eye.
5441Mig: !Mig Pentergot inserts for the symptomatic treatment of migraine.
5442Mig: !Mig Prolonged ergotamine therapy in hemicrania.
5443Mig: !Mig A study of 104 cases of migraine.
5444Mig: !Mig Some important features of migraine.
5445Mig: !Mig How to treat migraines.
5446Mig: !Mig Migrainoid symptoms associated with intracranial vascular anomalies. A case report.
5447Mig: !Mig Proctalgia fugax.
5448Mig: !Mig Drug treatment of migraine.
5449Mig: !Mig Meningioma of the falx cerebri with unusual semeiology: alternate hemiplegias and seizures resembling complicated migraines.
5450Mig: !Mig A new approach in relieving symptoms of migraine.
5451Mig: !Mig Prophylactic treatment of migraine headache and histamine cephalalgia with a serotonin antagonist (methysergide).
5452Mig: !Mig Backache as a migraine equivalent.
5453Mig: !Mig Studies on headache. Electroenceph-alographic abnormalities in patients with vascular headache of the migraine type.
5454Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5455Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
5456Mig: !Mig Psychiatric study of migraine.
5457Mig: !Mig Significance of minor eye signs in headache of migraine type.
5458Mig: !Mig Rectalad-migraine for the symptomatic relief of migraine.
5459Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine attacks with inhalation of ergotamine tartrate.
5460Mig: !Mig Treatment of attacks of migraine with cafergot-p.b. suppositories.
5461Mig: !Mig Continuous treatment of headache with coffanolamine in patients with migraine.
5462Mig: !Mig Effect on recovery from migraine at the choo-ul hot spring.
5463Mig: !Mig Contribution to the pathogenesis and therapy of migraine-neuralgia.
5464Mig: !Mig Studies on headache. The mode of action of uml-491 and its relevance to the nature of vascular headache of the migraine type.
5465Mig: !Mig Evaluation of uml-491 in the treatment of vascular headaches. An analysis of the effects of 1-methyl-d-lysergic acid (plus) butanolamide bimaleate (methysergide).
5466Mig: !Mig Postural vascular reactions in cases of migraine and related vascular headaches.
5467Mig: !Mig Dysrhythmic migraine with unsual clinical and electroencephalographic features.
5468Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5469Mig: !Mig Further studies of neurohumoral agents in patients with vascular headaches.
5470Mig: !Mig A study of migraine pharmacotherapy.
5471Mig: !Mig Cerebellar migraine.
5472Mig: !Mig Hypnosis and migraine or vice versa.
5473Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
5474Mig: !Mig New concepts of the nature and treatment of migraine.
5475Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5476Mig: !Mig Studies in headache: further analysis of the mode of action of uml-491 and its relevance to the nature of vascular headache of the migraine type.
5477Mig: !Mig Conditions of the pupils in hemicrania.
5478Mig: !Mig Experience in the treatment of migraine with cafergot.
5479Mig: !Mig Symptomatic hemianopsic migrain in occipital aneurysm.
5480Mig: !Mig Permanent homonymous quadrantanopsia due to ophthalmic migraine.
5481Mig: !Mig On the differential diagnosis of ophtalmoplegic migraine.
5482Mig: !Mig A possible explanation of the mechanism of ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5483Mig: !Mig Migraine headache: its physiology and biochemistry.
5484Mig: !Mig Drug prophylaxis in migraine. A controlled clinical trial.
5485Mig: !Mig Aerosol ergotamine tartrate for migraine and horton's syndrome.
5486Mig: !Mig Treatments of migraine.
5487Mig: !Mig Ergot intoxication in a young woman with migraine (case report).
5488Mig: !Mig On eeg changes in migraine and the significance of occipital delta-waves in the eeg.
5489Mig: !Mig Migraine as a deadly disease.
5490Mig: !Mig On the prophylactic treatment of migraine with deseril.
5491Mig: !Mig A new approach to the symptomatic treatment of migraine.
5492Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate inhalation: a new approach to the management of recurrent vascular headaches.
5493Mig: !Mig Oral inhalation therapy. Oral inhalation therapy of ergotamine tartrate in headache and migraine.
5494Mig: !Mig A humoral agent implicated in vascular headache of the migraine type.
5495Mig: !Mig Chronic headaches in children. Electroclinical study.
5496Mig: !Mig Clinical study of mephenoxalone (moderamin) in various syndromes of psychogenic etiology and psychiatric treatments.
5497Mig: !Mig New experiences in the prevention of migraine.
5498Mig: !Mig Periodic migrainous headache associated with cerebral vascular malformations and aneurysms.
5499Mig: !Mig Psychodynamics of a patient with migraine, with a review of the literature.
5500Mig: !Mig Is it migraine? A review of migraine and migraine equivalents.
5501Mig: !Mig Mechanism and therapy of the migraine syndrome.
5502Mig: !Mig Therapeutic action of tiliae silvestris alburnum on hepato-biliary disease and migraine.
5503Mig: !Mig A new agent for aborting attacks of migraine.
5504Mig: !Mig Migraine equivalents.
5505Mig: !Mig The problems of migraine.
5506Mig: !Mig The electroencephalogram in migraine and asthma.
5507Mig: !Mig Less common migraine.
5508Mig: !Mig Psychotherapy in migraine.
5509Mig: !Mig Mesenteric thrombosis during treatment of migraine with ergot preparations.
5510Mig: !Mig On the pathogenesis and therapy of migrane attack.
5511Mig: !Mig Prochlorperazine in the prophylaxis of migraine.
5512Mig: !Mig Experiences with a new migraine remedy.
5513Mig: !Mig Efficiency of the correction by means of convex cylindrical glasses for near-vision in small migrainous myopic astigmatism.
5514Mig: !Mig Hemangioma of the brain simulating the migraine syndrome.
5515Mig: !Mig Neuralgias of the head.
5516Mig: !Mig Migranoid headache related to cerebral aneurysm.
5517Mig: !Mig Serotonin antagonists in the therapy of migraine and bing's erythroprosopalgia or the horton syndrome.
5518Mig: !Mig Observations on 500 cases of migraine and allied vascular headache.
5519Mig: !Mig Effect of serotonin in migraine patients.
5520Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5521Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine.
5522Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine in children by prochlorperazine.
5523Mig: !Mig First experiments in hemicrania and epilepsy with 1-methyl-lysergic acid butanolamide, a substance with antiserotonin effects.
5524Mig: !Mig Dual mechanisms of eye signs of headache in cluster pattern.
5525Mig: !Mig First trial of treatment of migraine by an antiserotonin substance.
5526Mig: !Mig Identification of antiepileptic properties of a lysergic-acid-derivative-uml 491-serotonin antagonist; preliminary report.
5527Mig: !Mig Definition of a humoral agent implicated in the mechanism of vascular headache of the migraine type.
5528Mig: !Mig Occipital angioma with history of ophthalmic migraines. (apropos of a case)
5529Mig: !Mig Desensitizing factors cases of migraine.
5530Mig: !Mig Triggering of biliary pains and migraine by the combined action of sodium dehydrocholate and morphine.
5531Mig: !Mig Protective effect of tilia silvestris alburnum on the painful manifestations induced in biliary patients by the combined action of sodium dehydrocholate and morphine.
5532Mig: !Mig Vascular insultus in seizures of migraine.
5533Mig: !Mig Definition of a biochemical agent implicated in the mechanism of vascular headache of the migraine type.
5534Mig: !Mig Migraine and its relationship to hypertension.
5535Mig: !Mig Angeiological problems of migrainous headache. Critical review and personal conceptions.
5536Mig: !Mig Calcified occipital angioma diagnosed after 45 years of migraines.
5537Mig: !Mig Stimulant therapy with deanol in depression, migraine, and tension headaches.
5538Mig: !Mig Stimulant therapy with deanol in depression, migraine, and tension headaches.
5539Mig: !Mig Possible allergic conditions affecting the central nervous system viewed from a neurological standpoint.
5540Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
5541Mig: !Mig Migraine with facial oedema: some general practitioner observations.
5542Mig: !Mig Oculonasal syndromes of interest to the general practitioner.
5543Mig: !Mig Migraine and eclampsia.
5544Mig: !Mig The migraine and cervical syndrome as symptoms of a postural syndrome.
5545Mig: !Mig Migraine and other common headaches.
5546Mig: !Mig The excessive use of ergot.
5547Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with azulene.
5548Mig: !Mig Clinical experiences with phenetamine.
5549Mig: !Mig Ergotamine treatment of migraine.
5550Mig: !Mig Canities, premature baldness and migraine.
5551Mig: !Mig Migraine plus epilepsy.
5552Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate: its history, action, and proper use in the treatment of migraine.
5553Mig: !Mig A dietetic treatment of migraine.
5554Mig: !Mig Some characteristics of the migrainous woman.
5555Mig: !Mig Treatment of vascular headache when accompanied by nausea and vomiting.
5556Mig: !Mig The periodic migrainous neuralgia of wilfred harris.
5557Mig: !Mig Clinical observations & successful treatment in the use of ergotamine compounds in 100 cases of migraine.
5558Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine in neurological practice.
5559Mig: !Mig Observations on the visual symptomatology in migraine.
5560Mig: !Mig Prochlorperazine: a clinical evaluation.
5561Mig: !Mig Contribution to the treatment of migraine.
5562Mig: !Mig Migraine. Ii.
5563Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood.
5564Mig: !Mig Migraine. I.
5565Mig: !Mig Migraine and cervical spine; experience with manipulation (chiropractic) therapy.
5566Mig: !Mig Acetylcholine in the mechanism of headaches of migraine type.
5567Mig: !Mig Prophylactic and therapeutic properties of 1-methyl-lysergic acid butanolamide in migraine.
5568Mig: !Mig Spontaneous bilateral subdural hematoma developing under the mask of migraine.
5569Mig: !Mig Migraine and seizure states in children.
5570Mig: !Mig The epileptic syndrome of the occipital dorsal region. Ii. Color vision phenomena in borderline case between epilepsy & migraine.
5571Mig: !Mig Bilateral thrombophlebitis after a single dose of ergotamine tartrate for migraine.
5572Mig: !Mig Raeder's paratrigeminal syndrome: a benign disorder, possibly a complication of migraine.
5573Mig: !Mig The epileptic syndrome of the dorso-occipital region. I. Color vision in a borderline case between epilepsy & migraine.
5574Mig: !Mig Current views on the diagnosis & treatment of migraine.
5575Mig: !Mig Identification, mechanisms and management of the migraine syndrome.
5576Mig: !Mig Note on a possible correspondence between the scotomas of migraine and spreading depression of leao.
5577Mig: !Mig Preventive treatment of migraine with dihydroergotamine.
5578Mig: !Mig Headache of extracranial origin.
5579Mig: !Mig Notes on diagnosis and therapy of true migraine.
5580Mig: !Mig Headache and gastric emptying time.
5581Mig: !Mig Headaches of vascular origin.
5582Mig: !Mig Unusual manifestations of migraine.
5583Mig: !Mig Aberrant types of migraine seen in later life.
5584Mig: !Mig Vitamins and migraine.
5585Mig: !Mig Evaluation of migraine & headache.
5586Mig: !Mig Most recent experiences in the treatment of migraine & vasomotor headache.
5587Mig: !Mig Acute ischemia of lower extremities caused by ergotamine tartrate.
5588Mig: !Mig Prevention & therapy of migraine by anervan; a study of a new preparation.
5589Mig: !Mig Migraine, its etiopathogenesis and treatment.
5590Mig: !Mig Histamine cephalagia and its relation to migraine.
5591Mig: !Mig The mechanism and treatment of migraine and tension headache.
5592Mig: !Mig Abdominal pain of cerebral origin in children.
5593Mig: !Mig Modern views on the cause and management of migraine.
5594Mig: !Mig Dental factors in migraine: report of a case.
5595Mig: !Mig Gowers' mixture.
5596Mig: !Mig Treatment of resistant migranine by selective denervation of the dura.
5597Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine & obliteration of a branch of the central artery of the retina.
5598Mig: !Mig Irradiation of the diencephalon and the cervical sympathetic system in childhood.
5599Mig: !Mig Hemiplegic migraine.
5600Mig: !Mig A report on the use of wigraine rectal suppositories in the treatment of vascular headache.
5601Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine in children.
5602Mig: !Mig Migraine and its treatment.
5603Mig: !Mig Relation of disposition to migrainous seizures to general reactivity.
5604Mig: !Mig Migraine: dynamics and choice of symptom.
5605Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine.
5606Mig: !Mig Migraine and habitual headache in children.
5607Mig: !Mig The essence and the treatment of migraine.
5608Mig: !Mig Current status of therapy of migraine.
5609Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine-headache with conjunctival stimulation.
5610Mig: !Mig Studies on the shape of the temporal artery pulsations in vascular headache, particularly migraine.
5611Mig: !Mig Migraine and tension headaches.
5612Mig: !Mig Migraine, with special reference to relation to occlusal disjarmonies.
5613Mig: !Mig Rectal administration of ergotamine caffeine tartrate in the treatment of migraine.
5614Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis and therapy of migraine.
5615Mig: !Mig The action of ergotamine on the intracranial venous pressure and on the cerebral venous outflow of the dog.
5616Mig: !Mig Facial pain of migraine type; case report.
5617Mig: !Mig Headache of the migraine and allied types:  a new approach.
5618Mig: !Mig Cafergot compound (suppositories) in therapy of migraine & horton's syndrome.
5619Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine.
5620Mig: !Mig Contribution to the syndrome of ophthalmoplegia migraine.
5621Mig: !Mig Migraine or headache. Ii.
5622Mig: !Mig Studies in headache; summary of evidence concerning a noxious agent active locally during migraine headache.
5623Mig: !Mig The treatment of the acute migraine attack.
5624Mig: !Mig Hepatobiliary & pancreatic pain in migraine.
5625Mig: !Mig Migraine and its therapy.
5626Mig: !Mig Essential migraine; physiopathological & therapeutic problems.
5627Mig: !Mig Anachlorhydric migraine; treatment with ammonium chloride; pathogenic considerations.
5628Mig: !Mig Refractory migraine headache & emotional states.
5629Mig: !Mig Allergic basis for migraine:  a lesson from loa loa.
5630Mig: !Mig Sick headache or migraine.
5631Mig: !Mig Difficulties in the diagnosis of migraine and related conditions.
5632Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with nicotinic acid.
5633Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis and therapy of headache in migraine in arterial hypertension and hypotension.
5634Mig: !Mig Hypnocephalaea clinostatica in migraine patients.
5635Mig: !Mig Eeg findings in migraine.
5636Mig: !Mig Migraine and its treatment.
5637Mig: !Mig Amaurosis fugax:  a specific type of transient loss of vision.
5638Mig: !Mig The modern treatment of migraine.
5639Mig: !Mig Studies on headache:  participation of ocular structures in the migraine syndrome.
5640Mig: !Mig Migraine and the industrial physician; a review of the syndrome and report of the successful management of the problem in an industrial facility.
5641Mig: !Mig Practical drug treatment of migraine headache.
5642Mig: !Mig Studies on headache; central versus peripheral action of ergotamine tartrate and its relevance to the therapy of migraine headache.
5643Mig: !Mig Etiology and therapy of migraine in women.
5644Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine headaches.
5645Mig: !Mig What is understood by abdominal migraine in infants.
5646Mig: !Mig The migraine headache and its concomitants.
5647Mig: !Mig Migraine in childhood; a preliminary report.
5648Mig: !Mig Headaches and hot tempers.
5649Mig: !Mig Urea in m?ere's disease, migraine, and allied conditions; preliminary report.
5650Mig: !Mig A physiotherapeutic treatment for migraine; hans nemec currents.
5651Mig: !Mig The migraine syndrome; review and treatment.
5652Mig: !Mig Vasomotor crisis or visceral epilepsy?  Eeg findings in abdominal pain and migraine.
5653Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
5654Mig: !Mig Headache.
5655Mig: !Mig Therapy and prophylaxis of certain side-effects of salvarsan.
5656Mig: !Mig Synkapton, a new remedy for preventing attacks of migraine.
5657Mig: !Mig Typical migraine, its pathogenesis, symptomatology and treatment.
5658Mig: !Mig Migraine and tension headaches.
5659Mig: !Mig The pharmacological treatment of headache.
5660Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5661Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine in children.
5662Mig: !Mig Prosoplegic migraine caused by arterial aneurysm of the posterior cerebral fossa.
5663Mig: !Mig Unusual case of symptomatic migraine.
5664Mig: !Mig Hemicrania, or one-sided sphenopalatine ethmoid headache.
5665Mig: !Mig Acute sinusitis and migraine.
5666Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5667Mig: !Mig The treatment of menstrual migraine.
5668Mig: !Mig Nature and physiopathology of migraine.
5669Mig: !Mig Paralytic hemicrania.
5670Mig: !Mig Migraine in a general practice.
5671Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5672Mig: !Mig Genesis and therapy of headache.
5673Mig: !Mig The migraine syndrome.
5674Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine.
5675Mig: !Mig Hemicrania, a special form of convulsive crisis.
5676Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis and therapy of vascular cephalalgia.
5677Mig: !Mig Directions for prophylactic and symptomatic treatment of migraine and vasomotor headache.
5678Mig: !Mig Use & abuse of ergotamine tartrate in the treatment of migraine crises.
5679Mig: !Mig Hemicrania; or one-sided sphenopalatine ethmoid headache.
5680Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine & periodic paralysis of the cranial nerves.
5681Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5682Mig: !Mig Studies in headache: a summary of evidence implicating a locally active chemical agent in migraine.
5683Mig: !Mig Hypnocephalaea clinostatica in patients with migraine.
5684Mig: !Mig Syndrome of the auriculotemporal nerve in association with homolateral craniofacial painful crises (migraine, facial and glossopharyngeal neuralgia) and comitial crises; concerning two cases.
5685Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic findings in migraine.
5686Mig: !Mig Migraine and vascular allergy.  Ii.
5687Mig: !Mig Diencephalic radiotherapy in diseases other than asthma; in urticaria, quincke's edema, eczema, migraine.
5688Mig: !Mig Migraine as it appears in recent works on vascular cephalalgia.
5689Mig: !Mig Oral treatment of migraine attacks.
5690Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine.
5691Mig: !Mig Grave forms of migraine; recurrent attacks of great frequency.
5692Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5693Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5694Mig: !Mig The syndrome of alice in wonderland.
5695Mig: !Mig Psychotherapeutic considerations in the prevention and control of migraine.
5696Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5697Mig: !Mig What we know about migraine.
5698Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine with nicotinic acid amide (benicot).
5699Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic study of migraine.
5700Mig: !Mig Acute sinusitis and migraine.
5701Mig: !Mig Migraine with sphenoiditis.
5702Mig: !Mig A new treatment of migraine and headache.
5703Mig: !Mig Arterenol (norepinephrine) and vascular headache of the migraine type; studies on headache.
5704Mig: !Mig Headache and hydration; the significance of two varieties of fluid accumulation in patients with vascular headache of the migraine type.
5705Mig: !Mig Migraine associated with menstruation.
5706Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5707Mig: !Mig Migraine in pediatric practice.
5708Mig: !Mig Ammonium chloride therapy of chronic migraine.
5709Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5710Mig: !Mig Eeg variations in hereditary and non-hereditary hemicrania.
5711Mig: !Mig Relations between essential epilepsy and hemicrania; clinico-electroencephalographical study.
5712Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and tension headache.
5713Mig: !Mig Mechanisms of vascular headache.
5714Mig: !Mig Migraine as epileptic equivalent.
5715Mig: !Mig Treatment of headache with cafergot.
5716Mig: !Mig Essays on treatment in general practice: migraine.
5717Mig: !Mig Atypical neuralgias of the head; headaches, so-called migraine and complications of whiplash injuries and other cervical trauma.
5718Mig: !Mig Characteristic headache after prolonged use of ergot derivatives.
5719Mig: !Mig The problem of traumatic migraine.
5720Mig: !Mig Methyl testosterone for migraine of women; report of sixty cases.
5721Mig: !Mig Cerebral infarction in migraine.
5722Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5723Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine with small doses of hypophysial hormones.
5724Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5725Mig: !Mig Migraine as a sequel to infection by l. Icterohaemorrhagiae.
5726Mig: !Mig Migraine as a definite form of paroxysmal process.
5727Mig: !Mig Unilateral pains of the face, cranium and nape of the neck.
5728Mig: !Mig Migraine and other functional headaches.
5729Mig: !Mig Precipitating role of shock therapy in various types of migraine with concomitant liver and gallbladder disorders.
5730Mig: !Mig Pentergot, a new agent for the symptomatic treatment of migraine.
5731Mig: !Mig Gonadotropism; an etiologic factor in migraine and migraine variants.
5732Mig: !Mig Isolated atrophy of thenar eminence of thumb and cervical migraine in formation of spinal block of the cervical spine.
5733Mig: !Mig Study of migraine; review of cases treated during 20 years.
5734Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tolerance in patients with migraine.
5735Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate with caffeine in therapy of migraine attacks.
5736Mig: !Mig The prophylactic use of combined hydrogenated ergot alkaloids, dihydroergocornine, dihydroergocristine and dihydroergokryptine in migraine.
5737Mig: !Mig Therapy of peripheral neurovascular pain states.
5738Mig: !Mig Studies on headache; variations in fluid and electrolyte excretion in association with vascular headache of migraine type.
5739Mig: !Mig Acth in therapy of migraine.
5740Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine in college students.
5741Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic and electromyographic studies of the migraine syndrome.
5742Mig: !Mig Observations on the nature and physiopathology of migraine.
5743Mig: !Mig Problem of physiopathology of the migraine.
5744Mig: !Mig Effect of various drugs on pressure in the central retinal artery in migraine and epilepsy.
5745Mig: !Mig Studies on headache: headache and hydration.
5746Mig: !Mig A psychosomatic aspect of migraine.
5747Mig: !Mig The electroencephalogram (eeg) in migraine and the influence of histamine, hydergine and lumbar puncture on the eeg of migrainous and non-migrainous patients.
5748Mig: !Mig Allergy and migraine.
5749Mig: !Mig Observations on the nature and physiopathology of migraine.
5750Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
5751Mig: !Mig The prophylactic treatment of migraine.
5752Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine attacks.
5753Mig: !Mig Migraine diagnostics with special reference to pharmacological tests.
5754Mig: !Mig Migraine ground.
5755Mig: !Mig Structure of the cranial vessels.
5756Mig: !Mig Historical development of the ergot therapy of migraine.
5757Mig: !Mig Phaeochromocytoma associated with neurofibromatosis.
5758Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and permanent hemianopia; a case of symptomatic migraine?
5759Mig: !Mig The significance of the two varieties of fluid accumulation in patients with vascular headache of the migraine type.
5760Mig: !Mig Surgical prospects and possibilities in treatment of so-called biliary migraine.
5761Mig: !Mig Migraine and stomach.
5762Mig: !Mig Study of migraine based on 120 cases.
5763Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5764Mig: !Mig Psychologic factors in the management of migraine.
5765Mig: !Mig Recurrent brief headache in cluster pattern.
5766Mig: !Mig Migraine and tension headaches; a clinical study of two thousand cases.
5767Mig: !Mig Cervical migraine.
5768Mig: !Mig Recurrent dreams in migraine: an aid to diagnosis.
5769Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of human filariasis investigated in the light of recent therapeutic progress.
5770Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5771Mig: !Mig Familiar occurrence of migraine headache: a study of heredity.
5772Mig: !Mig The effect of ion exchange resins in the paroxysmal disorders of the nervous system.
5773Mig: !Mig A new drug for the treatment of migraine and headache (rephalgin); contribution to the causative treatment of migraine.
5774Mig: !Mig Dysrhythmic migraine.
5775Mig: !Mig Migraine in pediatric practice; observations with special reference to migraine of allergic origin.
5776Mig: !Mig Cerebellar migraine; associated form of ophthalmic migraine, migraena dien-mesen-metencefalica et psychica.
5777Mig: !Mig Migraine as a psychosomatic problem.
5778Mig: !Mig Rectal use of ergotamine tartrate and caffeine alkaloid for the relief of migraine.
5779Mig: !Mig Treatment of asthma crisis, asthma pain and migraine by intense refrigeration of the external ear (tympanic refrigeration).
5780Mig: !Mig Suppurative meningitis in migraine.
5781Mig: !Mig Management of vascular headaches.
5782Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5783Mig: !Mig Diagnostic-therapeutic studies on the problem of migraine.
5784Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5785Mig: !Mig Permanent homonymous migraine scotomata.
5786Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine in every-day practice: clinical and therapeutic considerations.
5787Mig: !Mig Cervical migraine.
5788Mig: !Mig Psychodynamic aspects of migraine: a review.
5789Mig: !Mig Migraine as one of a group of psychosomatic disorders.
5790Mig: !Mig Dramamine (injectable) in migraine; preliminary report.
5791Mig: !Mig Clinical observations on migraine and its treatment.
5792Mig: !Mig Use of the rectal route in treatment of migraine.
5793Mig: !Mig Migraine and its ambulant treatment.
5794Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine in children.
5795Mig: !Mig Present-day problems of migraine.
5796Mig: !Mig Psychogenic factors in migraine; report of a case.
5797Mig: !Mig Ergotamine tartrate and caffeine (ec 112) in migraine headaches.
5798Mig: !Mig The cervical spine and the neuralgic syndrome.
5799Mig: !Mig Physiopathology of migrainous prodromes.
5800Mig: !Mig Measurements of the skin temperature in migrainous subjects.
5801Mig: !Mig The familial occurrence of migraine headache: a study of heredity.
5802Mig: !Mig Adaptive alterations in cranial artery function in subjects with vascular headache of the migraine type.
5803Mig: !Mig Studies on headache: tissue changes in cranial structures associated with vascular headache of the migraine type.
5804Mig: !Mig Studies on headache: nor-epinephrine and the mechanism of vascular headache of the migraine type.
5805Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5806Mig: !Mig Considerations on a case of migraine.
5807Mig: !Mig Psychodynamics of a migraine syndrome.
5808Mig: !Mig Comparative study of a case of migraine headache and another case of occasional headache.
5809Mig: !Mig Psychoanalytic aspects of migraine headache.
5810Mig: !Mig Migraine and sublimation disorders.
5811Mig: !Mig Unconscious factors of migraine in a woman.
5812Mig: !Mig Complicated ophthalmic migraine and epilepsy.
5813Mig: !Mig Headache and primal scene.
5814Mig: !Mig Headache.
5815Mig: !Mig Neurological vasculocerebral and psychical complications in migraine.
5816Mig: !Mig Hemicrania: diagnosis, therapy and rare manifestations.
5817Mig: !Mig Ocular manifestations of migraine: report of 4 cases of hemianopsia.
5818Mig: !Mig Some psychiatric aspects of migraine.
5819Mig: !Mig Migraine: diagnosis and treatment with emphasis on the migraine-tension head-ache, provocative tests and use of rectal suppositories.
5820Mig: !Mig Migraine; to date.
5821Mig: !Mig Treatment of frequent attacks of migraine with sex hormones.
5822Mig: !Mig Neurological aspects of the migraine problem.
5823Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine.
5824Mig: !Mig Studies on vascular headache one thousand cases of migraine and tension headache.
5825Mig: !Mig Cortisone in migraine and histamine headaches.
5826Mig: !Mig Recent concepts in migraine and tension headache.
5827Mig: !Mig Dissecting aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery associated with migraine syndrome.
5828Mig: !Mig Studies on headache; long-term observations of the reactivity of the cranial arteries in subjects with vascular headache of the migraine type.
5829Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine.
5830Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine.
5831Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine.
5832Mig: !Mig Use of the ibm in neuropsychiatric case study.
5833Mig: !Mig Studies on headache; evidence of damage and changes in pain sensitivity in subjects with vascular headaches of the migraine type.
5834Mig: !Mig Therapy of cervical migraine.
5835Mig: !Mig Migraine-like cephalgias; contribution to the genesis and therapy of the migraine.
5836Mig: !Mig Treatment of cervical migraine.
5837Mig: !Mig Differential diagnosis and treatment of migraine headaches.
5838Mig: !Mig Mechanism of migraine.
5839Mig: !Mig Migraines caused by hyperfolliculinism.
5840Mig: !Mig Migraine and its treatment in children.
5841Mig: !Mig Familial hemiplegic migraine.
5842Mig: !Mig Public health today the nation's best investment.
5843Mig: !Mig Tentative prevention of migraine by beta-(2-diethylaminoethoxy)-naphthalene, a new preparation.
5844Mig: !Mig Postgrippal occipital cephalalgia; cerebellar hemorrhage.
5845Mig: !Mig Temporal and mid-meningeal arteriectomy in the treatment of certain cephalalgias.
5846Mig: !Mig Ophtalmoplegic migraine; a discussion of its pathogenesis with a report of the pathologic findings in a case of recurrent oculomotor palsy.
5847Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic and psychological studies of a case of migraine with severe preheadache phenomena; with comments on cerebral vasospasm and focal hypertensive encephalopathy.
5848Mig: !Mig Al ternate succession of periods of hemicrania and of depressive phases.
5849Mig: !Mig Stress disorders.
5850Mig: !Mig The therapy of migraine.
5851Mig: !Mig Migraine:  a cause of man-hour loss in industry.
5852Mig: !Mig The management of headache.
5853Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine; pathogenesis; report of pathological findings in a case of recurrent oculomotor paralysis.
5854Mig: !Mig Migraine treatment with own blood.
5855Mig: !Mig Precordial form of migraine; certain considerations on its physiopathology.
5856Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine of comitial nature in a 12-year-old child.
5857Mig: !Mig Headache and its treatment.
5858Mig: !Mig Pyretotherapy in ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5859Mig: !Mig Hallucinations of physical duality in migraine.
5860Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoneurology of migraine.
5861Mig: !Mig Migraine; recent orientations in the concept of therapy.
5862Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine, gout, and heberden's nodes; a factor common to these conditions.
5863Mig: !Mig Ocular manifestations of migraine; analysis of 237 clinical histories.
5864Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5865Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5866Mig: !Mig Paroxysmal abdominal pain (abdominal migraine).
5867Mig: !Mig Permanent vascular residua in migraine; report of one case and review of cases from the literature.
5868Mig: !Mig Adenosine compounds in migraine therapy.
5869Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraines and embolism of the central artery of the retina.
5870Mig: !Mig Antiretentional migraine therapy.
5871Mig: !Mig Migraine in children; a report of fifty children.
5872Mig: !Mig Migraine; current concept and therapy of migrainoid neurodystonia.
5873Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine.
5874Mig: !Mig On the treatment of genuine migraine.
5875Mig: !Mig Studies on headache; long-term observation of alterations in function of cranial arteries in subjects with vascular headache of the migraine type.
5876Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
5877Mig: !Mig Inverted nipples and migraine.
5878Mig: !Mig Studies on headache: evidence of tissue damage and changes in pain sensitivity in subjects with vascular headaches of the migraine type.
5879Mig: !Mig Treatment of certain cases of migraine with parenteral administration of pure peptones.
5880Mig: !Mig Diagnosis and therapy of the resistant migraines.
5881Mig: !Mig Autohemotherapy of ovarian migraine; preliminary report.
5882Mig: !Mig Electroencephalographic findings in a case of ophthalmic migraine.
5883Mig: !Mig Studies on migraines in children.
5884Mig: !Mig Retinal circulatory findings in migraine and related forms of headache.
5885Mig: !Mig On cervical migraine, an encephalic syndrome.
5886Mig: !Mig Two cases of weill-reys-adie syndrome; one with migraine and thyroid disfunction and other with narcolepsy and facio-brachial hemianhidrosis.
5887Mig: !Mig Hormonal treatment of so-called menstrual migraine.
5888Mig: !Mig Migraine and brain tumor.
5889Mig: !Mig Changes in the electrocardiogram seen during attacks of migraine and their normalization by ergotamine tartrate administration.
5890Mig: !Mig Modern advances in medical therapy of peripheral circulatory disorders.
5891Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and cerebral tumor.
5892Mig: !Mig Migraine and arterial hypertension.
5893Mig: !Mig Treatment of severe migraine with cafergot.
5894Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5895Mig: !Mig Psychiatric conference; migraine and character neurosis.
5896Mig: !Mig Migraine and food allergy, a survey of 20 cases.
5897Mig: !Mig Gallbladder inertia in migraine.
5898Mig: !Mig Dyspepsia and migraine with hyperfolliculinism.
5899Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic architecture of migraine.
5900Mig: !Mig Treatment of headache with ergotamine-caffeine suppositories.
5901Mig: !Mig Analysis of cranial artery pulse waves in patients with vascular headache of the migraine type.
5902Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of migraine according to vvedenskii's and pavlov's theories.
5903Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5904Mig: !Mig Allergies and the nervous system; clinical ideas concerning the nervous disorders associated with food allergy or inhalation allergy.
5905Mig: !Mig The use of crotalus toxin (epileptasid) in migraine and migrainoid headache.
5906Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5907Mig: !Mig Migraine patients:  a discussion of some test results.
5908Mig: !Mig Certain hallucinations peculiar to migraine.
5909Mig: !Mig Basic comments on therapy of migraine, deducted from its pathogenesis.
5910Mig: !Mig Clinical observations made during 40-day fasting therapy.
5911Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine; peptones.
5912Mig: !Mig The so-called posterior cervical sympathetic syndrome (barr?nd lieou syndrome).
5913Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine-like headaches with ec 112 suppositories.
5914Mig: !Mig Current therapeutics.  Lvii.  Ergot and its derivatives in clinical practice.
5915Mig: !Mig Migraine is an allergic disease.
5916Mig: !Mig Is migraine an allergic disease?
5917Mig: !Mig A clinical guide to prognosis in stress diseases.
5918Mig: !Mig Therapeutic effect of codazon on migraine and other types of headache.
5919Mig: !Mig Vitamin b12 in therapy of migraine and psychogenic headache.
5920Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine and other types of headache by sublingual hydergin.
5921Mig: !Mig Ergotamine-caffeine and dihydroergotamine-caffeine in migraine therapy.
5922Mig: !Mig Migraine; its mechanism and treatment.
5923Mig: !Mig Electrocardiographic alterations during attacks of migraine and its normalization by ergotamine tartrate.
5924Mig: !Mig The bilious attack.
5925Mig: !Mig Subtypes of migraine.
5926Mig: !Mig Failures in migraine therapy.
5927Mig: !Mig The use of ergot drugs for migraine.
5928Mig: !Mig Migraine in children.
5929Mig: !Mig Pyschogenic factor in migraine.
5930Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine.
5931Mig: !Mig Migraine caused by decreased pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid.
5932Mig: !Mig Adjunctive therapy in migraine; a preliminary report.
5933Mig: !Mig Precordial migraine.
5934Mig: !Mig Conclusions regarding migraine.
5935Mig: !Mig Surgery of migraine.
5936Mig: !Mig Physiopathological mechanism of migraine.
5937Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
5938Mig: !Mig Physiopathology and treatment of migraine.
5939Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis and therapy of migraine.
5940Mig: !Mig A new migraine therapy.
5941Mig: !Mig Burian's antistina therapy in certain types of vertigo and migraine.
5942Mig: !Mig Nerium oleander apocynaceae l. As a source of folinerin.
5943Mig: !Mig Present state of ergotina in migraine.
5944Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine; with special reference to ergotamine tartrate-caffeine rectal suppositories.
5945Mig: !Mig Eeg findings in certain type of psychosomatic headache; dysrhythmic migraine.
5946Mig: !Mig Physiopathological study of digestive migraine by intubation of the biliary tract; its therapeutic applications.
5947Mig: !Mig Contributions to the symptomatology of ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5948Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5949Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine in arteriovenous aneurysm; symptoms of hemicranias.
5950Mig: !Mig Paradentosis and gingivitis as cause of headache and other head pain.
5951Mig: !Mig A psychoanalytic study of migraine and psychogenic headache.
5952Mig: !Mig The use of experimental suppositories in treating refractory migraine.
5953Mig: !Mig Therapy of the genuine migraine.
5954Mig: !Mig Possibility of organic vascular complications during crises of inveterate migraine.
5955Mig: !Mig The psychosomatic aspects of migraine.
5956Mig: !Mig Cortisone in allergic migraine.
5957Mig: !Mig Cranio-meningeal pain, of traumatic origin, with a local point of departure and surgically curable.
5958Mig: !Mig Cervical migraine.
5959Mig: !Mig Hydergin treatment of chronic headache.
5960Mig: !Mig Headaches, migraine and the liver.
5961Mig: !Mig Migraine as a stress disorder.
5962Mig: !Mig Different course of migraine in monozygotic twins.
5963Mig: !Mig The naso-ocular reflex in migrainous subjects.
5964Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
5965Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5966Mig: !Mig Dynamic concepts of migraine; a character study of one hundred patients.
5967Mig: !Mig The natural history of migraine: some observations and a hypothesis.
5968Mig: !Mig The hemodynamic analysis of cranial artery pulse wave contours in vascular headache of the migraine type.
5969Mig: !Mig Analysis of cranial artery pressure pulse waves in patients with vascular headache of the migraine type.
5970Mig: !Mig Corpus luteum preparations in the treatment of migraine associated with menstruation.
5971Mig: !Mig Ocular symptoms in diagnosis of migraine.
5972Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and headache.
5973Mig: !Mig An investigation of the salt and water balance in migraine.
5974Mig: !Mig Sphenoid sinus disease.
5975Mig: !Mig A new agent for the treatment of migraine and histaminic cephalalgia.
5976Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5977Mig: !Mig Critical study of allergic migraines.
5978Mig: !Mig Case of essential migraine of endocrine etiology.
5979Mig: !Mig Failures in migraine therapy.
5980Mig: !Mig Abdominal migraine; report of a case.
5981Mig: !Mig Migraine: a rational approach to treatment with a review of 250 cases.
5982Mig: !Mig Migraine.
5983Mig: !Mig Migraine therapy with migraine kranit.
5984Mig: !Mig Cafergot suppositories in migraine.
5985Mig: !Mig Headache clinic. Iii. Endocrine therapy in migraine.
5986Mig: !Mig Use of rectal suppositories in treatment of migraine headache.
5987Mig: !Mig Contribution to migraine diagnosis in children.
5988Mig: !Mig The management of migraine in office practice.
5989Mig: !Mig A symbol observed on migraine cases.
5990Mig: !Mig Temporal arteritis complicating migraine.
5991Mig: !Mig The diagnosis and treatment of the migraine syndrome and related vascular headaches.
5992Mig: !Mig Therapy of true hemicrania and of vasospasm syndromes.
5993Mig: !Mig The midbrain, migraine and its clinical aspects.
5994Mig: !Mig Post-concussional migraine: a successful response to treatment.
5995Mig: !Mig The ocular symptoms of migraine.
5996Mig: !Mig Migraine and its homeopathic treatment.
5997Mig: !Mig Vitamin b12 therapy of headache.
5998Mig: !Mig Vitamin b12 therapy of migraine.
5999Mig: !Mig Migraine due to cellulitis of nape of the neck.
6000Mig: !Mig Occlusion of central retinal vein in migraine.
6001Mig: !Mig Headache and migraine in relation to cervical rheumatism.
6002Mig: !Mig Migraine and dysmenorrhea.
6003Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
6004Mig: !Mig On migraine and psychosis.
6005Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6006Mig: !Mig Part ii. Treating migraine by "sleep-rationing".
6007Mig: !Mig Hallucinations in migraine.
6008Mig: !Mig Pathogenesis of ophthalmoplegic migraine.
6009Mig: !Mig Hemicrania, allergy and psychosomatic medicine.
6010Mig: !Mig Recent advances in treatment of migraine.
6011Mig: !Mig Part i. Migraine as a form of neurasthenia.
6012Mig: !Mig A new (sublingual) method for controlling the pain of migraine and other headaches; preliminary report.
6013Mig: !Mig Migraine and other head pain.
6014Mig: !Mig Consultations in cardiology and angiology: hemicrania and aneurysms of the cerebral vessels.
6015Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine by nicotinic acid.
6016Mig: !Mig Encephalic syndrome following injury of the cervical spine, the so-called cervical migraine.
6017Mig: !Mig Clinical investigations on the action of a compound of calcium, vitamin c and phosphorus in certain vegetative syndromes, especially in migraine.
6018Mig: !Mig Psychosomatic aspects of neurology.
6019Mig: !Mig Report on extragenital effect of progesterone.
6020Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6021Mig: !Mig Migraine headache: an analysis of 124 cases treated by head-traction manipulation and thiamin chloride.
6022Mig: !Mig Determination of blood vessel reagibility in migraine by means of the hines-brown cold-pressor test.
6023Mig: !Mig Does there exist an essential migraine?
6024Mig: !Mig Migraine headache.
6025Mig: !Mig Hemianoptic migraine caused by a tumor of the occipital lobe.
6026Mig: !Mig Physiotherapy of migraine.
6027Mig: !Mig Testosterone therapy of headache.
6028Mig: !Mig On migraine.
6029Mig: !Mig Problem of ophthalmoplegic migraine.
6030Mig: !Mig Electroencephalography as an aid in the diagnosis and treatment of migraine.
6031Mig: !Mig The relationship of biliary tract disorders to migraine.
6032Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine by histamine desensitization.
6033Mig: !Mig Surgical treatment of migraine.
6034Mig: !Mig Migraine with paralyses.
6035Mig: !Mig Hemicrania and endocraniosis; an open letter from prof. Mario bertolotti to prof. Guido melli: or divagations on americanism in medicine.
6036Mig: !Mig Migraine: a 1950 symposium.
6037Mig: !Mig The migraine syndrome: a problem for the general practitioner. An evaluation of its treatment with histamine azoprotein.
6038Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine and persistent headache with ergotamine tartrate and novocaine aerosols.
6039Mig: !Mig Treatment of certain states of migraine by surgical therapy of latent biliary dystonia.
6040Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine by dihydroergotamine.
6041Mig: !Mig Surgical therapy of migraine.
6042Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
6043Mig: !Mig Intractable migraine (painful syndrome of the superficial temporal artery).
6044Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6045Mig: !Mig Migraine and other manifestations in angiospastic diathesis.
6046Mig: !Mig Migraine: how to conduct the questioning and examination of the patient.
6047Mig: !Mig Serological tests of hepatic insufficiency in migraine; 50 cases.
6048Mig: !Mig Psychologic factors of migraine in children.
6049Mig: !Mig Complete course of allergic diseases given in the allergy service of hospital rivadavia; migraine and other manifestations of angiospastic diathesis; i.
6050Mig: !Mig Treatment of nasal and bronchial diseases and migraine by aerosols.
6051Mig: !Mig Music and migraine.
6052Mig: !Mig Behavior of capillary permeability in migraine.
6053Mig: !Mig Effects of ergotamine tartrate-caffeine in migraine attacks (ec 110 cafergon); first results.
6054Mig: !Mig Nosological autonomy of essential migraine and its pathogenesis.
6055Mig: !Mig Use of ergot preparations in migraine.
6056Mig: !Mig Clinical research on the action of a combination of calcium, vitamin c and phosphorus on certain vegetative syndromes.
6057Mig: !Mig Migrainoid headaches; their ocular manifestations.
6058Mig: !Mig A physician's migraine.
6059Mig: !Mig Migraine syndromes.
6060Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine with alternating ophthalmoplegia and exophthalmos.
6061Mig: !Mig Vitiligo with migraine.
6062Mig: !Mig Abdominal epilepsy versus "abdominal migraine".
6063Mig: !Mig Surgery of migraine.
6064Mig: !Mig Migraine and psychopathic behaviour.
6065Mig: !Mig Diagnosis of migraine with complications.
6066Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
6067Mig: !Mig The effects of dl-methionine and some members of the vitamin b complex on migraine.
6068Mig: !Mig Effects of caffeinated ergotamine tartrate in migraine attacks (e. C. 110 or cafergon); first results.
6069Mig: !Mig Histamine and the antihistaminic drugs.
6070Mig: !Mig Migraine headache; what can be done about it?
6071Mig: !Mig Prevention of migraine attacks by dilantin sodium.
6072Mig: !Mig A case report of migraine headache with comments.
6073Mig: !Mig Migraine due to cellulitis of the neck.
6074Mig: !Mig Nosologic significance of microventriculography with special reference to migraine.
6075Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine-results with dihydroergocornine methanesulfonate (dho-180) and other ergot derivatives.
6076Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with chamazulen.
6077Mig: !Mig Head and neck pains of cervical disc origin.
6078Mig: !Mig Efficacy of dihydroergotamine in ophthalmic hemicrania and glaucoma.
6079Mig: !Mig Clinical contribution to the relation between migraine and sub arachnoid hemorrhage.
6080Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with dramamine.
6081Mig: !Mig The use of ergot-caffeine suppositories in migraine.
6082Mig: !Mig Relation of migraine to cerebral aneurysm.
6083Mig: !Mig A persistent case of migraine treated with tolserol.
6084Mig: !Mig Epinephrine in the treatment of migraine.
6085Mig: !Mig Effects of carbon dioxide-oxygen mixtures given during preheadache phase of the migraine attack; further analysis of the pain mechanisms in headache.
6086Mig: !Mig Migraine and its ocular manifestations.
6087Mig: !Mig Allergy to oestrone in cases of migraine.
6088Mig: !Mig Further experience with dihydroergotamine methanesulfonate in the treatment of migraine; with a note on the use of cafergone.
6089Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with cafergone.
6090Mig: !Mig Retinal arterial occlusion in migraine.
6091Mig: !Mig Migraine ophthalmoplegia; unilateral.
6092Mig: !Mig A formulation of the dynamics of the migraine attack.
6093Mig: !Mig Development of tolerance to ergot alkaloids in a patient with unusually severe migraine.
6094Mig: !Mig Methyl testosterone for migraine of women.
6095Mig: !Mig Recurrent migrainoid headaches associated with spontaneous hypoglycemia.
6096Mig: !Mig The concurrence of migraine and peptic ulcer.
6097Mig: !Mig The migraine problem.
6098Mig: !Mig Migraine headache treated successfully by head-traction manipulation and thiamin chloride.
6099Mig: !Mig Allergy of the eye associated with migraine headache; case report.
6100Mig: !Mig Migrainous headaches; a modern treatment.
6101Mig: !Mig Neck and shoulder pain.
6102Mig: !Mig Migraine in the female treated with methyl testosterone; observations in 35 patients.
6103Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine.
6104Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with nicotinic acid.
6105Mig: !Mig Migraine syndrome.
6106Mig: !Mig Therapy of migraine.
6107Mig: !Mig Migrainous disorders of the smooth muscle system.
6108Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6109Mig: !Mig Migraine and its ocular manifestations.
6110Mig: !Mig Migraine and allergy.
6111Mig: !Mig Principles of treatment for migraine.
6112Mig: !Mig Migraine headache.
6113Mig: !Mig Ophthalmic migraine treated by the turville technique with low powered base in prisms; a case report.
6114Mig: !Mig The hypothalamus in migraine.
6115Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6116Mig: !Mig Allergic conditions of the eye; migraine.
6117Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6118Mig: !Mig Allergic conditions of the eye: 2.-migraine.
6119Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine.
6120Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine with histamine; review of 144 cases.
6121Mig: !Mig The use of methyl-iso-octenylamine in migraine and related headaches; preliminary report.
6122Mig: !Mig Permanent homonymous quadrantanopia after migraine.
6123Mig: !Mig Headache preparations.
6124Mig: !Mig Treatment of the migraine attack.
6125Mig: !Mig Symposium on headache as a symptom; migraine.
6126Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6127Mig: !Mig Treatment of migraine.
6128Mig: !Mig A case of migraine with lesion localized in the visual tract.
6129Mig: !Mig The diagnosis and treatment of migraine.
6130Mig: !Mig Studies on headache; analysis of the contractile state of the cranial vascular tree in migraine.
6131Mig: !Mig The cervical syndrome as a cause of migraine.
6132Mig: !Mig What to do in a rebellious case of migraine; a list of the drugs being used today.
6133Mig: !Mig Intravenous histamine in the treatment of migraine.
6134Mig: !Mig Experimental studies on headache: pharmacodynamics of urine excreted during migraine headache and its relation to 17-ketosteroid content.
6135Mig: !Mig Recurring attacks of concomitant exotropia, each followed by transient esotropia-migraine the probable cause.
6136Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6137Mig: !Mig A type of migraine associated with hypocalcemia.
6138Mig: !Mig The inheritance of allergy with special reference to migraine.
6139Mig: !Mig Erythraemia, with recurrent ophthalmic migraine and gout.
6140Mig: !Mig Ophthalmoplegic migraine.
6141Mig: !Mig Migraine and its treatment.
6142Mig: !Mig Allergic toxemia and migraine due to food allergy: report of cases.
6143Mig: !Mig Headache and migraine.
6144Mig: !Mig Neuropsychiatry: migraine-a vascular neurosis.
6145Mig: !Mig Note on idiosyncrasies and abnormalities in human beings.
6146Mig: !Mig Nutritional disorders: migraine.
6147Mig: !Mig Discussion on migraine.
6148Mig: !Mig A case of migraine.
6149Mig: !Mig Demonstration of cases : (1) chronic remittent ophthalmoplegia (oppenheim) oculomotor migraine (charcot) in an infant.
6150Mig: !Mig The treatment of migraine.
6151Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6152Mig: !Mig Migraine.
6153Mig: !Mig An unusual case of ophthalmic migraine.
6154Mig: !Mig Clinical observations on migraine.
6155Mig: !Mig Case with well-defined and transitory m?ere's symptoms; (?) Migraine with auditory and vistibular phenomena.
6156Mig: !Mig Hemianopsia in migraine.